-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Animal Crossing: Wild World
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/animalcrossingds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The exact same brand of addictive gameplay from the first game is front and center here.
 Many more fish, bugs, fossils, and other crazy things to collect.
 Writing is still very sharp, and the new characters are pretty much all great.
 Online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Touch screen controls aren't altogether useful.
 Some odd restrictions on the multiplayer features.
 A few of the new day-to-day tasks are kind of dull.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  6, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.6, 68 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 9,588 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Virtual Life
Date: Dec 5, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Wild World doesn't toy with the original Animal Crossing formula, but simply being able to take 
 your town with you on the go makes it an easy recommendation. 

  Nintendo has made its reputation by creating fun, offbeat, family-friendly gaming experiences that 
 are often considered innovative. But even the most stalwart Nintendo fans had to be a little confused 
 the first time they got a look at Animal Crossing. The very definition of a nongame, Animal Crossing 
 for the GameCube took gentle sprinklings of the role-playing and life-simulation genres and put 
 them into a capriciously adorable world filled with cartoon animals -- one that you would have to 
 live and survive in by performing what would normally look like menial labor tasks. But as uneventful 
 as it sounds on paper, Animal Crossing was easily one of the most inexplicably fetching gaming 
 experiences to be had on the GameCube, and it was near impossible not to be taken in by the charms 
 of its precocious animal residents and habitual collecting mechanics. Now, Nintendo has brought 
 the insidiously addictive world of Animal Crossing to the DS in the form of Animal Crossing: Wild 
 World. This isn't a sequel; rather, this is something of a reenvisioning of the last game, with 
 a slew of new collectibles, new characters, new tasks to perform, and some Wi-Fi and online multiplayer 
 functionality to boot. Granted, not every single one of these additions is a slam dunk, and in 
 fact, a few things just aren't as good as they could have been; but Wild World ultimately surpasses 
 the last game, simply because of how much better suited its style of gameplay is for a handheld 
 system like the DS.  

          Animal Crossing, the game that made indentured servitude an enjoyable gameplay mechanic, 
 debuts on the DS in Wild World.     

  The premise of Wild World is identical to that of Animal Crossing. You, a young human, are moving 
 to a new town. You begin this game inside the cab of a salty old fellow named Kapp'n (whom fans 
 of the first game will certainly recognize) . He quizzes you on a few different things, and how 
 you answer those questions ultimately determines your gender as well as your appearance. Once in 
 town, you meet up with the local shop keep, Tom Nook. This industrious little raccoon turns out 
 to be the real estate magnate of your new town, and he puts you up in some new digs, despite your 
 lack of funds. Of course, now you're indebted to him to the tune of several thousand bells (the 
 game's form of currency) , and it's up to you to pay him back, forthwith. Animal Crossing aficionados 
 will find this setup to be quite familiar, as they will with the events that follow. The tasks 
 and methods for making money generally are the same, with only a few additions here and there to 
 break things up. That's not inherently a bad thing by any means -- the system remains just as oddly 
 compelling as it was on the GameCube.  

  Some of those tasks include catching fish and bugs, digging up fossils, and running errands for 
 the local townsfolk. Fundamentally, all these things work the same as they did on the GameCube, 
 relying on very little in the way of skill, save for the little bouts of reflexive action you'll 
 need in the fish and bug catching. Changes are few and far between, though most of the ones made 
 are for the better. Fossils, for instance, are much more easily identified here. Before, you'd 
 have to send them via a letter to a far-off museum just to get them identified. Now you can simply 
 hit up Blathers the Owl at the town museum, and he can identify them for you on the spot (he must've 
 taken some kind of correspondence course between the first game and this one) . When catching fish, 
 you'll have to listen for a specific audio cue to pull in your line rather than relying on the 
 rumbling of the controller to figure out when to pull back. But otherwise, everything works the 
 same. Fish still appear as outlines in the water, letting you know where to drop your line; bugs 
 still appear in their usual places, as do fossils. The difference is that there's just a lot more 
 of all these things to catch and dig up, meaning you'll be spending even more of your free time 
 trying to find that last piece to put together a Pterosaur's skeleton, or those last few rare fish 
 you need for your collection.  

  There are new tasks to perform in Wild World, but frankly, they're just not as compelling as the 
 holdover tasks from the original game. For example, you can use a watering can to maintain the 
 floral arrangements scattered about town and a slingshot to knock occasional floating presents 
 out of the sky. But these tasks aren't nearly as enthralling as anything else in the game. You 
 don't need to use the slingshot, save for maybe once a day, and watering plants yields very little 
 in the way of a tangible reward, save for the beautification of the town (which, while a valid 
 goal, isn't the most monetarily rewarding task there is) .  

          Tom Nook is forever the slave driver, but you put up with it because dammit, you want that 
 second story on your house!     

  The thing of it is, however, that the pure mechanical busywork included in the Animal Crossing 
 experience really isn't what makes it so appealing. These are merely means to one of several ends. 
 The main end is the customization of your house and character. As you pay off your debt (and subsequent 
 followup debts, from each major house renovation that comes over time) , you'll find yourself in 
 Tom Nook's shop time and time again, selling fruit and fish and bugs and any other bric-a-brac 
 you can find to earn more bells to buy the insanely vast variety of furniture pieces, clothes, 
 and other wacky items available. Want a big, spinning UFO to stick in the middle of your living 
 room? Or a complete set of orange furniture? How about a complete series of man-size (or animal-size) 
 chess pieces? It can all be yours -- just not all at once. Only a few items are available each day, 
 and the list changes with each passing day, thus inspiring you to check back constantly with the 
 hope that that modern end table or rare painting you're missing is just a shop visit away. The 
 only thing missing from the collectible items list in Wild World is the roster of classic NES games 
 found in Animal Crossing. There are none to collect here, which is a little disappointing considering 
 how cool it was to get those in the first game.  

  And that's really the beauty of Animal Crossing. This is very much the kind of game you'll want 
 to check back with daily, simply because there's always something new to check out. Whether it's 
 just the everyday business of shopping and collecting, or one of the many annual events that pop 
 up, there's always something new to see. It's great, because the game uses the DS's internal clock 
 to progress in real time. There are holidays that are based on real-life holidays, and they take 
 place on the dates they're supposed to. Every Saturday, for instance, there's a town flea market 
 in which you can go from house to house, buying other characters' furniture; that same night, the 
 traveling musician K. K. Slider will come and perform, and will give you new music to play in your 
 house. And then there will be periodic visits from characters who can provide you with rare and 
 unique items, like the new traveling salesman who looks and talks like a cross between Gil from 
  The Simpsons  and Jack Lemmon's character from  Glengarry Glen Ross  as he shadily and desperately 
 tries to sell you accident insurance, with hilarious results.     

   

  The characters are also a huge part of the game's appeal. Since this is basically just a "place 
 to go and hang out" simulator, it wouldn't work if the characters you were hanging out with weren't 
 fun to converse with. Your neighbors come in a wide variety of different animal and personality 
 types. You might see repeats of certain personalities, but you won't often see much repetition 
 in dialogue, because there's such a huge array of things that these characters will converse with 
 you about, and almost all of it is sharp and funny. As time goes on, citizens will move on to other 
 towns, and new ones will come in, which actually helps give the town an air of unpredictability. 
 But there are also some staples that will always be there, like Tom Nook and Blathers, as well 
 as a couple of newcomers, such as Celeste, who runs the observatory in the museum (and even lets 
 you plot your own constellations in the sky) , and Brewster, who runs the local coffee shop and 
 provides you with piping-hot cups of joe that put big, silly grins on your character's face. Interacting 
 with and working for all these different characters is quite a joy, and makes it worth coming back 
 to time and time again.  

          The ability to go online in Wild World is a great thing -- it's just a shame that there isn't 
 more to it.     

  Wild World also prevents itself from getting overly tiresome by regulating exactly how much you 
 can play. You can always just go chat it up with the neighbors and do whatever tasks you feel like, 
 but because there's only so much you can actually buy and so many things you can experience on 
 a day-to-day basis, the game is really best played in short, controlled bursts. That was the case 
 with the original Animal Crossing too, but there's something more to be said for this style of 
 play on a handheld system like the DS. Being able to take your town with you wherever you go and 
 play whenever you feel like it is just more appealing than trying to hunker down and check in via 
 your GameCube every day.  

  But what if you've already played Animal Crossing to death on the GameCube? Apart from more items 
 and new characters, what does Wild World really have to offer? For one, it does include a new touch-screen-based 
 control system -- albeit one that isn't as fleshed out as you might hope. You can use the touch screen 
 to guide your character anywhere around the world or make them perform actions like casting a fishing 
 line or digging a hole, and to make menu navigations and chatting a much easier task. Truthfully, 
 the basic character controls are generally easier with the D pad and buttons. It's more of a pain 
 than it needs to be to try to position your character in the right spot to cast a fishing line 
 or dig a hole in the right spot, and you really do get a better handle with the D pad. When navigating 
 menus, though, it's great to have this feature; it streamlines the process of picking items to 
 sell to Tom Nook and writing letters immensely. It's just too bad that the screen wasn't utilized 
 more effectively to make things like fishing an easier endeavor.  

  Wild World also includes a full range of multiplayer features. The single-cart, four-player methodology 
 from the first game is here again, though the difference is that all four players now share the 
 same house, and the same collective debt. If you just want to visit a friend's town, you can do 
 so in close proximity via the standard DS-to-DS connection, or you can visit a friend far away 
 via the online Wi-Fi connectivity. The basics for both connection types remain the same. A friend 
 can visit your town, or vice versa. While there, you and said friend can chat with one another, 
 and do all the different things one would do in their own town. The one odd thing is that while 
 you're in a new town or have a visitor in yours, every town resident retreats indoors. It makes 
 them easier to find and visit with, but it's still a little peculiar.  

  The whole online thing might sound like the most wicked-awesome thing you've ever heard of, but 
 there are a lot of weird restrictions to the mode. For one, you can't just visit any town with 
 an open gate. You have to know the specific friend code of the player's town that you want to travel 
 to, and have it on your friend list before you can go anywhere. Obviously this circumvents the 
 unpleasant issue of jerks coming in to your town, cutting down all your trees, and writing nasty 
 messages on your bulletin boards, but still, it's kind of lame that you can't just see all the 
 available online towns. In fact, the only degree of randomness to be found in the multiplayer is 
 the tag mode. Here, you'll buy a message in a bottle from Tom Nook's shop, write a letter, and 
 release it. If you happen to be in tag mode, and someone else comes within proximity to you while 
 they're in tag mode, your message will wash up on the shores of their town and vice versa. Through 
 this, you might trade some constellations and citizens, but that's about it. All told, it's pretty 
 cool that you can now take Animal Crossing online -- it's just a shame that the game doesn't give 
 you more to do with it, like fulfilling some specific multiplayer objectives or tasks. And the 
 fact that you can only play with people you communicate with outside the game seems overly restrictive. 

          The game's inherent preciousness will probably drive some people insane, but those without 
 a black, vacuous heart of soulless darkness will be won over by its charms.     

  Wild World presents itself in much the same fashion as the original Animal Crossing, and while 
 those production values weren't exactly impressive on a system as powerful as the GameCube, on 
 the DS's more modest hardware, the game looks great. The characters all retain the same colorful, 
 cartoony look that they did in the first game, as does the town and its various architecture and 
 scenery. The one big difference is how the town moves. The acre system from Animal Crossing is 
 gone, and instead the world scales in sort of a rounded fashion, with sections disappearing over 
 the horizon line as you move up and down the map. It looks a little weird at first, but you get 
 used to it quickly. The only real sacrifices the game seems to have made to run on the DS hardware 
 is that, first, it runs at a lower (but always consistent) frame rate, and second, things just 
 don't look quite as crisp and sharp as they did on the GameCube. But again, there are different 
 hardware specs, so that's to be expected. The audio still consists of some catchy, mellow MIDI 
 tunes that play in the background and the cute, gibberish dialogue that the townspeople speak. 
 You can't call any of it remarkable, exactly, but it's all pleasant and enjoyable stuff.  

  But really, with all of that said and done, the biggest reason you should play Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World is because it's Animal Crossing done portable, and done well. You can certainly find 
 fault with the lazy touch screen controls, the restrictiveness of the multiplayer, and the inherent 
 sameness of the whole thing, but the fact remains that all the key underlying components that make 
 this an Animal Crossing game are just as great as they've ever been, and being able to take your 
 living, breathing town with you wherever you go is an absolute delight. If you weren't keen on 
 the precious nature of the first game, Wild World won't do much to change your mind. But if you're 
 one of the many who fell in love with the first game's unmistakable charms, Wild World is a world 
 worth entering.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (920 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ThatGameSpotGuy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:34 am PT
Review:  After a somewhat "invasive" taxi journey, driven by a turtle-like creature named... Er, I have 
 forgotten! Sorry! Anyway, during the journey *YOU* get not only have the HONOUR, but also the RESPONSIBILITY, 
 of choosing the name of the town in which you are travelling to. Also, the basics of choosing a 
 gender, and a name occur! After the conclusion of the taxi journey, you are "delivered" to the 
 town's hall. There you introduce yourself to the clerk whom goes by the name of "Pelly". It resembles 
 a duck-creature, and also it's female. So watch your manners! I'm just kiddin'! :) - Anyway, she 
 ultimately introduces you to a raccoon-like creature named "Tom Nook". He is quite an obsessive 
 creature! However, in his "kind" nature, he supplies you, the character, with a house. I know you're 
 thinking to yourself here;
  
  "Oh cool! A free house!"
  
  Nuh-Uh! There are certain "requirements" that you must fulfill. He informs you that you must pay-off 
 your mortgage, which amounts to a total 18,500 Bells! Now you're thinking;
  
  "Are you kiddin' me! 18,500 "Bells"! What in the name of somethin' green are "Bells"?"
  
  By 
 the way, "Bells" are the currency used in Animal Crossing: Wild World. Anyway, he then insists 
 that you work "par-time" in his store, "Nook's Cranny". Good pun, huh? *Clears throat* Anyway, 
 after you accomplish the set tasks, he "releases", or "fires", you. You then think to yourself 
 that maybe it was all a "CON" to exploit you! And make you work for free! The shame on his part! 
 Anyway. it is a good, no! Great thing as you now have......
  
  "FREEDOM!"
  
  *Clears throat multiple times, in a sign of embarrassment!* You then quickly develop a routine 
 of attempting to pay off your mortgage, bit-by-bit, and in doing so, your house is totally "re-vamped"! 
 You get more space for your furniture and also new furniture! However, you can also purchase new, 
 and I'm talking about brand-"spanking"-new, clothing! And a downside is that if you are lost in 
 your routine constantly, you cannot have any fun at-all. Trust me! I've experienced it, and that's 
 the one reason I have give Animal Crossing: Wild World an 8.5, or eight-point-five, "great" rating.
 
  
  Your freedom in Animal Crossing: Wild World is truly superb! As I have mentioned, you can purchase 
 items, such as clothing. You can also become an Angler! Or fisherman, but not professionally! You 
 can also collect and view fossils, and many more incredible experiences await you!
  
  However this is Animal Crossing: Wild World's only downfall. As I have mentioned previously that 
 routine can soon get.. Well... "dull", and "boring", to say the least. 
  
  But Nintendo have tirelessly put effort in to cease this. It does it by announcing certain events, 
 at randomly chosen dates. This is mean't to purposly disrupt your daily routine, and to explore 
 more into the game. 
  
  The online content really assists in reviving the game, and making it.. Well.. "Come alive"! You'll 
 explore and discover many fascinating communities.
  
  I just want to point out that I have mentioned all this information previously and this is just 
 a basic overview of the game-play of Animal Crossing: Wild World;
  
  As I've mentioned prior, the main objective of Animal Crossing: Wild World is to pay the mortgage 
 of the player's house to Tom Nook, the owner of a store named "Nook's Cranny". After the first 
 loan is paid, future loans increase as the player upgrades their house. While paying the debt of 
 their home, the player can engage in a variety of tasks, such as interacting with villagers, planting 
 flowers and collecting items such as furniture, clothes and fish. 
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is non-linear and does not require the player to pay off their mortgage 
 at all. Unlike the previous game, all of the player's characters share the same house and work 
 together to pay off the mortgage, instead of each having their own house.
  
  The game itself uses several of the Nintendo DS's features, including the touch-screen, dual screens 
 and internal clock. 
  
  The touch-screen is used for menu navigation and interacting with the surrounding area, including 
 movement, using tools, talking to other villagers, entering buildings and picking up items. The 
 dual screens are used to display the town environment on the touch screen and the sky on the top 
 screen simultaneously. 
  
  The internal clock is used to great extent; like the previous game in the series, Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World is played in real-time, which is according to the time on the player's "DS". The environment 
 changes based on the time of day and the season; for instance, from midday to evening, the color 
 of the sky will change from orange to dark blue, and the weather will change depending on the season.
 
  
  As I have mentioned prior, the game also has its own yearly holidays and 
  other events, including "Yay Day", "La-Di-Day", Acorn Festival, the Flea Market and fishing, bug 
 and flower tournaments. Unlike the original Animal Crossing, it does not include some real-world 
 holidays such as Christmas or Halloween. However, it does have a New Year's countdown from December 
 Thirty-First, until the new year officially begins. 
  
  And the purpose of all these additional paragraphs was to supply you with a more detailed look 
 at the game-play of Animal Crossing: Wild World.
  
  
  ......
  
  This EXTENSIVE review was brought to you by:
  
  - ThatGameSpotGuy
  
  :D
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylmiester
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the town of whatever you name it! In AC: WW, you live in the town of whatever you name 
 it, under the name of what you chose. The owner of the local shop, Tom Nook, will give you your 
 debt that you must pay off to "win" the game, Along your path of money paying-offing, you'll interact 
 with your neighbours and possibly become their best friend. If you befriend them enough, they'll 
 give you a picture of them (but never have your pockets full or you'll never get it!) Your debt 
 will start off at 17 000 Bells (Animal Crossing currency) which is so simple, that then Nook'll 
 bash your piggy bank with 108 000 Bells! As the money's paid off, your house will grow bigger and 
 bigger until you have a mansion and go buy a gold crown and a monocle!
  
  The graphics are satisfactory which is good. But the entire game itself is HUGE. There's even opportunities 
 to get a haircut, donate money to the needy, buy objects from a weekly black market, get fooled 
 buy an insurance scam, get stung by bees if you knock their nest out, and do deliveries for your 
 fellow animal friends.
  
  So if you can't find The Sims for a decent price, or want to play something other than AC GameCube, 
 then go to GameStop, buy a DS with this game, and watch your character live! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redthundereign
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:16 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World! The second game of the series released in December 5, 2005! I have to 
 say that I was really Excited to get this game! When I did, I loved it! The world overall was amazing. It 
 had a lot of effects from the original game! Although, the Map was smaller then I would have thought! Also, the 
 "Saves" on the game had to share one house! That kind of ruined the effect of putting what you want, where 
 you want! Of course, Nintendo found a way to fix that for us! For Example, the more saves that you 
 have, the easier it will be to pay off the house! Plus, they give you many rooms in your house! That 
 way, each person has there own room!
  Next is the Game play itself! The overall game play is very fun! It will keep you  
 well, more playing! Anyways, you will notice that the more you play and Advance through the game, most 
 things that happen are from the old game! I like this, and that they add new stuff and old stuff 
 together! It makes the player enjoy the game even more!
  All in All, I loved playing this game! It really improved, and next will be Animal Crossing: City Folk! So, if 
 you don't have any of them yet, go play them, its worth it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giratina617
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Once you arrive in town you go in the town hall and ya da ya da ya da. But once you enter your 
 house. Well my first reaction was this is small. But don't worry it will get better. Once you get 
 out you meet tom nook a really important person. Then the story will progress with tournaments 
 and seasons and stuff like that. You will have lots of people to talk to. They will move in and 
 out at random. It's not really one of those games that ends the game just keeps going and there's 
 always something new to do. I recommend this game to any body with a DS. The graphics are not great 
 but there not bad either. The only reason this game is not a ten is because it is a bit too easy. 
 But if I could rate it better I would give it a 9.7. The hardest part is paying off all the loans 
 from tom nook. Thanks for reading my review!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiscuitDeath
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:56 am PT
Review:  You've just moved to a town you named your self. After a weird ride with a turtle taxi driver you 
 hop out. You either A) Hate the look of your character, Or B) Dont mind it. You get shown around 
 by a quite obsessive creature , Tom Nook. He gives you a house, Great ! You think. He then tell's 
 you your in debt of him now for 18,000. Not so great. He gives you a job working at his shop . 
 As you do job's , you realise it probably was just a con to get you to work for him. After that 
 your free.
  -
  And after nearly no time at all your in a routine . You do your daily work to earn money, to pay 
 off mortgage's, get bigger house, more furniture, clothes and so on. Its easy just to get lost in 
 your routine all the time, not having any fun at all. And that would be a big mistake...
  - 
  Free time is were Animal Crossing : Wild World really does shine. You can Shop, Create Clothes 
 and item's, Fish, collect fossils, Catch bugs and so much more. Its soo much you could fit a whole 
 fishing game and bug catching game and more in just these parts. You will get lost doing these 
 seemingly endless tasks.
  -
  But that is Animal Crossing's only downfall. Your routine can soon get boring. Nintendo has done 
 its best to stop this though , by putting in certain events purposly to disrupt your routing so 
 you may find more time to play this game. It is amazing the lifespan of the game, it took me two 
 years to attually stop properly playing. Wether it was me owning fruit plantations, online furniture 
 shops and so on.
  -
  Online also helps this game come alive . You will find so many awesome communitys its untrue. People 
 who have dedicated their town's to nintendo game's or just real life passion. I went to a person's 
 town and in his house with the massive list of nintendo item's AC : WW has to offer he had made 
 a nintendo museum. It was just amazing.
  -
  The list of items in this game is also amazing. Its just giant. Their are simply more items than 
 you could ever collect on this game.
  -
  The only gripe i have got about animal crossing is you will end up leaving it as for a newer title 
 after an amount of time, because you will find your self just bored with your tasks. Unless your 
 like me and can keep them alive :D
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusicMegaFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:39 am PT
Review:  This Game Has To Be The Most Fun Game I Have Ever Played!!! (On The DS!) Chat With The Locals, 
 Decorate Your House, Buy And Sell Things, This Is Just Like Animal Crossing For The Gamecube (Which 
 I Don't Have But I've Seen!) Except With A Few Changes Like There's No Train Station Any More There's 
 A Big Gate Which Let's You Go To Your Friends World, Which I Will Explain In A Tick!!! 
  Earn Money In The Weirdest Of Ways, Do Activities For The Locals And Invite Friends Over To Your 
 House! The DS To DS Function Is GREAT!!! Your Friends (If They Have A Copy Of The Game) Can Go 
 To Your Town On Their DS!!! The Wi-Fi Stuff I Can't Tell You About Because I've Never Done It! 
 (Sorry!!!) Here's A Few Tips For The Game: Every Saturday At 8pm - 10pm, A Musician Called K. K. 
 Slider Will Be At "The Roost", Talk To Him And Listen To Some Of His (Surprisingly Good) Music, 
 Make Requests Or Listen To His Some Of His Personal Favourites! Collect Some Different Fruit From 
 Your Friend's Town And Plant It In Yours, Then Go Back To Your Town And Create An Orchard And Sell 
 The New Fruit To Tom Nook! He Will Buy Normal Fruit For 100 Bells And "Foreign" Fruit For 500 Bells!!!
 
  
  All In All This Game Is Great 10/10 Or Should I Say 5/5!!!! 
  With So Much To Do You'll Never Get Bored Of It! If You Wanna Know More About How To Play This 
 Game And Stuff Like That, Buy The "Animal Crossing: Wild World Official Player's Guide" With This 
 Game Because Without It You'll Be Stuck!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonnyJavid
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World was the best in the series. Why you may ask? Because it started a new 
 genaration. Frist thing was Nintendo WI-FI Connection to game made it sweet! Another reason is 
 that you could create clothes in Able Sister's, and animals in your town can get them! It was also 
 fun because there were downloads you could download stuff on Animal Crossing Wild World to get 
 the mysterious cat. And in the post office there's now a civic center. In the civic center you 
 can ask about the enciorment in your, make donation to Boondox, or you could move to a diffrent 
 town. There is also a lot more insects and fish to catch now. And the museum changed too! Now there's 
 a place where you can get java. Also that's where K. K. Slider plays on Saturday Night at 8:00 P. M.. 
 Animal Crossing Wild World was really cool!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Julfur
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2009 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so I am one of those people that played the original Animal Crossing, spent lots of time catching 
 all the fish and the bugs, collecting all the fossils, and pretty much doing everything you can 
 do to make your town perfect. If you want a game that will keep you busy actually DOING something 
 instead of just waiting and waiting for something special, then definitely buy this game! 
  
  Ok, so in the beginning you create a character. This is the only part about the game that is 
 bad, because your character cannot be black, which is totally racist! In my opinion, it is not 
 fair that you can only be white. But anyways, you answer some questions which determine how your 
 character looks. Once you do this, you have this adorable little character, all for you to control! 
 The game is adorable, and great for all ages! I even have my mom still playing the GameCube version, 
 still trying to be better then me!
  
  So, this is a game for all ages. Anybody can enjoy it, and I definitely recommend it to anybody 
 looking for a continuous good time (= 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dylan099
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2009 2:16 am PT
Review:  i love it 
  i love it
  i love it
  i love it
  i love
  very good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got 
 banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots 
 and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get 
 it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so 
 much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery 
 good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 
 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots 
 of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its 
 got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone 
 should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i 
 love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery 
 good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 
 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots 
 of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its 
 got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone 
 should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i 
 love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery 
 good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 
 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots 
 of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its 
 got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone 
 should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i 
 love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery 
 good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 
 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots 
 of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its 
 got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone 
 should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i 
 love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery 
 good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 
 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots 
 of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its 
 got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone 
 should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i 
 love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery 
 good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 
 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots 
 of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its 
 got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone 
 should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i 
 love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery 
 good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 
 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots 
 of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its 
 got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone 
 should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i 
 love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery 
 good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 
 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots 
 of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its 
 got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone 
 should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i 
 love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery 
 good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 
 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots 
 of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its 
 got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone 
 should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i 
 love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery 
 good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 
 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots 
 of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone should get it . its 
 got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i love it so much everyone 
 should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favouritevery good game i 
 love it so much everyone should get it . its got wifi, lots and lots of items, got banks, my 2nd favourite 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlynne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 9:31 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty good, good graphics, colors, and some nice characters. If your the sort of person 
 that doesn't really like action, strategy type games, then this would be a good game for you. It's 
 peaceful and somewhat relaxing to play. In the beginning there is a lot of stuff to do, but as 
 time goes on, it may get repetitive and boring. When i say when time goes on, i mean a long time 
 xD. I think I have mines for about over a year now.. I play it off and on. There are always new 
 items in the shop everyday and you can get cloths and accessories to decorate your character and 
 furniture and stuff for your house. If you buy enough stuff from Tom Nook, you may get a shop expansion 
 and have a Salon! Which I don't have yet. T~T
  
  There are also events/occasions that happen in the game on the same day that there is an occasion 
 in real life (New year, your birthday) . It records that sort of thing down in it's date and time. 
 You can also play tag, hide-and-seek, or have a little tournament with your friends over wifi with 
 the timer you can get from Tom Nook. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperfastSonic
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 2:29 pm PT
Review:  If Animal Crossing taught us something, it taught us you don't need a violent game to have a good 
 time. This tradition has been passed down to Wild World-but not the way I hoped. WW starts off 
 exactly the same as the original did, only this time your in a car instead of a train. After that, I 
 was a little disappointed with WW. Sure, there's more furniture, bugs, and fish to collect, but it 
 just seems the same. There is some changes though: you no longer have to mail your fossils to the 
 muesam and wait a day. Your neighbors have more hilarious sayings. And you can visit others town 
 via wireless connection, which is great. On the negative side; you have to water your flowers everyday 
 which is tedious and feels like a chore, and NES games are no where in sight (Gasp!) . The bright 
 colors of the Gamecube version have also seem to fade when converting to the DS. But hey, girls 
 love this game, and you might stumble upon a rare Nintendo-themed furniture, so in the end it's a 
 win-win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 9:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is definately one of my favorite games on the DS. If you like to totally complete a game 
 this one will put you to the test.
  
  The gameplay is what made the original animal crossing for the gamecube so terrific. However, Wild 
 World has some minor tweaks that make it even more enjoyable. Basically you move to a town and 
 have to pay off your house by collecting items and selling them. However, there are literally thousands 
 of items which will have you trying to get them for years. Sounds like a daunting task? It is and 
 that is what makes this game so great, there is so much to do and collect.
  
  The graphics are above average and add to the games brilliance. Not really much else to say about 
 the graphics other than they are definately up to par with the rest of the top DS games.
  
  Overall, if you are looking for a game that challenges your gaming skills, this is not it. However, 
 that is not what this game is about. It is about collecting items to add to your house and museum 
 collection and unlocking every easter egg in the game. The game doesn't have replay value because 
 you will never replay, however it does have amazing longevity which is some of the best I have 
 seen in a game in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonedef66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:25 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World seems like such a simple... lazzy game at first. But then, you want more. 
 You start out at the bottom of the financial bracket in a small 1 bedroom home (studio if u will) 
 buying tools from a shirtless racoon out of a shack called Nooks Cranny (7 Eleven) . The tools you 
 buy such as a shovel, a net, an axe, and a slingshot are all tools to help you get by in life and 
 make a living. At first, selling fruit and seashells for Bells can be a grind, but sooner or later 
 you payoff that 1st mortgage and enter yourself in the rat race for everything your friends don't 
 have. It's easy to become obsessed with finding new fossils to donate (or sell) or to find rare 
 and hard to find bugs or fish. But it's even more fun to collect different items and furniture 
 to your home. Your home starts out small and kinda ghetto (on a street named after an x-president) 
 but as you payoff each mortgage you add size and rooms eventually moving up in life. 
  
  There's definatley always something to do. Theres a number of special events, holidays, tournaments, 
 special characters that visit to interact with to recieve special items. Or even spend your time 
 opening other peoples letters and presents when characters ask you to make delivery to a friend! 
 mwahhaha (get over it Tangy) . 
  
  This game is very addictive for all ages and it's nice to have others to play with over WiFi so 
 you can visit other friends towns. You can also request a little more action in your town by connecting 
 to Nintendo WiFI and downloading extra bullitins or characters to visit although done at random. 
 This game is a must have for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: visor10
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:27 am PT
Review:  When I first played this game, it completely amazed me by how fun it was and I got completely addicted 
 to it! Basically, you create a town then name it and then you create yourself. Then you can do 
 anything you want really! Here is a list of some of the many things you can do: Fishing, Butterfly 
 catching, tree cutting, planting, daily shopping, getting new stuff for your house, designing your 
 own clothes! I could go on forever but I'll just say there are a lot of things to do!
  
  There a so many great things about this game! Plus the graphics are great! A Great thing about 
 this game is that it cannot possibly end! Another thing is that the time of day shows on the actual 
 game! Also the people in the town are so interactive, it makes talking to them fun! This game is 
 perfect!
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheaster2008
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  This 3+ was what I thought of babyish for me when it came out. But despite of me thinking it was 
 a bit childish for me I bought it 2nd hand. I played on it for 30mins and I thought "This isn't 
 that bad actually". So I played it for 3hrs straight. I forced my self to stop played for a little 
 while and stated Playing LittleBigPlanet. After 5mins i was back on animal crossing wild world. 
 I was Shocked at myself. I wholopped myself round the face to make my self snap out of this suprising 
 goodness of this 3+. I carried on playing it 3hrs a day for a fortnight. On the 15th day I got 
 out of bed and Played on LittleBigPlanet all day. I didn't even look at ACWW. I got bored of the 
 repatition. get items from tom nooks store (which was nookingtons on the second day) sell items 
 collect money pay morgages for my near mansion. I got bored!
  
  Rounding off statment
  unless you like animal crossing so much you live in it only buy animal crossing Game cube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklink33107
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Well to start off this is a great game that I recommend for all gamers who want to have a game 
 they can just "chill with". I myself happened to love the majority of this game with so many things 
 to do how could oneself not? You could catch fish, and bugs, get loads of cash and furniture, and 
 for those really obsessed gamers, fill out your museum and catalog. With that lets start the review.
 
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  
  Your not gonna see groundbreaking graphics but it's good enough not to make you look away in horror. 
 Everything looks good, but i do have a problem with how a good chunk of the furniture items are 
 very pixilated and chunky. But yet again there isn't nearly as much memory space for things like 
 that on a DS game. The fish look good for the most part but the bugs dont look as great, most likely 
 due to the fact they are (for the most part) moving around. Fish are only seen by a shadow. The 
 characters look good too, and the new hairstyling really add's to your style. The hats and equipment 
 also look good but a couple of the masks are also a little pixilated and chunky.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  
  I actually really enjoy the soundtrack of ACWW. During the day it follows 
 along with the happy-go-lucky atmosphere, and at night it changes to another great tune. The music 
 in buildings (not in animals houses) is also catchy. You can also change your town tune to anything 
 you want, like for me crazy train, (I made it by myself, if you want to know there there is exactly 
 enough notes for it) and the song of storms (which i took from a terrific walkthrough) . I also 
 like the beat you get from catching a bug or fish. Also the tune when you finish paying off you 
 loan or when you catch all the bugs or all the fish (which i have painstakingly done) . K. K. has 
 a large selection of songs for whatever style you happen to like. I prefer K. K Love song, K. K. 
 Steppe, and Go K. K. Rider!. 
  
  Innovation: 8.5/10
  
  This game is a large step over the original. The new additions of many items and the ability to 
 wear headgear is very nice to have. The ton of new bugs and fish really help you keep going that 
 extra mile, combine that with the double the amount of fossils and 5 more paintings (i think) and 
 you'll have a blast getting all of these things. One bad things is that they took away the majority 
 of the holidays which were actually really fun. Brewster and Harriet are also new characters, while 
 only playing small roles its something new at least. Another thing which i find much funner than 
 in the orignal is the fact that Gulliver is now in a spaceship. Getting the peice from Gulliver 
 now takes quite a bit longer. They also manage to make growing flowers much funner, with all the 
 different hybrids it'll take an awfull long time before you get all of them.
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  
  This is the main reason ACWW is one of the best games for the Nintendo DS. 
 If you even only slightly enjoy the gameplay you'll be on this for at least 20 hours. The 500+ 
 furniture items makes getting all of them hard but fun and time consuming. Couple that with filling 
 out your museum and making friends you'll have to play LOTS. On top of that doing those things 
 are actually fun! Those are just the main things too. Making friends is actually quite a challenge. 
 Getting thier pic is even harder. Befriending Sable and Brewster are also small things that up 
 the gameplay. Add in all the people that come to your town (friends, Redd, Saharah, Dr. Shrunk, 
 Wendell, Katrina, Gracie, Gulliver, Pascall) and you'll be having a blast in no time! If you want 
 you can also try to get all the golden equipment. Or try getting all the flower hybrids. Upgrading 
 your house takes up lots of time too. Buying the incredibly expensive throne (800,000 bells) , Crown 
 (head-gear 1,000,000 bell's) and the Royal Crown (head-gear 1,200,000 bell's) will take an awfull 
 long time. I could go on and on about all the things you could do but it'll bore you to death so 
 i'll wrap this up.
  
  So there you have it. My review on ACWW. (Sorry if i bragged too much bout anything) .
  
  p. s: 
 this is my third review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ss4gogeta0
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Game Score: 8/10
  Animal crossing - wild world
  By ss4gogeta0
  
  This Animal crossing game is like all the others. The single player game has a very simple plot 
 and as always, lots of items to buy. However, it is still quite a good game. The multiplayer function 
 is great for a good party with friends.
  
  Single Player 6/10
  the single player part of the game is like using a hot knife to cut through butter... its smooth... 
 the upside is that you can customize stuff.
  The downside to the single player mode is that at times you feel like you are just running around 
 and not really doing anything.
  
  Multiplayer 7/10
  it brings one of the funniest online multiplayer experiences this side of the globe... the wifi 
 is quick and easy to set up and it offers adhoc mode for those who want a private game... it also 
 uses wifi for contests and to get special letters from nintendo and friends.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  same as the first game but with added touch screen
  
  Sound 8/10
  Like most 
 Nintendo games the music is origional and uplifting...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tnfaith
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  'Animal Crossing: Wild World' was my very first DS game, and I have to say, it literally took up 
 almost all of my brain cells for the first few weeks I played it. The game has great graphics, 
 friendly AI's (neighbors,) and a bunch of fun and easy things to do. The point of AC: WW is to earn 
 currency, called Bells, to pay off your house mortgage to a certain Tom Nook. There are a variety 
 of ways to earn Bells: fishing, bug catching, fossil digging, shooting presents from sky, etc. 
 One thing's for sure  these little chores will keep you up day and night, finding certain rare 
 species of fish or bugs (some fish/bugs are only found in certain parts of the day.)
  
  The Bottom Line: Animal Crossing: Wild World is one of the few games that you don't want to get 
 bored of too soon  there are a huge amount of things to do for your AC town, whether it's summer 
 or winter or day or night. 9.5/10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xhoshxmoshx
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I played this 10 hours straight. My friend left it at my house and I stayed up all night playing 
 this. Once you finally can set it down, you might not pick it back for a while. Once you do, your 
 up all night again. 
  
  
  
  Graphics - B
  
  Nice 3D graphics. Especially since a majority of the DS games are ether grid style or side-scroll. 
 The graphics could be a little better though. There are a few objects that are slightly pixelated.
 
  
  
  Sound - A
  
  This is a hard thing to screw up with a portable game. No flaws. That's all I care about.
  
 
  
  Motion - A
  
  The ground doesn't move faster than your feet. Nor do you walk as if your were running. All movements 
 are life-like. Another thing hard to screw up in a simple game like this.
  
  
  Quality - (coming soon)
  
  No glitches. No bugs. Give me some time to check out Wi-Fi, then 
 I will update this.
  
  
  Gameplay - (coming soon)
  
  Well, the game flowed pretty well. I need a little more time on it though.
  
  
  Online (hold 
 on)
  
  Hold on.
  
  
  
  I would recommend this to people who like Pokemon, or anyone who likes a calm game everynow and 
 then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CazmoV
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Never in my life had I ever played a game that is least like a game until I played Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World. I bought this game through a recommendation from my friend, who owned the gamecube 
 version. I was expecting the sort of game where you controlled an animal, and you go on a journey 
 and explore different levels, meet people on your way and overall be very clich. However, Animal 
 Crossing's gameplay is like no other game I have played. You are in a town that you name. Basically, 
 you own a very small house, and you have to sell fruit, fishes, bugs and fossils to earn money 
 to pay off your mortgage. Once you have payed that off, you will receive an extension to your house, 
 as well as another mortgage (the amount increases massively each time) to pay off. That is the 
 meat of the game. Other activities you can occupy yourself with include fishing, bug catching, 
 socializing with other animals, filling the local museum with your findings, creating your own 
 clothes, and much more. 
  Sure, this doesn't sound much like a game at all so far. It is more like another, shorter, less 
 realistic life. But just because it doesn't include guns, zombies, strong language, sex or whatever 
 "hardcore" gamers are in to, that doesn't mean you won't enjoy this. I love a good hardcore game, 
 much prefer them to casual games. However, this game is so relaxing, endearing and perfect, that 
 you just can't help but smile when you first step out of your cab to your town.
  Sure, the single player mode of this game is brilliant. However, my favorite part of the game was 
 the awesome multi-player mode. I would regularly link up with my sister, my mum, my friends, anyone 
 that I knew who had the game. Trading fruit, selling items, playing hide and seek - it was so exciting 
 visiting a new town. And to top it all off, it even included wifi, giving me the chance to link 
 up with any far away relatives I had or anyone else I knew who played the game, but couldn't meet 
 up with me. Sadly, I didn't know many people who played the game who also had their DS hooked up 
 to wireless internet. However, I had one friend who I occasionally linked up with, and I also knew 
 a website that I could swap my friend code with. Despite multi-player being a strong point of the 
 game, this also can be a weak point for anyone who doesn't have friends who play the game, or don't 
 have wireless. Nintendo tried to keep the game safe my only letting you link up with people that 
 you had the friend code of. However, this stopped you having as much freedom. But luckily, using 
 a website where people submitted their friend code, I had a great time on it.
  I'd really recommend this game to more or less anyone. It is a cure, relaxing pass-time which will 
 keep you occupied for ages. I'd probably still be playing it now if it wasn't for the fact that 
 I now own the game on the Wii, and am digging into it quickly. The only thing I can now say before 
 you go out and buy it, is you will get so much more fun out of the game with wireless internet, 
 or at least friends who own the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skytiger666
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 25, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  The game starts with a ride in a taxi with involves around 20 screens of garbled meaningless conversation.
 
  There is no way to skip this.
  And from there it continues in its quest to bore and irritate you.
  You will have to click past 
 hundreds and hundreds of text screens - they are like the error dialog boxes you get in windows 
 - but hundreds of them.
  This does not constitute entertainment - it ranks LOWER than Microsoft Excel as a game.
  Nothing 
 in this game triggered any kind of interest or pleasure in any of my family.
  And it seriously disappointed my son - it was his first experience of his first Nintendo DS - the 
 first big xmas present of his life - and he almost cried - luckily I had backup games.
  Please do not buy this game - the developer needs to be taught a lesson - where do I get a refund 
 AND an apology?
  You expect a minimum level of quality in a Nintendo title, how has this slipped through?
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guardcaptainsid
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  animal crossing wild world isnt a bad game, but not as good as the first one.
  It is exiting to have a small village right their on your DS, but they cut out alot of great things 
 from the first one. Halloween doesnt exist anymore. They also added stuff to, Like watering your 
 garden, which helps pass the time. Hair stylist is in this game. You still can fish and net bugs. 
 You also can have a timer and a slingshot! You dont have to wear that viking helmet, (I actually 
 preffer that helmet) . You still can design and buy hats and masks. However, if you are going to 
 play or buy an animal crossing game, get the first one, or get the new one, city folk, which I 
 want to play. Gyroids are still available, and you still get mail. If youve played the first one, 
 try this one, you might like it more than I did, it wasnt a bad game, but not as good as the first 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ravenswan32
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is purely a game where we can do whatever we want to. I felt it had 
 the tools to become a remarkable simulation game, however, it needed more substance. I felt, indeed 
 that the game was missing goals, quests, objectives. In my opinion, the best part of the game were 
 the first minutes, where we had to make some errands to Tom-Nook, the local shop-keeper. I think 
 that after that first "quest" the game totally lacks something that would keep us playing. After 
 that, the boredom installs on our consoles and in our head, and we just feel that we don't gain 
 almost anything by planting flowers outside our house or being talking with that neighbour. Also, 
 loosing hours trying to catch the biggest fish in the village to discover that our prize is a trophy 
 that actually is cheap in the market can turn into a bad experience. 
  I think that the overall graphics of the game were cute, good for children, and gave us the greatest 
 reason to be wasting time on our Nintendo DS's. Strangely, the game is very addictive at first, 
 but after spending days seeing that almost anything changes can be pretty bad and boring. 
  My score is for graphics, cute environment and a first good experience. 
  The lack of "game" 
 in this "game" is what doesn't put my score higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evtar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  From fishing to trying to earn money to pay off your debt to Tom Nook this game has something for 
 everybody. You start off moving into with no money, Tom gives you a house and think you have the 
 money or bells to pay off the house but sadly , you don't , so you spent the first 15 minutes working 
 for him ,he decreases your debt, but not much. this game is the same game on game cube and wii except 
 it has wi-fi but sadly this one does not have holiday like chrismas like in the gamecube version. 
 If this is your first animal crossing game you will love it. This is a great game to just pick 
 up and play. You can buy stuff to furnish your room uor to sell so you can get stuff like clothes 
 and acessories to wear. In This game you can make patterns to were, put on the ground, use on the 
 floor in your house, use as wallpaper, umbrellas, and hat. this game goes on for a year and is worth 
 the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsgrizzlies35
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun I like how everything around you changes in real time. I like the wi-fi 
 connection. The best part about the game is that you can customize your house anyway you want it. 
 I love to go to the store to see that they have new items in stock everyday. Another thing i like 
 about animal crossing is you can celebrate the holidays. I LOVE to watch the countdown timer on 
 new years eve. I love it when it hits zero and everyone goes crazy. iF YOU DON'T LIKE THIS GAME 
 THEN YOU MUST BE ON DRUGS. This game has everything that reality has to offer. Another cool part 
 about this game is the fact that it never ends. I also like that K. K Slider plays at the cafe every 
 Saturday night. I graba cupof coffe and listen to the music. If you like games that are realistic, 
 This is a must-buy. YAY ANIMAL CROSSING!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  The whole point of this game is to live an imaginary life and make as many animal friends as possible. 
 When you start out you are in a taxi learning the very slim basics. It is surprising how many new 
 things they can make using just the Nintendo DS (which happens to be a semi-good handheld system. 
 If I can just ask one thing? Do you want a Nintendo DS game where you can't really enteract with 
 your friends. Well, first of all, I think it is fairly and very stupid that you need to know a 
 friend code to enteract with actual talking people. I would much rather play on a different game 
 on say the Xbox 360 or the Playstation Portable. Overall though, I think that this is a pretty 
 great game. All in all, this could have been made into a much better game, but it is deserving 
 of a eight point five. This is a good game for the Nintendo DS's for the caliber and it would be 
 a good enough game to rent and even buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sporewaker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Have you played Animal Crossing on Gamecube? If not because you prefer
  handheld stuff. Well then, now is your chance. It may seem stupid/baby-ish.
  But trust me, once 
 you start to play this game, you will probaly never stop. You
  see, Animal Crossing isn't just a game. It is part of your daily game session
  (whatever you call 
 it) . First of all, when you move in to your home, you are asked to work for everyone's favourite/hated, Tom 
 Nook. After doing the 7 jobs,
  you can purchase/sell anything you want. You can also visit the Able Sisters
  (the clothes shop) , the 
 town hall (to post letters or pay off your house mortgage)
  or the muesem (donating fish, bugs or fossils) . There is also a multiplayer mode,
  which you can 
 play with up to 4 players. For the controls, you can use the
  D-pad or the DS' touch screen. So, if you think Animal Croosing is good or you
  want to get, well 
 good choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legend7stars
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is an easy yet fun game. It is basic all you have to do is make money, 
 buy furniture, meet neighbors, and improve your house. While being so basic it is extremely fun 
 too.
  
  The game guide says if you donate 1,000,000 bells you will get a certain prize, or the royal crown 
 costs 1,000,000 bells, I don't know about you but to get those items you would have to be really 
 dedicated. Although, if you want those items and your not that dedicated to the game you can simply 
 cheat or use the action replay.
  
  I would always recommend this game, it's probably the best game for the  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_OmegaHunter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World
  
  Sound: the music is ok, you can make your own town anthem which is cool but they get annoying since 
 you hear them every time you talk to anyone!
  
  Gameplay: this is not really my kinda game, I found that I was just fishing, searching for fossils, 
 scouring for junk, selling it all then repeat. There are however a bunch of fish, fossils, and 
 bugs to collect if that interests you. You can use any bells (the games currency) you've made from 
 selling items on expanding your house and buying all sorts of furniture to decorate your house 
 with. There are tons of quirky characters that you will interact with as you go through the game. 
 The game has no real story or goal other then to just have fun!
  
  Graphics: the cartoony graphics haven't changed a whole lot, still tons of cute little characters 
 to talk to and have contests with.
  
  Overall: I didn't enjoy the game a whole lot but I would definitely recommend the game to AC fans 
 or anyone who just likes to hang out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicSpeed1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  Look, Animal Crossing is one of the best games on Nintendo DS! Once you buy the game, you won't 
 need any other on Nintendo DS, it is so fun as you live in a house, paying off the mortgage to 
 make it bigger! There are so many funny animals and on certain days, there will surprise guests 
 coming to your town! This is a 10 out of 10 game and you will never get bored of it (unless you 
 are getting a bit to old for it) . The Graphics are really good and the world itself is actually 
 round! Buy the game and try for yourself! Buy the game and try for yourself! Buy the game and try 
 for yourself! Buy the game and try for yourself! Buy the game and try for yourself! Buy the game 
 and try for yourself! Buy the game and try for yourself! Buy the game and try for yourself! Buy 
 the game and try for yourself! Buy the game and try for yourself! Buy the game and try for yourself! 
 Buy the game and try for yourself! Buy the game and try for yourself! Buy the game and try for 
 yourself! Buy the game and try for yourself! Buy the game and try for yourself! Oh and Buy the 
 game and try for yourself!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dertydood
Rating: 3
Date: Nov 16, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Don't get this unless you have a friend who has this game. even then dont get this unless you are 
 a 5-year old. To all you 5 year olds this might actulaly be fun. for every one else its fun until 
 you realize, OH! this is the same boring crap I did trying to get money and a bigger house. you 
 heard me I totaly copyed and pasted that. Oh!!! Whahahahahaha! I like cats! I like cats! I like 
 cats! I like Oh!!! Whahahahahaha! I like cats! I like cats! I like cats! I like cats! cats! 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  (P. S. Dont buy this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatelowfatmilk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  As those that have played it know, there really isn't much to this game. You have your boy or girl 
 character, your humble house and a town with a half dozen other animal characters who move in and 
 out. Your time can be spent fishing, planting and watering flowers and trees, catching bugs, digging 
 up fossils, shooting down ballons with your trusty slingshot (which nets you cool presents) , writing 
 letters to the other town inhabitants, and getting new furniture and nicknacks to deck out your 
 house. Most of these activities are fun and tryng to collect all the fish, fossils and bugs in 
 the game can take alot of time because the fish and bugs change according to the season. What isn't 
 fun is when the game feels like you're doing chores. I found myself starting up the game just to 
 collect all the fruit for the day so I could sell them back at the store for money (bells) . The 
 money mainly went to paying off the house. This gets tiresome after awhile. What also gets old 
 is catching the same fish and bugs all the time. How many horse mackrel or carp did I catch? Alot. 
 Still, the game is addicting and you fnd you can easily spend a great deal of time just running 
 around the small town doing odds and ends. The game has alot of charm and keeps the game play simple. 
 There is obviously a number of people who agree because the game has sold very well this past year. 
 I would recommend it to anyone who wouldn't mind have a casual game to play with no stress... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luxma
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot like The Sims but with animals. No your not the animal but your nabors are. 
 See you live on this little tinny tow witch you name (like Sims) , and your just moving there. Now 
 heres some tips since there no cheating. Nook is honest, and nice, Redd is a crook, Lyle is also 
 a crook, Mabel and Sabel don't do much, and everything shuts down at 11:00am. Heres something for 
 ya, if you have Wi-Fi or a friend with the same game in 30ft of distance. You can up grade you 
 Nookway buy having your friend (you can't do this alone) buy everything in the store that can sell 
 out. this excludes the note in a bottle, and paper in the store. Now unfortunately not all Holidays 
 are celebrated and graphics are kind of shoty. But Its a good game for almost all ages but like 
 I always say, rent first, and only you can say if its good or not for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyperjj3000
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  Id never played any animal crossings until i decided to buy this for the DS. There was alot of 
 hype about it so i thought id give it a go. I havent been dissapointed either. The aim of this 
 game is to pay of a mortgage to tom nook who runs the local shop. While paying the debt there is 
 various other tasks to do, you can furnish your house, interact with the neighbours, do some gardening, fishing, digging 
 up fossils, change your style and collect loads of clothes and more.
  
  I never stopped playing this when i first got it. The best thing about this game has to be the 
 wifi. Its great being able to go to other peoples towns so i would definatly recommend this game 
 if you have a wifi connection. I think this game is good for all ages, young and old. 
  
  Final verdict: make sure you have the next couple of months free cos you wont wanna put it down! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguino522
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  A fun game but the beggininng is boring because you work for some one .after that all you do is 
 grow things fish cut stuff talk to your friends and play with your friends through wi-fi. You can 
 make t-shirts in the clothes shop and make friends with the girl sewing and the bartender in the 
 cofee place. I made an AC Milan jersey and a Olyimpique Lyon jersey. Making money is sort of easy 
 cause if you shake a tree sometimes 100 dollars fall out. Sometimes its a beehive though. Overall 
 its a sort of addicting  
 dont have anything else to  
 dsf df fsd d fdsf ds......................... i want the new  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InsultToInjury_
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  I have owned this game for well over a year now and its still in my playing list. This game is 
 so highly addictive and with the release of the Wii - "City Folk" almost upon us. For all of you 
 who have no expereience the bizzare world of Animal Crossing I think its time you let yourself 
 know what your in for.
  
  Generally you spend your days lazy about by the beach picking up sea shells and planting flowers. 
 Sounds like a nice life doesnt it? 
  
  This is what Animal Crossing is all about, there is no "plot" or story to follow. You set your 
 own goals and go about your day to day life. The "Goals" I suppose is to make your house bigger 
 and pay off your mortgage as you get a new room etc added on and filling the museam with your finds 
 you come across while wandering the lush grass, crisp snow or in some peoples cases fighting through 
 your weeds if you neglect your town.
  
  The game will take over your life in the way Pokemon will. With the fact it is in real time certain 
 fish and bugs only come out at certain times and even months. So if you missed that all important 
 Scorpion this year I'm afraid you may well be busy Summer 09 to get your complete bug collection. 
 
  
  With the fact you will apparantly be able to upload your DS game to your Wii will be good for those 
 like myself who have spent a good long while pottering about making friends and paying off Tom 
 Nooks incredably expensive mortgages. 
  
  Many will critise this game as being about "nothing" and it is but its a fun, easy to pick up game 
 you can just pick up for 5 mins then put it away again. Granted to keep on top of things you need 
 to play it everyday to get rid of weeds. It could be high maintence if you want it to be, but be 
 warned once you pick up this game you will not be able to put it down and with many an argument 
 spanning from the "YOU BETTER SAVE BEFORE YOU SWITCH IF OFF" it will take over your life in a colourful 
 yet bizzare fashion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlopMeDo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing gives you a good beggining that makes you want to play more. It's always fun to 
 piss everyone off, but there isn't much to do other then talk, pay mortgage....... OH!.... um a new 
 guy moved in.... That's the reaction after a while. Not much to do but trust me, good game. Not 
 jaw dropping but pretty good for a hand held game. SO GO GET IT NOW YOU LITTLE PUNK :D.
  Multiplayer is fun because you can just blab about stuff but it's a pain trying to find someone 
 online who knows your code, knows your name, and know your town.
  You can get a cheat code thingy at that makes some pretty damn HALARIOUS situations in the game.
 
  It depends on what you do in the game, really. It could be awesome or it could be as crappy as 
 Michael Jackson's nose. Overall, it's not something you'll cling on to, but it's something you'd 
 like to play once in a while.
  
  
  
  Okay....... I'm out of words to say but I still have to get 800 characters in here...... SO HERE 
 GOES NOTHING?!!!
  PLOPLOPLOPLOPLOP DUCKDUCKDUCKDUCKDUCK WALRUSWALRUS COWCOWCOWCOWCOWCOW PLATAPUSPLATAPUSPLATAPUS 
 BALLZBALLZBALLZ PLOPLOPLOPLOPLOP!!!!
  MISTER T!! I eat, pee brain! CHOMP! SUCK THAT FOO'!
  YO MOMMA SO UGLY THAT SHE USES A TOOTHBRUSH! HAHMUAHAHAHAHAHAH IM GONNA TAKE OVER THE WORLD....... I'm 
 good....... I think that's enough..... just in case...... hvqyi35h nv=u65 r4WR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wavex_sync
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World was one of my favourite games for the DS. It has many everyday things 
 you can do in this game such as fishing and then donating the fish to the museum, planting fruit 
 trees, or even buying things from stores to decorate your own house!
  
  Pros
  -many decorations can be interacted with
  -trees are interactive
  -many different activities 
 for everyday
  -make friends with animals
  -multiplayer is FANTASTIC
  
  Cons
  -in the beginning, you have to listen to these guys and do chores over and over again.
  
  This 
 game is fantastic. Nintendo is so imaginative that they even have coffee in this game. They also 
 have telescopes, bills to pay, and things you can make such as designing clothes, umbrellas, hats, 
 and even decorating your nation's flag.
  
  OVERALL: 9/10. Why? because i eventually got bored of it since my buddies quit also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flame_tiberium
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game a 9.0 out of 10 because its a simple game that gets no lag no errors its very 
 fun and you can do alot and you can collect alot of thing throughout the game. you catch bugs fish 
 which are seasonal and rare and collect paintings and fossils which can all be donated to the museum 
 or sold to tom nook ( the local store ) or you can give it as gifts to your neighbours. as this 
 game is error less and lagless there is no actualy annoyence when playing this game the controls 
 are simple and creative and its amusing to play for hours. of course this game runs on real time 
 so no playing through a storyline or skilled play needed. just play it day by day and have fun 
 along the way. with events such as acron festival christmas and haloween and also events like fishing 
 tournament and bug catching tournament. your town also gets a native fruit which is worth 100 bells ( 
 the currency in animal crossing) when sold to tom nook and 500 for unnative fruits such. there 
 are also collective set items like the mush set and the modern set. you can collect 56 types of 
 fish some that are common like seabass that you can only catch in the ocean and rare ocean fish 
 like red snapper more rare ones like barred knifejaw then the most rare of all time fishes like 
 coelacanth then theres the freshwater fish like the common black bass the slighty rare rainbow 
 trout then there is the angel fish which is very rare then there is the koi which is even more 
 rare than the most rare type of all like the arowana and the aropiama these come in different seasons, 
 times and areas and as i said this game goes by real time so it takes alot of type to complete 
 this game. there are also bug types which are similar. but in order to live you need tools such 
 as axe (for cutting down trees) net (for catching bugs) fishing rod (for catching fish) shovel 
 (for digging holes) and the slingshot (which is used to shoot down presents that fly in the sky. 
 you can also complete tasks that give you golden of these items. you can also design cloths ( with 
 a simple design tool ) and create constalations. as this game has not the greatest graphics most 
 people would think thats bad, but no having bad graphics is a bonus, no lag no errors no problem 
 all simple and working. there is also a safe and non anoying online world all you need is your 
 friends friend code and play with him no rooms to join which means your safer you know and trust 
 the person in your room with you and you can trade things or borrow items for your catalog. its 
 4 people per town so no lag, and your friends can walk around with you and chat. as a conclusion 
 i think this game got big because its all simple and easy i gave this a 9.0 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3571BC
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:17 am PT
Review:  Being above the age when Disney World seemed the perfect way to spend my summer and shoes with 
 blinky lights on the side were the height of fashion I approached this one with some trepidation. 
 However, I read some pretty solid reviews and so I said to myself what the hell, if I don't like 
 it then it might shut my little sister up for a couple of hours. However, I'm quite pleased to 
 say that I ended up finding a bit of a gem here, though sadly one that will only shine for a couple 
 of hours.
  
  In terms of game play, Animal Crossing is different. Master Chief fans stop reading right now because 
 in no way is this even nearly for gamers like you. However, if cracking alien heads open isn't 
 the type of thing you usually do then definitely think of picking this one up. Basically, the game 
 starts out with you on this bus heading to a town where you are about to start your new life. You 
 choose the name of the town, your name and your sex, and then you're dropped off outside of the 
 town hall. You walk inside and are told that your new house is ready for you. You are then shown 
 where it is on a map, and walk up there. Here is where you meet Tom Nook, a character who you will 
 learn to hate and despise as the game wears on. You are told that you now have a mortgage on the 
 house, and you are to work for Tom Nook to pay it off. So you go and work for him. These first 
 few "missions" work as kind of tutorial, as you learn the basics of the game. You are then unceremoniously 
 dumped from Nook and made to head off into the Wild World. And that's where the fun starts. Basically, 
 Wild World is free. You can not pay off the mortgage, and just stroll around and see how many butterflies 
 you can find. Or you can go on a massive apple picking spree and smack off half your mortgage in 
 5 minutes. It all depends on how you want to do it. Once you've paid off your first mortgage, Nook 
 expands your house and you're given another one. This pattern repeats until you have a fully formed 
 house in front of you, complete with three first floor rooms and two upper floor rooms. This house 
 is completely customizable. You choose the wall paper and the furniture, and can customize it to 
 fit your style, or you can just buy as many insane things as you can. There's even a grading system 
 where a company grades your design style and gives you a score as well as some tips to up your 
 grade next time.
  
  Moving into the money side of things, there are a multitude of ways to pay off your debt to Nook. 
 You can create your own little apple tree farm in your backyard. You can catch fish and butterflies 
 and sell them off to Nook or simply donate them to the Museum. You can collect sea shells, or do 
 odd-jobs for the other animal tenants of this fair town of yours. You play it your way. You can 
 even ditch the whole single player mechanic and go online. However, to do this be aware that friend 
 codes are needed to play, so make sure you have some buddies with the game. If you can rustle up 
 some friends then there is some fun to be had. Basically, you can visit your friends town. Once 
 there, you can partake in a fishing or butterfly contest or, and this is especially fun if you 
 have a particularly well-ordered friend, you can just go around writing rude messages on their 
 notice board and tramping around in their flowers, as they run along hurriedly in your wake, trying 
 to fix the damage being done. Overall game play is very good in Wild World. However, if you're 
 looking for a game that's going to captivate you for hours on end I'd look elsewhere, as it does 
 become monotonous once you've seen most of it. Then again, if you can muscle past this then you 
 do have quite a fun game on your hands.
  
  Graphically, Wild World is solid. Being the DS it's good, but it just doesn't reach up to the standards 
 of quality titles such as Metroid Prime: Hunters or Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass. However, 
 it is done in a nice kind of kiddie cell shaded style that definitely isn't hard on the eyes, and 
 would probably rank in the top third of DS offerings.
  
  The sound is limited, being a DS title, but what sound there is is reasonable, if not spectacular. 
 There's no real speech, though characters do emit a kind of babble that is of no discernible origin. 
 However, there aren't really any faults with the sound - there just aren't any great sounding moments.
 
  
  Overall, Animal Crossing: Wild World is good. It's not amazing, and it's not going to revolutionize 
 the way we see video games today. However, if you're willing to give it a try there's a good game 
 here, great for small trips on the train or the bus. The single player is good, and the co-op gives 
 what will ultimately be a 5-8 hour single player experience some legs. All in all, if you're looking 
 for a reasonable game to see you through to the next big hit on your calender, Wild World is a 
 strong contender. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS_PLAYER_WILI
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so 
 real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! 
 Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games 
 done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual 
 Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual 
 Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual 
 Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual 
 Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual 
 Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual 
 Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual 
 Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual 
 Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual 
 Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual 
 Games done!! Its so real!!! This owns every Virtual Games done!! Its so real!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevewins1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 12:05 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great title out for the Nintendo DS. It's better than the GameCube 
 version if you've ever played that version. This game was recommended to me by a friend and I'd 
 have to say, that friend made a good recommendation to me. What's cool about this game is that 
 you go through it day-by-day. The game will change depending on the date/time that your DS is set 
 to. Around the winter months, the ground will be covered in snow and it will snow instead of rain. 
 During the fall months, the grass and trees will start to change color. And during the spring and 
 summer months, the grass and trees will turn green. Night and day will also change according to 
 what your DS clock says it is. Animal Crossing: Wild World is a game where you basically live an 
 animated life. You can shop at the store and buy clothes, furniture, plants, coffee, and more! 
 You can even go to the hairdressers if you want to change your hairstyle. You can also just chat 
 with your neighbors, sell fruits, or look for dinosaur bones to dig up! There's always something 
 to do - after all, it is a Wild World!
  
  Animal Crossing is an easy game but you can't really beat it because it's like living a life. You 
 can't beat life! So it's a pretty easy game but it's still very addicting. It's hard to stop playing 
 because there's always stuff to do at different times of the year. For example, certain fish/bugs 
 only come out on certain seasons at certain times so you have to play often to make sure that you 
 don't miss anything. Also, make sure that you play on holidays and on your birthday to join in 
 on the festivities! These are only some of the things that you can do. There are many more but 
 I don't want to ruin everything for you! Overall, I'd give the gameplay a 10/10.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  In the beginning of the game, you come into your town in a cab. In the cab, 
 the driver asks you many things such as the town where you're going and other things about you. 
 When you get there, you go into the town hall and are shown your house. Your adventure starts there 
 and that's basically the storyline. There isn't really much to it.
  
  Storyline: N/A
  
  The next thing that I'd like to cover are the graphics and sound. I thought that the graphics were 
 pretty impressive for the DS and different colors were used well throughout the game. Along with 
 the graphics, I liked the music a lot too. Every hour, the music changed so there's a variety of 
 music that changes often. I found the tunes catchy and they got stuck in my head often. You can 
 also play music in your house. Just buy a music player from the store! The sound effects were appropriate 
 too. When you fished, you could hear the bobber "plop" in the water and you could hear the fish 
 swim when they took the hook. When fishing, I find that the sound is the most useful part! I'd 
 have to give the graphics, music, and sound effects a 9/10.
  
  Music / Sound: 9/10
  
  The next thing that I'd like to cover is the online play. Unfortunately, this is the biggest problem 
 with the game. When you go onto Wi-Fi and play against your real friends, you could have a great 
 time. However, when playing against people that you don't know, there's always the chance of someone 
 dropping a "seed" in your town. A "seed" is like a virus on a computer and seeds can do damage 
 ranging from hardly anything, to blocking access to buildings, to destroying your whole game card. 
 This is the problem. You always have to be on the lookout for these people and you're taking a 
 risk whenever you let a random person in. You might be thinking "Just don't let random people into 
 your town!" but if your friends don't have this game, who will you let in? If your friends do have 
 this game, you're lucky because you have people to play with who you know are trustworthy. You 
 can then have a fun time playing hide-and-seek, doing fishing competitions, and many other made 
 up games. However, because of the risks that you have to take, I can only give online play a 4.5
 
  
  Online: 4.5/10
  
  The last things that I'd like to cover are playtime and replayability. First of all, I've had this 
 game for a year and I still play it sometimes. It's a great game! Since there's always something 
 to do, you can always be playing without getting bored. So you'll be entertained for a long time 
 from this game.
  
  Playtime / Replayability: 10/10
  
  Final Recommendation:
  
  This game is a game that you either really like, or don't like. If you like simulation games and 
 the things I talked about above interest you, you'll most likely enjoy this game. However, I wouldn't 
 rent this game because it takes a while to get things going and once you start to really get to 
 play it and get into it, it'll be due back.
  
  If I got this game as a gift, I would definitely keep it. It's definitely worth the $35 (US dollars) 
 that it costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamannt123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  If this is your first animal crossing game, then you'll end up liking it better than the gamecube 
 one if you got it. Basically, the best new thing is that this game is portable! On the go, you 
 can do anything, anywhere! Cool, right?
  
  You start this game out the same as the first. You pick your name, do early chores for Tom Nook, 
 the store owner, but this time your house location is randomly chosen by Tom Nook somewhere in 
 town. The great thing about the houses in this one is that you can have up to five rooms in the 
 same house! Unfortunately, if a family member wants to join the fun, you have to share the house; 
 he doesn't get a separate house. But aside from that there really isn't any bad things about this 
 game.
  
  You can still buy numerous items from Tom Nook's store, including a few new items, such as a watering 
 can, a timer, and a slingshot. You can also go next door to Mable's fashion store to buy clothes, 
 hats, and sunglasses to futher customize your character. Eventually, you can even get your hair 
 dyed and fashioned into a different style if you want.
  
  There are still fishing and bug catching rights, but now there are more new fish and bugs than 
 ever to catch, adding to your vast collection! Talking to neighbors is still an option too, and 
 now they're more liable to give you things after talking with them for awhile! The new town hall 
 combines the post office with a recycle bin for unwanted furniture and other things, a place to 
 ask about the environment, donate to a local poor town that sends you feathers to wear, and a place 
 to pay off your morgage. There is also the museum, where you can donate things to the collection, 
 but a great change is that Blathers the curator can check fossils for you instantly! There is also 
 a new coffee shop where K. K. hangs out on Saturday nights, and a telescope where you can name new 
 constellations, and see them in the night sky!
  
  The graphics are very good for a portable game, so you won't be disappointed. Movement is also 
 very smooth, as the town moves along with where you go. A fun bonus is if a friend has the game, 
 then you can visit each others towns via close wireless connection or wi-fi.
  
  Overall, this game tops the first in every way, and the fact that it's portable makes it even better. 
 Recommend this game to everyone because it's awesome! Have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robin-Hood-1215
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a superb addition of this game by adding it to the Nintendo DS after 
 being on Gamecube, now this game will also be moving to the Wii shortly. The Wild World addition 
 is highly addictive since there's so many things you can do and collect in the game, also you can 
 grow fruit trees (like Coconut trees when coconuts wash up onto the beach.) You can gain other 
 fruit by mailing letters with gifts to your neighbors (about a 55-65% chance you'll get a fruit 
 not from your town.) There's Furniture, walls/carpets, and tools, etc. you can buy at Tom Nook's 
 Store. The Able Sisters have clothing and hats. And finally there's special visitors you can come 
 across on some weekdays like Saharah, Wendell, Pascal, and Gulliver. There's a pretty high chance 
 you'll fall in love with the game, so if you got some money, get out and buy one at your nearest 
 game store (some can also be found in malls.) Once you have this game, play it and have some fun. 
 Talk with your neighbors and every now and then they give you gifts too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: methodmannp
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  this game got boring for me quick there wasn't nothing really fun to do multiplayer was alright 
 and decorating your rooms. but everyone keep saying the same thing over and over, also some of 
 the events are annoying like la-Di-day and the bug off things. its like thats all they ever know 
 to talk about and for some reason i always fall asleep playing it. but hey this is my opinion don't 
 let it get to you. i mean there are some fun stuff like getting mail and doing errands but they're 
 to busy talking about stupid stuff you hardly ever get any errands. for me this game wasn't bad 
 but it wasn't good either but i wouldn't recommend it. unless you don't have nothing to do and 
 its a rainy day your in luck kid, other than that don't waste your money on this there's better 
 games. word to a brotha 1 luv.
  
  -the method 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korino55
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  If you own a Nintendo DS, and have some spare change, Animal Crossing is one of the various must 
 haves. It appeals to everyone of all ages, and is unique in how it provides so many different things 
 to do that keep you wondering what's coming next. Seasons change with the world, characters move 
 in and out, and there's always the available feature to invite a friend to your town. You can customize 
 your house to suit you, and also arrange and plant in the town. It's a wonderful cross between 
 Sims and plain casual gaming. The towns are randomly generated, so no one's towns are exactly the 
 same. Fruits also vary from town to town. One town may have cherries, the next apples.
  Good:
  Real time gaming keeps turning up small things. Wifi is fun, with the available feature 
 of chatting with your visitor/host. Rewards and items seem never ending. Great to pick up and play 
 from three minutes to three hours.
  Bad:
  Once you've updated your house to the max, made your house look spectacular, and fulfilled the 
 small tasks, it starts getting old.
  
  Animal Crossing wild world is still a must have game, that will last you well past six months of 
 game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle4apple
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game. It was fun just from the play. I can go by how the game is:
  Graphics- 8/10
  The graphics of this game is the only one that I don't care about. It was okay.
 
  Sound- 5/10
  The sound compared from the older version wasn't that great. I didn't like the outdoor music (except 
 for the 10:00 A. M. one and the 1:00 P. M. one) , and the pick sounds wasn't as good as before.
  Gameplay- 10/10
  I liked to explore the town, and I usually play for the house desinging. That 
 was my goal for the game. To get a perfect house.
  Overall- 9/10
  I missed the old holidays and some villagers, and they added villagers that I don't really like. 
 But the rest was improved and excellent. The post office is now the town hall, animals can now 
 visit your house, and they have added a cafe and an observatory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skibicks123
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the game has fun and the graphics look great for a handheld. In this game theres 
 so much to do! You get to talk to your REAL friends using the Nintendo DS WiFi and also talk to 
 your animal friends (Included!) The only thing i didn't like about this game is that you had to 
 spen alot of money to get a newer shop at Tom Nooks shop. This game even warns you if your battery 
 is out of power. If you liked the original Animal Crossing for the GCN you won't be dissapointed 
 with this one. (Though you might miss being able to play NES Games on the new onw like you did 
 in the original.) The controlls are the d-pad and the Touch screen but i prefer using a d-pad because 
 my hand gets tired after a while. Also you get to send messages to you friends or who ever you 
 have on your friend roster. The game has cute charecters and you pick by saying stuff nice or nasty 
 to the pirate bus driver (Who was in the GCN Version first) If you have a DS, buy it because it's 
 worth getting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxol
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Animal crossing wild world was a good game but it did not improve upon AC: GC. Sure, it had hair, 
 Online, and a bigger house. However it also lost the wishing well, Acre system, unlimited neighbors, 
 Separate houses and such. I liked WW but it made me miss the things in AC. I would give this game 
 a 9.5 if those features were not removed. I loved all the new fish including the ability to catch 
 sharks. Same with Bugs and The scorpion. The games online was good when you had a mate but if not, 
 it was just boring and lonely. The Hair Was a big jump but do many removed little steps made my 
 score of this game remain at 8 just like AC 1. Especially the acre system. If they kept that it 
 would have gone nicely with the improved town management tools and techniques. The wishing well 
 was way more help then pelly or phylis and sharing a house sorta sucked. Hopefully AC: CF will bring 
 back these awesome features 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBadMatty
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  If I could summarize Wild World the one word would be outstanding. This is the most imcredible 
 real life simulation out there. Players are free to play at their own rate and do as they please 
 whether it be fishing, fossil hunting, bug catching collecting and selling rare furniture and even 
 just socializing. The multiplayer here is really amazing. The one small drawback is that you need 
 the person's friend code to play via NWFC, but this is Nintendo's problem not Animal Crossing's. 
 If you have a DS this is the game you have been waiting for, it plays real easy you'll have been 
 playing for hours before you realize you been there so long. If anyone needs help please feel free 
 to message me on my Gamespot account, that is BigBadMatty.
  And thank you for taking the time to read this review. There are more to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niels200683
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 24, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a DS game with mayor graphical improvements over it's Gamecube predecessor.
  
  That said, it's graphics aren't great.
  
  It has, however, built on the gamecube title with 
 more stuff to collect, more to do, online and more (at times, incredibly funny) dialogue.
  
  The lame fish jokes are back (oh no!) ,
  it is still real-time.
  
  Best of all, multiple 
 players can now visit the same village at once - which makes this a game of imagination - you can 
 either host a fishing contest, bug catching contest or play hide and seek.
  
  Sounds a little lame... but it is quite addictive. A good game to fool around in on a long trip 
 (with a friend or sibling next to you with the same game) .
  
  The best graphical improvement is the lack of screen-edges & scrolling screens while you move to 
 the next. There are some mayor additions here.
  
  If you are in to laid back games, where story is unimportant and you like to draw, decorate and 
 catch stuff... this game is definately for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kandy00345
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  It is worth buying? Not at all. Should you rent? Possibly, if you have gamefly or are willing to 
 re-rent it a few times, but before deciding, read on.
  
  The game is a real time simulator that is just that. It's in real time. This is an interesting, 
 but not entirely convenient feature. If you feel like playing the game both in the morning (where 
 you do all your daily chores, like pulling weeds and watering flowers) and at night, you will have 
 basically nothing new to do in the evening. The furniture gets restocked daily, and the trees grow 
 daily but if you already perused the selection, or collected all the fruit that day, you have to 
 wait, and wait, and wait. This is a pain when you really want to make money, or furnish your house. 
 There are some good points about the change of time. The changing day is nice, such as the sky 
 and the lighting, and the different seasons (with various holidays, which provide a nice respite 
 from the monotony) , and the townsfolk say different things at different times of day. Also, different 
 bugs and fish come out at different times, and in different seasons. But besides these points, 
 the time frame is still a problematic flaw.
  
  The townsfolk are very cute and each has a personality and specific taste in furniture and clothing. 
 However conversation is limited and repetitive. The shop keepers and the mayor are more original, 
 as are the special visitors that come every now and then. They two become repetitive, however. 
 
  
  Your character is basic, but you do get to trick it out in all types of clothes and hairstyles. 
 You can be anything you want, which is interesting. Your home is small but as you make it bigger 
 and decorate it, it does become a very cool thing to do. This however is expensive and time consuming 
 (see paragraph one) , but not hard. You have a lot of alternatives and styles to choose from. But 
 everything gets old eventually, and in Animal Crossing, you should get used to the feeling of dreading 
 something that was once very fun.
  
  The game is something that you need to play almost every day, so be prepared for a commitment. 
 This becomes annoying fast, as something you bought to give enjoyment now becomes a chore. You 
 can leave it alone (it's not like it controls you) but if you ever want to play it again, either 
 start over, or be prepared to have a weed-ridden empty town.
  
  The game does get some life back into it if you have friends who own the game or have wi-fi, where 
 you can vist other towns and be visited, but if you don't have either of those features, rent it, 
 or leave it alone entirely. It's not worth it in the least.
  
  The whole game after having it for a month (max) is totally used up and ready to be put on the 
 shelf and never play again. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan404
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This is my review of Animal Crossing: Wild World, once again you start off as your animal version 
 of yourself, leaving home to live the life of a loaner. But wait its almost an exact copy of animal 
 crossing? Wrong! Many new features have been stuffed in this game, fishing seems to be a lot easier, and 
 the items have improved a bit, also you don't have to pause as your traverse each acre. It is a great 
 game but like its gamecube version it is lacking in activities. There are certain things you can 
 do and things you can only do once a day and once you do that, that's pretty much all the fun for 
 that day. Come on Nintendo you can do better. And they've also added wi-fi so you can visit people 
 all around the world. All and all if you have a DS get it. Its good for a little R&R but really nothing 
 else. I hope the Wii version tops all the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkFlareKin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  Wild World is a fun game to play. The plot is just like the one in the regular Animal Crossing, 
 you get a new house, you have to pay off Tom Nook, make friends with the neighbors, and thats about 
 it. There are a couple new things like the design of your character. You actually have hair, and 
 once you upgrade Nook's store enough, you can have a new character design it for you. Also, the 
 house has more rooms once you upgrade it enough. You have to pay more on the house debt for each 
 upgrade than you had to in the last game, though. Unforunatly, you have no basement, which was 
 a great room to have in the Gamecube version. The graphics are also better than the last one. There 
 are no square areas that you get into, but its just one big round world. The neigbors also do not 
 always stay near their house and interact with one another. Also, there is a bigger variety of 
 fish and bugs to catch. There are also 2 new areas inside the museum and instead of a wishing well 
 and post office, there is a town hall (which acts like a post office at some parts of the game) . 
 The bad thing is that the holidays are not celebrated in this one as they are in the previous one. 
 Nook sells Christmas and Hanukah (I do not know how to spell it) during December, but there is 
 no special celebration. Overall, it is a great game and I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brawl_fighter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Have you heard people telling you, Go get a life? Well, they obviously mean for you to buy Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World! Animal Crossing is great in every way, dialouge, characters, playthrough, 
 and a lot more. Animal Crossing: Wild World is the second game in the Animal Crossing series, the 
 first one came out for the Gamecube. The storyline didn't change that much from the gamecube version, 
 but more items came out for this game, more holidays/events, and so did on characters. The game 
 consists on 
  First: You move to a village filled with animals.
  Second: You must pay off your loan.
  Third: Tom Nook (The racoon who sells you the house)
  
 keeps remodeling your house so that he gains more
  money, which means more gameplay for you. He 
  eventually stops when your house becomes a
  
 mansion.
  Fourth: You just keep playing.
  Fifth: Take care of your town.
  One more thing, the game keeps on even while you are not playing!
  
  I highly recomend this 
 game for those who have a lot of time available or for those who frequently go on trips and make 
 a lot of time to get there. This game, without a doubt is one of the best Nintendo DS games there 
 are! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: narutorulz111
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I can't say it has many faults. It's a fun game where you can have your own charatar, boy or girl, 
 and shop and meet others. I'm glad I did buy the game. In the begnning you will truely enjoy it. 
 The other charatars are animals dressed up and with different persontilies. You don't need to eat 
 or anything, but you can grow food for selling or to eat or give away. You can build up your house, 
 your charatar, or make something creative, like a garden.
  
  I suggest you buy this game. It does have some faults, however.
  
  One fault is that it IS 
 repetitive after awhile. After a few months, you might start seeing it. The charatars move away 
 a lot and sometimes, if you played the game long enough, you realize they start to say the same 
 things.
  
  I'll say overall that if you really want this game, go for it. It's kind of like The Sims game, 
 expect the charatars aren't complaing that you sure clean the eveirmont or rush them to a restroom. 
 I think it's a good game, but if your not so sure, maybe you should rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 7:25 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  Well, in this game there is no story in this game. You do what you want to do. Tom Nook builds 
 you a house, and you have to pay off the mortgage. After you do so, he will offer to make your 
 house bigger, you pay that mortgage, and so on. 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  It is like a real life, only instead of people, there are animals. You can do a lot. You can fish, 
 collect bugs, dig for fossils, communicate with your neighbors, look at the stars, go to concerts, 
 plant a garden, shoot thing down from the sky, donate money to a poor town called Boondox, create 
 a savings account, mail presents and letters, donate things to your town's museum, the list goes 
 on. It's a very fun and addicting game.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  I know that it is just the Animal Crossing look, but the jaggies really annoy me sometimes. The 
 reason I don't bash it very much is because I know that Nintendo intends it to look that way. I 
 don't know why though.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  It is easy to control. The D-Pad is great, but when you use the touch screen, that is a whole different 
 story. The touch screen isn't as responsive as I'd like it to be. I know that this game came out 
 two years later, but Animal Crossing's control would be second to none if they had made the touch 
 screen control as good as The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass's. The D-Pad is what saves this 
 game.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  I love the sounds in this game. Everything from bug noises, to the town tunes. The only thing that 
 annoys me is when you are listening to a good melody while walking around in the game, and it suddenly 
 changes to something totaly different. Another thing that I have grown to like is the Animalese.
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  A great game that is fun for all ages. You will enjoy it a lot, and might become annoyed with how 
 addicting it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4koN3m3sis
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 8/10: The graphics on Animal Crossing isn't exactly world-class but it works with this 
 type of game. The cartoony characters fit this game perfectly and have enough detail to make them 
 stand out. The houses are small but have enouh detail to make them houses.
  
  Audio  7.5/10: The audio for this game is very cool when you start but as you get on and play, 
 the audio gets very repetitive so you should consider listening to the iPod while playing this 
 game once in a while.
  
  Gameplay  10/10: Now this is where Animal Crossing goes into a world of it's own! This game is 
 an excellent and original Virtual Life simulator and gives you, the character, tons of things to 
 do from shooting balloons down with slingshots all the way to fishing! This game is HUGELY addictive 
 and can keep you occupied for a VERY long time!
  
  Pricing and Future Development - 10/10: The price for this might fail you at the start, but once 
 you get onto WiFi, you'll see why this was a good 30 when it was released! People are expecting 
 Animal Crossing: Town Folk for the Wii to be really good and I hope for it to take this game over 
 as the best game in the Animal Crossing series!
  
  OVERALL  10/10: This is a very well made game and couldn't have been better made! Well done Nintendo! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrSpoony
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Graphics - 9/10: the games harmless presentation, and colourfull graphics only add to the charm
 
  Sound - 7/10: nothing special, but memorable and helps to set the mood
  Value - 9/10: will keep you coming back for more, even when it gets a it boring...
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Why do I enjoy Animal Crossing so much? All I end up doing is run around for hours on end, stopping 
 occasionally to talk to a neighbour, or to dig up a fossil, so what's so fun about it? Well strangely, 
 everything. The town you live in is randomly generated, meaning each town is unique in one way 
 or another. You start the game after being dropped off in said town with absoloutely no money or 
 furniture for your house, your only possesions are a cardboard box, a candle and a t-shirt. Your 
 local shopkeeper (Tom Nook) will 'employ' you to do tasks to earn some money, and he even pays 
 off a bit of your mortgage to help you on your way. This part of the game is the only negative 
 point about it, as your town is only populated by 3 neighbours. To truly get into this game you 
 have to play it for at least 2-3 days first, at which point more people will move into your town, 
 and you will have a bit more money to buy things for yourself and your house. The only shops you 
 have in your town are Tom Nooks (NooksCranny) , where you will be able to buy furniture and tools, 
 and The Able Sisters, where you can buy (and design) your own clothes. The stock changes everyday, 
 so it will keep you coming back to finish a collection. Want to look like a spaceman? You can. 
 Shopping at NooksCranny pays off aswell, as everynow and then he will expand, from a wooden hut 
 all the way up to a supermarket. Two shops may sound boring, but it doesnt end there - there is 
 a town hall where you can send letters to friends (both real via link up / WiFi) , pay of your mortgage, 
 store your money in a bank and even recycle your old unwanted junk. There is also a Museum that 
 you wil spend most of your time playing towards, as you need to catch fish, bugs, find fossils 
 and even buy paintings to fill it up. On top of all of this though, the main feature that will 
 shine through is time. The game is played in real time, meaning if you play in the middle of the 
 night, most of your neighbours will be asleep, the shops will be closed and it will be reasonably 
 calm. Every month holds special one day events such as Flea-market, where you can sell and buy 
 furniture directly from your neighbours, and Yay-day where you will pick the neighbour who comes 
 up with the best tune to represent your town. Special visitors pop in and out of your town such 
 as CrazyRed, the black market and even an insurance guy. As seasons change, so does the weather 
 and bugs/fish you can find around town. The game is perfect to play for hours on end or just a 
 few minuites on the bus, and even when its turned off the game still plays, neighbours will miss 
 you when your gone for a long time, and even move out of town. A local musician comes down to the 
 cafe every saturday, wether your there or not.
  
  I know this review has been long, and thank you if your still reading this, but i havent even touched 
 the surface of this game yet, there is so much to do you really have to experience it yourself. 
 Yes, ok in the end it does get a bit boring, but no matter what, you will keep coming back to it, 
 it can never be put down for good. So If your one of the few people who still dont have this, buy 
 it, it has a wide appeal. - If you like gardening, you can do it here, if you dont like it, you 
 can stamp all over your neighbours garden and go fishing instead. I truly recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Once in a while there's a game that really does fit the bill for generic words. Every reviewer 
 is tempted to use the words "fun" or "addictive" when discussing a game that is so much more, but 
 then sometimes there's a game on the plate that really does lend itself to being described in such 
 simple terms. Most of the time the game's not even worth discussing at all if it comes to that. 
 I pressed the A button a few times and colors appeared, oh, boy! How compelling, that's the peak 
 of interactive media!
  
  Animal Crossing is a series that slips into this description so well it's hard not to say it, but 
 the game is still a good game nonetheless. Animal Crossing: Wild World is fun! Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World is addictive! Animal Crossing: Wild World made me smile and giggle like a Japanese schoolgirl! 
 Very few games are so black and white, especially when the internet is just a click away to offer 
 a hundred more opinions on the experience you just went through. Because of this, Animal Crossing 
 is a complex game to describe. It's so simple it's appalling, and it's difficult to understand 
 why this might be fun for a lot of people. What makes the simplicity work? It's hard to say outright.
 
  
  I like to call Animal Crossing: Wild World a single player MMO in my pocket, mostly because it 
 fits no other description. It has that odd sort of level grind and  
 gameplay that World of WarCraft has, but the mechanics are hidden behind sickeningly cute, talkative 
 animals and a Myspace-inspired customization reward system. For too many people the grind is mundane 
 because they don't see the pure brilliance behind the cuteness factor. It's shockingly potent and 
 deep, once the player learns the system. Then it's the single player MMO, giving the gamer several 
 very large, long quests and then the means to complete them in any manner they wish. Well, without 
 brutal violence, but that's what City Life is like, no?
  
  The quests mentioned above are doled out the very first hour the gamer plays. There's the house 
 loan to pay off, which will grow and expand as each upgrade is made. This is the main source of 
 gameplay for this series; gathering money in various clever (and sometimes illegal) ways has never 
 been so curious and demanding. Harvesting foreign fruit might get the player a steady stream of 
 bells, but it isn't enough after a few house upgrades and can take many hours to complete. Fishing 
 and bug catching are amusing for a little while, but doesn't give enough incentive to keep at it 
 for hours. Playing the stock market is rewarding and can pay back some nice profits, but the risks 
 are high. All these little options are everywhere, and while they all have their ways of gathering 
 money, they all have equally demanding drawbacks and labor. It's all about putting an ear to the 
 system and learning how to get out with the largest amount of cash possible.
  
  Shooting off from the main Money Quest for Glory, there are many other ways to keep busy in Animal 
 Crossing. Filling up the museum is a fun pastime when the house gets big enough, with a reward 
 of a group of very neat, visually pleasing rooms filled with information cards on many interesting 
 subjects. The social element, while subdued in the DS edition, is still relevant and enjoyable 
 (who doesn't like pushing around the animals until they start blowing a leak like Old Faithful?) , 
 and is often very well written and humorous. Gathering all the tools, room decorations, and clothing 
 pieces is more enjoyable than it sounds, and may offer potential rewards. This might sound like 
 superficial fluff, but in execution its actually quite compelling when it's all put together, and 
 is often surprising.
  
  Throughout this the hardcore gamer is shaking their head. Why on Earth would I play this when I 
 could be playing real games like Call of Duty or Gears of War? The thing is, here, that Animal 
 Crossing is still a real game; it has a campaign and gives you objectives to complete, but they're 
 very vague and allow for total freedom in achieving them. While a game like World or WarCraft says, 
 "Kill these monsters until you get to this level," Animal Crossing says, "Get to this level, but 
 you can do it however you want." Or you could just forget about that stuff, customize your room 
 with Nintendo glamor and sit around on your butt all day. That's fine, too.
  
  Animal Crossing doesn't stay fun for long. It's true; it's repetitive to a fault, and lacks a good 
 reason to keep playing beyond the few, far-off rewards the game promises will come eventually. 
 But by the time the game becomes old, the house mortgage will be payed off with money to spare. 
 Animal Crossing never overextends its welcome; it gives small punishments for long periods of inactivity, 
 but its still inviting a few check-ups now and then. And when it's time to start the town over 
 fresh, it's amazing how much of a bond there is between the player and the game. It certainly isn't 
 expected from this unassuming little Nintendo animal game. 
  
  Dare I say it, Animal Crossing: Wild World is a hardcore game. It expects a commitment and an open 
 mind, and anyone else will be out of luck. It takes a fan to really see beyond the animals and 
 shallow-looking aspects of the little town its creates, and see what really makes Animal Crossing 
 shine. It's a game played in light bursts, in short half-hour sessions each day to keep up with 
 the dealings and doings of the little world. Here and portable it's a bit more potent, with additional 
 quests to keep the player coming back and a smaller package that's easier to grab and go on the 
 DS. And if the cute girl across the aisle likes the fuzzy animals running around, well, that's 
 just what games are about, right?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frye44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I have never played Animal Crossing for the Gamecube, so I didn't have any knowledge of this series. 
 But I'm really glad I decided to get this game! There is so much to do and even when there is no 
 "quest" to complete you can still just hang out in your own town and have fun. You can fish, catch 
 bugs, meet new neighbors, send letters, dig up fossils, plant flowers, and much more. The main 
 part of this game is to get money, which they call "bells" , and buy new furniture from a man, 
 or Raccoon I should say, named Tom Nook, to customize your house. You can also expand your house 
 buy paying mortgage to Tom Nook. I won't lie at the beginning of this game it starts of slow but 
 soon you will get wrapped in to it. I still find myself wanting to catch more fish and dig up more 
 fossils. It is a very detailed game, with lots of fish, fossils, bugs, and furniture. Sometimes 
 it can get a little boring, but you can go on WFC or with friends DS to DS to play in each others 
 towns. This is a really fun and entertaining game for the DS. If you want a fun game or have just 
 purchased a DS and need a fun game to start of with get Animal Crossing Wild World! (and give me 
 your friend code, lol) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  In this game you talk to animals and they become your friend. But when you start off in the game 
 you are in a car and you are talking to a bird like creature named Kappn and he gets you start 
 off in the game like asking what your name is and what your town name is and if you are a boy or 
 a girl. After that he drives you up to a town hall and you go straight inside and talks to this 
 pelcan like animal named Pelly. And she tells you where your house is and tells you that you have 
 to push the Y button. You are open to the world just for meeting the animals then if you go inside 
 your house then come out a racoon comes and his name is Tom Nook and he runs the store Nook Cranny 
 and you have to work there to pay some of your house loan so after work you are free to do what 
 ever you want so you can invite or go to one of your friends towns through DS to DS or Wi-fi. Then 
 after your first day more and more animals will come to your town. The good part of this game is 
 that you can have alot of fun just hanging out with animals. The bad part is that the animals move 
 and they come back so you can't meet all of the animals and also it gets boring when you accomplish 
 everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JACNDAK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  acww is great however i have never played ac but i look forward to accf the new game that belongs 
 in the wii family. i wonder, wont people still play the old version because it is portable but yet 
 people will also play the wii version because it's new. yet the reason in writing this review is 
 because i like this game because it never ends. and that its reason that i play this game almost 
 all the time with my friends my family if they ever get a ds and acww. if you want to know about 
 this function it is called multiplayer even people around the world can play togather in someones 
 town to go to someones town you must have their fc town name name and vice-versa. as for the rest 
 ill let all you people figure it out .ok i hope thats ok because i didnt make this review to upset 
 anyone but trust me you want ar if you want to finish preperations fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a kinda sorta Sim game. Its a very great game in every way. You start out by 
 awnsering a series of questions that your taxi driver askes you. Then you land in your town. You 
 need to pay off your mortgage from Tom Nook, the manager of the only furniture store in town. You 
 need to earn bells by selling things and doing jobs and stuff like that.'
  
  
  Gameplay: The game has so much to do. Fishing, bug catching, all that jazz. The game will encourage 
 you to playu everyday so you dont miss out on visitors, and events. The game is pretty realistic 
 in a way, making it snow in December and rain a lot in the spring. Theres also realistic events 
 like New Years. The game will keep you hooked for years. I got it two years ago and I still play 
 it everyday. Whether your bying coffe or digging up fossils, the game awlays is just so unpredictable 
 and new suprises will pop up everyday. Truly my favorite DS game of all time.
  
  Graphics: There pretty good for the DS, nothing special or groundbreaking. Animals look pretty 
 good.
  
  Sound: Catchy tunes, unforgettable SE's, this has really cool sound, i love it.
  
  Extra Content and Unlockables: Most of the stuff are unlocked from the start.
  
  Multiplayer: 
 One of the DS's best. You can go to other peoples towns via wifi. The only problem is that you 
 need there friend code.
  
  Final Comments: My personnel favorite DS game. Keeps you hooked forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernalPhoenix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is simply a great game for all the family to enjoy! The Wi-Fi emphasis 
 is amazing as you get to see how well other people are doing and get to do trades with them too!
 
  
  The in-game currency (Bells) are fairly easy to obtain if you learn to fish, sell, catch, slingshot 
 and find Fossils under the surface. There are many types of Fish and Bugs to catch and see do you 
 will be addicted to collecting them soon enough! =D
  
  The Golden items are a great selection of items to keep even the best of gamers hooked to the game 
 trying to find out how to get them unless they decide to buy them from other players which can 
 be up to 400k!
  
  However, every game is not without hackers... these particular hackers in the game can stop you 
 from playing online, getting outside when waking up from your bed and can even go as far as bricking 
 your game!
  
  Overall, this game is very original to the fact as the NPC are animals instead of humans but the 
 hackers (Which I guess everyone hate) just gives this game a score of 9.5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkmoogle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  I don't know where to start this game is fun. Yea, when you start to play you get addicted but 
 soon later you get bored after a while of playing too much.
  This game is even better if you have wifi you can play with your friends and help each other out 
 in the game. The one bad this about this game is when you over play it but when you stop playing 
 it after a while you start to like it again. If you like fun games you should get this game it's 
 even better if you have nintendo wifi so you wont get bored as you play. While your playing the 
 game you can design your house and get to go to other towns as well.
  This game is one of the best multiplayer game i have played. This game is kinda relaxing when your 
 fishing or just talking to your neigborhood friends in your town. Theres always somthing to do 
 you can catch bugs, fish, plant trees, flowers, talk to your friends on wifi, and shop for items. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghosteye10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty much exactly the same as the gc version but now portable!
  The only problem is that gets older quicker than the gc version. But starting a new town fixes 
 that problem. The music is great and the real time is cool. but i recommend you time jump. Nothing 
 really is wrong with it but without an action replay it might get old for whoever plays it. I totally 
 recommend you buy this ds owners! 
  
  
  
  
  
  This game is pretty much exactly the same as the gc version but now portable!
  The only problem 
 is that gets older quicker than the gc version. But starting a new town fixes that problem. The 
 music is great and the real time is cool. but i recommend you time jump. Nothing really is wrong 
 with it but without an action replay it might get old for whoever plays it. I totally recommend 
 you buy this ds owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicebryce
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  A simple game, but it's get even more intresting after you play it a lot, or otherwise, bored. 
 The sad thing is that!!!! A even worse thing about it that you have to even stuiped bells, and 
 the events are SOOOOO crummy! And the chracters are SO bad! It just not worth playing!!! It was 
 a complete rip-off of time! I hoped that they would get better, and they better because I may never, 
 EVER play one of their games again, and you can't cook the fish!!! The stuiped BELLS are just stuiped! 
 And I even lost 100,000,000,000,000 bells from my bank account thingie!!! I hate it, I just threw 
 the game in the bin!!! I can't bother selling it (even if I get alot of money!) it's that bad, 
 and the REALLY bad thing about it that your the only human in the town!!! even your taxi driver 
 is not a human, it may not bother you when you first play it, but it will get boring after a while. 
 Anyway for some people it's pretty sad. Because I think you would be sad if you were the only person 
 in the whole wide world, it will be pretty sad!!! But the fact that you can upgrade, well, EVERTHING 
 is probaly upgradable!!! It suggest that's it not good, but it's your choice, but you can like 
 what I don't like! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djburnzy1
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 21, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Due to a lack of activities in my household i decided to check out a few DS games in store that 
 were selling at low price. I found this and now i know why this game was sold for such a low price. 
 It. is. terrible.
  
  Graphics - 7/10
  Firstly im just going to start with the positives, Animal crossing does have good graphics and 
 everything looks very neat and simple. No glitches or any of that dodgy stuff that you see in some 
 games.
  
  Now it starts to get worse...
  
  Sounds/Music - 3/10
  Some would say that the sounds in this game are fairly creative and original but to me this type 
 of original sucks, big time. Not only does the music seem dull and kind of cheesy the sounds of 
 the various animals sound are fairly dismal.
  
  Controls - 5/10
  Ok, id have to admit the controls are fairly simple to master but hey, who couldn't master it? 
 Its not that hard to figure out that pressing up on the D pad will make you go up. On this part 
 AC: WW can't really be compared to other games as it's controls are simple and easy too use.
  
  Game play - 0.5/10
  Only because im nice. Wow so i get to send a present to my friends. Wow 
 i get to play with animals. AC: WW should be lucky to even get 0.5. I assure you, you wouldn't spend 
 more than 30 minutes on this game
  
  Value/Replay Value - 2/10
  Yes i guess it has SOME replay value if you want to keep playing with animals all day i suggest 
 going outside of your actual house and playing with your next door neighbours dog or something. 
 Overall value is good when compared to something thats equivalent to something id find at a dog 
 park. 
  
  Overall: 2/10
  Final Thoughts:
  This put simply is the worst game i have ever and will have ever played on DS. Thanks ninendo for 
 ruining about 30 minutes of my life just like you did with your E3 conference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: talkeme
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 18, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  You start out talking to a cabby driver who asks you several questions to define your personality. 
 You later on are forced to labour for your landlord, a cheap raccoon named Nook who owns (the only) 
 convienience store in your town. After you have finished the few odd jobs he asks you to do for 
 him (he asks much more of you in the Gamecube version) he will let you run off yourself and do 
 whatever you want to in order to pay off your rent to him. 
  
  
  
  There are many things you can 
 do, but the one thing that ticked me off the most is that you have a full human day. The fact is, 
 there are only so many things to do, and after you've talked to the neighbor in which you want 
 to befriend so much that they are asking you to leave, sold every shell on the shore, posted twenty 
 comments on the comment board, sold every fruit in which you could shake off a tree, bought a coffee 
 from Brewster, sent ten letters, bought all stock in the shops, claimed every Lost-and-Found item, 
 you have almost NOTHING to do but fish and if it's not winter, catch bugs. Although that may seem 
 like a rather large list it only takes about 45 minutes to do all of that. Not only that, but you 
 have to do the exact same routine tomorrow. And the next day. AND the following week, month, year. 
 There will be the occasional festival, but besides that you can get extremely bored out of your 
 skull. 
  
  
  
  However, there also are many bright sides to this game that make it somewhat amusing and time-consuming. 
 First, if you lavish enough gifts and letters and talk to a resident enough, they will give you 
 their (TA-DAA!) picture. Many hours will be spent if you get each resident's and visitor's picture. 
 (The odd occasion special visitors will come into your town.) However, some visitors only come 
 if you use Wi-Fi (Blanca, Lost Kitten and Mother, monkeys, etc.) which makes it hard for individuals 
 who don't have a Wi-Fi connector to make these people come into their town unless they borrow someone 
 else's. However, for the person they borrow it from it can be exciting to have those guests in 
 your town. There are Festivals (as I mentioned earlier) , but they only come once in a while, so 
 be sure to pay close attention to the notices on the comment board. The Acorn Festival would probably 
 be my favourite, as you must "hunt" for acorns for Tortimer who dresses up as Cornimer. Think of 
 it as an easter egg hunt. Well, if you have one acorn festival and store up your acorns in your 
 dresser for a year (or two!) you can get some special Mush room theme furniture from Cornimer if 
 you give them all to him (all but rotten acorns. He hates 'em) There are some extremely rare species 
 of fish (Coelacanth) and bugs (Golden Scarab Beetle) that you will have to donate to the mueseum 
 or else you will have one in a million chance of catching them again. There really is no 'finished' 
 game, and unlike others you could see the credits the first day if K. K. Slider is there. 
  
  As you can see, there are some good points and bad points to this game, but overall it is amusing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creamcheesekid
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 18, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I haven't even had this game for a year... AND I AM TOTALLY ADDICTED TO  
 is nothing, I repeat, NOTHING bad about this game. Plain and simple, this game is just a ball of 
 totally awesome, addictive, multiplayer, FUN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! You start out with a very small, 
 cramped house (well... more like a shack then a house) where your furniture is a box, a candle, 
 and a tape player. BUT IT GETS A THOUSAND TIMES BETTER (if you're a serious player that likes to 
 get stuff done.... like me) !!!!!!!!!!!! Then, 19,000 bells (bells replace dollars in this game) 
 later, your house gets a little bit bigger ( Tom Nook, the store-owner, builds more to it) . Then, 
 this happens about 5 or 6 more times, and then you get a 6-room MANSION!!!!!!!!!! IT'S  
 But your house isn't the only thing that gets bigger and better. Tom Nook's stores upgrade too! 
 You start with a tiny wooden shack called Nook's Cranny. Then you get Nook 'n' Go (kinda like a 
 small, roadside general store) . Then after that you get Nook-Way (kinda like a Wal-Mart or Target) . 
 And finally, comes Nookington's (it's a two-story Mall complete with a big area where you can get 
 a haircut... from a poodle... that is pink) . There is SO MUCH MORE that I could tell you about this 
 totally awesome game, but there are two, count 'em, TWO reasons why I won't. For one thing, it would 
 take absolutely FOREVER!!! And two, you need to actually need to get the game to fully understand 
 all the beautiful information that I'd be giving you! So... go onthe computer, or go to a store... 
 I don't care as long as you GO BUY THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!! DO IT  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vickyteusz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I was first intorduced to this game by a friend. One look and I wanted it.
  The graphics caught my eye first. Cute and chibi-like, land area that moves as you move, the cute 
 little sky with weather changes AND its so colourful!
  It's a friendly little ball of fun. Make friends with the town... animals, grow fruit, collect fish 
 and bugs, grow flowers and keep the town you live in weed free. Upgrade your house by earning money 
 and paying off your ever growing morgage. It is basically living a life with in an animal town. 
 Which surprisingly is fun and addictive. It takes time to work to the biggest house and collect 
 all your favourite furniture which makes it time consuming.
  The wi-fi connection allows you to visit other towns and host a visit with in yours. Visiting others 
 towns mean you will be able to collect fruit which you can't get in your own town. You also get 
 a cute little chat feature for the touch screen.
  Speaking of the touch screen, it is featured alot. You can use it to control movement, use it instead 
 of the actions button and use it to create clothing design in the clothes store.
  
  Bad sides, well it can get boring once you have the biggest house and loads of money. Eventually 
 you might visit your town once a day for an hour or so but thats all you really need. Break it 
 up and find the fun again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N1nt3nd0gam3r
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I got this game almost two years ago and I am still playing it almost daily! I don't think 
 I will ever trade this game in anywhere for any price!!!! This game has so much depth that it will 
 keep you playing for hours at a time. If you are looking for a game that can move you to a virtual 
 world and make you forget about everything around you this is it for sure! This game isn't a true 
 sequel to the Game cube one but that is fine because it is still awesome! There are tons of bugs 
 for you to catch along with fish. There are over 500 items to fill up your catalog with that you 
 can decorate you house with. The true fun of the game is getting through it without Action Replay. 
 I used Action Replay after I beat it (which took me a year) . Action Replay really can ruin the 
 fun of it if you use it incorrectly so just don't use it until you beat it. There is tons of depth 
 to this game and you should not get bored any time soon within buying it so go out to your local 
 gamestore and pick this game up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Game_Dude-
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is awesome for its outstanding graphics and it is even on the game cube as well. 
 Animal Crossing wild world is the sort of game that is like an hourglass the fun slowly runs out 
 after a period of time. Great online multi player interaction makes it more fun by letting you 
 visit a friends town ( via wireless connection) of even visit an online friend from on the other 
 side of the world. This makes for a great game!!
  
  Hope I am allowed to copy/paste this in =S.
  
  When writing your review, remember to keep the 
 language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. We encourage you to try to get your review right 
 the first time - you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive 
 feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review in a word processor 
 or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dumbee101
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I got this game about 2 years ago or so and still play it on a regular basis. It is a great game 
 and will keep you playing for an entire year if you play it correctly (no cheating) . It is not 
 a true sequel to the first one but who cares it is an incredible game. I would recomend this to 
 anyone it is like a virtual world inside your DS. It runs on your DS clock so if it is 11:00 at 
 night than it is 11:00 in Animal Crossing. It is a really really interactive game. You can play 
 on wifi with your friends but you have to have a friend code which really handicaps if quite a 
 bit because it is difficult to find someone that you know with wifi and Animal Crossing and wants 
 to go on at that exact time. Wifi is not a huge part of the game though so it doesn't really subtract 
 from the value of it in anyway. Incredible game again if you do not own it and you have a DS you 
 should so go get it. I would never trade this game in!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshiluvr634
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game for 2 years and I still love it! It's unlike any other video game I've ever 
 played. The characters, the graphics, the creativity - all amazing. The elements that make this 
 game seem like real life are the time of day, weather, and real seasons. During the day - blue 
 skies and maybe a few clouds, or rain. At night, starry constellations and the Moon. Springtime 
 is filled with green leaves and flowers abloom, while Summer gets hot (the perfect time to tan 
 your character!) . In Autumn, leaves turn brown, in Winter, snow blankets the ground in a white 
 wonderland. There's so much to do - decorate/upgrade your house, plant flowers and trees, fish, 
 catch bugs, dig up fossils, dress up your character with clothes and hats, or just talk to your 
 friendly (and sometimes not so friendly) animal neighbors. The addition of wi-fi connection to 
 party it up with friends is simply an awesome experience. You can meet some great people. I'd recommend 
 this game to everyone - it's completely appropriate, even for young children. Bottom line: YOU 
 NEED THIS GAME! GO BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derekgilreath93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing : Wild World is Ok I know outer people think it is better then game cube but to 
 me no is not yes you can carry it with and play it where every you go but after a few times of 
 playing when ever you wont yo it will get boring to play. But the game it self is fun for all you 
 can have outer people over and play with them to unlike the game cube. Also the graphics or great 
 you will stay up in your bed up under you covers playing it. And the sound is great to this can 
 be played with every body you know you mom will love it and your dad will stay home playing this 
 all day fishing. That should tell you that you will love it. And just to let you know that they have 
 Animal Crossing for the 64 Japan made it you will find it on youtube. But this is a great game to 
 play. All the Animal Crossing is great for every body 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snip3rPr0digy
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 8/10: I've never been a big fan of DS graphics but I have to say Animal Crossing has 
 above average graphics for a DS game.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10: I'm sure a lot of the people who bought this game, bought it because of the older 
 version for the GC. The older version was a lot of fun, but the new one is addicting. There are 
 a lot of changes from the older version. First, there are no cheats. I'm sure a lot of people had 
 memorized that 30,000 bell cheat. Second, no big screen = (. Third, no train. Instead there is a 
 huge gate that lets you walk into your friend's towns. Fourth, WiFi! Multiplayer is always an excellent 
 addition for any game. Fifth, well... I could go on and on.
  
  Sound: 6/10: Uggh... The worst part of the game is the ridiculous theme songs and sounds you hear 
 when ever you do "anything". But still, the sound is clear and doesn't sound all scratched up.
 
  
  Replay Value: Very High 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariofan2008
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty simple. Just let me explain it to you:
  
  1. Graphics
  Graphics are good. Houses look almost real. Animals look like cartoons. (Their supposed to look 
 like cartoons)
  
  2. Fun?
  Talk with animals, fish, catch, shoot, and time yourself. Animals send you letters.
  
  3. Requirements
 
  Good with the control pad, working brain, lots of intrest in animals, don't go crazy when you 
 find out its not a fighting game or something.
  
  4. Things you'll see
  Animals walking on two legs, a huge store built be an animal, your house , (Made by an animal) letters 
 sent to you by animals, and oceans and trees. (Trees were grown by animals) Oh yah, and fish and 
 bugs... and lots more things that I can't tell you now.
  
  Animals do pretty much everything!
  
  5. Upgrades
  Pay morgage, Tom Nook builds you an upstairs 
 room, left room, right room, a bigger first room, a center room, and if you get a lot of cash, 
 even a bigger second room! (I didn't get all these yet, I just read a cheat)
  
  And... thats it. Hope you like my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanderbruggen
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:48 am PT
Review:  Well it may look very childish, and maybe it is, but it's also a great game that will keep you 
 busy for a whole lot of hours.
  
  Gameplay:
  You can control the characters with the D-pad or the stylus, but the stylus doesn't work that well. 
 Animal crossing is not really what you will call a game, is more like a real life simulator, you 
 spend most of you time collecting furniture, fishing, catching bugs, digging up fossils and a lot 
 of other things. It's very entertaining, and not two days are alike in this game. The game follows 
 the DS clock and date, and every day and month has its own special events. 
  
  Graphics:
  The game looks great, with its full 3D environment. The landscape is very well made, and so are 
 the characters. The rivers and waterfall in this game is very well made and looks fantastic.
  
  Sound:
  The music in the game is very peacefully and sounds great; you can change the soundtrack 
 if you want, to create our own unique music. In the game you can hear the sound of the ocean and 
 the rivers, and the bugs that are making noises. The sound is just great.
  
  Value:
  This game can not be completed, and could very well keep you busy for over 100 hours. There are 
 new things to do every day, and the game gets very addictive. I played the game for 2 hour every 
 day for more than a mouth. The wifi in this game also add to the value. You can visit others peoples 
 town, and play with them or trade items. 
  
  Overall Animal crossing wild world is a superb game, it will keep you busy for a very long time, 
 and it's just so fun. Anyone who owns a NDS should check this game out.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 9
  
  Total: 9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 14td
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  This was my first ds game. The graphics are fun and cute. They are 3d and have a cartoon effect. 
 The gameplay is fun and doing jobs for people get's you cash and prizes! It also give's a more 
 realistic feel when you have to pay morgage. You can also upgrade your house!!! There is a maximum 
 of 4 people to the gamecard. The music is ok but it can get tired and boring after a while. The 
 fact that you can meet people and then to see them go is a little sad... But new people move in!! 
 You will never get tired of it's gameplay. Overall this game is fun, cute, exciting, and worth 
 every penny! This game is very good and well worth the wait. A must buy for gamers who like virtual 
 life!!! Like My sims, The Sims, Nintendogs, disney friends, Fantasy aquarium, viva pinata, and 
 petz games. I highly recomend this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_08
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Playing in a little village with cute animals may look like a bore and too cutesy to be fun, but 
 it can turn out to be enjoyable for people aged from five to eighteen, and maybe even older. 
 
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is simply living your own little virtual life alongside animals, like 
 a real adult might live after leaving school ... only with the furry creatures of the world, not 
 humans. Though this may seem like a flaw in the reality of it, it can be far more interesting to 
 play with talking lions, elephants, cows, rabbits and goodness knows what else than it can be with 
 humans. You play as a human and you live a very realistic life - you get a house, you pay your 
 mortgage, you get mail and many other things as well. However, a fault I've found in Animal Crossing 
 is that you don't need to feed or bring your character to the loo, it can buy a bed but doesn't 
 need to sleep, and there is hardly any routine to your day.
  In a normal simulation game, you would need to be bossed around by a tutorial in the background, 
 telling you what you should do, and how you should live your life. But Animal Crossing is different. 
 You can go about by yourself, live your own life, and if you need to, you can be guided by the 
 animal-residents around you. A lot of people hate it in games when they don't get a moment or two 
 to move about freelly - but ACWW makes you almost completely independent, and even when the townspeople 
 around you ask you of something, you can choose whether you want to do it or not. Animal Crossing 
 gives you a lot of choice!
  The best thing about Animal Crossing, to me, is that it takes place at the same time as your actual 
 day, the same date and time. So when it's morning in the real world, it's morning in the video 
 game. Not very many games are like that and you'll find it's convinient in a way.
  After reading this review you'll probably get that I think it's a fabulous game, but try it for 
 yourself. There ARE some flaws in the game but that doesn't make it bad. Don't take my word for 
 it - try it, and even if it's not exactly perfect for you, it'll probably still be a good experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironbat25
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Animal crossing ds is just like the gc version but you can bring it with you on the go. Its full 
 of suprises you dont know whats going to happen the next day which makes you want to play longer. There 
 are alot of  plants to collect. You cant collect all the fish and 
 bugs in one day because fishes and bugs come at diffrent times of the year so it will takes years 
 to collect all the things you want to collect. The graphics are very good for a ds althought the 
 gc version look better the ds version looks almost like it. There are alot of people to meet in 
 your town and the move in and out so you can get diffrent people in your town. You can play on wi-fi 
 so if you have your friend's friend code you can visit there town no matter where you are. If you 
 never played the gamecube version you have to get it on the ds if you have one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgriffee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  This game combines the great features of the original Animal Crossing, with all you would expect 
 from a great Nintendo DS title. And with the Nintendo WFC, it just keeps getting better.
  
  As you will find out in the first few minutes in the game, you no longer have the problem of collecting 
 furniture on your own. This is because you now share a house with all the other players on the 
 game card. Don't be fooled, it is much more fun working together on the same house. You even share 
 the same mortgage making it easier to get a bigger house!
  
  The WiFi feature is quite limited because of the chat feature. For safety reasons you can only 
 play online with people you have exchanged friend codes with. The lag can get annoying if one of 
 the players has a slow connection. Also, if someone turns the power off during online play, or 
 their battery dies, then everyone's game crashes and you will have to restart the system. Other 
 than that, the WiFi is great!
  
  The post office has been replaced with the town hall, which has the post office and civic center. 
 The post office also has a savings account for each player to use, allowing up to a billion bells 
 per user. The post office also lets you save letters, great if you get letters from friends and 
 want to save them!
  
  The civic center allows you to change the town tune, see how your progress toward a perfect town 
 is, donate to a foreign town, and move your character to another game card.
  
  The museum now has a caf, which K. K. Slider now performs at. You can also buy virtual coffee for 
 200 bells. The museum also hosts the observatory, where you can edit the constellations for the 
 night sky.
  
  Overall, this game makes for a great way to pass the time. I would recommend this game to anyone 
 wanting to find a game to play with their friends.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigifan323
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  First on animal crossing you will find yourself in a car, the driver will ask you a lot of questions! 
 Be careful how you answer them because it will determine what you, and your town will look like! 
 After the driver drops you off, you will soon get a visit from an animal named Tom Nook, he will 
 give you a job at Nooks cranny where you will have to do certain jobs like visit everyone in town 
 and plant flowers in frount of the store. This won't take too long, but you have to do it to get 
 on to the next step. In this game you can sell the fruit on the trees for 100 dollars at your town, 
 or even more at a different towns that have different fruit then you! Also, you will notice that 
 Nooks Cranny will improve as the game goes on, eventually, at it's biggest size, you will be able 
 to get a new hair style there for around 3,000 dollars ( if you don't like your style you have 
 at that point in the game!) So, you can buy things at nooks cranny which you can use to fish, catch 
 butterflies, etc. or you can visit friends, the museum or the able sisters too! if you need anymore 
 information like how to get a CD, just send me a message!! I hope you like the game! 
  ~Luigifan323 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBrownie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  The game offers so much to do. Even if the game gets boring, you can't help but play to see what's 
 going to happen. You can play and play non-stop for weeks, then completely forget about it for 
 a month. Yet, eventually you just pick it up again to see what changed in your town. 
  
  Even when you don't play, time still goes on in th game. The game is ten times closer to being 
 realistic than even the Sims. Shopping becomes a daily chore for players, and even if you need 
 the last few bells (the games money) you still find yourself buying something. There is just so 
 much stuff to do in this game, and events keep players tunned once in a while so they don't loss 
 interest. 
  
  Multiple things you can do include finding bugs and fish to give to the museum to show off to visiting 
 friends. Shopping for clothing and accesories gives the player a sense of fashion in the chibi 
 world. Decorating your houe to get points for prizes is something that players just can't avoid 
 doing- you will keep buying until you have no room left. Planting a garden to attract rare bugs, 
 and just talking to the villagers is something to do. 
  
  A lot of people find sims like this boring- no action and little story line. That's because it's 
 a life simulator, so no crazy demons stealing the princess or intergalatic wars between races- 
 just peaceful, quiet, daily life kind of stuff. Of course, this isn't a game for anybody. It does 
 get boring pretty fast, repeating the same stuff over and over again everyday. But if you play 
 in short bursts, it becomes a better game and is less boring. Trust me.
  
  Well, there is a storyline in the game when you first start. In order to survive, one needs money. 
 In order to live in a house, one must pay for it. That's exactly how life works, and they applied 
 it to this game too. You must work for money to pay off your houses rent. Get money anyway you 
 can, selling stuff, or just helping people out. It's not really a storyline, but it's something 
 everybody must eventually do some point in their life. But of course, you don't have to pay it 
 off. Not doing it keeps your hous tiny forever, but paying it off eventually gives you a mansion.
 
  
  It's a must buy for anyone with a DS, if you can stand repetitive and somewhat boring activities 
 happening everyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cute_Monkey1
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 30, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  Basicly Animal Crossing is a game were your a new resident in a town and
  while your there you have to earn money by completing different task.
  
  When you start the 
 game you will be asked various questions in the back of a taxi. This is were you will pick the 
 name of your town . wether you a boy or a girl and what clothes you were ( although you dont directly 
 get to pick your clothes and hair it is just based on what your answers to the questions are .)
 
  
  Animal crossing does have a wide variety of tasks ( fishing , colecting fruit
  , catching insects and so on ) but they all revolve around selling them for money ( known as bells 
 on Animal Crossing )
  
  Even though Animal crossing can become boring it still has somthing that make the game adictive 
 ,cute little characters , the different clothes and furniture on offer everday or the main goal 
 of paying of the debt you owe for your house.
  
  Animal Crossing IS worth buying but if you want a fast moving game
  with action and a gripping 
 story this isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing debuted on the GameCube and the original was quite good, but Wild World for DS 
 greatly improves on it. You play as a guy (or girl) moving into a new town filled with talking 
 animal inhabitants, special guests, and Tom Nook. While being the somewhat greedy sales guy, Nook 
 is a surprisingly memorable and likeable character. His store is where you start off, he gives 
 you a job at the beginning of the game to help pay off the mortgage on your house. Later, though, 
 you can make your house into a mansion and put tons of cool stuff in it. The animal neighbors are 
 very likeable as well and you begin to get a little emotionally attatched to some of them, making 
 it sad when they move away. There's quite a lot to do in the game: you can pick fruit and sell 
 it to Nook, fish, catch bugs, buy stuff for your house, visit other peoples' towns, and lots more. 
 The local wireless town visiting is pretty fun and going to a new town for a while is always nice. 
 The Wi-Fi play, though, if friends-only and therefore not any good. At all. Oh well, AC: WW is still 
 a long lasting, fun game worth anyone's money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NatKing
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  This game was one of the best i'v ever played, for many reasons, one of which is that you can spend 
 ages playing this game without getting bored and the wifi is great! With thousands of items to 
 get its one of those 'gotta catch them all' games which has been brilliantly structured so that 
 both the young (3+) and (12+) can enjoy it! Superb! I recommend this game to all gamers aged 3-12 
 because of its brilliant stroyline.
  
  Nintendo has once again nailed it! this is another great game!
  The different styles of fun tasks 
 you can enjoy range from fishing, catching insects or even picking fruit off the floor and going 
 on wifi to someone else's town and selling the imported fruit from their town for 5x more!
  
  Superb! Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
 
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
 
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
 
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
 
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  Superb!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyjackson
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2008 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is definitley a good game for kids, or people that have a lot of time. 
 Since the ds runs on actual time, it takes a lot of patience to play the game, and don't time travel, 
 it can really mess stuff up!!!
  
  
  Animal Crossing Wild World is a virtual life game, where you can be in your own town that you name, 
 and the animals that live there are always doing something different. The point of the game is 
 to pay of your debt to Tom Nook; he is the owner if the store in your town. Remember, just like 
 I said in the beginning, this takes lots of patience. Do not think that you will be able to beat 
 the game in a day. The best way to earn money is to first buy a fishing pole from Tom Nook's shop. 
 Go fishing, and sell your fish to Tom Nook. This is the quickest way to earn money. (For more tips 
 on paying off your debt, e-mail me at crazyjackson2185@hotmail. com with the subject "Paying off 
 debt in Animal Crossing Wild World")
  
  The multiplayer in this game is ok, but not as good as some of the other games. First of all, you 
 have to get your friend's code, and they have to get yours. You have to register it, and then make 
 sure you and your friend are both playing Animal Crossing, and both your gates are open. Remember: 
 You have to have a wifi access point in order to do this!!! To get your friend code, and to open 
 the town gate, go into the gate and talk to the dog at the right. The good thing about online play 
 is that you can chat with whoever's town your in, and you can pick their fruit, bring it back to 
 your town, and plant it. Remember: Foreign fruit is worth more than your regular town fruit. Also, 
 if nobody from a different town doesn't buy anything from your shop, than it can't reach its max 
 size. Don't worry: Getting the shop to the max size has nothing to do with beating the game, so 
 don't think that getting Tom Nook's shop to max size is mandatory for beating the game, because 
 it is not. (For more information on wifi and online multiplayer play, or if you have questions, 
 email me at crazyjackson2185@hotmail. com with the subject "Wifi and online multiplayer play"
  
  If you have any other questions, or you need help with something (such as getting golden tools) 
 please fel free to email me at crazyjackson2185@hotmail. com with the subject "Please Help!!!" If 
 I do not answer right away, I am probably playing video games, so I will mail you back ASAP. Thanks!!!
 
  
  Hope this helps!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gardengnomes41
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 13, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  In Animal Crossing: Wild World, you begin your game by riding in a cab with man. He asks your name 
 and where you want to go (choose the name of your town) . Once you get there, you are whisked away 
 to the town hall to learn what is going on. 
  The only real downside to this game is the fact that you can't really customize your character. 
 Later in the game you will be able to get a hair salon to change your hair, and you can buy hats, 
 glasses and clothes, but your pretty much stuck with whatever face you end up with.
  The animals you live with in your town are very cute and pleasant to interact with. If you become 
 friendly enough with them you may get there picture to keep in your house.
  Your house can become a couple of stories and have lots of rooms. The final upgrade is the mansion. 
 You can have fun purchasing wallpapers, floors, and furniture to decorate your house so that it 
 is just the way you want it. The roof can be recolored with each upgrade or you can buy paint for 
 it when Nook's store is completely upgraded. Outside, you can plant trees and flowers to make your 
 own virtual forest. 
  You can fish, catch bugs and so much more whil playing alone. The games multiplayer is pretty delightful 
 too. With two cartridges, you and a friend can visit each other's town. 
  This little virtual worls is a highly addictive masterpiece overall, and I think every DS owner 
 should have this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 25, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is the second Animal Crossing game in the series. The story starts 
 the same as the Gamecube game, but this one has new add-ons to make it all better than it was before. 
 With new animals and new mechanics make this game more enjoyable than the first game on the Gamecube.
 
  
  What I liked about this game is that the graphics are at the DS's best. Great gameplay. New add-ons 
 9such as Constellations, new hair does, better contests, and a customizable world) . More ways to 
 make your character look much better than the last game. More animals. Wi-fi gameplay. Wireless 
 multiplayer.
  
  The only two things I didn't like about this game is that wi-fi gameplay could be better. No animal 
 island.
  
  Overall, this is the best Animal Crossing game ever. Best DS graphics. More content than ever, 
 make it the best AC game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dangerman200k
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: WW is probably the best DS game I have ever played. There is loads to do, and 
 I love the fact that the whole game is in realtime. You can have up to 4 people, but the downer 
 is that you have to share everything with all of your characters. Great soundtrack. looks great 
 - top end of DS graphics. You can do everything from fishing to making tunes to designing patterns. 
 There are loads of items to get and lots of different ways to use them. You can change the way 
 your character looks and buy loads of different clothes for them. You have a house (shared between 
 all of the users on your game) and you can place furniture in the rooms, move it about and store 
 items in things like drawers. There are lots of different species of butterflies, bugs, and fish 
 to catch and collect. The multiplayer options are good, too. You can have someone come to your 
 town or visit someones town using DS to DS connection or Nintendo Wi-fi connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  You start off moving into a town which you can name and make a flag for it and a anthem for it. At 
 the start the shop keeper tom nook makes you a house which you have to pay off slowly then when 
 you've payed it off you can get extensions etc second floor, back room. the extensions cost alot 
 though, you get you're money by harvesting fruit from the trees and selling things plus a couple 
 tasks from the villagers
  
  The village is randomly made at the start with a shop, town hall, clothes shop, portal, museum and 
 about 6 houses for other villagers. you're free to talk to the villagers anytime you want and not 
 too much repeation in dialouge. You use the d-pad to control you're character and you can use the 
 touch screen however its better using the d-pad. the games played in real time so different things 
 happen each day of the week. however you'll end up doing the same thing everyday and it will get 
 dull and sometimes boring.
  
  Animal crossings graphics are quite good and colourfull and the sounds merely average. All in all 
 this is a good game but not for hardcore gamers more for casual gamers
  
  gameplay-7
  graphics-8
  sound-7
  value-8
  story-7 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennis12master
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Recently, I got my DS up and running, and played Animal Crossing: Wild World again.... after a year 
 and a half break. But, onto the review. This game is just so much fun, the point of the game is 
 to live a regular life in a town inhabited by.... talking animals. Didn't expect that, did you? 
 When you first start up the game, you're in Kapp'ns taxi cab, where when there you have to answer 
 a number of questions to determine qualities such as where you will live, what types of clothes 
 and fish you're town will normally offer, the name of you and your town, and what you yourself 
 will look like in-game (I look like a freak in my opinion) . (In-game, of course) . To make a living, 
 you'll have to sell different fish and bugs, do chores, or favors, for your neighbors, and when 
 you get your money, you can spend it however you want. Buy more items for your home, buy new clothes, 
 or better yet, spend a little bit of your hard-earned cash on your mortgage. Tom Nook (the owner 
 of the item store, Nook's cranny) sells you a house, and gives a mortgage rate that you must pay 
 in order to increase your house size. In the starting, 19800 bells (the games currency) may seem 
 like a lot, but it's all worth it, and it'll eventually get easier to earn money. The Wi-Fi play 
 works smoothly, allowing a friend who has registered your friend code (and vice-versa) to have 
 a visit to your town, where they can do whatever the heck they want, and it even comes with an 
 easy-to-use messaging system so as not to waste hundreds of dollars on the cell phone! Lots of 
 unique and exciting things happen in the world of Animal Crossing, and you're sure to love every 
 moment of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofu-lion91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  This was my first DS game bought and still remains one of my favourite. I haven't played the GameCube 
 version but I'm aware that this game is basically the same, with the addition of more features 
 and collectables.
  
  The best feature of Animal Crossing: Wild World is the fact players can take their towns with them 
 on the go. This makes checking up on your town easier and a fun game to play on long journeys.
 
  
  Time spent playing this game is unlimited since there is no final end to it. Players aim towards 
 getting the biggest house and the best Happy Room Academy score (better room = better score) . Animal 
 Crossing is the type of game which will immerse you for months and even years before it gets boring.
 
  
  One of Animal Crossing's flaws is that players can't leave their DS for more than a couple of days 
 without weeds growing and town characters moving away. The game needed checking everyday and sometimes 
 this can be tedious and inconvenient. 
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World introduces the addition of Wi-Fi and locally connecting with players 
 which is great because players from all over the world can visit each others towns. However once 
 there, there isn't much to do. If a sequel to Animal Crossing is made I would suggest more multiplayer 
 options, maybe mini-games to play.
  
  There are so many collectables and things to unlock (like upgrading Tom Nook's store) which keeps 
 the game so addictive. It takes a full year to collect everything since certain fish and bugs appear 
 at certain times of the year. Only a few items are available in the store each day so if the player 
 is completing a set of some furniture then it could take months to collect them all. It also makes 
 players want to check the game everyday, to see if the missing item of their set is in the shop. 
 I think this is what makes Animal Crossing so addictive.
  
  However there is almost no storyline to the game at all which can make it a bit boring, especially 
 after months of playing it. The game can be extremely repetitive since all there is to do is to 
 fish, catch bugs and collect furniture. I think they should have included some storyline to keep 
 players interested and immersed. Once daily errands and check-ups are done, the game becomes boring 
 so it is rarely played for more than an hour a day.
  
  The stylus is used quite a lot: running around, fishing, catching bugs and doing other day-to-day 
 tasks. Clothes can also be designed and town characters will wear what you display which is quite 
 nice to see. The town characters themselves are cute and fun to talk to and each one has a different 
 personality. You will find yourself easily getting attached to them and being devastated when they 
 leave town. This is another thing which makes Animal Crossing so addictive.
  
  Although the game can get boring (especially with the lack of storyline) there are events which 
 keep players interested and can be fun to take part in. These include fishing tournaments, flower 
 festivals and other holiday events. Snow appears round Christmas and players can make snowmen which 
 can give them exclusive furniture. Other exclusive furniture can be obtained around Autumn where 
 players can collect acorns for prizes.
  
  Overall Animal Crossing: Wild World is a highly addictive and immersive game but can get incredibly 
 boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing was basically a hit on the Nintendo GameCube somewhere around because of very quick 
 speeds. It was not a slow game. The animal crossing series is basically where you move into a new 
 town which you can do a large variety of things. What happens is that you need a house which the 
 returning crook, Tom Nook, gives you a house. Thing is, you have to repay a bill. After you do, 
 he makes you upgrade your house. Then the same thing happens again, and again and until you have 
 a mansion for a house. But he makes you.
  
  The towns currency is not in $ dollars, but in bells. To make bells, you can do a job for someone, 
 sell your stuff, or get it from a money tree that you planted.
  
  Ok, do you know how to play Animal Crossing? Well this is basically the same thing with all the 
 good stuff and lots of more improvments. You can use the touch screen as well for many things, 
 but they didn't put enough stuff on the touch screen, so you really won't need a stylus for this 
 game.
  
  There is also some online play on this game where you can visit other people's villages. This is 
 one of the first games that has Nintendo Wi-Fi, so you will need to set up some connection settings. 
 Now to visit someone's village, their gate needs to be open, same thing if you want someone to 
 visit yours. But if you don't have Wi-Fi, there is also wireless multi-card play, so you can take 
 visit someone's town that's right next to you.
  
  This is overall a great game, but once you've paid off everything, there isn't much left to do. 
 But with Wi-Fi and lots of other things, this game is a huge adventure waiting for you to move 
 in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XLR8TEDK9THINGY
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  WELL THIS GAME IS RECOMMENDED TO MY OPINION TO PEOPLE THAT HAVE A BIT OF PATIENCE BECAUSE THIS 
 GAME TAKES A WHILE TO LOAD, BUT IT HAS ALLOTA FUN IF U UNDERSTAND. SO THIS GAME VERIES A BIT DEPENDING 
 ON THE GENDER. IN THIS GAME YOU CAN HAVE UP TO 4 PEOPLE IN A HOUSE SO YOU CAN HAVE YOUR WHOLE FAMILY 
 PLAYING THE SAME GAME IN A KIND OF DAY SHIFT NIGHT SHIFT THING. THE MAIN TARGET OF THE GAME IS 
 TO PAY OFF UR LOAN AND FROM A 1 ROOMED HOUSE TO A MANSION. OFCOURSE ALL THE FURNITURE AND THT IS 
 UP 2 U. U CAN CHOOSE TO PUT DIFFERENT FURNITURE, BUT ITS BEST TO CHOOSE FURNITURE FROM THE SAME 
 CATERGORY BECAUSE HRA (HAPPY ROOM ACADEMY) , ARE A BUNCH OF INSPECTORS THAT ENJOYS RATING UR HOUSE. IF 
 U DONT MOVE OR ADD ANY FURNITURE, U MIGHT RECEIVE A LETTER THT IS GOING TO B THE SAME AS THE LAST 
 ONE. OF COURSE YOU CAN ALSO CHOOSE WAT U WEAR. YOU CAN WEAR SOMETHING AS SIMPLE AS A DOT SHIRT OR 
 A SHIRT DESIGNED BY A FASHIONFREAK CALLED GRACIE, YOUR RESIDENTS ARE RANDOM AND YOU ONLY AV 3 AT 
 FIRST. BUT THE MORE U PLAY, THE MORE U GET! MAKE SURE TO PLAY IT AT LEAST ONCE IN A THREE DAYS 
 OTHERWISE U GET COCKROACHES! ALSO IN YOUR TOWN THERE WILL BE A TAILOR TOWN HALL MAIN GATES (TO UR 
 TOWN) A SHOP (HANDLED BY TOM NOOK WHO IS ALSO UR HOUSE BUILDER) AND A MUSEUM! THERE ARE DIFFERENT 
 KINDS OF FRUITS FOR U TO COLLECT UR TOWN AT FIRST IS COVERED BY FRUITS BUT THEY ARE THE SAME. THT 
 IS Y U CAN GO COLLECT THEM AND SELL IT AT OTHER TOWNS WITH A DIFFERENT FRUIT BECAUSE ITS RARE IN 
 THEIR TOWN, YOU DONT NECCESARILY NEED TO COLLECT THEM FROM FRIENDS. SEND FRUITS TO UR RESIDENTS 
 AND THEY MITE SEND U SOMETHING ELSE! OFTEN THERE WILL BE BOTTLED MAIL WASHED UP ON UR BEACH, THESE 
 CAN BE READ, MOST OF THEM ARE PLAIN WEIRD... BUT JUST READ IT! U CAN BCOM PICTURE BUDDIES BY BEING 
 FRIENDLY, SENDING MAIL TO THEM AND TO HELP THEM WEN THEY ARE SICK. OCCASIONALLY, UR RESIDENTS WHO 
 MIGHT BE UR BEST BUDDIES OR UR REAPING RIVALS BY NOW ARE PLANNING TO LEAVE! BUT IF U SHOW THEM 
 HOW U STRONGLY LOVE THEM BY SENDING MAIL, AND STAYING AT THEIR HOMES LONGER AND EVERYTHING THT 
 MAKES ANIMALS HAPPY, THEN THEY MITE CHANGE THEIR PLANS, BUT THEY ACT AS IF NUTHING HAPPENED. IF U 
 CONNECT WITH FRIENDS OR PEOPLE U DONT KNO THEN UR RESIDENTS MIGHT JUST BE THERE ONE DAY BECAZ THEY 
 LEFT UR TOWN. KEEP UR TOWN NICE AND KEEP AN EYE OUT FOR BEAUTIFUL GOLDEN TOOLS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  There isn't an end to the game, which is good or bad, depending on who you are. You can pretty much 
 do ENYTHING you can possibly think of and is makes the most boaring things fun to do. You can fish, catch 
 bugs, make constelations, drink coffee, dig up fossils, get cloths, or make cloths, get furniture 
 and little toys to play with. You get a bigger house, you help the little animals from the town, 
 you help tom-nook make his store bigger, And there are crazy little things, because the internal 
 clock it actualy changes seasons in game. like if it's 4th of july fire-works go off and the mayor 
 will give you fire-works. The game is pretty much the same game as on the gamecube, but with a little 
 bit more of EVERYTHING. There is also an online portion of the game, which sounds realy realy awsome, 
 but it's merly good, not perfect. but you can have fishing contests and things of that nature, 
 that are fun, but you have to have there friend codes, so you can't play with strangers. So this 
 game sin't realy a game, it's more of a sim, but not a car sim or a plane sim, but just a sim of 
 your everyday life, but it manages to make it fun. And you will probably NEVER run out of things 
 to do, and if you do, then you will still want to go back and play a few of the things again, just 
 because it's soo fun and addictive.
  
  Good: Seemingly never-ending content.
  great visuals.
  good controls.
  
  Bad: There isn't realy any "gameplay" it's more like "stuff 
 to do".
  Once you have your house as a mansion and have seen all the items, you might cry.
  The online could have been much much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGshade
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is the sequel to the Gamecube hit, Animal Crossing. Now you can take 
 your town anywhere you want, online, and with new features.
  
  AC: WW starts with a taxi ride where you have a conversation that determines your character's traits 
 (gender, house location, name etc.) It's a unique way to approach character creation. You then 
 arrive at your destination, the town you named during your taxi ride. You stroll inside the town 
 hall and get a map. You then can find your house and check it out. There's nothing fancy inside. 
 After you leave your pad, you find Tom Nook, your local shop owner.
  
  He'll explain the basics of Animal Crossing while you do chores to help pay off your debt. You'll 
 be delivering furniture and carpets, sending a letter, posting on the bulletin board, and more. 
 Once you finish working, the game opens up and your'e free to do whatever you want.
  
  It may seem over-whelming at first, but you get use to it. The other inhabitants of your village, 
 different animals, will always have things to say and stuff for you to do, ranging from fishing 
 contests to delivery missions. Once completed you are awarded with different items for your pad 
 or just for you.
  
  Helping you out are various tools. A shovel, bug net, fishing rod, axe, slingshot and watering 
 can all help you do different things. You can plant flowers around your house to make it look nice 
 and water them so they don't die, fish and catch bugs to complete your collection, or donate them 
 to the museum.
  
  Designing your house is insanely fun. You can do it however you want, with tons of different items 
 to find and buy. An agency called the HRA will rate you on your house every Sunday (real-time; 
 Animal Crossing follows the real time) depending on how neat your house is, any complete sets and 
 themes, wallpaper and carpet and more. Scoring major points will help unlock some rare items.
 
  
  At the start, your house is very small and the only way to make it bigger is to pay off your debt 
 to Tom Nook, who will expand your house everytime you fully pay off a debt. With new villagers 
 moving in constantly, there are always ways to make money.
  
  Throughout Animal Crossing, there are many festivals you can enjoy. The acorn festival, fishing 
 tourneys and fireworks shows top the list of enjoyable contests and events for rare items. Along 
 with different events, the different seasons offer different bugs and fish to catch, always varying 
 the experience.
  
  The Wi-Fi play of AC: WW is, unfortunately, its weakest point. If you'd like to play with other 
 people over the internet, you must both have the other persons friend code, which can be difficult 
 unless you're part of a web site where you can exchange friend codes. It is the only blemish in 
 an otherwise perfect game.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a very fun game and I recommend it to anyone who likes free world 
 games. Buy it now, or forever hold your piece. (The difficulty does not reflect the game, as there 
 is no difficulty) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lfclee
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  a really really good game if you want a game you will just keep playing this is it. you get to 
 pay off a mortgage and you can get items to furnish your home. there are mini games included such 
 as fishing bug catching and filling up your towns museum. your money is called BELLS and your other 
 town inhabitants are all animals, this makes the game have a fun twist to it as they give you nicknames 
 and you can make them say greetingsof your own.
  you can buy insurance for if you get hurt by bees or if you get ripped off by the local swindeler 
 this gives you a different selection in the local shops every day. you also have a bank acount 
 in the town hall and you can talk to the mayor of the town at special occasions.
  this game is set in real time and goes through the four seasons and all the days of the year the 
 animals celebrate your birthday and christmas with you. a good game all round.
  you can also go into other peoples towns who have the game on ds to ds. also the wi-fi connections 
 will give you access to other worlds from all over the globe.
  buy it if you have a ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelixBookworm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Most games are about hacking and slashing your way through hordes of enemies as you try to save 
 a princess, the world, or universe. But as you can probably tell by first glance at the case for 
 Animal Crossing Wild World is that this game is probably too childish and can probably be beaten 
 in a matter of minutes. Well, you're wrong on both of those opinions. AC: WW is an open ended game 
 that can never EVER be beaten. This game is also far from childish. It features lots of material 
 for anyone of any age to enjoy. It takes place in a town that you decide to move to. In this town 
 live animals that look like you could push around and hit with things (if you're a destructive 
 guy) or hug til their guts burst out (if you're a sweet little girl) . These animals are actually 
 far from those categories, well almost. These animals love to scheme and insult. The scheming comes 
 in handy when they tell you they'll sell you a very rare item at a great price, which usually ends 
 up as a cheap item you keep finding and would just like to be rid of forever and ever. These animals 
 can also be mean to each other, and you as well. But if you pay them quite a bit of attention you 
 can earn their respect. As you can well imagine, if you move into town you will need a place to 
 stay. Tom Nook provides this at the very beginning. However, you will find that you have brought 
 no money (apparently you were hoping to stay for free) . Because of your lack of money Tom has you 
 pay off a loan that is quite easy to take care of. This payment is quite worth it, as Tom upgrades 
 your house! But this means that Tom will need payment for all the work done to the house. After 
 you pay each HUMONGOUS loan your house is upgraded. Your house can be decorated with lots of furniture, 
 which is one of the features in the game that keep players coming back. Animals come and go. They're 
 all smiley one minute and the next they could be frowning and yelling all around town. These animals 
 are the main part of the game. They're the cherries in the cherry pie. Without the animals the 
 town would be boring. You must decorate, clean, and fix the town to keep your furry citizens from 
 moving away or to get them to move in. The animals will usually let you know how the town is doing, 
 but if you want to know much faster, the town hall can help with that too. Earlier in this review 
 I mentioned this game never ends. It doesn't! The game runs on a clock. Seasons change, day goes 
 to night, and weather shifts. The game controls can be hard to get used to. You do have a choice 
 of using either the stylus or control pad. The control pad controls are clunky but they make it 
 easier to pick up and use items. The stylus was very confusing at first, but I eventually found 
 that your character moves more smoothly than with the control pad. I was having a hard time with 
 furniture arrangement, but got it figured out eventually. The stylus can also be used to make clothes 
 down at the Able Sisters clothing store. You can also make constellations at the museum. Fishing, 
 insect catching, fruit harvesting, furniture collecting, animal conversing, and let's not forget 
 the holidays and wi-fi. AC: WW comes packed with plenty of holidays we know and love, and others 
 we might not be so familiar with. Wi-fi is another one of the great features. With wi-fi you can 
 visit your friends towns and play around with them. A few things are limited though. Museum donations 
 are closed, constellation creation closed, clothes designer closed, and animals lock themselves 
 in their houses but you and your friends can still visit them. Animal Crossing: Wild World is a 
 great game that will keep you playing for hours at a time or have you come visit every now and 
 a game. It's a must have if you have a DS and want a game that can let you take a break from saving 
 the universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Wild World doesn't break from the Animal Crossing formula at all, which is a good thing in my opinion. 
 If you didn't like the first game, you probably won't like this on either, but all fans of the 
 original should be happy with this DS version.
  
  Almost everything from the GC version is here, although some of the features are more condensed 
 and compact. You can still change the town's theme song, but instead of having it's own post outside 
 the main gate, it's simply an option when inside the city council building.
  
  The graphics are good, although a bit jaggy around the edges, and the polygon houses have a weird 
 case of the "shakes" when you walk around the 3-D models. The world now has the appearance of being 
 a small sphere, instead of an overhead view where you move from screen to screen (like the original) . 
 In some ways this is cool, but it seems to make it harder to see your surroundings, or to find 
 fish in the streams.
  
  I love this game, and I could easily spend hours fishing and doing other tasks. With WiFi support, 
 and endless playability, AC: Wild World is a must own for all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JordyCool1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 10:35 am PT
Review:  Basicly Animal Crossing is a game were your a new resident in a town and
  while your there you have to earn money by completing different task.
  
  When you start the 
 game you will be asked various questions in the back of a taxi. This is were you will pick the 
 name of your town . wether you a boy or a girl and what clothes you were ( although you dont directly 
 get to pick your clothes and hair it is just based on what your answers to the questions are .)
 
  
  Animal crossing does have a wide variety of tasks ( fishing , colecting fruit
  , catching insects and so on ) but they all revolve around selling them for money ( known as bells 
 on Animal Crossing )
  
  Even though Animal crossing can become boring it still has somthing that make the game adictive 
 ,cute little characters , the different clothes and furniture on offer everday or the main goal 
 of paying of the debt you owe for your house.
  
  Animal Crossing IS worth buying but if you want a fast moving game
  with action and a gripping 
 story this isn't for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeveefan93
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:15 am PT
Review:  Do You Still Like To Design Clothes!
  You Still Can Design Clothes In This Game!
  And Now You Can Accessorise Your Gy Instead
  Of Your Gy Just Looking Like A Chibi Viking!
  
 And Also You Can Make Your Town Anything
  You Want! You Can Also Take Animal Crossing
  Wild World Everywhere You Go!
  And Hang Out With Friends Anytime As Long
  As They Are Up For 
 It! And Also You Can Do It
  From Wi-Fi So You Can Have Fun With Friends
  From School Or Friends From Online!
  
  What I Like About This Game
  You Can Design Clothes, 
 It's Multilayer 
  Compatible, And You Can Make Your Favorite Correctors From Tv Shows, Video Games, Etc., Taking 
 It Evrey Where You Go,
  thay're Less Of A Chance To Get Mr Ressetii Other Than The Game Cube Version!
  
  What I Dislike 
 About This Game
  The Hats you Make Are Usually Viking Hats Or Pointy Hats,
  Ressetii Can Still Apear If You Reset your Game, And Annoying
  Notices Come Up When Your Batteries 
 Are About To Die!
  
  So This Game is The Best Animal Crossing game Ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Is life getting you down? Feeling a little blue? Maybe you wish you could be whisked off to some 
 happy, whimsical place where nothing ever goes wrong? Well, I have good news for you: now you can! 
 In Animal Crossing: Wild World, the Nintendo DS follow-up to the incredibly popular GCN game Animal 
 Crossing, you play as a human resident in a small town full of animals. Sound fun? You bet!
  
  The story begins in the most unusual of places: In the back of a taxi cab driven by some sort 
 of animal that looks like just got out of jail, on a dark, rainy night. Here, you're given the 
 opportunity to enter some information about yourself and your town, as well as answer some random 
 questions, which determine the location of your home and, nonsensically, your hair-do. Honestly, 
 while it may not seem like it at the time, this cab ride sets the mood for the entire game to come. 
 The crazy, out-there sort of interaction that you sustain with this would-be frog is indicative 
 of what the entire game has to offer.
  
  After this harrowing cab ride, your life really begins. What makes Animal Crossing such a true 
 joy to play is that it is entirely player-motivated. Play as much (or as little) as you want, and 
 do whatever you durn well please. Want to try your hand with the rod and reel? Go for it. Into 
 treasure hunting? Fossils and other buried items are placed abundantly around your town. Or perhaps 
 interior decorating is your thing? The shop found in your town carries a huge, ever-changing variety 
 of furniture and accessories to make your house really your house. Other activities in Animal Crossing 
 include gardening, shooting down random stuff in the sky, catching bugs, planting trees, participating 
 in contests, and, of course, making some moo-lah!
  
  As much as we may disapprove (or not) , you gotta have money! And fortunately, in Animal Crossing 
 there are numerous ways to do so. Picking fruit from trees yields profits, especially if you can 
 import some foreign fruit from a friend's village. Beyond fruit, though, you can make money by 
 selling just about anything. Yes, anything. Bugs, fish, fossils, clothes, furniture, and flowers 
 are all money-making items. And to really have fun in Animal Crossing, you're probably going to 
 want to make as much money as you possibly can. The house that you receive is easily paid off, 
 but you can continue to expand it, adding more floor space and eventually ending up with a veritable 
 mansion. Of course, to get there, you're going to need to make a LOT of cash.
  
  Another motivator to earn some money is the fact that there are absolutely tons of different types 
 of furniture to buy. Part of the fun of this game lies in customizing your home and equipping it 
 with whatever you see fit -- be it with classy, distinguished furniture in the Classic set or with 
 random Nintendo relics, such as the Master Sword or Triforce. Furniture is arranged in sets; the 
 more pieces in a set you have, the more organized-looking your house is and the more the Happy 
 Room Academy, a house-rating organization, will appreciate your room. In addition to furniture, 
 there are tons of different clothes and accessories for you to use yourself -- why leave all the 
 fun to your house? Whether you want to dress up like a king, an explorer, or Mario himself, Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World has got you covered.
  
  Along with purchasing clothing and accessories, you have the ability to create your own designs. 
 If you want to do something as simple as " [Your name here] rocks!", then that's perfectly acceptable. 
 And the more artistically inclined of us will surely have fun creating intricate, complex designs. 
 But what's the point? Well, once you've created a design, it'll go on display at the clothing shop, 
 for everybody to see. Who knows, your newest style may become the next new rage in your village! 
 Additionally, you can use a design for a variety of purposes, ranging from creating a shirt, an 
 umbrella, or hat, all the way to becoming your town flag.
  
  Once you get past your greed, the main focus of play in Animal Crossing is character interaction. 
 There are a maximum of eight animal occupants in your town, and where the true fun lies is in making 
 friends with them. Have a junky old chair that you don't want any more? Rather than selling it, 
 why not give it to a friend as a present? Not only will your neighbors reciprocate your gifts and 
 letters, but they'll also grow more fond of you. Eventually, if you become very close to your friends, 
 they'll impart to you a picture of themselves.
  
  While it may seem pathetic to get a sense of satisfaction from becoming close friends with a computer-programmed 
 animal with a high polygon count, it's actually pretty rewarding when you finally capture some 
 grumpy, elusive friend's picture. Each character has a fairly distinct personality (although everybody 
 is grouped in categories such as Preppy, Grumpy, or Lazy) , and it's a lot of fun just talking with 
 them and seeing what's going to make you laugh next.
  
  What makes Animal Crossing a true necessity in any DS-owner's collection is that it has tremendous 
 replay value. Admittedly, the activities mentioned in this review may not seem to make up the most 
 gripping of games. However, Animal Crossing more than makes up for that with the fact that it truly 
 never ends. You can play, in theory, forever, constantly making progress. You can use your hard-earned 
 cash to upgrade your house, then busy yourself filling up your enlarged living quarters with top-of-the-line 
 furniture. Residents will be constantly leaving and moving your town, so as soon as that little 
 mouse starts to get on your nerves, perhaps he'll leave, replaced by a new (and more manageable) 
 animal.
  
  Graphically, Animal Crossing does not fail to impress. The GameCube precursor was noted for it's 
 surreal, animated-looking graphics, and Wild World continues with that art style. Amazingly, this 
 game looks nearly as good as the GameCube one; environments are lifelike (or rather, as lifelike 
 as they were meant to be) , town members look great, everything is crisp, colorful, and vibrant. 
 Animal Crossing easily stands out with such titles and Final Fantasy III and Metroid Prime Hunters 
 as among the best-looking games on the DS.
  
  There's also a hearty multiplayer offering, including well-executed online play thanks to the Nintendo 
 WiFi Connection. Locally, you can visit the town of anybody who has a DS and their own copy of 
 Wild World. Trade furniture, leave designs, play tag, or have a fishing competition. It's a lot 
 of laid-back fun, and the game definitely benefits from the inclusion -- after all, it is a game 
 largely about human interaction. The online aspect is essentially the same, allowing you to visit 
 the town of friends that you've exchanged Friend Codes with. A word to the wise, however: don't 
 go handing out your Friend Code to every Joe Schmoe you come across, because a lot of people out 
 there are hackers who will lay incorrigible waste to your town.
  
  Admittedly, Animal Crossing is not a perfect game. Easily its most noticeable problem is that it's 
 hard to play for any huge length of time. Because events in the game occur in real time, there's 
 really only so much you can do in a day. Also, many townspeople go off to bed and shops close once 
 night falls, so for people like me who play the majority of my games after hours, it's sort of 
 annoying. Still, it's great for playing in short, periodic spurts, but if you're looking for a 
 heavy-duty game, you may be disappointed by Animal Crossing.
  
  Overall, though, Animal Crossing really is an awesome gaming experience. It may not be perfect 
 for that ten-hour car-ride you have coming up, but what is so great is that you can get an awesome 
 feeling of satisfaction just playing for twenty minutes a day. It ensures that you'll never ever 
 sell your DS, and that you'll always have something to do, even during those long, boring summer 
 days when all your friends are on vacation. So pick up a copy of Animal Crossing, keep your DS 
 near-to-hand, and then kick back and enjoy life. You'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: larvaelord26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  This game lets you go through with creativity where you want it, play games with friends, and give 
 you something to work for. You get a warm feeling after your hard work pays off, and relax as you 
 enjoy the fruits of your labor. There is a bit of a drawback to this game, once it gets old, it's 
 hard to go back. This is still a must-have for DS users everywhere. Whether you have wi-fi or not, 
 this is a great game. Wi-fi just allows you to have fun with other players, and enjoy their achievements. 
 It will just give you another thing to work for. Whether it is getting the golden set, or just 
 trying to get a rare type of fish, you don't run out of things to do. Freedom is the key of this 
 game, you just have to turn it.
  
  There will always be a place for you there, and luckily, once you start, it just keeps getting 
 better. Once again, amazing game, buy it without question if you're considering it. Worth the money, 
 and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngebreadman
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  This is the worst game I have ever played without a doubt. I was playing all my sisters DS games, 
 and some of them were ok, but this is utter terrible. 
  
  Gameplay 0/10
  Not a game. You just deliever packages for people, or do other mindless tasks. You can fish, catch 
 bugs or collect fruit. 
  You also have a house which you can upgrade, if you pay obscene amounts of money. Which is time 
 consuming and boring.
  Talking to animals is boring too. They either say how much they like you or ask you to do a delivery. 
 yawn.
  
  Sound and music:1/10
  This is trash. The animals voices sound like you hit the fast forward button on a remote control 
 for the Televison, and the music sounds like a 3 year old has been given a collection of instruments. 
 If you must play this play it on silent.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The game redeems itslef here with one of the best graphics ive seen on the DS. Everything looks 
 good, even though the rest of the game completely sucks.
  
  Lifespan: 20 minutes
  Overall 1.5/10 If you have any life leave this. Its shorter than most of my reviews, but there 
 is really nothing to say about it. Just dont buy the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -White_Knight-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 3:22 pm PT
Review:  My sister, brother, and I have been Animal Crossing fans since October of 2002.
  
  The Gamecube version was really great, but we've always wanted to play simultaneously. When they 
 put this out, we were extatic!!!
  
  New and old bugs, fish, paintings, fossils, and furniture to get your hands on!!! You can even 
 get little costumes to wear, (not to mention emotes) .
  
  Well... after it's all collected, that's pretty much it except for the periodic fishing games, 
 hide-n-seek, or cops-n-robbers that you can play with the timer in multiplayer...
  
  This is where one HUGE screw up comes in: They did not put Ness games to play in here. No Exitebike, 
 no Balloon Fight, no Wario's Woods... no nothing! It would've been so awesome to play these games 
 over DS connection!
  
  I have only a few more complaints: 
  
  "This place is packed, and you can't come in." This is what it says to you when two players are 
 in a house, and you are trying to get in! What the heck?! Houses are huge!!! I'd say they could 
 fit 50 players in them!!! Nook's store is just as big, yet it says the same!  = (
  
  No more train!!! I would've love to sit on the train again while traveling to another town. Plus 
 I just miss the sound of the train's whistle in my own town.
  
  WHY did they take out Christmas and Halloween?!?!
  
  Besides these, and a couple other minimal, 
 yet personal complaints, the game is perfect!
  
  p. s. I wish you could shoot other animals with your slingshot! Muahahaha!!!  =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomtor
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  Animal crossing wild world has many features like making constellations doing erins and lastly 
 having various events. Each feature is pretty easy to do, so it won't take that long. Alsoyou can 
 buy things like tools to help you later on, medicine to help bee stings, furniture to put into 
 your house. The goal of this great game is to have a great house and a good looking town. Plus 
 you want more animals to live in your town. Money is also a huge factor in this game cause you 
 need to pay for your morgatage to make your house bigger so it can fit more furniture. To earn 
 money you can sell unwanted items or fruits. Another way is to shake trees to get money. Yeah in 
 this game money grows on trees. Lasty you can sell fish or bugs for money or you can donate them 
 to the museam so you can view the m whenever you want. Yeah also other people can visit your town 
 and make new friends and you can go to theirs as well. Overall this is a fantastic game. I highly 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Csoxxfan105
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game is my favorite game on the DS and one of my favorite games of all time. It's a simple 
 yet complex game. If you get this game it's more fun if you get the Action Replay because then 
 you don't have to worry about paying your mortage. The graphics I'd give about an 8/10 but that's 
 still pretty good on the DS. You can't really rate the difficulty on this game because it was'nt 
 meant to be that type of game. Umm. . . I would compare this game to The Sims because it's a life 
 game (I don't know how else to say it) . 
  The price is currenty $35 which I don't think is fair, it should be $30 but I don't make the prices. 
 I don't know why they call it Animal Crossing: Wild World I think it should be Animal Crossing: 
 DS. I'm really only writing this 2nd paragraph because I need to have 800 characters so that's 
 why I'm pointing out little stuff. Anyone who's played Animal Crossing: Wild World and is'nt crazy 
 would probably agree with me that this game diserves a 10/10. At least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blueraydude1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  one of the best on the ds Fun game play for a while the seasons change like in the real world and 
 stuff watch people move in and out of your town or visit some one elses with wifi near by or on 
 line with nintendo wifi also many wifi things you can do move to your friends town or have them 
 move or just visit yours get new fruit trees pay of your loan to nook and make your house bigger 
 use a cheat machine NOT RECOMENDED it will make the game cooler but messes it up with cheats. Kind 
 of a sequel to the animal crossing on the game cube as some other site called animal crossing wild 
 world its kind of like fisher prices version of the sims. But basicly its a good game probly your 
 first for the ds. and hope fully nintendo will make a new animal crossing for the wii thats realy 
 cool well hope you liked my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendudes_2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a game where you have just moved to a new town. The game starts 
 out where you are in a taxi being driven by a parrot named Kapp'n, on a very rainy day. He asks 
 you the time, if you like the rain, what your name is, if you are burly or cute (this decides your 
 gender) , the name of the town you are going to move into, where you want to live, and if you have 
 enough cash to settle in. Yeah, he sure asks a lot of questions! When you arrive, the local store 
 owner, Tom Nook, will ask you to work for him to get 1,400 bells (Animal Crossing's money system) 
 to pay off the mortgage you owe for your house.
  
  Story: 10/10
  The whole game does not have much of a story mode because it is a  
 RPG, but the story basically blends in with the whole game, and the whole game is perfect!
  
  Game play: 10/10
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is an all-around excellent game, unless you 
 are looking for games with strong graphical violence, this game contains none of it (unless you 
 consider getting stung by bees strong graphical violence) .
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The cute graphic design of the little animals and yourself usually enchants users of the game. 
 The graphics are PRETTY good but with a lengthier release date, it could have been better. But 
 you gotta' admit, nobody likes longer release dates.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  None can resist the nonsense babbling that the animal villagers display as they talk. That is masterpiece! 
 The background music is nice too, and it is good that it changes every season.
  
  Multiplayer: 10/10 
  Animal Crossing: Wild World has about the best possible Wi-Fi multiplayer 
 on earth. There are endless things to do with you and a friend/s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 3, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  "It's like holding the whole world in the palm of your hands."
  
  
   Not! This is far from the real world. Animal Crossing: Wild World is the farthest thing from 
 the real world. You never have to go to the bathroom, you can go without food and water for an 
 eternity and you're still alive, animals talk, and the animals don't seem real at all. They can't 
 understand what you're saying in the letters, and several other things. It is the most overrated 
 game I have ever played. 
  
  Let's start with the introduction: You're basically some new boy/girl who wants to live in a town 
 with animals What the heck? Why would you want to live with talking animals that make fun of your 
 name all the time? So you're riding in a car with a turtle that asks you questions that determines 
 what you look like. When you finally get out of the car, there is a squirrel named Tom Nook that 
 wants to help you out. So he leads you into your new house and you don't have enough money. How 
 original. You must work off the debt by working for him for a short period of time. After paying 
 about 1/19 of the debt off, you're free to explore the small world of Animal Crossing: Wild World. 
 
  
  They took away a lot of stuff from the original one, such as the e-reader card stuff, the GameBoy 
 Advance Island, the favors, the original Nintendo Games, the houses, the gyroids that guard your 
 house, the police station, the dump, the raffle, the Able Sister clothes space, the tree of the 
 town, the acres, and several other things. I don't understand why they would take that away. It's 
 dumb. They also added some new stuff, such as the constellations in the sky, the dumb bar that 
 sells coffee for 200 bells, the online play, the stopwatch, the sling shot, the watering can, and 
 several other things. The things aren't great, and there is really no way to make money besides 
 fishing, digging up crap, catching bugs, and collecting fruit. It's nothing like real life, in 
 fact, it's one of the farthest games from real life, and it's supposed to revolve around real life. 
 
  
  Bells are just like dollar bills, you can purchase stuff with it. The only difference is that the 
 bells are worth less than dollars. I think one dollar would equal to one hundred bells.
  
  Let's get down to the fishing rod, the axe, the net, the slingshot, the flowering pot, and the 
 shovel. The fishing rod catches fish, the axe chops down trees, the slingshot shoots things in 
 the air, the flower pot makes flowers grow, and the shovel digs up stuff. Those are about the only 
 things that you can wield. Correction: They are the only thing you can wield. 
  
  The sound is horrible, dreadful, uncongenial; A. K. A.: It stinks! You hear the same lame tune over 
 and over again, and at some points you hear your crappy town tune that you get to make up. When 
 you shake a tree, you hear the fruits fall, when you dig something up, you hear the dirt being 
 pulled out, when shoot your slingshot, you hear the rock being flung into the air, and so on and 
 so forth. It gets irritating after awhile. The sound is worse than Mario Party 7's board: The Grand 
 Canal. 
  
  The animals are far from real. When you write them letters, the biggest word they understand is 
 the. Otherwise, they don't know what the heck you are talking about. One time I wrote a note to 
 some dumb mouse, I swore a lot and called her bad names, and she said she liked it to me the next 
 day! She liked it! That deserves a big WTH! She also said she would show everyone it, so she can 
 show them how nice I am Ummm Okay? And you can't do favors to gain money like you could in the 
 first, you can only ask them for corny gossip that no one is even interested in. 
  
  One store. One store. One crappy store that needs more things. Tom Nook runs the store, and there's 
 barely anything in it, but you can make it bigger by doing certain things, and by the biggest store, 
 it only sells about twenty items. You can order some things from your catalog, so that's pretty 
 neat. 
  
  Classic video games may return in this game, but I am not sure, and if they don't, then that adds 
 fewer cons to the all ready horrible game.
  
  Online play sucks. First of all, you need a code to go to someone's town. Second of all, you need 
 to have your gate open if someone wants to go to your town. And third of all, there's nothing to 
 do when they are there. Some guys in my town Cool That's really cool. You can have a fishing 
 or bugging catching contest with your stopwatch, but you don't get to see what other people have, 
 so you don't know if you're beating them or not. And when you're playing for a prize, you often 
 ask how many that specific person got, but they question you back without answering, so the last 
 person who answers will probably win because everyone lies anyways. It is also really hard to chat, 
 you must either use the A button to get to the button, or use your pen that often clicks the button 
 next to it. They should've added more to online play. What were they thinking? 
  
  The note in the bottle sounds cool at first. You write a note to someone, let it go at sea and 
 wonder who gets it. From my experience, I know that only the people on your friend list can get 
 it because the only ones I've heard of that got it, were on the person's friend list. And tag mode 
 stinks, no one is going to be in tag mode the same time you are. Tag mode is where you wait for 
 Rover to find the person who received your bottle to answer, and so far, I've never got a reply. 
 
  
  The town is the same thing, the only differences between the areas are how many weeds, plants, 
 or trees there are. How ironic. It's very boring to run around all day looking for some fruit and 
 see that you may be in the same place as you were before, but what are you doing to do? 
  
  
  The museum features a picture gallery, a bug gallery, a fish gallery, a fossil gallery, a bar, 
 and a constellation builder thing. The picture, bug, fish, and fossil gallery are pretty self explanatory, 
 except that you have to donate it, or one of your room mates. It could be someone from another 
 town, but I doubt anyone would want to waste their stuff on your museum, and really there's no 
 point. No animal ever goes in there, and I've never seen one of my online friends go in there. 
 The bar is dumb. The bar contains bar stuff! You can buy coffee for 200 bells, but why waste bells 
 on something that has no effect on you? There is also a stage that only K. K. Slider plays on at 
 Saturday at 8:00-10:00. His songs stink, and you can't move around while listening to him, so you 
 have to wait before he finishes his dumb song that contains animal lyrics, before you can actually 
 move around! It's dreadful! But then he gives the song to you, so you can get some music on your 
 C. D. Player. The constellation place contains a telescope that lets you make your constellations. 
 Your constellation appears in the sky from time to time, but it isn't that cool.
  
  The double screen does have some use. The bottom one contains your character, and the top contains 
 the sky where you can see constellations, balloons, Unidentified Flying Object (UFOs,) , and etcetera. 
 And when you press the X button that lets you see your pouch, map, letters, and etcetera, you will 
 then you your character at the top screen, rather than the bottom screen. 
  
  The dump and police station did not return in this game, so it's even harder to get items. The 
 dump and police station were basically item giveaways, but they disappeared, so sadly, you're going 
 to have to waste some bells to get the items you truly want. Dang! 
  Do you want your room to be hip? Funky fresh? Cool? Dazzlin'? Then I suggest you go back to real 
 life because the only cool items Animal Crossing: Wild World contains are those fl! ppin' sweet 
 chess characters. You get a small house that contains cockroaches. And the upstairs is only for 
 the beds and phone. You can't put items up there. You can have up to four roommates on your game 
 cartridge of Animal Crossing: Wild World. The roommates can pay off the debt to get a bigger house, 
 so there is a plus side, but overall, you really only want one person in your house. 
  
  "Do you wanna come to a party
  My friends picked me up in their truck at 11:30
  This thing's 
 at a frat house, but people are cool there
  Reluctant, I followed, but I never dreamed"
  
  And so on and so forth. Yeah, your little animal friends get groovy with their corny birthday 
 parties. The parties contain cake and about two animals in one house! Wow! When you talk to your 
 friend that is holding the party, he asks for a present, but you can decline. I don't see any point 
 of giving them a present when they are throwing a horrible party where all you do is walk around 
 and admire the animal's house. Again, pathetic! 
  
  The controls are simple, but your guy moves way to slow. If you want to get to the end of the map, 
 it could take a couple of seconds. I mean come on! Your character isn't that overweight! Man, I 
 But yeah, it does get pretty Jwould love to see them in a basketball game. vexing running around 
 the whole place, not that much, but a little.
  
  There are different kinds of bugs and fish you can catch, but it's so boring that I would rather 
 just whack the animals so they get ticked off. They call you stupid Jhead, and that puts a little 
 humor into it. 
  
  When you name your town, you can only go up to eight letters! As well as your name, but names aren't 
 too long. It's really disappointing when you can't name it something cool, such as Diversityville. 
 But whatever, if they want to make this game get another .1 off, then that's fine with me! 
  
  I'm going to tell you about the coolest part of the game now! You can design your own shirt, 
 umbrella, wall paper, carpet, hat, and etcetera! You just pay some goat 350 bells, and you can 
 design it for your character. Too bad you can't sell it or stuff like that 
  
  That brings me to my next point; there is a fl! ppin' cat that travels around with some twisted 
 face. When you talk to whatever the heck he/she is, he asks you to draw it. It's fun, you can write 
 a bunch of swears all over him for other people to see. He does travel to other towns. 
  
  I'm going to wrap up this short review. The graphics aren't too good, the music sucks, and the 
 game play is just overall horrible. It's disappointing because I was expecting one of the best 
 games ever! But I got the exact opposite. I knew this game was going to be bad, but in reality, 
 I thought and said it would be good. Yeah, I know I control my mind, but even my mind was saying 
 it would be good, but in the back of my head, I knew this game would be worse than Shadow the Hedgehog. 
 I don't want to be a complete pessimist, all my reviews are about happy things, the optimist side, 
 but I just couldn't do it with this game, I'm sorry, but this game is bad. It's overrated, there's 
 nothing to do, and I can't tell who's a boy, and who's a girl. You can flame me all you want, but 
 my perspective won't change. I don't appreciate the flaming at all; I would rather have you come 
 up with more of considerable way to state your opinion. 
  Please, don't get this game; there are so many other games to spend your money on. Fire Emblem: 
 Path of Radiance is more of a reality game, and it wasn't supposed to revolve around that genre. 
 And plus, it comes with a righteous story, graphics, game play, and the fighting never ends. Go 
 buy Winnie the Pooh, but for God's own sake, don't buy this game! 
  
  Overall: 1/10
  (And that's being nice!)
  
  January 5, 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I was shocked. It was amazing, I was Addicted.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World, released in December 2005 for the Nintendo DS, is somewhat of a sequel 
 to it's original version, Animal Crossing, released in September 2001 for the Nintendo Gamecube. 
 It, however, has many radical changes that make it far superior over its original.
  
  Even on the Gamecube, Animal Crossing was not known for it's graphics. This game is not different. 
 The graphics are not terrible, but they are sometimes too grainy to see the details. For example, 
 one feature of this game is that you can design your own patterns to be used on clothes, umbrellas, 
 shirts, hats, and more. Sadly, you can't make the patterns too detailed, or else you can't see 
 it well enough on your clothing.
  
  Many items also suffer from this pattern. One of the most notable ones is the Samurai Suit. This 
 was one of the coolest and most coveted items in the original Animal Crossing. Now, the details 
 are hard to make out, and the item is no longer as attractive.
  
  Even though the graphics are not too horrible, they are styled well for this type of game. The 
 animals are, for the most part, creatively designed, as are the items and clothing. The graphics 
 could be better, but the style is good.
  
  Some frame rate problems found in this game. For example, if you have about ten or so trees on 
 the screen, and an animal walks by there is definitely some noticeable slowing down. It is a bit 
 disappointing, and can sometime get annoying.
  
  The sound and the graphics of this game are alike. They go together well, and like the graphics, 
 they are bright and cheery and what you would expect from this game. A different song plays every 
 hour of the day. You will find slower, quieter songs in the early morning, and more cheery songs 
 at noon. They all fit well, despite getting a bit boring sometimes.
  
  Every Saturday night, a singing dog comes to your town. You can listen to him sing, and after, 
 you may receive a bootleg of the song that you can play in your house. These songs are exploding 
 with variety. There is everything from the slow K. K. Lullaby, to the fast paced Go K. K. Rider! 
 to the exotic K. K. Safari. Most of these songs are good, and they can all provide good background 
 music for some themed room.
  
  The sound effects in this game are typical sound effects. The water sounds realistic. There are 
 little noises when you drop an item. You can hear a door opening or closing.
  
  One thing that has bothered some people, though, is the animal's voices. Depending on their gender 
 and personality, they either speak in a high, squeaky voice, or a similar voice, but lower. I never 
 found it to be annoying, but if you do, you can change the default previously described way of 
 them speaking, known as "Animalese" to either "Bebebese", a quiet tapping sound, or to just silence.
 
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World has excellent gameplay. You basically arrive in a town full of animals 
 and move into a house. You then get a small job from the local store owner. It may seem like a 
 stupid idea, and it kind of is, but the game is fun. Hundreds of different things can be collected. 
 You can decorate your house with pretty much every different item.
  
  One unique thing about the game is that it plays in real time. When you first start, you set the 
 time in the game to the actual time that it is. The game then plays out each twenty-four hour day 
 in each month. With the clock changing, seasons change. It is snowy in the winter, with few bugs 
 to be found, but it can be sunny or rainy in the summer where bugs frolic freely. The bugs and 
 fish in each season are all different. This makes you play longer to collect them all and receive 
 a rare prize when you do.
  
  There are events based on the in game clock. These events often have rare prizes, which makes it 
 important to play on them. The events in Wild World, however, are much duller than the original. 
 There are many fishing tourneys, bug offs, and a single flower fest throughout the year. Other 
 holidays, such as La Di Day, a day when animals sing to you, and Yay Day, a day where you compliment 
 the animals, all seem somewhat dull and uninspired.
  
  Making up for the dull events are the visitors that come randomly. There is Gracie, the fashion 
 loving giraffe, Wendell, the hungry walrus, Dr. Shrunk, the emotional salamander, Sahara, the carpet 
 peddling camel, and some others. You never know when they will come, which makes it important to 
 play daily.
  
  Socializing with your villagers is also important. At first, talking with them can be a fun and 
 rewarding experience, especially when they say something funny or give you a free item. However, 
 after a while, you know everything that the villagers will say. This can make the conversations 
 boring. You can also send them letters
  
  The amount of customization in this game is truly amazing. Your house can be completely changed 
 from a tiny shack to a huge mansion, with hundreds of items to decorate it, ranging from an outer 
 space theme to an old fashioned classic theme. Your clothing can be changed, and as stated above, 
 you can use self made patterns on clothing, floors, walls, paintings, the ground outside, umbrellas, 
 and hats. You can decorate the outdoors in your town with flowers, which can be bred to make new, 
 rare colors, and trees with a variety of different fruits, if any, or you can place patterns on 
 the ground to
  
  Speaking of clothing, this game features hundreds of new hats and accessories to wear. You can 
 now even not wear a hat to show your hair, which can be cut into sixteen different styles and eight 
 different colors.
  
  In the original Animal Crossing, multiplayer was basically putting a memory card in each Gamecube 
 slot, and visiting your friend's town, with him or her not playing at the same time. One of the 
 most notable improvements of Animal Crossing: Wild World is it's multiplayer modes. You can play 
 simultaneously with up to three friends using the DS's wireless functions or the Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connection. The wi-fi is what keeps me coming back to this game. In multiplayer, you can either 
 visit your friend's town or allow them to visit your own town. If you meet good, active people, 
 multiplayer can be the biggest reason to play this game. When you are with your friends, you can 
 talk using a keyboard on the lower screen, with what is going on on the upper screen. The wi-fi 
 abilities have created a thriving community on many sites. There you can buy and sell items, take 
 part in giveaways, make friends, and much more.
  
  Overall, the gameplay is wonderful. It is unlike any other game I have played, excluding the original.
 
  
  This game can, in theory, be played forever. However, after a month or two, it just gets a bit 
 boring, unless you can play multiplayer. It can take years to hunt down every last item. I myself 
 have been regularly playing this for four months, and I do not see myself quitting any time soon.
 
  
  If you have not already bought Animal Crossing: Wild World, you definitely should consider it. 
 It is an excellent game that will last you for a very long time.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Replay Value: 10/10
  Overall: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alocalguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out and you are in a taxi on a stormy day the driver kappi'n asks you a few questions 
 what the correct time and date are and some personal questions note these questions will affect 
 your guys appearance so after that you will pull into town and then head into town hall and then 
 blah blah blah you wind up talking to tom nook the slave-driving owner of the house you move into 
 you must pay off your house to expand it the house will go from a tiny shack to a mansion you pay 
 off your house by doing things like fishing digging up fossils or catching bugs. But the real point 
 of this game is socal interaction with your negibors writing letters doing faviours etc. There are 
 a lot of holiday events to look forward to as well. You can link up with your friends (unlike the 
 last game) in the end this game is a great choice for anyone thats looking for something different 
 but if you didnt like the last game you most likely wont like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ojayosc
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Animal crossing wild world is an amzing game its literally a lifestyle in a game with customized 
 everything from your own outfits to the colour of your house roof. Its a game where you can meet 
 new animal friends and do all sorts of things like fire presents from the sky collect rare items 
 for your house fish catch bugs and lots more fun stuff. Its also a game where you can do special 
 events like fishing tournaments where you win a trophy for catching the biggest fish out of everyone 
 in your town the same for catching bugs and having a flower fest where you have the most flowers. 
 You can also talk to the people in your town and become friends with them and if your super nice 
 to them then sometimes you'll get there picture. In your town theres also a shop for all your needs 
 a town hall where you can post letters and pay your morgage and theres a clothes shop run by two 
 hedgehogs and theres a museum where theres an observatory for looking at the stars a fossil collection 
 that you add to when you dig them up an aquarium where all the fish you donate go a place where 
 all the bugs go and a painting gallery where if you buy a painting you can donate it to but watch 
 out for the forgery's. Animal crossing is your own personalised mini lifestyle with all your friends 
 where you can do whatever you want to do and that is what makes it so good to play instead of always 
 being pressured to do one thing all the time or tasks sure in animal crossing your given tasks 
 like paying of your morgage but you can do them whenever you want never if you dont want to. Animal 
 crossing is such a fun game its easy going and vibrant and nothing is ever the same something is 
 always happening and that is why its never boring and forever amazing !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: in_your_realm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! Trying to climb up the social ladder, talking to the people, doing things for 
 people, you can see your town grow with all your hard work. (pulling weeds, planting flowers etc.) 
 This game is crazy fun you will honestly never run out of things to do. But this is also a game 
 you cant really play for long periods of time but it is still fun to play like an hour a day just 
 to talk and see whats new and buy stuff. There is also something new in the store everyday which 
 keeps you coming back for more every time. Also the turnip thing is really awesome you can buy 
 them for a generally low price sometimes and if the demand goes up the price will go up so you 
 can sell them back for more. I really wasn't sure when i bought it i was like man i coulda got 
 something else but i think this was a great decision!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  ACWW is a game that could literally last forever if you wanted it to. The town keeps evolving, even 
 when you're not playing the game. And it uses realistic time eg If an event is going to happen in 
 3 hours, you must turn on the game in 3 hours to see it.
  
  There is festivals that occur once a month whether you turn the game on or not, there could be a 
 comet in the sky which occurs once every few months and if you want to see it you might have to 
 turn on the game at 3 AM (your local time) to see it like a real person would have to.
  
  People move away from the town, new people move back in, and you could not play the game for a month, and 
 turn the game on again and realize things are different.
  
  The gameplay is a real life/virtual world sim, you start off as a character who you name and move 
 into a new town. Your given a home and a morgage to pay off, and you upgrade the size of your house 
 a few times (which is done automatically) and pay off new morgages. You have unlimited time to pay 
 off the morgages.
  
  There is no real jobs in the game except when you first move in. Later on you just collect/find 
 things and sell them for money.
  
  You can buy things for your home and to decorate it with. You can buy a TV, computer (that makes a 
 modem sound showing you are logging onto the internet) furniture, kitchen sink, toilet, fridge, tables 
 and cupboards, you can even buy an indoor spa... and choose carpet and wallpaper designs (I choose 
 a city design with giant sky scrapers all lite up at night)
  
  You can buy a giant toy train set, pool table, fan, and you can turn the electrical/battery items 
 on or off. You see and hear TV shows and I've mentioned about the PC and internet, and you can flush 
 the toilet, use the microwave etc.
  
  It's adorable watching the toy trains keep keep running until you turn it off.
  
  You can dig 
 for treasure like dinosaur bones and donate them to the museum and look at them on display, or decorate 
 your house with it (who wouldn't like a Tyrannosaurus Rex skull on display in their home ;) )
  
  You can keep finding more dinosaur bones to complete the skeleton, or even sell them for a lot 
 of money. You can catch fish, insects (which you can also donate and look at in the museum)
  
  The museum even has a aquarium to view the species of fish and octopus, squid you collect (and they 
 swim around and it looks pretty) and there is also a telescope you can use to view space and name 
 constellations after you. For detail there is even a canteen in the museum to buy coffee and it 
 just makes the world feel that little bit extra detailed and realistic.
  
  You can collect and sell just about anything, sea shells that wash in every few hours at the beach, fruit (which 
 you have to wait to grow back)
  
  There are rare species of fish that can only be caught in certain parts of the sea and rivers at 
 certain times of the day, and during certain times of the year. If you really want to catch a sunfish, you 
 might have to wake up at 2 am during the december month.
  
  The game uses proper seasons, you see snow in winter, red leaves in autumn, and summer and spring 
 everything is bright sunshine. The seasons last as long as in real life.
  
  The people in the town have their own personalities, some are grumpy, others are cheerful, you can 
 write letters with the Stylus and mail them to characters and they will write back to you! If you 
 don't talk to a character in a long time and nobody else like them, they might move away!
  
  It can be sad when someone moves away, and sometimes a character might be sick and nobody will buy 
 medicine for them and you will have to and if you don't they will think nobody cares about them 
 and move away.
  
  Eventually you do run out of things to do, and the game eventually becomes one of those tamagotchi 
 type games that you turn on once in a while, check up on or fix things and maybe try to find/catch 
 rare items or fish or see events that only come around once in a while.
  
  You can even enter a fishing contest and it comes around once in a while.
  
  The characters 
 have the cutesy look and the town is fairly detailed, you can explore peoples homes (when they are 
 home and not asleep) and there is nice water effects and the trees and lakes are colorful and give 
 a peaceful feeling.
  
  Overall-Like I said the game could literally last you forever since the town is always evolving, this 
 game is suited for people who love games like Harvest Moon and other virtual life games, and this 
 is a very laid back (relaxing) virtual life game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Albiewan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Before i bought this game, i have heard lots about, that it's good, addictive, etc.
  So i thought; what's stopping me from buying this game? Nothing, nothing can stop you from buying 
 this game. So i went to the store, bought it and me and my DS weren't seen for the next four months 
 (just kidding) . What im actually saying is that this game is so addictive and fun, that i even 
 got my 21 year old brother to play it! And the next thing you knew we were fighting, yes fighting 
 about Animal Crossing. 
  
  The game starts with you in a taxi with a frog called Kap'n. This is where you create your character. 
 He'll ask you questions like: are you a boy or a girl, what's your name, etc. The big question 
 is; where are you heading to? With this question you'll determine the name of your town. So when 
 you're finally there the game begins...
  
  This part is probably the part you wanted to read in the review; the part where i explain why i 
 was praising this game in the beginning. It's basicly just the 
  sims, but ten times better. It's a virtual life witch consumes your life. You live in a town, in 
 a house wich can get bigger, if you pay for it. But you're the only human, everyone else is an 
 animal. Eventually they become your best mates. The're is always something to do like fishing, 
 catching bugs, competitions, shopping, visiting friends, etc. Everything is so cute that it looks 
 like it's for kids only, but thats not true, as i said earlier on.
  
  The multiplayer mode is brilliant. It's just like the singleplayer mode, with the exception of 
 that you're visiting a town or that your town is being visited.
  The game is local and online. Please buy this game for everlasting fun.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dd96
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 9:08 am PT
Review:  This is game where you basically do whatever you want. It is really fun at first and it stays fun 
 for months, but then it just gets plain boring. But it has great graphics, cool music, great options, 
 and you can go on wifi or play wireless with a friend. The game has lots of cool features too like 
 creating clothing, wearing different outfits, decorating house, ect. Also neighbors actually move 
 and move to real people, then new animal neighbors will move to your town from other real people. 
 Almost everyday there is something going on though, too. It will keep you entertained for a while, 
 and it will hold you too, but not for long. If you have a wifi connector though, this game will 
 be twice as fun. You will be able to have people come to your village or you can go to their's. 
 There are also a lot of other features on wifi that you can play. But, in the end, Animal Crossing 
 will probably just fade from your favorite game list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakyl-
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is a strange game, which I can't quite seem to put my finger on. At 
 first glance some people would dismiss it as a childs game, with its lovebale looking characters 
 and bright environment. However after 30 mins into the game you begin to realise that the game 
 possible is directed to the older gamers. I for one was not expecting one of the tasks of the game 
 to be paying off a house!! and to be getting a job!! these little errands however lead you to meet 
 other characters of the game and soon you will be recieving gifts and letters, which is great at 
 first but then thats as far as it really goes.
  
  As you progress through the game characters leave the town and are replaced by new ones. The shop 
 gets revamped now and again, and you can buy new items for your home (which you can't even really 
 use for anything) . All to soon the game starts to feel as though it is repeating itself. You can 
 create more characters to bring to the town, but they pretty much have to do everything that you 
 did with your first character!
  
  There's only so many times you can bash some trees for money (or get stung by bees) , dig up fossils 
 to give away to the museum, plant a couple of cherry trees or flowers, buy a new rug, give a donation.... without 
 just becoming bored of it. There seems as though there is sooo many things you can do in this game 
 and that you have a mass amount of freedom, but when you get round to it nothing ever seems to 
 progress. Things around you change but the game stucture/plot doesn't!
  
  This game has a short lifespan. and I was dissapointed in that respect. However I wish I was able 
 to play it over wi-fi, because then maybe my opinion would have been different. So I go back to 
 my first point of it looking like a childs game, and suggest that it is. Animal Crossing has a 
 routine, and maybe that's what the younger gamers prefer? I don't know...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanakha
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to meet a singing dowg? Or do you run across random visitors with strange 
 scribbled faces? Then I suggest you buy this game. Animal Crossing: Wild World is loads of fun 
 for all ages. And with the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection you can even visit other towns of game owners 
 across the world, or invite them to your town! Customize your very own home with items you can 
 buy from Tom Nook's store, go on errands for your animal neighbors and get rewards, buy new clothes 
 from the Able Sister's store to fit your style, sell fruit for 'Bells' (Animal Crossing money) , 
 write letters to your town neighbors, and lots more. You can even go fishing and put your catches 
 in the Town Museum. Fun events. Fun characters. Fun game that'll keep you entertained for a long 
 time. But watch out! It can be very addicting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voldemort8989
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I really actually enjoyed this game. I thought it would be just like the GC version, which I didn't 
 like. But it wasn't. You start the game moving into whatever city you want, and your character 
 has their own, personal look. You have to meat everyone and work for Tom Nook, but other than that 
 it moves pretty quickly. You have a basic house to start off in, but as you collect more money, 
 you can pay Nook your debt to get a larger house. You also have the option to create designs for 
 shirts and hats using the stylus at the Able Sisters' shop. Once again you also can get merchandise 
 and helpful stuff from Nook at his shop.
  
  Another difference is that you don't have to do jobs for the residents of the town. Yes. Although, 
 the game is the most fun with an action replay. But if you don't have one, that's fine too. Animal 
 Crossing for the DS is amazingly fun for all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabrewulf238
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I love this game I really do but the fact is very little has changed in the DS version and it leaves 
 a lot to be desired.
  
  However there is a lot to be enjoyed in this game, the animal villagers can often put a smile on 
 your face when you listen to what they have to say and the museum is one of the high points of 
 the game. Here you can collect Fossils, Fish, Bugs and Paintings, donate them to the museum where 
 you can show off to your friends when they visit your town.
  
  What disappoints me about the villagers living in your town though is that after awhile you notice 
 different villagers saying the same things as their neighbor, because they all fall into different 
 personality categories, Grumpy, Kind, Snobby, Sporty and Bubbly. Sometimes I feel like I'm talking 
 to the same character just with a different costume on.
  
  But it's the little things that make this game so unique and fun, seeing a new npc walking around 
 your town, giving out special carpets or items that can't be found anywhere else in the game, doing 
 a task for a villager even if it's a little repetitive is rewarding because it feels like you're 
 really giving someone a real helping hand.
  
  The most different part of the ds version though is the wi-fi features, being able to visit a friends 
 town even if your friend lives at the other side of the world from you. This really suits the animal 
 crossing series and if you have a DS with wi-fi I'd recommend this game, however if you played 
 the original don't expect to find much new features apart from the wi-fi connection in this game.
 
  
  Overall analysis:
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Audio: 9/10
  Innovation: 7/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adnan107
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is a step up from the Gamecube one. It adds more content like more furnitue 
 and clothing and its portable!!!
  Gameplay 10: The controls for this game are very sharp. Whether its the stylus or its the buttons 
 both work just as well. Some work better with they buttons and others with stylus. The game is 
 very entertaining and enjoyable to play.
  Graphics 10: This is possibly the best graphics i have seen on the DS. The Characters all have 
 their own look. Each piece of furniture has its own look and best of all the map design is awesome. 
 It is made for expanding on and allowing many more animals in to moving in.
  Sound 10: This can be a 10 in ur books or a 1, but i personally love the music plus the K. K. music. 
 There is so much K. K. and they all differ greatly.
  Plus you can make ur own town tune if u dont like ur default one.
  Replay Value 10: If u dont 
 give a 10 to this game then there is almost no other game that deserves it. Fishing, Gardening, 
 Mailboy, Interior decorating, fruit picking, talking to neighbors, stock market, hair dressing, 
 hanging out with friends, wifi!!!!!, and so much more. All very fun activities with their own twist 
 and u control all of them.
  Mulitplayer 10: This is the most popular online game out for the DS now because you can visit others 
 neighborhoods. Learn how to build ur house, exchange designs, trade items, gather fruit, and even 
 move in!!!!!! You can also shop in their shop to see if they have items that u dont. Its a lot 
 more fun then it sounds plus u can voice/text chat. Overall this is probably the best DS game yet 
 plus Animal Crossing gone portable and wifi now u cant go wrong with that. I hope u enjoyed reading 
 my review thx. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boondocks123
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 23, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game sucks! All you do is walk around and collect fruit. If i really wanted to I could 
 just walk outside. I laugh at who gay this game is. If you like it fine Im not going to stop you, 
 but personally I hate it. I just cant find anything to do The first time I played even my parents 
 thought it was gay. I Will never even think about buying this game again, because I sold it to 
 gamestop ( Thank you) . Don`t believe the hype. Their is nothing more I can say except that I hate 
 this game and this review is probably going to be ban so Enjoy it while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wez_hulme
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  it is a good game if you are a real world person and like to play on a real time scale. this game 
 is better than most games with towns on them that you live in and this game is a town that you 
 live in and it has also got a real time clock that you have to wait for a certain amount of time 
 to do a certain activity but the best part is you dont have levels so the game never ends and you 
 can just keep on playing for as long as you want to as long as you look after your town and pull 
 up any weeds that you might find on the ground and you can build snowmen if you can find two snowballs 
 and roll them across the snow to make one bigger than the other there are also competitions, like 
 fishing, bug catching and flower contests. so there is your low down on animal crossing wildworld. 
 so i suggest that you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenser_one
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  you have to play it to understand the awesomeness of this game
  its great to kill time, chat with friends over wifi, and whatever else you want from it! highly 
 addictive way to be social in an anti-social way!
  no matter what you do in this game, there will always be something else to do in this game of 10 
 billion and 1 things to do.
  if you are scared to try this game cause it looks too gay then you ARE gay.
  but be warned: it 
 is very easy to become trapped in its addictiveness and lose all contact with the real world, so 
 have your doctor's phone # handy in case of an emergency
  
  
  
  
  
  that all i have to say. now i have to type gibberish so i can meet the 800 characters minimum requirement. 
 HERE I GO!!! 
  agjnioerwnfiuonvij
  nuiwaoehfoiuawn
  iounaeiournouiawhe
  vretgfdhgfhsahbiaeu
  rygvhioasdhbaciuhw
  eiougheuiranbviodfs
  hvnbsdafv
  awjivnbweuirohgios
 
  duafhgsadfg
  hvaiebniejrl
  abvfdsgsdfg
  dfsgikhreiulnvisniu
  rohebiougvnbauvnrotgrty
  k im done! cya 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adraa
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Fun at first. But after a while you get bored. You just do the same things over and over. At first 
 it is hard to put down... but after about two-three days you put it down and move on. At least I 
 did. The stylus is only helpful when writing letters and making your name. It is much easier not 
 using your stylus for everything else. The music is pretty good... The graphics are cute but it 
 just doesn't quite make it. You do the same things over and over.. there are no cut scenes or anything 
 to spice it up like harvest moon games. Seasons change and it is based on real time. But soon you 
 run out of things to do... very soon. Surprise people visit sometimes but after the first time it 
 well loses it's surprise.
  
  This game I think could maybe be more fun to younger people but not for older.
  And if your looking 
 for a game that keeps you coming back well this isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mojo-X
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing wild world is a fantastic game that you cant play out in a couple of hours. It 
 is time based and theres plenty to keep you busy. Shops to buy from, museums to add to, neighbours 
 to visit and your own house you can make bigger and decorate to your liking with the hundreds of 
 items that you can find or buy.
  
  The Good
  The controls are strong and easy to understand. Theres plenty to do including events that are based 
 on certain dates such as the fishing tourny, Flower fest, Flea market and not to mention the small 
 themed days to celebrate your birthday or even new years eve. The game lets you build relationships 
 with towns people and if you figure out how some shopkeepers aswell. The music is fun and if you 
 think your a wizz at composing you can make your own town tune. There are lots of secerets to from 
 visitors coming from time to time or things in your town all the time that contain hiiden goodies.
 
  
  The Bad
  The only bad things i can think of is somethimes fishing can get boring and that the game may get 
 repetitive but events and setting your self goals to do will probably help you.
  
  Anyway ACWW is a good game that I recomend people to buy and play. with all the hours of game play 
 it'll worth it.
  
  PLAY ON XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockmanneo12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  When Animal Crossing Wild World came out I still played the original on the GameCube, so I had 
 to juggle between two towns. It was quite nice to know my money gained interest and that I had 
 more debt to pay. Hell we had side rooms for our houses now! So many wonderful improvements to 
 the game!
  
  Only two downsides I found:
  
  #1: No more basement to stash your porn.. I mean extra furniture.
  #2: No Nes games to play within 
 the game.
  
  Owell right? There were so many reasons I kept playing though, Like for instance I brought it on 
 the school bus back when it came out and was surprised how many people were just visiting each 
 other. Then it went online wifi!?!?! Holly Hell! You could pay people to come in and pull your 
 weeds!!
  
  It just made the Animal Crossing World grow so to speak. Fish with a friend or destroy every tree 
 in his town!
  
  Just like the previous Animal Crossing game however, I grew tired and eventually stopped playing.
 
  
  Such a fun game brings us sadness when not played. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KittenToes
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  I wanted this for a while before i picked it up, and when i did i wasnt disappointed.
  It had great music and sounds. I mean if you dont have this game then its hard to explain why buying 
 furniture, picking and growing flowers, and helping neighbours would be so addictive but believe 
 me, IT IS!! 
  My boyfriend never plays on the DS but after he had a go he played this for ages catching all the 
 fish and bugs!!
  Theres so much to find, secrets to dig up, and unusual friends to make in this game it really is 
 a definite to buy.
  NO DS GAME COLLECTION IS COMPLETE WITHOUT IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game gets boring, but after 5 years of playing man! the gameplay and impressing graphics make 
 it really recommendable:
  Replay Value: The replay value in this game it's almost perfect, even when it gets boring one day, 
 till that day you have plenty of time:
  10/10
  Sound: The sound in this game it's great and relaxing:
  9/10
  Graphics: Man the graphics are 
 in this game even better than in the GC version man, impressing!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!:
  10/10
  Variety: Fishing, bug catching, wi-fi, events, even a flea market! All of this make this game great:
 
  10/10
  Story: You are a guy whi needs a house and... the same that in GC, but this time instead of 4 houses 
 (1 for each character) there is 1 for all, it's not great but it works:
  7/10
  Total:
  9.2/10
  Conclusion: The story lowered the rating but just don't beleive numbers and read the 
 review, man!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half_Jaw223
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Animal crossing since 2002 when i lived in florida and let me tell you it is 
 the Number 1 reason to get a gamecube. THen AC WW came out, HELL YEA! best idea ever, i love taking 
 it with me to restaruants, Especially mexican eats, then i have somthing to do on the toilet! Anyway, 
 i say Get Animal crossing wild world! The only 2 things it needed, are more stores and being able 
 to get a full time job at nook's stores.
  I love it so much that i named it and my ds!
  BTW don't play it on a ds lite during winter because everything is insanely bright! it will give 
 you a headache. So my overall rating on a scale of 1 to 10 is 13! buy it and love it! PS: Visit 
 My website at 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Can't Wait For AC 3!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VG_Freak
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This game completely sucks! their is no point on playing it just get the GC game and you got this 
 game thats how much it sucks so i recommend not buying this game. So little to do no point to the 
 game and if you miss a week for being busy then everyone is on your case it sucks! When festivals 
 come by your can't do anything at all. Storage is shared through out all your storages so that 
 sucks. Once you come back then you got all these weeds to pluck it gets really annoying. The game 
 goes on even if your not playing really super stupid i hate this game. So if you don't like to 
 check back often then don't play this game, don't even get it's not worth your $34.99 so don't 
 buy it, don't even get near it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrInCeYs
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  Amazing, Amazing, Amazing. That's practically all i can say. It has one of the best graphics on 
 Nintendo and is always fun too play. As you play it nothing else apart from the excellency of the 
 game goes through your head.
  
  The game has no proper timeline apart from the fact that you are a new person in your own custom 
 town and you have moved there away from your parents and old life to have one of your own. You 
 move into your new house and your officially in debt. You have to pay off all the morgate until 
 you get to the 'masion model.'
  
  There are very little faults and one feature I would like to be added is the effect to meet your 
 mom who is always sending you letters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Francision69
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2007 2:30 am PT
Review:  YAY! I finally played through almost every 'Nook' and 'Cranny' so im ready to review this game! 
 Now... Lets start! If your familar with the original Animal-crossing on the GameCube you'll understand 
 everything about how this game works and how it plays. But if your not then let me explain. The 
 game runs on a real time clock thats inside your DS and the game is a living breathing world in 
 the palm of your hands! Well... The game is very much the same as the GameCube version and if you 
 played the GC version to death, you really wont find anything new in this version, but if you want 
 a portable version of the original GC version with a few new improvements and online play then 
 this game is perfect for you!
  
  I'm really into making hybrids of flowers right now. Its a really interesting and fun gimmick to 
 the game. Basically you plant flowers near eachother and possibly the next day a new never before 
 seen flower will bloom. The game also feels more funner to play since you can take it anywhere 
 you go.
  
  I really like this game. Despite the fact that i paid 2,999pesos (60$) on it i still think it was 
 money well spent. This is one of those games that lasts for years and years to come. Especially 
 with the newly added online feature which lets you visit your friends towns or invite your friends 
 over to your town via the Nintendo wi-fi network. It's a really great feature and it's what really 
 boosts this game. Although i never tried the online play yet, im really sure that it's great. 
 
  
  Okay let me now explain the new improvements. The new improvements i've found are:
  
  The house now has 5 rooms that you can customize once you've fully expanded it and there's a 6th 
 room but it's only for saving and you cant decorate that room.
  
  You can now customize your appearance! Once you've upgraded to Nookingtons there will be a beauty 
 parlor which will allow you to change your hairstyle. There are also hats and glasses to purchase 
 so that your character looks unique.
  
  The GameCubes maximum number of villagers is 12 but now in the DS version the maximum number of 
 villagers in your town is 8.
  
  The top screen is used for the sky. The sky has floating balloons with presents in them or on rare 
 occasions a UFO will fly by. You can shoot them down by using the slingshot which can be purchased 
 at Nooks.
  
  The games looks different than the GC version cuz now the town is like a giant circle!
  
  The 
 game now has hybrid flowers in which you get to become a real gardener and plant flowers near eachother 
 to create a new and rare plant.
  
  Those are the improvements i've discovered for now.
  
  Anyways, the game is a really great port of the GameCube version. It looks very similar to 
 the GC version but with a slight jagged edges. I also noticed a slight slowdown whenever theres 
 too many villagers on screen. And i also noticed that the games events happen very slowly. The 
 events rarely occur every week and it kinda gets boring sometimes after playing this game for 5hours 
 straight. But this game is suppose to be played only for a short period of time a day. Since everyday 
 something new is happening in the game. This is one of the most unique and innovative games i've 
 played. I really recommend it to every NintendoDS owner. Every DS owner should have this game! 
 PERIOD! MUST HAVE GAME FOR THE DS!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: queenhekate
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  The game is very fun for about a month or so. Then it becomes more of a chore to check it every 
 day. Then you slowly forget about it... or at least I did. I do go back every once in awhile but 
 it doesn't hold my interest. I choose to write my reviews after I've played the game for a good 
 long while before trying to type out a review so my views won't be in the "it's perfect cause I 
 just got it" mode. This game is one of those that you get all hyped up about and then slowly forget 
 it exists. I recently went back to the game and still like to roam around getting new furniture 
 and clothes, but it doesn't hold my interest as much as other DS games do. Don't get me wrong it's 
 still fun but it's not addicting as some users think it is. There are some cheats you can use to 
 gain money fast and skip through the days to get all the furniture that will allow you to play 
 it for more than an hour a day but even that comes at a cost of spending hours picking weeds. Perhaps 
 if you only have a short amount of time each day and want a game to fill that time Animal Crossing 
 is great! since that's all you can pretty much play it for with out getting bored. Hopefully this 
 will help out those people that do/ do not like repetitive games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KriobaKeys
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  I've got to say i have yet to play such an amazing, addictive, fun and plain awsome, game yet. It 
 is perfectly suited to the DS system. I love this game i check and play it every day without fail, 
 since this game updates while you are playing or not, everyday! You can't beat this game on DS 
 it's the best one going in my opinion. As an avid DS player i have played lots of DS games but 
 none are as addictive and a plesure to play as this! It's basically like the Sims with more fun 
 options and tons less stress. When you first get the game it's a bit dreary but it sharpishly picks 
 up from this and hooks you in. 
  I have lots of friends who have DSs and they all have this game, they all play it everyday, and 
 we all link up to explore eachothers towns, speak to eachother through Animal Crossing, have fishing 
 contests and much more. The customization options are almost never ending with a massive 550 pieces 
 of furniture you can dress your house up with it really is cool. Speaking of dressing the amount 
 of clothes you can get are great, some rarer and more expensive than others. 
  Having residents in your town really adds to the greatness, also it is unlikely to have the same 
 residents as one fo your friend who have this game. There are hundreds of residents that can leave 
 or move into your town, ranging from cats to rhinos.
  This is one of those games that awards you for being good at it like buying a massive house and 
 better furniture, bigger shop and more money. This game takes a lot of effort to have a nice town 
 wich is one of the many hooks. Making money in this game is actually quite fun and is not too hard. 
 Like fishing for example it's great fun and you can catch really rare fish and sell them for top 
 price. Also if you're not in it for the money and just want to sit back and watch your achievements 
 you can donate these rare bugs and fish too your local museum.
  It is a time based game and when i say time based i mean time based! Events will happen on some 
 weekends ranging from the flea market to the acorn festival. Also the weather on a hot sunny the 
 day the trees will be green, the grass will be green, where as in winter it will snow and you can 
 make snowmen. This game really has so many options it's hard to explain them all, this review is 
 just a sample of what you can do. 
  If you are a DS owner and want a good game this is a must have i mean a must have!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This game will at least be a contender for the most fun you have had on the DS. The graphics are 
 great for a hand-held game, and possibly the best on the DS. They've made some subtle changes from 
 the original that you will gradually notice as you play through the game, but they don't really 
 affect the game play much. If anything they made the changes just to make this feel different from 
 the original. The sound is essentially the same as the original both in terms of effects and music. 
 The developers made good sue pf the touch screen but also let you use just the directional pad 
 and buttons if you want to. The new Wi-Fi connectivity is neat if you're near a friend or something. 
 There are two things that really tick me off at times, one being that you can't customize your 
 upstairs, and the other is that the villagers don't have nearly as many jobs as the original did 
 to keep you busy. Overall i would say this a very solid sequel with some minor drawbacks, and you'll 
 still have a great time with it if you liked the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthmario123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  In this fun and addictive DS game you move into a town that has many friendly inhabitants. Before 
 moving into the town, an animal nemed Kapp'n is taking you to a town that you get to name. Upon 
 moving you will meet a raccoon named Tom Nook. He will employ you into his store to try to pay 
 off mortgage on the house he gives you. So you do some errands for his then, he fires you. After 
 that you can do anything your heart disires in your cozy little town. There is endless things to 
 do in this game. To name a few, you can catch and sell fish and insects. Dig up and donate fossils 
 to the museum along with fish and bugs. You can plant trees, flowers, look around for items to 
 sell, meet new animals that move into your town, and TONS of other things to do. And now one of 
 my favorite features...... Inviting other people into your town! You can invite a friend that is 
 close by or some one over Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. This game will appeal to anyone who tries 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasymuslim
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is not much dfferent then the gamecube version, but it has some differences in some ways. 
 This game might seem very cheesy but it is really really fun to play. You go make your own town 
 and live in it, with other creatures and people moving in and out of the town. It's basically like 
 living a virtual life with your own house and your very own life. Has it's own shop wehre you cna 
 buy and upgrade your house. You can even go fishing, insect catching, digging and many many more 
 things that you would sometimes do. As far as game play goes the graphics could be a bit better 
 and the way the map system works will send you into a fit in some aspects. the music played in 
 the background is very very annoying, plus the voices of the people in the game is so dumb and 
 not worth it, so it is best just to play the game with no volume on what so over. Yah the game 
 is kinda cheesy but it is really fun to play and you will find yourself logging in many hours playing 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkystobartPSP
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2007 8:26 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is kind of like a calming, peaceful, relaxing Sims. You live in a village 
 with animal neighbours, each with their own personality (expect at least 1 of all 6 types in your 
 village eventually) . You can send messages in bottles to other DS users via Wifi. Your mates can 
 come to your town. You can create your own cottage with furniture from Tom Nook's. I find this 
 the best method of calming down. This is a game with no real aim, like quite a few on the DS. To 
 sum up, a game most people admit to owning. And why not? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njfire
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  This game never did anything for me. You get to walk around a little village that animals live in. WOW! 
 Iforgot you get to fish snd decorate your home..... So kul!..... NOT! In this game you do the same 
 thing over and over again. The reason why I'm dogin on this game so much is because people talk 
 about it like it's an awesome game when it's really not. I had to push myself to try to like the 
 game because everybody said it was good. Then I thought there was something wrong with me because 
 I didn't like it. Until I realized it wasn't me, and the game really isn't that good. The game isn't 
 horrible, but it isn't what people say it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokefan12345678
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  You need to be able to dedicate at least an hour a day to enjoy this game. You get to a new town 
 and you meet Tom Nook. He sells you a house. The main point of the game is to pay off your house. 
 Each payment makes your house bigger but the amount to be paid also increases. You can furnish 
 your house and there is a rating system that happens once a week. There are sets of furniture and 
 you have to get pieces from the same set to increase your score. There is also a muesuem that you 
 can donate fossils (that you dig up) , fishthat you can catch, and bugs. There is also seasonal stuff. 
 Like on Christmas you get presents from Rudolph. This is basically the same game with more furniture 
 sets and online capibilities. You can also play it wherever you want to. Overall this is a great 
 game if you have the time. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hurricane42
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World, this game is slightly over-hyped, and gets boring after about 1 month.... 
 You start off in the back of this guy's taxi, and get taken to your town, but have to pay off the 
 money for your house, only when you pay off one, Nook (the shopkeeper) will offer you a bigger house, 
 but you will have to pay more money for. This ends when you have 5 proper rooms. But after this 
 there is almost nothing else to do that you will find fun in anyway, you can collect furniture, 
 donate to your local museum (the best thing to do after paying for your house) , collect all fish 
 & bugs, and not really much else. 
  Presentation:8.4
  Graphics:8.6
  Sound:7.5
  Gameplay:8.5
  Replay Value:8.7
  Score: 8.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_simon_000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World 
  DS
  
  So here the Animal Crossing on the DS, Right because its on the Ds let go over the touch controls. 
 The game make good use of the touch screen you can move your character with the screen but the 
 screen is use for the item screen and other things like that. 
  
  The main goal of Animal crossing is to buy all the upgrade to your house that is realy hard to 
 do with out cheating, The game has other goals like catch everything like bugs and fish so you 
 will this game for some time trying to do everything.
  
  This game has WI-FI so you can go to other peoples town and have fun but it does need an friend 
 code watch is stuipd because the people who give you the friend would live by you so you can just 
 connect normaly.
  
  Overall the gameplay will have you play the game for hours and hours, The game is fun for people 
 who want a nice family game. This game is fun it own little wild world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spinach_Puffs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  It's taken me months to get round to writing this review, so I thought that I'd finally get around 
 to it!
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World puts you in a virtual world where the townspeople are animals and the 
 main sources of income are fishing, archaeology, gardening and insect-cathching. Whilst on paper 
 this may sound like the world's worst life simulation, it won't take long before you are absorbed 
 into your town's little ways.
  
  This game has such an open-ended gameplay that you really can spend about an hour on it and never 
 do the same thing twice. Talk to friends, fish, dig fossils, catch butterflies, plant a tree, fix 
 the garden, re-decorate the gouse, design the latest fashion, shop, watch TV... practically anything!
 
  
  Throw in a whole bunch of wacky but loveable residents (KK Slider, the greatest canine guitarist 
 ever; the Able sisters, who run the tailors; Resetti, the short-tempered mole who screams at you 
 when you switch off without saving) and you've got the best DS game there is.
  
  The crowning glory, however, is the amount of hidden features that are in this game. Yes, three 
 minutes searching on the internet will give them all away, but if left to your own devices, you'll 
 be discovering new things about your town for months on end.
  
  Are there any flaws to this game? Well... a few small ones. The tocuh screen controls could have 
 done with a bit more work, but the button alternative works fine (so long as you don't use B to 
 sprint - use L or R!) . Occasionally you wander to yourself why certain features can't be included, 
 such as more hat shapes or hairstyles, but these are small quibbles compared to the amount of positive 
 points.
  
  Unforetunately, I have no Wi-Fi access as yet, so I am unable to comment on the games online content, 
 but just playing by yourself (and contact with the other three humans you can create) is enough 
 for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfHyrule910
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  Great! definately 1 of the best ds games very addictive. in some ways perfect! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! 
 !! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! !!! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! 
 ! ! !! !! ! ! !! ! !! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! !! !! ! ! ! !! !! ! !! ! ! 
 ! ! ! ! !! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! ! ! !!! ! ! ! ! !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purarnick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! Your objective is to get enough money to pay for a mansion! Your neighbors 
 are animals. You can collect pictures from them if you guys are best friends. You can fish. There 
 is so much you can do! You can buy items for your house! And being able to go over friends towns 
 in wi-fi is a great part of the game. You can try and collect all the hat, umbrellas, wallpaper, 
 floors, furniture, bugs, fish, and more. You can get golden items by doing random things. A great 
 game that will make you addicting. In other words get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World could've given me a 9/10 experience, but all Animal Crossing is pointless. 
 They did a much better job on this game than its original Gamecube prequel. Wi-fi was also fun 
 but so many people hacked it and did otherwise impossible stuff such as Mansion Seeds. That normally 
 wouldn't be a problem but the Wi-Fi lets hackers give to those who don't have the evil minds of 
 the illegal (or just don't know about game programming) . The addition of new animals and pretty 
 much every old one came to the game as a positive along with the new ways to interact with them 
 such as the answer window where you slide a circle more towards the answer you want on either side 
 of the vertical gauge-like thing. The originality came back and the kinks were worked out, so it 
 Animal Crossing: Wild World is a good game for one of the first three wi-fi ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkullSpliter12
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  Very very fun game much to do and so much time to do it! I love this game and the fact that it 
 never ends! Though I find myself bored at parts I do love this game and cant bring myself to selling 
 it. Even though I don't really play my DS as much as my PSP I often find my self picking it up 
 and getting into it immediately. In this game you can make your own house and customize your characters 
 clothes, Items furniture, etc..... You live in a town of animals where you have to make the town 
 nice and plant trees (picking weeds gets old) and you can fish and do almost and you can in real 
 life. This is a great game recommend for anyone and is extremely relaxing to me and anyone who 
 can pick up a quality game and enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EndorusBolero
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Jeez. This game is awesome. This may be in my top... I don't know...8 DS game list? Yeah, this game 
 is fun, regardless of the stupid characters. (Crazy Redd, Tom Nook, Lyle, etc.) You get to make 
 palm trees out of coconuts on the shore, and on those trees, valuable bugs appear during summer, 
 and that is how you get bells real easily. And if you can't wait till summer, just go fishing! 
 You could get the expensive Stringfish by fishing rivers in winter. Or you can just make money, 
 one cheap fish at a time. The emote system given to you by Dr. Shrunk, the hideous salamander, 
 is pretty decent. And you can make textures out of pixels via the Able's shop. But the thing is 
 they all cost 350 bells. And Crazy Redd, he is a scammer in a tent! Well, sometimes he isn't, but 
 the chances are slim. He may give you a forged painting (find out by talking to Blathers) for a 
 whopping three thousand something bells. He may also overprice items easily found at Tom Nook's 
 store, but sometimes he gives rares. Yeah, and that Boondox rubbish, you donate bells just for 
 FEATHERS. Just imagine that. Difficulty: Just right. Most logical I could find. Time spent: 40 
 to 100 hours. I'm not so sure if it's over 100, so I chose this option. Classification: Grows on 
 you. It's true, you know. And the rating: 9.0 because it's decent, but not the best. And one more 
 thing: This game is awesome! PLAY IT NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  There really is no challenge in this game, but it makes up for that in addictiveness. If you know 
 a lot of people that have this game, then get it. If not, well ... it is still a great game. You 
 never know what'll happen the next day ... and the next day ... and the next. You will want to 
 play every day just to see what happens. And the result, total interaction. If you have Nintendogs, 
 the sims, or any other virtual life game, then pick this game up. You will not be disappointed. 
 This game is a hate it or love it game. You will get entirely mixed opinions and reviews from critics 
 and your friends. Listen to the ones that say that this game is extremely fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeppelin_64
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  
  This is a game for everyone. Not just adults, not just kids, but everyone. It is a very good game 
 that can practically be played forever.
  
  10/10 GAMEPLAY
  
  This is where the game shines. Whether you want to talk to your neighbors, do a little fishing, 
 or even hit a rock with a shovel for money, you'll have fun doing it. For me, this game was more 
 of a collecting and hanging out with friends type game. I'd get up in the morning and go see what 
 Nook had in stock, then I'd buy it to finish my catalog. After that, I'd call up to 3 friends to 
 see if they wanted to come to my town via wi-fi. After they arrived, we'd play a number of games. 
 Tag, hide and seek, capture the flag, you name it. And if we got bored of that, we'd swap items, 
 or just sit and talk.
  
  6/10 GRAPHICS/SOUND
  
  The graphics are fair, not amazing, but not bad. Not too much to say there. The sound is also fair, 
 with the voices being like mumbling, and the sounds you hear when the end of your fishing rod hits 
 the water is very well done. The music differs depending on what time of day it is, which I think 
 is pretty cool.
  
  10/10 PLAYTIME/REPLAYABILITY
  
  Wow. First, this game will take you at least a year to fully beat, considering some fish don't 
 show up in the rivers or oceans until a certain seasons. Second, there is really no reason to restart 
 this game because it'll take a long time to get back to where you were.
  
  FINAL RECOMMENDATION
  
  You have to buy it, not rent it. Renting it just means you have to 
 give it back, which you don't want to do. This is an endless game with extreme wi-fi capabilities. 
 Overall, it is a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: invaderzim17
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing : Wild World is.... different. If you are a hardcore gamer looking for a fun new 
 challenge... well, I doubt you would be looking at a game called Animal Crossing anyway. But for 
 the rest of us, it actually isn't too bad. The object of the game is ridiculously simple, all you 
 ever do is walk around your imaginary town and talk to all your imaginary friends. Sometimes they 
 make you run errands, sometimes they give out free stuff, sometimes they get sick and you have 
 to bring them medicine, and sometimes they get in bad moods and you should just stay the heck away 
 for a while. You can also do a few other things if you want some alone time, like go on a fishing 
 trip (to the river or conveniently located ocean, depending on the type of fish you want) , or you 
 could catch bugs or decorate your house with about 600 different items, available through the store 
 or from other people or sometimes only through special events.
  
  What really makes it interesting is what happens with the passage of time. If you play long enough, 
 you can afford to add rooms to your house, the store will get bigger and carry more items, and 
 you will encounter all kinds of cool and sometimes just plain weird characters who venture into 
 town.
  You will get to know friends better and they may reward you with a portrait. You will experience 
 all the seasons and the changes in weather and animal behavior they bring. There are too many of 
 these little things to explain, but this gives you a little taste of what is to come.
  
  If these types of things are what you get pleasure from, this game will entertain you for about 
 a year if you play it a little every day (that's all I could ever do, because you usually exhaust 
 all of the day's activities in about 15-20 mins) until you have seen all the seasons. But I got 
 bored with it after that. And for any hardcore gamer, just stay away. You'll thank me later. By 
 the way, don't bother playing the game after a long time off. The town gets infested with weeds 
 and everyone seems to have forgotten who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinyPinkRobots
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:15 am PT
Review:  it was fun at first, but i sort of sucked at this game, and the repetetiveness of picking up pairs 
 and selling them to the shop guy, just got boring, i know everyone thinks this game is great, and 
 it is pretty good, but i couldn't really find many ways to make money. My sister seems to have 
 a nack for it, and has a large house and lots of money, all of which is from selling pears, so 
 she's obviously alot more paitent than me. I'm not saying its a bad game, because its clear that 
 my sister has alot of fun playing on it. I just think its probably best for a younger audience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonelespi
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  Great Game Play, Highly addictive, it has multi player , you can play anywhere you want, and it's 
 just plain fun i play almost every day is a must have... the best animal crossing yet. this is better 
 then the previous animal crossing and has more stuff too, on-line play just something you gotta 
 have...1 of the best DS games out right now so go and get it if you don't have it... Is worth it 
 my favorite game so far for the DS. When i first got this game i just kept on playing and playing 
 it constantly i just never got bored of the game is just very addictive i had this game for already 
 a year is just great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarties1717
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing : Wild world is almost like the sims but a cute version of a life simulator with 
 animals and tons of fun things to keep you playing everyday. I must admit though after playing 
 for a while (and I mean a long while) I have stopped playing and I don't miss it all that much. 
 That doesn't mean it wasn't a great game when I did play it. I would suggest this to someone who 
 wants a fun game with things that are similar to the real world. Can't wait until Animal Crossing 
 Wii even though basically nothing is known about it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KILLSYOU123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is alot of fun Like i stated b4 My little brother got the game and i tried it when he 
 was at school it was alot of fun as personaly i find the DS frustrating but I think Nintendo Did 
 a great job with the Game as They are Killing Sonics rep and are straying away from the Legend 
 of Zelda Series (I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrazyKdogg300
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  This a simple and eaisaly understood game about you, you are a new member in the town you name 
 animial-people show up and talk to you, you how ever do not have enough money to buy a house from 
 Tom Nook so you have to do odd jobs for other residents of the town as well as for tom nook you 
 can also sell Items to nook for a price and decarate your house with a multi tude of Items as well 
 as fish, fossil digging and delivering Items back and forward through the small town, you can also 
 play with people from far away using the Wi-Fi capabilites you can also play virtual tag with a 
 freind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theonlygamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  The DS version of Animal Crossing is quite similiar to the GC version. Instead of adding alot of 
 new features, the game added to the pre-existing parts of the game. You start off as a stranger 
 in a new town and you become friends with neighbors and buy and sell items and plant trees, find 
 fossils and fish. One of the more enjoyable parts of the game is collecting things. There are now 
 about 600 furniture items in the game (as opposed to about 40-500 in the GC version I think) and 
 there are more clothing options and more ways to customize your character with inclusions such 
 as hats and things like glasses. The game also has a hairdresser for your character in the in-game 
 store. There are 16 differrent hairstyles to choose from as well as 8 differrent colors.
  There are also more fossils to find and fish and bugs to catch. In the GC version you were awarded 
 for catching all bugs of fish with house decorations. In the DS version you are awarded with the 
 Gold net for bugs and gold fishing rod for fish. There are also other golde items (such as the 
 golden slingshot which is used to shoot balloons and UFOs from the sky) .
  
  Another differrence with the DS version is your character's house. In the GC version you could 
 have 3 rooms total (1st floor, 2nd floor, basement) . In the DS version your character's house can 
 have a total of 6 rooms.
  
  There is also the addtion of wifi so you can play with others and trade items or play in-game games.
 
  Overall, while the game sounds dull, it really is very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Von-Dozier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the many that got AC on the GameCube on it's release date, and played it constantly. 
 Something so addicting about it that keeps you coming back that you can't explain, a small charm 
 that games such as Harvest Moon and The Sims have that you can't put your finger on.
  
  Animal Crossing was a great game, and it gets a great adaptation on the DS. There are a huge set 
 of changes for the better, that makes the game run and flow just that much better.
  
  It can be little things, such as when selling to Nook or sending mail at the post office, you no 
 longer have to do each item one at a time. Now, you can drag and drop the size of your inventory. 
 Or larger things, such as fishing not having as automatic as a feel. The fish are more erratic 
 and random, following no seemingly set pattern, and it makes fishing that much more tougher, and 
 enjoyable.
  
  The real biggest thing, is that there is not a downgrade to be seen. Everything is improved upon 
 in some way.
  
  This game is great for people who loved the original AC, and also great for people who have never 
 experienced the addiction of AC. A great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shim_K
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo rocks. I am utterly speechless at the vast possibilities of such a masterpiece stuffed 
 into such a small cartridge.
  
  -----
  Pros :
  -----
  + So... many... items
  + Friendships are fun to build, but the rewards are slightly slim
  + It is so fun to hack
  
 -----
  Cons :
  -----
  - Multiplayer restrictions
  
  __________
  / Gameplay 10
  \__________
  Actually, there is a bit too much to do. But, meant positively. There are over 600 
 different items, over 400 wearable items, and well over 1000 collect-able items. Then you have 
 tasks your neighbors give you, which can some-times be a bit repetitive, and also can be rewarding. 
 Not rewarding with the trash they give you, but you are THAT much closer to getting their picture 
 to frame in your house (which is worth valuable HRA points) . And, it never ends! There are so many 
 things to do per season. Possibly, receive a full set of snow-man furniture from a happy snowman, 
 or get a full mushroom set of furniture from your own mayor in a mask. There are barely any limits. 
 __________
  / Graphics 9
  \__________
  Well, what can you expect from a DS game? The graphics are a bit... DS-like, but the gameplay overrides 
 the bad graphics. Well, not bad, per se, just a tad sketchy. The items are well-done and surely 
 have a high poly-count. Simplistic, yet innovative in it's own way. __________
  / Sound 10
  \__________
  Great sound. Same as the GC version. Surprising good quality for a DS game. I still 
 love the animals talking in Animalese. There are no true draw-backs on the sound area. __________
 
  / Value 10
  \__________
  I personally would buy it for up to 70 dollars, but that's me. It offers endless gameplay, a vast 
 array of items to collect, and so friggen much to do. You can model your life as a whole new life, 
 with the simple D-Pad, A and B Button, and Start Button.
  
  
  Buy it. 'Nuff said.
  ----------
  -------
  -----
  ---
  --
  -
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stucket
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is basically the same game from the Gamecube version, except perhaps 
 downgraded in terms of graphic and amount of freedom from the original game. You Start off in a 
 taxi {Rather than a train} , and this Taxi driver comes up and ask you question to verify your Gender 
 and apperance. It is pretty wicked for 1st timer on this game, as if you were confused at whats going 
 on you may pick out the worst apperance {or the Awesome Goku hair, not sure about it, but i got a 
 weird Anime character hair once} Once you are out of that horrifying {Or Beginner's luck} scene, you 
 go into Town hall, This Pelican women tells you about the town, gives you map of town. You then go 
 into your house, Tom Nook comes talk to you, you go into his shop, and you pretty much in depted to 
 him. And the game starts to get Really exciting, your basically trying to earn money, to upgrade 
 your house. Along the way you would want to get soundtracks, collectiog in the musuem, as well as 
 your own night sky stars constilletion. The game is pretty cool, it uses the NDS real time clock 
 as a way to measure time, and Pretty much every month has cool Holidays, or events in it, such as 
 the Flea Market, or New years Eve Countdown. It is rather unfortunate, as many past Event werent Brought 
 forward to this Version of Animal Crossing. The game makes use of the duelscreen, as certain events 
 might come out of the sky and you may like, have lets say shoot something out of the sky? It is a 
 pretty cool feature. But to get the Maximum Enjoyment, you would have to get, yes you predicted it, Wifi. You 
 get to travel to other town, trade and sell items, play games [Such as high and seek] , or you could 
 always go each other town and cut down each other trees to start a war. Although WIFI is a good 
 idea, It takes a long process to go into other people town, you got to upload their friendcode, your 
 friend has to upload yours, Town owner must give a Green light for you to enter, and if you make 
 a mistake, Most likely you be annoyed. Animal Crossing: Wild World is friendly game, It is suitable 
 for all ages. If your a parent trying to stop your kids from nagging about buying a good game and 
 you dont want to waste money on lousy game and make your kids get more games, You pretty much want 
 to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patorishia
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  If you give it a chance, this is a game that you can easily become super addicted to for about 
 a month or so, and then you might forget about it for a while. But once you pick it back up again 
 (and you will) the addiction kicks back in. Maybe not full-force, but the game has hours of playtime 
 because there is so much fun stuff to do like fishing, catching bugs, digging for fossils, etc. 
 There are a variety of cutesy animals that move in and out of your town. And, depending on the 
 desirability of your town, you may get some cool exotics to move in, just befriend them and keep 
 them around so they don't move away when you're not paying attention. You'll have visitors, some 
 who sell rare items, some might rip you off. Typical life stuff, including a mortgage. Nook's &amp; 
 Able's are usually stocked full of goodies, and that alone keeps me going back so I can complete 
 the catalogue. It's an unusually fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaya_k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  i bought this game right before i went on vacation for 6 weeks. and i played it every day in those 
 6 weeks, my character had such a dark tan... now its been 3 months since ive had it and im stil 
 playing it every day. i still havent seen all the furniture, and clothing... and new characters 
 come in every few weeks... its an amazing game... oh, and the seasons change! its pretty cool, 
 lol... i definitly recommend this for anyone at any age. its super easy to play, im a newbie at 
 gaming so this is really fun for me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kool_Chao
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 5:25 am PT
Review:  Well, I must say this was my first DS game, and one I only picked up to have some occasional fun 
 since everyone said it was a good little game.
  However, after my first hours of playing time, I realised I wasn't able to stop... Indeed, the 
 game is so addictive and there are so many things to do, so many people... or animals... to speak 
 to, so many tasks to perform, etc., that your Nintendo DS will become stuck to your hands!
  The story is simple: You're a little boy or girl who is new to a town inhabited by all kinds of 
 animals. There's a mayor, a post office and town hall, a museum and, of course, a shop where you 
 can fulfill all your shopping needs (for the right price) .
  And you must not forget your neighbours. Treat them right and you'll be rewarded with furniture, 
 clothing and even a picture of them, if you're lucky. If you neglect them, they will leave town 
 and be replaced with a new-comer.
  There's fossil hunting, fishing, bug-catching, gardening... You'll be busy for a long time if you're 
 into this kind of games.
  On a final note, let me talk about the online mode. Yes, there's a Wi-fi option for you to visit 
 a friend's town or be visited by other people. 4 people can be in the same town at the same time, 
 and this is excellent. If the game is awesome when you play it alone, imagine the fun you can have 
 with friends from all over the world!
  If you like this kind of games, don't think twice. AC: WW is the game for you. And don't forget 
 to visit your town regularly as there are different events in each week and month. So, to sum it 
 all up: buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DynamoFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:27 am PT
Review:  The original Animal Crossing was really fun, but it lacked the ability to play anywhere. I thought 
 they would make a GBA version, but they never did. When the DS was released with its N64 graphics, 
 I got my hopes up again, and sure enough they released Animal Crossing, Wild World.
  
  The Good: Plenty of activities, being able to have more than 1 type of turnip, new tools, new hairdos, 
 and thousands of new items! Plus new songs from K. K.
  
  The Bad: Some annoying neighbors, insurance costs 3,000 bells, weird looking psychologist guy, 
 Resetti, and Gracie.
  
  9.5 = buy it! I said buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:00 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a bizarre series. You play as a human, yet the world is full of animals. Very 
 strange indeed. Although it may be strange, this game is insanely fun.
  
  Animal Crossing doesn't really have a storyline. It's meant to be a simulation game, so there really 
 aren't storylines in reality, are there? :P Anyways, you're a human and you've moved to a new town. 
 Everybody in this town is an animal. I felt that it was original that they didn't put a storyline 
 in the game. If they had, I think that it would've disrupted the gameplay.
  
  The gameplay is the most original aspect of the entire game (after Animal Crossing for GCN came 
 out, I saw many copies of the game, for example: MySims) . When you move in to this new town, you 
 have no money. Tom Nook, the local storeowner tells you that you can pay it off slowly. You can 
 collect money in a variety of different ways. You can collect furniture, clothes, fruit, shells, 
 fish, flowers, and bugs to sell to Tom Nook. Every time you pay off your debt, Tom Nook offers 
 to remodel your house to make it bigger, until you have a gigantic mansion. You can customize your 
 house a lot. Place furniture in it, clothes, etc. and customize the color of your roof. There are 
 many other things you can do in Animal Crossing. For example, special events. Special events are 
 sort of like holidays. For example, during October, the Acorn Festival takes place. All of the 
 events are original and fun. There are so many other things that you can do in this game and so 
 much replayability. In my opinion, the gameplay is great. I played this game for nearly a year 
 and a half before getting bored of it.
  
  The graphics aren't an improvement on the previous game. The original Animal Crossing was for a 
 console and this Animal Crossing is for a handheld. All that aside, the graphics are still pretty 
 good. Many of the textures aren't that great though (for example, trees are flat when you look 
 at them at a certain angle) . The graphics for AC: WW are some of the best I've ever seen on a DS 
 game.
  
  Overall, Animal Crossing: Wild World is a must-buy for a hardcore gamer or a casual gamer alike. 
 Even if you aren't a gamer, this game will appeal to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spoonful
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Whimsical.
  
  If you were forced to sum up Animal Crossing Wild World in a single word, that's the one you'd 
 pick. Two parts The Sims, one part Calvin &amp; Hobbes, Animal Crossing is, ostensibly, a life-sim. 
 And it would be a frighteningly accurate life-sim if you lived in a town full of anthropomorphic 
 animals and could pay your mortgage by catching the occasional fish or digging up the odd fossil. 
 Wild World takes the Gamecube Animal Crossing, remixes it slightly and lets you take your Saturday 
 morning cartoon-esque alternate life wherever you go.
  
  Animal Crossing begins like every good coming of age story should: a young chap or chapette leaves 
 home heading for the bright lights, only to be duped by a talking raccoon and forced to take a 
 McJob in said racoon's shop. The first person you'll meet when you arrive in  
 will be Tom Nook, who runs the local store. Even though you've arrived with nought but the shirt 
 on your back, Nook has kindly built you a house. And saddled you with a huge mortgage
  
  Aside from a few initial errands for Tom Nook, how you pay off the mortgage is entirely your choice, 
 if you choose to pay off the debt at all. Animal Crossing is essentially free form; there's no 
 plot to advance, no objectives that desperately need met. The game's only real stipulation is that 
 you play it frequently.
  
  Wild World runs entirely in real time, synced to the DS's internal clock and calendar. Pop in the 
 game at noon on the 27th of September and it'll be midday on the 27th day of the ninth month in 
 your town. Call in at dusk and the sun will just be setting on your little animal filled municipality. 
 Because the game keeps running (in a fashion) without your input, you're encouraged to play everyday. 
 Go too long without paying a visit and the town will be overgrown with weeds and the populace won't 
 be best pleased. Special events happen throughout the year; there's a fireworks display every Saturday 
 night throughout August for example. The game tempts you back each day by throwing up some new 
 little thing for you to investigate.
  
  Animal Crossing is essentially a never ending summer school break. You're free to jump in when 
 ever you want and race around your little patch of forest doing as you please. You might spend 
 one day stalking around with a net, out to catch bugs. The next might be spent beside the river 
 angling for a fish. Or maybe you'll invest in a shovel and dig up some fossils. Although the number 
 of tasks is fairly limited, being able to pick and choose what to do when you want to do it stops 
 them becoming tedious. The activities themselves aren't particularly challenging; catching a fish 
 is as easy as waiting for an audio cue then reeling the line in, but they are suitable diverting. 
 And, it's how you'll earn yourself some cash to put a dent in that mortgage.
  
  Once you've hooked a fish, netted a bug or dug up a fossil you can either sell it to the local 
 fence Tom Nook (who'll buy any junk you bring to him) or donate it to the town's museum. There's 
 no immediate reward for donating to the museum, save for a little civic pride and the effusive 
 thanks of the curator Blathers, but it's satisfying to see the collections grow. Even if you plan 
 on selling everything you find it's worth popping into the museum to have Blathers identify any 
 fossils you've dug up.
  
  Animal Crossing's economy basically begins and ends with Tom Nook. Selling him the random crap 
 you'll inevitable acquire as you dash around and then buying slightly different crap from his general 
 store. Aside from your mortgage, the main money sink will be fixtures and fittings for your house. 
 As you pay off the loan, Nook will add extra rooms and floors. And these home expansions need decorated. 
 The house customisation isn't particularly deep, allowing you to change the carpet, add wallpaper, 
 and place furniture, but the sheer number of objects available is staggering. Tables, chairs, dart 
 boards, traffic cones, giant chess pieces, robotic chairs, a moon-landerthe fittings range from 
 the mundane to the insane. You can go for a basic cabin look or go all out with a room that would 
 shame Liberace. There are only a few pieces of furniture available each day from Nook's shop, with 
 the stock rotating daily. So you'll have to pop in regularly if you want to get that last piece 
 of the 'Robo' furniture set or snap up the 'Lovely' table. It's one more little hook to keep you 
 dipping into Wild World frequently.
  
  As you rush around looking for stuff to peddle, you're bound to bump into the town's other occupants. 
 The player's character is the only human looking resident; the rest of the town inhabitants are 
 biped, person sized animals. A big part of Animal Crossing is interacting with the residents; the 
 conversations are fairly one sided, but the talking animals are a charming, quirky bunch and there 
 is enough unique dialogue to avoid repetition. Just wandering around having a gab with the various 
 towns folk is hugely entertaining; they all have distinct personalities and almost always have 
 a funny anecdote or aside to throw your way.
  
  If you get tired of your town and its residents, you can use the WiFi connectivity of the DS to 
 go travelling. But with some restrictions. Sure, you can visit other people's towns but you need 
 the person friends code and have them on your list. Obviously this creates a slightly safer way 
 to visit towns (strangers can't barge into your town and pull up all the flowers or hack down the 
 trees) but it does limit the sense of adventure. You can also connect directly with another DS 
 running the game nearby, or have up to 4 players use the same cartridge and live in the same town. 
 The multiplayer modes don't really add much to the core game, so even if you never visit another 
 town you won't miss out on much.
  
  As you'd expect from a DS game, Wild World can be controlled using the touch screen. Unfortunately, 
 the touch controls don't feel particularly precise. Moving your character into position to catch 
 a bug or dig a specific spot is a lot more awkward than using the more conventional d-pad and face 
 buttons combination. Picking up and positioning furniture or just grabbing dropped fruit can result 
 in a frustrating tapping fest, although the stylus does make navigating the inventory slightly 
 quicker.
  
  Animal Crossing's presentation aims for the adorable over the technically accomplished. The game 
 world is simple yet colourful and the characters are all big eyes and out of proportion heads. 
 It's not a jaw droppingly gorgeous game by any means, but the cutesy cartoon look fits the game's 
 overall theme. Likewise, the audio is full of chirpy background music and cheerfully delivered 
 gibberish dialogue.
  
  It's hard to imagine a more charming game than Animal Crossing: Wild World, but it most certainly 
 won't be for everyone. The relaxed, meandering pace and almost unbearably sweet presentation will 
 grate on as many people as they captivate. It's also hard to imagine a game more suited to the 
 handheld format. Wild World is best played in short, frequent bursts. There isn't enough to sustain 
 long play sessions but, paradoxically, it will draw you in daily for months. Dodgy touch screen 
 and multiplayer aside, there's a lot to love about Animal Crossing: Wide World. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P-Roo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 4:17 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is a life sim that will have you addicted for a month. But what happens 
 after a month when you only play every friday to get a painting and catch up, and then you play 
 once a month, It starts to get a little old.
  There are few insentives to keep you playing, incentives you find your self setting your own goals 
 to try and keep the game interesting. For example I'm getting every thing for the museum, completing 
 the catalogue. It gets a little old.
  However If you want a game you can come back to a lot you've come to the right place and should 
 probably now go read some better reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryuusake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is not the first animal crossing game. The orignal came out for the 
 purple lunchbox a couple years back. This is basicly the same game with much more do to. The basic 
 gameplay is still there. You are the only human in the animal world. You start the game in a Captin's 
 car (he had the boat in the GC game) and he asks you questions to deside your name, gender and 
 looks. After you get out Tom Nook will great you at your house. You'll work for him for about 10 
 mintues then your on your own.
  
  You don't HAVE to pay off Tom. Your debt gets bigger and bigger every time you pay if off. The 
 most is over a million bells. There is so much to do in WW. You can fish, listen to music on saturdays, 
 catch fish, or just hit the nieghtbors with nets. Theres so much for everyone to do in WW anyone 
 could pick this up and play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roy_Kobra250
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This has been an interesting game specially for being an extremely addicting game. I had spent 
 alot of time playing this game it can get pretty hard but it will never encourage you to brake 
 your DS in half. It isnt a frustrating game at all and if you take your time you can accomplish 
 your goals in it because its plainly your choice what you do so its really fun, but of course a 
 game cant be fun forever so it is really important that when ever anyone is going to buy this game 
 they make some future plans. First of all make sure you can have some one to trade items with, 
 its not really important but it is helpfull.
  
  Second: Make sure you like games that take a LoOoOoOoT of time to get everything, but probably you 
 aren't like me and that wont bother.
  
  Third and lastly the most important part. As i said before make future because games aren't fun 
 forever, however you can make this game more fun then it should usually be by getting the Wi-Fi 
 connection this can make your game MUCH more fun believe me.
  
  Well yea this game can be alot of fun just make sure you do whatever you feel like will make more 
 and whatever im sure you know what im saying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zgreenwell
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the original Animal Crossing and was very excited about this game when it released. 
 Sadly it did not live up to my expectations for a variety of reasons. Still, the game is good on 
 its own. Of course being able to take the game with you is a big advantage, but most of the time 
 I played it I was sitting at home. The big reason that I am disappointed with this game is there 
 are several changes for the worse from the original Gamecube version.
  
  One difference is that everyone in town shares the same house. In my family we had eight people 
 playing the same game spread out over two towns. Each person had their own space they could fill 
 with their own stuff and no one else could mess with it. In this game anything in the house belongs 
 to everyone. Also, there is only one debt, when split between four, or possible more (with people 
 sharing characters) , the debt is incredibly easy to pay off. Once you have that done there is very 
 little to do in the game.
  
  The second problem is with the towns people. In the Gamecube game you could go up to any town-person 
 and request a job. In this edition the jobs are not so readily available. Rarely the towns people 
 will request you to deliver something, but if you complete it you are often only rewarded with 
 money, instead of the more desired furniture. Since this was one of the most time consuming activities 
 on the original this game feels rather empty without it.
  
  Another thing that is missing is the Secret Island which was only accessible on the game cube using 
 the gameboy advance and connector. The reason I miss this island is, in addition to being a good 
 way to make money, was the it provided a quest of finding rare furniture on request for your island 
 resident. Which as silly as it sounds, I had a lot of fun racing my siblings to complete his requests. 
 Sadly there is nothing comparable to the island on this game.
  
  There are several fun part of the game that are still there. Holidays are still fun and T. K. is 
 still around to provide you with music for your home. There is still the struggle to catch all 
 the bugs and fish in the game, which can take up many hours in itself. The museum in this game 
 is actually larger with paintings and fossils to collect too.
  
  Theoretically it should be easier to travel to a friends town on this game, but I was never able 
 to find anyone else with the game. A plus to the new multiplayer is that you can be in a friends 
 town at the same time they are (a nice touch) .
  
  Overall the entire experience feels a bit watered down. I would have hoped that for the DS version 
 they would have only added option, and thought there are a few new things there is a lot more the 
 is missing. If this were the first Animal Crossing I played I might have had a better reaction 
 to it, or, more likely, I would have dismissed the series without a second thought. There just 
 isn't enough to keep anyone interested in this game for long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freezeryder
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  To properly explain the concept behind the Animal Crossing franchise is rather difficult. Especially 
 if you wanna explain what's so good about it. So without further ado - I bring you the dramatization 
 of the Creation of Animal Crossing (loosely translated from Japanese) ...
  
  Mr. Yamada - game designer for NIntendo is sitting in the Ginza line train next to his train-buddy 
 Mr. Kobayashi.
  
  Mr. Yamada: Man.. I really hate my life...
  
  Mr. Kobayashi: Yeah, me too...
  
  Mr. Yamada: No -- I really mean it this time! Everyday I 
 wake up at 3 am, eat a bowl of crap miso soup and yesterdays rice. Then I commute for 6 goddamn 
 hours to Nintendo where everyone - even the youngins - laugh behind my back. And then it's 6 hours 
 back home to a wife who's riding my back for not fixing her robotic seal and kids that treat me 
 like an unwanted stagehand..
  
  Mr. Kobayashi: Why do the Nintendo youngins laugh?
  
  Mr. Yamada: Oh, everybody is still talking about my last pitch - Kirby's Nightmare World Extreme. 
 I wanted to remake Kirby, you know, like SEGA did with Sonic. Make him raw and dangerous...
  
  Mr. Kobayashi: But... he'd still be a little, pink, smiling blob?
  
  Mr. Yamada: Correction 
 - a little, pink, smiling blob with attitude! I thought I'd add a mohawk and maybe some piercings, 
 and make him drive around on a BMX bike...
  
  Mr. Kobayashi: That's bad....
  
  Mr. Yamada: Yeah - whatever! Anyway, they've lost all respect and the bigwigs are saying that if 
 I don't come up with something good soon, they'll assign me to the Power Glove Research Team.
 
  
  Mr. Kobayashi: What?? That thing's still around??
  
  Mr. Yamada: Yeah... They're still mapping out all the things that went wrong.
  So as you can 
 see, I'm pretty screwed. Man I hate my life.. I wish -- I wish I could just run away. Be a kid again 
 and live in small town where everybody likes me... and do nothing but hang around, maybe fish a 
 bit and perhaps catch a bug or two. No work, no stress -- just hanging out with friends all day.
 
  
  Mr. Kobayashi: What about the love of a good woman?
  
  Mr. Yamada: You're not married are you? Aaah yes... and participate in fun town events. Make money 
 just by selling the things I find and also there has to be a lady that comes around and give me 
 fashion tips and everyone is an animal except me...
  
  Mr. Kobayashi: Okaaaay...?
  
  Mr. Yamada: Good GOD! That's the game! It's a game about nothing! Life as it should be! And no 
 resetting - absolutely not.. it's life, so whatever you do -- deal with it, but it doesn't really 
 matter, because you don't do anything important! And all the animals should just talk hilarious 
 nonsense with no point at all! Yes! I'm a genuis! -- Shigeru Miyamoto will surely give me one of 
 his infamous lap-dances for this!
  
  Mr. Kobayashi: Huh? Oh sorry.. this Kakuro is bustin' my balls here..
  
  Yep, that's Animal 
 Crossing in a nutshell. It's a little alternative life -- free of all the things that makes life 
 problematic, and it fits right in your pocket too! I warmly recommend. Just checking in with your 
 town, making sure everything is neat and tidy and saying hello to all the dudes, well - it's very 
 satisfying, and quickly starts growing on your emotions. Yes, when someone leaves your town, as 
 they sometimes do, it can actually lead to true emotions of loss. Strange but true... unless you're 
 a psychopath. It's also possible to visit other towns or have guests over via wi-fi. All in all 
 - a great concept, executed with tons of love. Lummy (my town) forever -- Upyours (my friends pigsty 
 of a town) never! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkerio
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The one thinks of the game Animal Crossing, one of two things usally come to mind. Either Wow, 
 I love this game!, or Gah, that game's crap. 
  
  Either way, you know Animal Crossing is a strange game. Not as strange as say... WarioWare, but 
 strange in it's own right.
  
  I love this game... It's brilliant. Some times when you play this game, you have to ask yourself 
 if you're really having fun or not... And most of the times your not. So why play? It's for accomplishment. 
 If you happen to know people who play this, who you could play with, it makes this part better. 
 The game requires you to work. And it rewards you for that work. Fish a lot? Eventually you can 
 show off your brand new golden rod and be the envy of town. Neat freak? Say hello to the highly 
 sought-after golden axe? Got a favorite villager? Pelt them with presents and eventually, they 
 may give you a little memento to remember them by.
  
  A few bad parts however. Wi-Fi is sorta hard. I wish there was a way you could open a village and 
 anybody could join, instead of letting it only be people you've shared codes with. Also, because 
 of the game's way of punishing you (weeds galore and complaining villagers) for not playing for 
 a while, if you stop, it makes you scared to start playing again. Because who wants to pick 15 
 billion weeds?
  
  This game isn't for everybody... No siree... But if you feel your the type of person who can enjoy 
 Animal Crossing: Wild World, then fyou owe it to yourself to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyedebbie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Day one of playing this- WOW. This game is great. A few days later-MAKE IT STOP!
  
  I enjoyed this game, its fun, and interesting. Trying to pay off your mortgage is fun, since its 
 a struggle and it kept me interested. It was great customizing my house, and getting to know the 
 repetitave town people, but all of these are repetative, making it too long. The repetitivness 
 is what has drove me to hate this game, i played it constantly for two weeks while on holiday, 
 and its drove me mad. What improves it after this is the multiplayer, but being on holiday made 
 this hollow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsons2102
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Animal crossing wild world for the ds is the type of game that u will be playing 3 years from now. 
 This game is very fun, and there is always somthing to do, and have fun. You can fish, dig up fossils, 
 befriend neighbors to get there pictures, refurnish your house, go to your friends town ( wireless 
 or wifi) , and thousands of more things! The graphics to this game are pretty good for the ds. The 
 gameplay is unbelevibley fun. I am giving this game a 10, because i had so much fun playing this. 
 If you do not have this game, then save up $35. Trust me, its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkrfan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  When i first got the game i thought it was great, though after a while i stopped playing it. It 
 started to get boring so i stopped playing it.
  The game was quite easy though those bills took to long to pay off, i never finished it but hope 
 to one day.
  There were some things in the game that they could have improved.
  One problem was: on wifi you had to be friends with them before you could visit their town or they 
 could visit your own town.
  Working for nook at the start of the game was annoying but thankfully you don't work for him always.
 
  I only gave this game a 6.5 because they could have put on more features and also because you 
 don't stay interested on the one game forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frantic190
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  There is often discussion about the best games for the Nintendo DS. One game that is always prominent 
 is Animal Crossing: Wild World. The game features great characters, fun, offbeat, family-friendly 
 gaming that can be picked up in any 5 minute gaps during your day. There's crazy things to collect 
 and overall the game just keeps you playing for hours...! WiFi [online play] extends the longevity 
 of the product furthermore, and allows any user to visit their friends town within the game. When 
 playing AC: WW, the game just seems so innovative - even seemingly mundane tasks such as fishing 
 and digging are brought to life with excellent animation and interactivity. Talking about graphics 
 - they are top-notch. The cartoon/animated style fits the storyline perfectly and it surpasses 
 many other DS games in this field. Although after about 10 - 12 months play it just gets repetitive, 
 I stopped playing because it was just boring. Above all, Animal Crossing is just a fun, addictive 
 game! Except for the repetitivness after a while. A Must Buy For Your DS! Especially for the casual 
 gamer who is only out for a bit of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlfonzoZ121
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far the one of the best games for the DS. There is tons of stuff to do. One good 
 thing is..... IT NEVER ENDS!!! Anyone who ownes a DS should have this. You get the shop upgraded 
 when you get enough points. The last one you get a barber shop. The bad thing about that is, you 
 bay 3,000 bells to answer some questions. Then it picks by your answer. I got this really wierd 
 hair that was blue. There are many different types of bugs and fish for you to catch. Do what you 
 want on this game. You can even hit your nabors with the bug net till they get mad. OH.. Yeah... theres 
 alot of furniture sets and pieces. I have all the cabana stuff in my room. Theres a pirate theme, 
 wrestler, blue, green, kiddie, love, regal, modern, cabana, and many more. THIS GAME IS AWSOME!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Tycoon
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is something that you won't regret buying... in the beggining. But once 
 you pay off your debt, which is only like 10% of what you can do... you'll get bored.
  
  There's Fishing and there's Fossil Hunting, Bug Catching and Floristing. By Floristing, I mean 
 you can plant flowers. Sounds dumb right? Well they aren't until after a week or a month or so, 
 when you sometimes feel like you have to force yourself to play.
  
  All of the other things to do are just plain dumb. I mean seriously, standing in a museum on a 
 saturday night waiting for KK to come to the coffe shop to play some music for you that you can't 
 even skip the video. Which might I add is just showing the coffe shop... And to add onto that, the 
 only time you can hear your music is in your house!
  
  Like to socialize? Great, we have some people who are obsessed with working out, catching bugs, 
 finding fossils, fishing and wanting free stuff! The favours in this game are more boring than 
 ever, it's all either deliver or find. Why not getting stuff back from other villagers like in 
 the last game?
  
  I won't comment on the Wi-fi aspect of multi-player for Wi-fi, but DS2DSing is another story. It 
 feels forced, like you do it once and you find a kitty in your town who you need to get back to 
 its mother, so you feel forced to go back to that town. To make it worse only 1 of the people gets 
 the gift. And most of the time, its something crummy like a toilet.
  
  All of that aside, the value of the game is clearly atrocious, 34 dollars for something that would 
 be better priced at 25 or better yet, 20 dollars.
  
  Don't get this game, it's not worth it.
  
  *Is ready for thumbs down*
  
  Also, don't assume 
 I don't know what I'm talking about, I had to force myself to go back to plaything this like 10 
 hours yesterday to review it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Chic531
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  it is a really good game and at times, not always, it can get boring. though it is one of my fave 
 games for the ds. i love fishing and fossil hunting and decorating my house is a fave activity 
 when im bored. there are loads of activities that you can do like keep your town clean and doing 
 chores for your friendly animal neighbors. getting the golden tools can be difficult, but is worth 
 trying to get! also the mortage can be annoying trying to pay off but it is great when it is!! 
 its a great game. if you dont have this game you should definatly buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odysseycat
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Its like Harvest Moon except that the citizens are animals and you're not a farmer. All you have 
 to do is start a new life in a town you just moved in and make a lot of friends too. Theirs endless 
 activities you can do in town and theirs random events too. The neatest thing about this game is 
 that you can visit your friend's or other peoples town through Wi-Fi. The game holds up to four 
 characters so that everyone can enjoy this game. If you have a DS and don't know what game you 
 want, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asliam77
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  I started off thinking, this might be a fun game.
  
  But, now I think, This IS fun game!
  
  There's a ton of stuff you can, A ton of people (well, actually, animals) that you can talk 
 to, and evrlasting fun!)
  
  You can sell stuff like fruit, shirts, accesories, headgear, umbrellas, shells, fossils, bugs and 
 fish to buy clothing and to pay off your mortgage.
  
  You can either be the best neighbour, or the worst neighbour ever.
  
  Being a bad neighbour 
 might sound fun, however, if you're a good neighbour you can get the pictures of some of YOUR favourite 
 neighbours!
  
  AND ALL THAT'S JUST PART OF THE FUN!
  IF YOU HAVE A NINTENDO DS AND ARE LOOKING FOR A NEW GAME, I STRONGLY RECOMEND THIS GAME!
  
 
  HAVE FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a quirky game full of adventure and surprises. You start by collectively setting 
 the features of preference including your name, gender and town name. Familiarizing yourself with 
 the residents is key, and from then on the experience commences.
  
  Of every possible explanation, Animal Crossing: Wild World is a seemingly perplexing slice of life 
 deportment of a game. A unique aspect of the game portrays already made squares of land randomly 
 placed so that each time you start a new game, your town will be randomly generated.
  
  There is always so much to do in Animal Crossing such as help Tom Nook (sales man) expand on his 
 buisness by shopping untill his store expands. Other elements you can take advantage of is arranging 
 furniture in your house, fishing, chopping tress, planting flowers, chatting with residents, donating 
 to your museum, shopping, multi-player, bug-catching, sniping down balloons attached to floating 
 presents, etc...!
  
  As you can see, Animal Crossing is a variety sorted game, where anything goes. It's one of those 
 fully customizable displays and is one of my favorite games of all time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanReuben
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing was released along with such innovative intensive games like nintendogs and elite 
 beat agents to show that while the psp was a graphics behemoth and a memory/gadget flashy whore, 
 the nintendo ds was far ahead in conceptual brainstorming. Animal Crossing caters to handheld gamers 
 who want something more than the typical action game. Life in the town of animal crossing is a 
 credible simulation because it is depicted within a 3D world with convincing personalities and 
 avatars. There are things people do in real life the most monotonous yet addictive things that 
 reflects the repetitious nature in real life. This comes off as both boring and insightful. The 
 world in Animal Crossing is very compact and condensed into a little town where a variety of things 
 to do and events make your stay in animal crossing enjoyable. I was amused by the fact that most 
 events corresponded to the system clock and calender and that every once in a while there would 
 be a visitor or something unpredictable. This is a niche game in that it won't appeal to the casual 
 action oriented gamer. While there may be chore minigames such as picking apples and fishing and 
 digging for things and purchasing for home improvement, the game finds little in the way of action. 
 violence is absent and the game has a very subdued, chill tone to it. Animal Crossing should have 
 been fully functional as an online feature, however one has to consider how the game would have 
 functioned given the memory to handle the amount of avatars visited and jumping from one town to 
 the next. pros:
  -virtual life made convincing by variety of animal personalities
  -chores serve as minigames
  -unpredictable events
  
  cons:
  -no plot, no action to sustain 
 interest
  -meant to be played in moderation
  -online feature is very limited 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polsci1503
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 7, 2007 4:51 pm PT
Review:  As those that have played it know, there really isn't much to this game. You have your boy or girl 
 character, your humble house and a town with a half dozen other animal characters who move in and 
 out. Your time can be spent fishing, planting and watering flowers and trees, catching bugs, digging 
 up fossils, shooting down ballons with your trusty slingshot (which nets you cool presents) , writing 
 letters to the other town inhabitants, and getting new furniture and nicknacks to deck out your 
 house. Most of these activities are fun and tryng to collect all the fish, fossils and bugs in 
 the game can take alot of time because the fish and bugs change according to the season. What isn't 
 fun is when the game feels like you're doing chores. I found myself starting up the game just to 
 collect all the fruit for the day so I could sell them back at the store for money (bells) . The 
 money mainly went to paying off the house. This gets tiresome after awhile. What also gets old 
 is catching the same fish and bugs all the time. How many horse mackrel or carp did I catch? Alot. 
 Still, the game is addicting and you fnd you can easily spend a great deal of time just running 
 around the small town doing odds and ends. The game has alot of charm and keeps the game play simple. 
 There is obviously a number of people who agree because the game has sold very well this past year. 
 I would recommend it to anyone who wouldn't mind have a casual game to play with no stress... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: projump2001
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game I was ready for all the things I have herd about the game good and bad, 
 but far more good then bad. I don't see anything bad about this game. But at first I did, I really 
 thought it was going to be a big game world like a RPG. With different areas like sand, forrests 
 ect. But it was just one town that was not very big. For the most part kind of small. Now why is 
 the game so good? Well, for starters there is always something going on in the town, each day your 
 neighbors say something new or want to play a new game with you, like who can catch a black bass 
 first or something like that. So not only do you want to catch fish for the musume but you also 
 want to try to win the race to catch the bass first.
  
  Instead of leveling up a character you build up his wealth. Instead of buying armor you buy cloths 
 and you also can customize your house pay off the morguage to buy a larger home. Over 600 new items 
 (back of the box says so) if you play this game for a year you may still have not catched all the 
 bugs or fossels fish etc. some only come out at certan months of the year. Just a very different 
 but awesome game, I love to read the reviews people post just to see how different people feel 
 about this different game or virtual like sim i should say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twilight_King85
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  This game is so fun it has everything bugging fishing and fossil hunting. you can buy stuff for 
 your house and upgrade your house you can make friends or worst enemys you buy clothes and pick 
 a town tune and make patters!!!!! its really fun the best is wi-fi or multiplayer 4 people can come 
 to your town!!!!!! this game can not get boring there something new about every day!!!! new people 
 new items at the shop new clothes. this game is one of the best DS games right now maybe even the 
 best DS game i dont know but just get this game!!!!!! it works better on the DS lite but you can 
 still play it one your regular DS but it is better to play on the DS lite! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmrndlze
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 3, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a fun game in which you move into a new town filled with interesting 
 people. The concept is the same as it was in the GC version, only this time; all your friends share 
 the same house. This is my only criticism. I would have much rather preferred having my own house 
 and fill it up with my specifications. A good thing this time around is that you are able to hold 
 much more items in a wardrobe. Also, you can build constellations in your town! The best part of 
 this game is its WiFi. You can go on WiFi and play with any friend around the globe. This adds 
 a lot of replayabilty and it is so much fun. Overall, this game is a must have for any DS owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aries8269
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 31, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This game offers one thing that many games dont ever get to offer, and thats the passage of time 
 and the effects of that.
  
  Gameplay: This games control design is pretty solid. You are given the option to use either the 
 stylus or the D pad to move around and do stuff. Using the stylus gives you better precision (especially 
 when attempting to catch bugs or fish for well.... fish) . The downside to constantly using the stylus 
 is that it drains the battery faster so I seemed to always stick to the D pad.
  
  Content: This game offers so much in the area of customizable content that its quite insane (for 
 a handheld game) . Your house, which you can upgrade as you progress through the game, can be customized 
 in any which way you want with the furniture that you gain as gifts, bought from the store, or 
 bought from the black market tent (high prices but sometimes items found there just cant be found 
 elsewhere) . Theres also a set out there that you can only get during the winter time if you know 
 what to do (thats all i am going to say, no spoilers here =P) . Other areas of the game include 
 customizing what you are wearing, adding to the various collections at the museum, interacting 
 with the inhabitants in the game, and participating in the various competitions/events that come 
 around at their scheduled times (including some holidays such as christmas and the 4th of July) .
 
  
  Sound: Sound is fairly simple though appropriate for each area. If you know the names of the songs 
 in the game, you can go to the bar and listen to them on a specific day at a specific time and 
 have it played. You will also receive a tape of that song to place in your radio back at your house. 
 Value: This game never truely gets old until you have played it for an entire year where everything 
 cycles over again and you have participated in all the events. There is even a simplified version 
 of the stock market in the game where you could make loads of money or loose out on loads of money. 
 Being a valued customer at Tom Nook's has benefits of reduced prices. This game is a rare case 
 where you really arent looking at replay value but rather you look at continued play value. Originally 
 released on the GameCube, it ported over to the DS rather nicely.
  
  If you have a DS, this game is definitely worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koldewyse
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing for the Gamecube, released in 2002, introduced us to a whole new world of gaming. 
 Sure, there had been simulation-type games before, but none had the laid-back flavor of Animal 
 Crossing. You were introduced to your town, you could use your tools to plant gardens and trees, 
 get to know your neighbors, fish and just roam around pointlessly. The goal was to make your house 
 bigger, make your town more elegant by beautifying it with trees and flowers, make money by selling 
 fruits, fish and bugs, and spend your profits on decorating your house, and buying yourself clothes 
 and accessories.
  
  The DS version takes all of what the Gamecube version had and makes it better. How, might you ask, 
 would a handheld version of a game be better than the original? Because of a little thing called 
 Wi-Fi. While the entire game is almost exactly similar to the Gamecube version, what with the same 
 stylized graphics, the same atmospheric melodies and the same game layout, the introduction of 
 Wi-Fi opens up a world of possibilities. In this new version, you can visit other players' towns, 
 shop at their stores, trade items and clothing with them, fish in their ponds and sea, and go bug 
 catching with them, along with a host of other things, all due to the DS's Wi-Fi capabilities. 
 This is what makes the game fun and worth buying. There is a certain amount of satisfaction that 
 you can withdraw by building up your house and creating an awesome town, then to invite your friends 
 and show off.
  
  The gameplay is excellent. It's a great game to relax, to just sit back and play, with practically 
 no tense moments; it's all slow-paced and in real-time. One thing I found annoying, however, was 
 the game's insurance policy -- that is, the game has a little thing that makes sure you play a for 
 a little while, quite often, if not everyday. If you abandon your town for a week or so, you'll 
 load up your game to find that your town is infested with weeds, your flowers are all shriveled 
 up, dead, and your neighbors will have moved away for lack of company. In short, all your hard 
 work is wasted. However, this *can* be avoided with as little as 10 minutes of gameplay every other 
 day, but you might find yourself feeling tied to the game.
  
  The graphics are great. The stylized, chibi-style graphics work great with the game, and if they 
 were any more realistic, it just wouldn't feel like Animal Crossing. The sounds are good as well, 
 with happy little melodies that play in the background as you roam your town. These are both minor 
 points, though, since what keeps you hooked to Animal Crossing is the fun gameplay.
  
  I'd recommend this game to all casual gamers, who can set aside a little time every day to play. 
 This game isn't one where you can waste hours and hours every day, but isn't one that you can shun 
 for a month or so, and decide to revisit.
  
  Pros:
  + Addictive, fun gameplay
  + Wi-Fi capabilities
  + Nice art design
  + Relaxed theme
  
  Cons:
  - Once you put it 
 down, you won't come back because of the weeds and the lack of neighbors
  - The town is a bit small 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkDSpro63
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  Have you ever had those times where real life just brings you down so much, you just want to escape 
 from it? Well, when real life stinks, Animal Crossing is there. Following its GCN predecessor, 
 Animal Crossing returns to the DS with Animal Crossing WW. The classic gameplay attributes, such 
 as customizing your house, digging up fossils, socializing with neighbors, designing your own fashion 
 patterns, and more return to the DS sequel along with new aspects such as new celebrity characters, 
 a chance to turn your house into a mansion, new furniture, and of course, the first time to connect 
 to Nintendo Wi-Fi to invite 3 other friends to your town or visit another's town over the internet.
 
  
  To put it simply, Animal Crossing WW is virtual life. You start out as a peasant, all the way to 
 a rich loaded Bill Gates. Now, virtual life may seem to be a bore to you, but Animal Crossing is 
 an enjoyable experience, especially for trying new things. Once you start, you can do anything 
 you want really. You can also complete certain tasks such as running errands for neighbors, paying 
 off your house mortgage, or obtaining special items in order to do more around the town. One of 
 the bigger aspects in ACWW is customizing. You can customize the inside of your house anyway you 
 want and even get rated on how good or bad it is. And as you pay of debts, you can extend your 
 house to bigger sizes that unlocks more possiblities of customization, whether you add an upstairs, 
 or adding multiple rooms on the 1st floor. The outside experience is also another famous aspect 
 of ACWW. You can visit the town shop, which later extends to a mall, to buy new furniture, stationary 
 (paper to write letters) , new equipment, flowers, and such. There's also a tailor shop where ACWW's 
 customization comes to place as well. Designing your own patterns with the DS's intuitive stylus 
 and using them as shirts, umbrellas, paintings, and ground avatars enhance the customization in 
 Animal Crossing even more, because overall, ACWW is about customizing and setting things to your 
 personal liking. The outside experience also extends to activities such as fossil hunting, item 
 hunting, socializing with neighbors, etc. Writing letters has been toned down to be easier with 
 the stylus than it was in the original AC. Writing letters and sending them to neighbors extends 
 ACWW's socialization.
  
  The most unique aspect about this sequel is the ability to hook up online and meet with people 
 around the world over the Nintendo Wi-Fi (Nintendo's internet service) . This is also where ACWW's 
 socialization aspect extends at its greatest as once you exchange friend codes with people, the 
 player can chat, trade, fish, and participate in other activities with other players, which really 
 enhances on what ACWW is all about.
  
  To conclude, ACWW for the Nintendo DS is a must-have for any fans of the GCN version and for those 
 who are looking for a good game on their DS. To be honest, ACWW didn't feel like much of a sequel. 
 It felt it just made things just a little bit better, like a major upgrade of the original of some 
 sort. The game also gets tiring eventually because you feel like you're doing the same things everyday. 
 Also, Wi-Fi is extremely limited. You can only hook up with other players online if you have exchanged 
 friend codes with them, which is a pain in the ass. But other than that, this a fantastic game 
 and it's totally worth picking up or at least checking out. This is one of the best DS games of 
 all time and I'm not just saying that, it's actually true. And I'm pretty sure a majority of other 
 DS users agree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uknownhero160
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2007 6:22 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is an addictive and great game.
  It makes us remember the time we spent playing Animal Crossing on the gamecube. But this time the 
 ds has a greater multiplayer using the friend code and the friend roster that let's us visit our 
 friend (s) even if his ds is on and we can do all sorts of things together.
  
  We have the same amazing and cute characters in our town:) .
  And there is something else our 
 characters at first don't have a headgard and we can make wear lot's of stuff on there head and 
 on there faces unlike the gamecube that is just with a headgard but still fun anyway: D.
  
  So if your looking for a great fun multiplayer and addictive game you should come pick up Animal 
 Crossing Wild World!
  
  
  
  Thank You :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KickstartYOSHI
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing::::Wild World............. let me see........ where do i start this game is so vast 
 thats one of its brilliant qualitys - there's so much to do: Vist the pub, customize your house, 
 go star gazing, dig for fossils and a hell lot more. Animal crossing is meant to try and let you 
 experience as many real life activitys as possible except from the talking to animals!!
  
  At the start of the game you find your self in the back of a taxi on a pouring day being talked 
 to by the driver, about the date, time, name etc... This is a very clever way of the game wrting up 
 your settings without making it obvious that this is a video game. Again trying to make the game 
 as real life as possible. This is a technique the GBA Poke'mon games use [ Although the crappy 
 poke'mon games are not very realistic at all] . Your main aim in this game is to pay off you existing 
 mortgage to Tom Nook the racoon who sold you your house in the the town, he also owns the local 
 general store which can be upgraded the more you buy from it. When you pay off your mortgage your 
 house gets bigger then you pay off that mortgage.......... and so on....... this game takes a certain 
 gamer to play it so if u cant hack it dont play! [Or rent it first ^ ] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basketball_rox
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NefertariNami
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  For all Animal Crossing fans- it is a big improvement over Game Cube... For all those not a fan- 
 Not so fun...
  
  Although this game was fun for the first few hours, it got kind of boring.
  Who doesn't like 
 making their own town and having their own house and neighborhood? Who doesn't like watching plants 
 grow and seasons change?
  
  You start out as a little girl or boy that is moving to a new town. You get to choose your town 
 flag, clothes, play with friends... Everything the Game Cube version had... In a little DS...
 
  
  I was excited when I first opened my copy of Animal Crossing. I quickly spent hours playing it. 
 After the first 2 hours it seemed there was nothing to do... Running around like an idiot didn't 
 seem like fun anymore.
  
  It seemed the only fun thing to do was mess around with the time and pull weeds.
  
  I was expecting 
 a little more than what I got. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Horde
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  So here we are again, another Animal Crossing game, this time for the Nintendo DS. There are not 
 many new things, but enough to make the game feel a bit more alive, a bit more completed. The TV's 
 actually show shows, but not really any story, just more like pictures flashing and weird noices. 
 At every Saturday evening K. K. Slider visits the newly founded Caf&eacute; which is located in 
 the Museum cellar. Very nice iittle place where you can get a cup of coffee.
  
  One big change is that the world isn't split up in visable acres. The whole world melts together 
 and there are no screen changes, which I've had split reactions about. Its harder to find people 
 as they can run around everywhere, but it also makes it feel like one big world. It can also be 
 harder to recieve the Perfect town status which you get by planting the correct number of trees 
 and flowers and keep your town free from garbage and weed (Not the drug, weed makes the town go 
 round... try making Tom Nook get off weed. Stoned racoon...) for 14 days, because that you need 
 to plant those trees and flowers divided through every acre in the town. It is doable, but it could 
 have been more easily done with acres.
  
  The Able sisters now sell clothes and hats, which is a new thing in Wild World. You can now wield 
 hats and accessories, which makes it kinda cool. Animal Crossing : Wild World is also playable 
 on the WiFi, which allows you to visit other peoples towns, and that is a really cool add in the 
 Animal Crossing series.
  
  The main reason I would get this game is that it is on the DS. Sure, it might not have the same 
 graphics, but having the possibility to carry your town with you anywhere is just such a big bonus, 
 that it alone could sway me to purchase the game. It makes it easier to make small visits every 
 day and you can bring it with you on any vacations so that the villagers won't burn and destroy 
 the town while you're absent.
  
  But, if you played the previous Animal Crossing games, you probably won't feel such a big change. 
 Its basicly, make money and pay loans. There are more things to spend money on , but its practically 
 the same thing, and it dosen't feel like really a new game, more like a patch or a smaller expansion. 
 But, it is a great game, and if you haven't played the Animal Crossing series before, I would adivse 
 getting this game over the Gamecube one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: todd100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a very fun and addictive game that you are not gonna ever want to stop playing. 
 If you look down at my rating you will see that I gave sound a 5, the only reason for that is because 
 whenever one of the other animals in your town talks it is the most ANNOYING sound ever. So If 
 you ever buy this game, I warn you to turn off the volume. It is a sequel to the Gamecube title 
 Animal Crossing but this game has better features. So I urge you to buy this game!! And make sure 
 you turn off the volume!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMan001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  I think this game is way better for a DS than a console like GC. This game defenitly caught my 
 eye when I saw it because if animal crossing was that good on a console than it is bound to be 
 even better on a DS. This animal crossing offers so much more than the original one and I think 
 that the coffee place was the coolest thing that they have couldve added because it makes you feel 
 like you just want to go to there everyday. I think that anyone who is looking for a game to just 
 have fun and relax than this is defenitly the game you should get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duffman_X86
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Once u start, you can't stop. It is very addicting indeed. When u start, it's kinda boring cos 
 its just a plain town with hardly any people living in it. But once u get into it, more people 
 come to live and u can interact with them as well such as writing a letter to them, buying them 
 presents, even just talking to them. You can even do little errands for them!
  
  The multiplayer is the best bit. Once you get a friend code, you are able to visit their town and 
 do whatever you want to it. You can plant trees, buy produce, talk to the people who live in the 
 town, even the person who is playing the game
  
  Graphics are ok, not bad but not amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiirdawgs
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  IF you played the original animal crossing you will know how well done and original it is. To this 
 day it is one the greatest gamecube titles out there. So when they made animal crossing for the 
 ds I was surprised and asked my self what more could they do to the animal crossing formula. Unfortunately 
 not much. It's pretty much the same old animal crossing with a couple new features like constellation 
 making and being able to drink coffee. Other than that there really isn't much difference between 
 the sequel and the original sure there's wi-fi but's that's not enough to justify a 30$ purchase. 
 It's a good enough game but too much like the original. If you never played animal crossing than 
 buy it but if you played the original don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 22, 2007 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  The game drops you in the back of a taxi cab on a course to your new town, which you conveniently 
 get to name. Once you arrive in this town you get a house and a debt to pay. Now from this point 
 on, it's kind of confusing what exactly to do. The casual nintendo gamer would be used to the linear 
 style that nintendo has built so many games on, but this game just drops you in an odd environment 
 and gives you a vague goal of collecting enough money to upgrade your house. I actually enjoyed 
 this decision a lot, because it strayed from the common nintendo foundations. This game has many 
 hours of exploring, and it's actually really enjoyable talking to your fellow neighbors. You can't 
 really beat the game, like most gamers like to say... this game is more of a continuous life-sim. 
 And with saying it's a life-sim, it doesn't actually feel like a game. Although it is an enjoyable 
 experience. The one thing this game left out that I thought should have stayed in was the collection 
 of NES games in the Gamecube version. You would do a bunch of tasks and you would be rightfully 
 rewarded with some great oldschool games. I could not tell you how much more awesome this game 
 would have been if it included this feature...
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  The graphics in this game take on a very sharp and cartoony look, which if you don't like at first, 
 you will find it to grow on you. It really doesn't look that far off from the gamecube version, 
 and I think it did a really good job reinventing the cube's graphics to fit on the DS.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The sound is what actually suprised me the most out of the whole AC: WW experience. 
 It sounded amazing. The songs constantly change and each one of them I love. You can also choose 
 your own tone for when the hour changes, and have many other music based objects incorperated into 
 your house. Of course there are the standard instruments to place throughout your house as furniture, 
 which you simply press A on and they make a monotonus strum or beep. I would leave the volume on 
 for this game, because the songs are really catchy.
  
  Value: 9/10
  This game will throw so many tasks at you that it will keep you busy for a good 20 to 40 hours. 
 I feel I got every penny back with this long experience, and once the experience started to die 
 out, I played some wifi with my friends which added a whole new dimension to the game. Checking 
 out your friend's towns and having them check out yours is truely one of the finest points of AC: WW.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8/10
  Animal Crossing Wild World is a really enjoyable experience for the DS, although it doesn't always 
 feel like a game. It has a lot of gameplay hours, and once you break the confusing layer of exploration 
 the game gets really good. Wifi with your friends is also something that makes this game worth 
 the purchase, and I would recommend this game to anyone who has a DS.
  
  -Joe B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmikkim
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  What you expect from this game will be shown. Its unique and captivating gameplay swipes you in 
 faster then when your mom bakes warm chocolate chip cookies.
  
  The sound, gameplay, graphics and value are great!
  
  This was a Great game and very close to 
 superb.
  
  You start off making yourself and moving into a town. You must make your house larger and do lots 
 of other things like fishing and going to buy furniture for your house. It just never ends and 
 is very addictive. Everybody knows about AC...
  
  Why?
  
  Anyone can pick it up and enjoy it to the best it has to offer.
  
  Now on thier DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorCain501
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 21, 2007 2:44 pm PT
Review:  What words come to mind when you hear the words Animal Crossing: Wild World? Childish? Silly? Not 
 worth playing? Downright weird? Well, I would've agreed with any of those, had I not picked up 
 the GC version and loved it instantly. The arrival of the DS version sent chills down my spine!
 
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is something like we've never seen before. The gameplay is almost limitless 
 and unlike Nintendogs, it actually feels like you can make something of yourself and the world 
 around you. Thousands of choices and customizable options create the feeling that the fun is endless, 
 and in fact, it is. Want a cozy little home with all blue furniture, a couple candles, and maybe 
 a few of your own personal touches? Go for it, because everything's possible in this game.
  
  One of my favorite features is the ability to customize almost your entire world. From hats 
 to clothing to the walls in your house, visitors to your town will always be able to clearly distinguish 
 yours apart from someone else's. You can even create welcome mats out of several patterns placed 
 together at the Able Sisters, a clothing shop, and put them right outside your town gate!
  
  Another excellent feature that many had been anticipating was Wi-Fi. Who wouldn't like a few 
 visitors in their town from time to time to give them decor tips, trade furniture with, or just 
 to chat with? Up to four players can interact in a town at once, and everything is more fun with 
 a bunch of friends, right? You can host your own competitions, treasure hunts, and even races -- be 
 as creative as you like! There's always something to do!
  
  All in all, this game has TONS of replay value. The prospect of your town getting weedy and disgusting 
 is often too much for some people to handle, so even if it's just for the sake of keeping your 
 town thriving and beautiful, you'll find yourself coming back for more. There are usually weekly 
 events that are held in town, from the Flea Market, where villagers will sell you certain items 
 in their house for a discounted price, to the Fishing Tourney, where you and your fellow animal 
 neighbors will be competing for the winning trophy by trying to catch the largest fish! And since 
 this game changes practically every day, you'll often think about what's going on in your town. 
 Whether it's perfecting your home, making bells, (the currency in the game) fishing and digging 
 for fossils, chatting with your animal friends, creating your own outfits, shopping for goodies, 
 or trying to get a perfect town status, you'll definitely want to pop the game into your DS quite 
 frequently.
  
  Young gamers and old ones galore, this is a must-have title for everyone. It's amazingly cute, 
 but look beyond the childish setting and graphics and you'll find a rather complex and innovative 
 gameplay experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsmaster90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing on the ds takes bigger leap from its gamecube counterpart. It has many new features, 
 such as wi-fi gaming and dumber new features such as getting coffe. I mean i dont have a problem 
 with this game, its just that the creators could have thrown some more things in to make the game 
 a little more entertaining, because after a year or so of playing this, it gets a little repetitive. 
 Talking to villagers isnt much fun after a while, and fishing, bug catching, and fossil digging 
 are also repetitive after some time. Well, with that said, lets get to the good parts of this review.
 
  
  Gameplay (9) - I gave gameplay a 9 because even though it does get boring after some time, its still 
 a fun game worth playing for hours.
  
  Graphics (9) - Graphics get a 9 because this game has almost gamecube like graphics, and this is 
 astounding for a handheld game. So i feel this deserves a 9.
  
  Sound (7) - The only reason while a gave the sound a 7 is because the sounds are repetitive and childish, 
 but they suite this game, so it gets a 7 instead of a 6 or 5
  
  Value (9) - This game is a decently pirced game and you get a good price for it if your not happy 
 with it. nuff said
  
  Tilt (8) -Uhh, no comment
  
  So overall, this game is a fairly addicting game, like is older version. I highly recommend this 
 game to any ds owner, child or adult! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is not so bad! It's a pretty good game! Why? Read on and find out why 
 I think it is worth playing!
  
  Gameplay (9/10) -
  Fun! The game is about your character moving into a town full of animals! You can do some interior 
 decorating in your house, and even pay your mortage so you can make it even bigger for more stuff 
 to put in your house! You can collect items, fishes, fossils, bugs, and much more, drink coffee 
 in the basement of the museum, make constellations, make friends with animals, go online to someone 
 else's town or use the wireless connection.... and much more! You can do so much in this game! I 
 love the idea of going online to so many different towns! Though, sometimes, you might get bored 
 after a while, so I'll remove 1/10 off that score!
  
  Graphics (8/10) -
  Graphics look kiddish and cartoony! The colors are bright and colorful! I don't see why anyone 
 doesn't like those kind of graphics. But I heard from people that they don't like it cuz of the 
 GRAPHICS!!! That is the weirdest reason to hate this game I ever heard!!!
  
  Sound (7/10) -
  The music can get downright repetitive at times, but I still like it! Though, 
 the 11:00 PM song is pretty creepy! The bug sounds and all are all right!
  
  Value (9/10) -
  Worth your money! Very fun! Suggest you buy this game!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 
 (8/10) -
  I was immediately absorbed into it when I got the game!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (8.4/10)
  This game has many things to do but it can get boring after a year (or 
 less/more) . It can keep you really occupied. And you can carry it on the go unlike the GC version! 
 So I 100% recommend it to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cash_Wolf
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is fun, that part i do understand, but why make the same exact game, but only this 
 time for the portable. It makes no sense, it really does not. I mean, you might rack in a few more 
 dollars from making it multi-platform, but seriously, it costs more to make the game again, than 
 making the few bucks to sell it. Here is the lowdown.
  
  Gameplay: Clunky controls for the DS, better keep playing Animal Crossing for the Gamecube.
  
 
  Graphics: Same as on the gamecube, so no difference whatsoever.
  
  Sound: The sounds are the same on the DS as on the Gamecube.
  
  All in all, buying this, you 
 aren't missing anything from the gamecube, so why waste money on the portable version when you 
 can just play it on the gamecube? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrizwat
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 16, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing WW is an awesome sequel to the GC Animal Crossing!!
  I was Excited when this game was released but the bad news was that i didnt have a ds yet. Then 
 A few months later I got my ds for $70 and bought this game when I got it. AC: WW Is a really awesome 
 way to play AC with a lot of extra features and Really awesome Graphics!! And for myself I had 
 my favorite villagers I wanted (too bad they always move away when my battery is dead) : ( . i had 
 fun playing AC and AC: WW and These games were so amazing that i was always hyper to play this game.
 
  The hats and glasses totally got my things up and made me more happy when I bought this game.
 
  
  The bad things....
  
  Both Games are Kinda the same just with extra features.
  Sometimes I can barely hear this game when I play indoors.
  Fortune teller makes no sense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkd10123
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  This game will last forever for anyone who has the patience. If you give it a chance, you'll be 
 totally addicted and you'll be playing for small portions of time every day, and I suppose that 
 that's what this game was meant for. watching your house slowly grow into a mansion is a cool expierence.
 
  
  The only thing that upset me about it is that all the holidays from the first one were replaced 
 by crappy made up ones which made some of my favorite funiture unobtainable (spooky, jingle, harvest, 
 ect.) . hopefully the holidays from the first one will return in the wii version. Also the music 
 was rather annoying and repetitive. this game isn't for everyone; if you don't like simulation 
 games, then you may not like Animal Crossing. If you're open-minded about your games, though, definitely 
 give this one a buy; you probably won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicahChua
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 9, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  I tried, I really tried. The things I'd heard from Animal Crossing fans, the vibrancy, the originality, 
 the cool novelty of just 'hanging out' in a village full of animals and just doing whatever all 
 sounded like things I'd really dig. Spending carefree gaps in my life collecting fossils, bugs, 
 furniture and fish and happily building a little comfortable niche where I could use those hours 
 I normally wasted travelling on trains. That was the dream wasn't it?
  
  But I cannot stress enough how this game isn't for everyone. The game felt more like a small chore 
 rather than a cool little hang-out. Take the mortgage of your own house for example. From the get-go 
 Tom Nook provides you with living quarters and suddenly you are 19,800 Bells (the games currency) 
 in debt. Every time I'd pick up my DS to play Animal Crossing I'd be looking for ways to settle 
 the debt for my house, scurrying the beaches finding washed up bits of coral and shells to sell, 
 looking for unwanted furniture in trees and the community recycling bin and pawning off collectables 
 I dug up or fished or caught in my butterfly net. Once all 19,800 Bells were paid, my house expanded 
 and a further additional debt of 120, 000 Bells extinguished my relief. The debt expanded on four 
 occasions before I gave up and decided that this game was causing more anguish than enjoyment.
 
  
  Having said that I do understand where some of Animal Crossing's appeal lies. For instance, the 
 collection of fossils, fish, bugs and paintings does sport a childlike, Pokemonish 'Gotta Catch 
 'Em All' mentality always healthy. The ownership of your own house and your sole decision to furnish 
 it with whatever you find is also a delightful little prospect, especially when wi-fi makes it 
 possible to visit other's houses and see what they're doing with their space (an option unavailable 
 to me because all my friends reckon Animal Crossing is gay in a way, they have a point) . And you 
 can't argue with the games presentation which is great for the most part sporting good graphics 
 and sound.
  
  But all these attractions were marred for me. Personally I need a central aim, and for Animal Crossing's 
 case, that aim was to settle a debt that just kept expanding, the methods of which were as fun 
 as walking up to things and pressing 'B' and selling said thing (repeat a billion times) . It just 
 didn't cut it for me in the end, and there are plenty of other good games on the DS that I could've 
 used that money towards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World will have you in many different stages throughout its lifetime. First 
 you will have to make the leap to buy the game after getting over the fact the game looks a tad 
 childish, you'll then put the cartridge in and play for hours thinking this is the best game ever. 
 Finally, after about a year or so, you'll realise the game is getting a tad tedious and a chore 
 to play.
  
  At the start of the game you are riding in a taxi and the driver is questioning you on things such 
 as your gender and what you want your town name to be called. It's a nice introduction which really 
 captures the character of the game and gives you a nice first impression. You will then be dropped 
 off in your town. Everyone's town is different (although they all have the same buildings) , right 
 down to the placing of the trees and your house - this is great as when you visit other towns you 
 don't get bored of the repetition.
  
  So, you have your town and your character. Now what? First you will be hired by Tom Nook, the local 
 shopkeeper, to do a few tasks such as delivering packages. Once you have done these he will build 
 your house which can be upgraded every time you pay off your ever increasing loan. Tom Nook's store 
 starts of as a cheap shack and finally, after shopping there a lot, turns into a grand supermarket. 
 In Tom Nook's store you can buy furniture for your house (and put it wherever you want) and buy 
 tools such as spades and bug nets.
  
  In the game you can catch bugs which change depending on the season or you can go dig up fossils 
 to either sell at the store for Bells (the town's currency) or donate to the museum in hope of 
 collecting them all. The town will change daylight and season to match that of the settings in 
 your DS. If it is winter in real life, you will see snow on the floor of your town that you can 
 roll up and make a big snowman!
  
  You are not the only person in the town. There are about seven other people living in your town 
 (excluding people in the public buildings such as Tom Nook) that you can interact with and talk 
 to. You can send them presents on their birthday or be really mean to them so they move town. You 
 can receive mail from these 'friends' although most of the stuff they send you is really random, 
 although funny.
  
  The game also has some nice features such as being able to make your own star constellations or 
 going down to the museum's cafe and listening to KK Slider's songs with a mug of coffee, which 
 you can take home and play in your house's CD player. Your house will also get rated from time 
 to time depending on your collection of furniture.
  
  A main attraction of Animal Crossing: Wild World is the fact you can take it online and visit your 
 friend's towns. This may seem good on paper, but in reality all you can do is go to their shops 
 and houses, steal their fruit that grows on the trees and chat to them. There are no special Wi-Fi 
 games built in, unless you feel imaginative enough to make up your own - but then there are no 
 official rules set in place stopping people cheating. Wild World online is a bit of a letdown in 
 some places, but it can be good for a while.
  
  Graphically the game is good for the DS but it isn't showing off what the DS can really do. The 
 sound isn't exactly stunning and it just limited to the typical tunes of the DS, so don't expect 
 a bestselling soundtrack coming out any time soon.
  
  The main letdown of the game is a big one. After a while catching bugs and fish wont seem as fun 
 as it used to and catching up with all your friends around the town will seem like another thing 
 to add to your long list of daily, repetitive chores. It really is a fun game while it lasts and 
 you should still buy it, but some people may find it gathering dust on their shelves after a year 
 or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, the Animal Crossing series has finally brought in a new game to the series, but this time, 
 its brought the series to the Nintendo DS. Animal Crossing for the Gamecube was an excellent game 
 with tons of things to do and tons of items to collect. The same can be said about the DS version 
 of Animal Crossing: Wild World. Not only does have the sheer fun-factor of collecting items, and 
 paying off your loan to make your house bigger, and bigger, but many additions were added to Wild 
 World to make the DS version that much better than the original for the Gamecube. Some of the these 
 additions include: Hats &amp; Accessories, touch screen controls for making clothes and flag patterns 
 easier, and no one can ever forget, online Wi-Fi play. These features add to the amazing experience 
 of the Animal Crossing universe, and make this game go down as an instant classic.
  
  You start the game off in a car in the rain heading towards the new town and the driver named Kappn 
 will ask you many different questions to determine what you will look like, and what your town 
 will look like. The first question asks what date and time it is, and its very easy, just put 
 the time it is in real life and bang, youre done the first question. The date also determines 
 what the weather is like outside, like if its December the 26th, itll be snowy outside, but if 
 its July 14th, its hot and humid. He then asks for your name, if you tell him that your name 
 is cute, he'll think you are a girl. If you tell him it's burly then he'll think you are male. 
 The next question he asks is what your town is going to be called, and you can pick anything you 
 want. The next question is where youd like to live. If you select the beach, your house will be 
 near the beach. If you select the shopping then your house will be near the stores. If you select 
 the museum then your house will be near the museum, it's pretty simple stuff. After this session 
 with Kappn, hell drop you off in front of Town Hall, and youll meet a girl Seagull named Pelly, 
 and shell give you a map to find your house. Once you find you house, and go inside, then back 
 outside again, Tom Nook will be there and hell want you to pay off the loan for the house... But 
 you cant... So then, like in the first Animal Crossing, you have to work for Tom Nook until you 
 pay off all of the loan.
  
  Pretty impressive for a simple cartridge DS game. Its almost exactly like Animal Crossing for 
 the Gamecube just not as smooth, and not as quick. But it is a DS game remember, and the previous 
 Animal Crossing game was for the Gamecube. If you look at this game, then look at some other DS 
 games like Metroid Prime Hunters, your initial thought is probably, wow, Animal Crossing DS doesnt 
 have the best graphics on the DS, and yes, its true, but you have to appreciate that is still 
 pretty good for what weve seen in previous DS titles. All of the characters look pretty good, 
 but the smoothness of some of the models, and even the environments are very ugly, but its not 
 much of a set back. The frame rate is pretty good, although it does feel a lot slower than the 
 previous Animal Crossing title for the Gamecube. But considering that theres no slowdown what-so-ever, 
 Wild World has some pretty good graphics for only a DS game.
  
  Not only is the music catchy, but every hour, on the hour, has a different tune for your listening 
 ears. Wild World not only brought over what the Gamecube version started, but it also upgraded 
 to be even better than the previous title. All of the normal sounds are here too, like the chatter 
 sound of the villagers, to the chime of the clock when an hour passes, its all back. Nothing is 
 the sound department is different from the original other than some different tunes when walking 
 around outside, and some of new sounds that were added to the game like the UFO. Wild World also 
 added a surround sound effect too, so when you here music on the left of the room in your house, 
 you here it in the left speaker, its awesome. Not everything is perfect though. Some sounds and 
 music tunes in the game are a little too cheerful and can seem really kiddy to the point to where 
 you dont want to play anymore. Also, some music gets repetitive when youre running around town 
 fishing for 2 hours.
  
  Good, but nothing extremely amazing. Sure, the collecting of all of the fish and all of the bugs 
 may sound cool, but in reality, it really isnt as fun as you think it would be. Plus, trying to 
 pay off all of your loan can take hours, upon hours to complete. Also trying to get all of the 
 upgrades in Tom Nooks store can get irritating especially when you dont have any friends that 
 have the game, or you cant get on to Wi-Fi. But not everything is horrible. Collecting sweet items 
 and setting up your dream home is addictive, and wont get repetitive or boring for a while. Everyday 
 theres something new to do, like shopping at Big Reds tent, or catching new fish, or even buying 
 new furniture, theres always something to do. Making your clothes can be really fun too, and with 
 the addition of using the stylus to draw out what you want instead of using the stupid analog stick 
 is amazing. But the whole point of the game is really just to get tons of money (called Bells 
 in this game) and paying off your loan, after loan, and can get really, really boring. There are 
 also many additions to Wild World from the original though, like how you can now where hats, and 
 accessories on your face, and even have different hair styles. Also, the view while playing Wild 
 World is very different too. Theres still the overhead view, but now the world is shaped round 
 like a ball, instead of flat like the original. You can still shake trees to get fruit to sell, 
 and you can also still donate fish, bugs, fossils, and paintings to the museum. Fossils are also 
 a good way to create some dough. You find them buried in the ground, then you have the Owl check 
 it at the museum, then sell it at Tom Nooks store. You can get lots of money. Another addition 
 to Wild World is the slingshot and timer. The timer is nothing special, you can use it at fishing 
 tournaments, but the slingshot is something special. With the DS, theres 2 screens, and on the 
 top screen, it shows the sky, and sometimes, a present attached to a balloon may blow by and you 
 can hit it down with the slingshot. You can also hit down UFOs with the slingshot too. But yes, 
 theres still all of the cute looking animals in the game, and some of them are back from the original. 
 Every animal has their own little chime when you talk to them, but its the same rhythm, but with 
 different tones. Another addition to Wild World is theres no basement, but instead you can have 
 4 rooms on the first floor, then an upstairs room too. The controls can be controlled in 2 different 
 ways. The first way is the normal button mode where you press the directional pad to move, then 
 the buttons for actions. The second way is totally by the stylus on the touch screen. I personally 
 dislike using the touch screen, but it is unique. You touch away from your character to run, then 
 you touch the objects that you want to interact with. Not hard, but can get ridiculous. Theres 
 so many things to do, that its an obvious ten. From the Wi-Fi play, to the thousands of items 
 to collect, and to the millions of bells to spend on the loan, theres tons of things to do. The 
 Wi-Fi in my opinion is a bit over rated. All you do is visit another persons town and you can talk 
 and trade items. Its not amazing because theres no villagers outside, and all you can talk to 
 are the people youre visiting. The trading items is cool though, and you can also sell things 
 to people if you dont want to trade them. But, theres tons of replay value in the game, and many, 
 many people are still addicted to this game, and should be, its addictive.
  
  Animal Crossing Wild World is an amazing game. Not only is the collecting of items and making a 
 dream home a great way to spend an afternoon after school, but the Wi-Fi play, the new control 
 mechanics, and the new additions from the original make it a must buy for anyone with a DS, or 
 anyone that is a crazy Animal Crossing fan. Wild World is definitely a gem in the Nintendo DS game 
 library for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lola162
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  What words come to mind when you hear the words Animal Crossing: Wild World? Childish? Silly? Not 
 worth playing? Downright weird? Well, I would've agreed with any of those, had I not picked up 
 the GC version and loved it instantly. The arrival of the DS version sent chills down my spine!
 
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is something like we've never seen before. The gameplay is almost limitless 
 and unlike Nintendogs, it actually feels like you can make something of yourself and the world 
 around you. Thousands of choices and customizable options create the feeling that the fun is endless, 
 and in fact, it is. Want a cozy little home with all blue furniture, a couple candles, and maybe 
 a few of your own personal touches? Go for it, because everything's possible in this game.
  
  One of my favorite features is the ability to customize almost your entire world. From hats 
 to clothing to the walls in your house, visitors to your town will always be able to clearly distinguish 
 yours apart from someone else's. You can even create welcome mats out of several patterns placed 
 together at the Able Sisters, a clothing shop, and put them right outside your town gate!
  
  Another excellent feature that many had been anticipating was Wi-Fi. Who wouldn't like a few 
 visitors in their town from time to time to give them decor tips, trade furniture with, or just 
 to chat with? Up to four players can interact in a town at once, and everything is more fun with 
 a bunch of friends, right? You can host your own competitions, treasure hunts, and even races -- be 
 as creative as you like! There's always something to do!
  
  All in all, this game has TONS of replay value. The prospect of your town getting weedy and disgusting 
 is often too much for some people to handle, so even if it's just for the sake of keeping your 
 town thriving and beautiful, you'll find yourself coming back for more. There are usually weekly 
 events that are held in town, from the Flea Market, where villagers will sell you certain items 
 in their house for a discounted price, to the Fishing Tourney, where you and your fellow animal 
 neighbors will be competing for the winning trophy by trying to catch the largest fish! And since 
 this game changes practically every day, you'll often think about what's going on in your town. 
 Whether it's perfecting your home, making bells, (the currency in the game) fishing and digging 
 for fossils, chatting with your animal friends, creating your own outfits, shopping for goodies, 
 or trying to get a perfect town status, you'll definitely want to pop the game into your DS quite 
 frequently.
  
  Young gamers and old ones galore, this is a must-have title for everyone. It's amazingly cute, 
 but look beyond the childish setting and graphics and you'll find a rather complex and innovative 
 gameplay experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EGGNOG4073
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  The game appeals to people who dont play many games as well and people who play lots. The gameplay 
 is basic, get cash do stuff and be creative. Although i appreciate more of an intense action pakced 
 type of gameplay, wild world has things that keep me going. The design creator is one of my favourite 
 things, for example, i made a nazi shirt, put it up for sale, and almost all the animals wore it. 
 Little touches like the tune maker increase the games playability.
  
  In my opinion, the one problem with the game is that it is limited daily. One can only do so much 
 in one day without getting totally bored. Some days the store is closed, so you cant get any money 
 or buy items. Other than this i think that it is great and i reccommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlviraSolidor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Although I don't personally own this game (Though I'd really like to!) , my friend does, and let 
 me borrow it. I must say, it's much better than the original Gamecube version! Here are my reasons.
 
  
  First, there are so many new items! More items and clothing to choose from is great. You can even 
 wear hats! In the original version, you can change what pattern your hat had, but the basic style 
 was the same, depending on the gender. This means even more outfits to make.
  
  Next, is the housing. Before, you could have basement, attic, and make each room and level bigger. 
 Now, even though there isn't a basement, there are two levels above the main room. There is also 
 rooms to the sides of the main room, as well as a room in the back.
  
  Also, using the Wi-Fi feature, once a friend visits your town and buys something from Tom Nook's 
 shop, it gets upgraded, and includes a salon! Now, you're not stuck with just one hairstyle! You 
 can change the actual style, as well as the color. Since I mentioned the Wi-Fi feature to AC: WW, 
 I might as well add that you can have a friend from anywhere in the world come visit your town! 
 (I think that's how it is... I don't have Wi-Fi yet, but I've heard from others that anyone from 
 anywhere can come visit your town...) Wouldn't it be fun to have fishing, or even bug catching 
 contests between you and your friends?
  
  In the original GC version, you had to write letters using the controller to use the keyboard, 
 now in the DS version, you can use the stylus to make letter writing much faster! In AC: WW there 
 is also a cafe. You can give your character that much needed caffine fix, after a long day of running 
 around! It's in the cafe where K. K Slider appears on Saturday nights from 8pm to 11pm to play you 
 a song.
  
  Now for a downside.
  
  Unlike the Gamecube version, you don't get your own house. You share one big one with you and your 
 3 housemates. So you can't exactly decorate it how you personally would want it, unless they're 
 nice and actually let you do that. But, there is also an upside to this. Because you're sharing 
 a house, you also share the debt. All 4 people have to help paying off the debt, which makes it 
 faster than having one person pay off this huge debt alone.
  
  Well, those are my reasons why I believe that Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great game. I would 
 reccomend this game to anybody. And, I hope to get my own copy soon. (I had my friend's game since 
 December, and gave it back a week ago. Haha! It's that good.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninj11
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  this game has a lot of things you can do so its a great way to pass the time. there are contests, 
 fishing, bug catching, and a lot more! you can collecy bones, paintings, and fish for the muesam 
 (which is very hard to complete) . you get to design your own gouse for your likings. there are also 
 special events that you can play in like the bug catching contest or july the fourth. the best 
 thing is WIFI. with wifi you can play with anyone in the country, or you can play with a friend that 
 moved. you can also make friends on the online boards. so i say get the game now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_piggy1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great sequel to the first Animal Crossing. The first Animal Crossing 
 was an extremely addicting game and Wild World is just as additive. The same silly characters are 
 in the game and the concept is the same but Nintendo improves on some of the old Animal Crossings 
 problems. Nintendo pretty much tripled the content in Wild World so you will keep playing for months. 
 One of the fixes I enjoy the most in Wild World is the ability to sell multiple items at once, 
 not a huge deal but I really like that feature. All these little improvements add up to make Wild 
 World an amazing game for your Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Animal Corssing Wild World is the next Installment in the Animal Crossing games. You get a small 
 house you haver no money, so you get a job. After that job... What next? You get money.. How? sell 
 stuff... Oranges... Get a lot of money then buy stuff. Upgrade your house, donate stuff to unlock 
 stuff. It is extremely boring, yet it was hard to put down. I said "Man this is boring I will shut 
 it off after I get a new bed" got the bed "Turn it off after I sell my old one" sell old one "I 
 will shut it off after I fish" fish "I will turn it off after I sell these" and you never really 
 shut it off. Then you decide you like it and you play it a ton. It is really hard to describe but 
 overall this is a good game just not at first. Oh and a last thought. This is more addicting than 
 a lot of things. and if you have friends who can play this with you get it! it is sooo fun with 
 friends!
  
  Overall, if you like GC animal crossing or u have a friend to play this with GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaphack
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  This game can't be called be anything less than perfect! This vitural life game is about living 
 in a town with animals, doing important day to day tasks and having lots of fun.
  
  Such as entering contests, running errands for your fellow neighbors, or (here comes the best part) 
 playing online with people from all over the world!
  
  You'll have HOURS of fun this absolutely amazing game. The graphics in this game were done EXTREAMLY 
 WELL. There is no plot to this game it is basically living an adventurous and fun life day-to-day.
 
  
  So basically what i'm trying to get at here is that Nintendo made a very wise choice in making 
 this game. I highly recommend this to ANYONE who owns a DS or can borrow one. Because I find it 
 impossible to be bored with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homesrfan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Looking for a good DS game that you can get really into and addicted to? Get this game.
  
  This game is awesome. The game starts out with you in debt to Tom Nook in a town that you name. 
 Tom Nook is the raccoon who owns the local store and builds all the houses in your town. But Tom 
 Nook isn't the only resident. At the start of the game, the town is filled with animal creatures, 
 each with their own houses. Your goal? It's really up to you... There is so much to do in this 
 game, which is really what makes it so great! And online play makes it just that much better.
 
  
  The graphics - nothing extremely awesome, but certainly not bad. The style is nice and cute. The 
 music is nice too, although the squeaks that the characters make are a bit annoying at times.
 
  
  Basically, if you don't have this game... you need it for your DS. It's definitely worth the money 
 because you will get a lot of playtime out of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llamanu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  This is one of the only games that can keep you entertained for more than a year. The reason for 
 this is that there is always something to do! This is a simulation game so it is based on real 
 time and you never run out of possible methods of entertainment. The graphics were fairly impressive. 
 the sound was very well done, there is wifi capability, but they did not do a very good job with 
 utilizing the DS's touch screen.
  
  This game will keep you going forever! There are endless possibilites. The game starts out as you 
 (a human) in a car travellilng to a town. You then name yourself, your town, and you chose your 
 gender. When you arrive at the town you are shown to your house but realize that you will have 
 to pay off your debt on it. After paying the first debt you can expand on your house by paying 
 more.
  
  Other things that you can do are; Catching bugs or fish, donating to the museam, designing clothes, 
 growing flowers, visit your friends over your wifi connection, drinking coffee in the basement 
 of the museam, planting trees, or visiting your neighbors for a friendly chat.
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty good. I have seen better on the DS, but they were acceptable. 
 The impressive part is that they have every single piece of furniture in 3-D and not done in a 
 sloppy fasion. In many games the creators tend to slack off on minor things like that but they 
 didnt on this game. I loved the sounds on this game. There were different sounds for different 
 bugs, and sonds for each letter for the on-screen keyboard. The best part of the sounds is the 
 wide veriety of songs customly made for the game. You can obtain the songs and play them in your 
 house if you attend a performance by K. K. Slider (a dog) at the cafe in the basement of the museam. 
 One of the best changes from the old game is that animal crossing wild world has wifi capability. 
 I like this feature because it helps players chat with their friends from across the world or across 
 town. When visiting other towns players may type messages to each other, and make emotions on their 
 faces. The only downside is that you can only use the wifi capabilites with people registered in 
 your friend code book.
  
  With all things considered, this is one of the best games for the Nintendo DS and will most likely 
 keep you entertained for longer than any other game that you have or will ever play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a lot like the original. It has you moving to a new town and making 
 it great. While getting new tools, clothes and making your house better. But a few things have 
 changed. First, there are no NES games. Was it because of the Classic NES Series of GBA games, 
 or the Virtual Console, or cart limitations, or that Nintendo like messing with our minds, I don't 
 know. There is also a coffee shop in the museum wher K. K. Slider plays songs on Saturdays. This 
 Game also adds the slingshot, which you can use to shoot presents out of the sky. The last thing 
 this game adds is  Online Play, You can now visit your friend's 
 town. But you need to use friend codes. While online, you can get fruit that isnt growing in your 
 town, and play games. The two main games you'll be playing are fishing and bug catching contests. 
 A quick note, some fish and bugs can only be caught during certain parts of the year, which I thought 
 was pretty cool. You can also play hide and seek and what I call Find the furniture that someone 
 else buried. Other than those changes above, the game is the same as its predesessor.
  
  That is why Animal Crossing: Wild World is my favorite DS game. If you don't own it already you 
 should go get it. If you do have it, you should go play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steph10892
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is not much different from the original Animal Crossing. If you liked 
 the first ,you'll like this one. The only improvement from this one and the first on are the graphics. Instead 
 of the bird's eye view you have the view as if you're actually walking in the game yourself and 
 the animals look better and more vibrant. If you're wondering what you do in this game if you haven't 
 played the first Animal Crossing I'll lay it out on the table. You can fish and catch fish worth 
 up to 15,000 bells (bells=money) which is quite a lump sum for a fish but sometimes you're not as 
 fortunate and will get the crucian carp or sea bass which are only worth 120 and 200 bells. But 
 to catch these fish you can't just run up to them like it's all good you have slowly walk by the 
 rivers to be able to fish it out. You can also take a fancy in catching bugs which is a bit harder 
 than catching fish but it is fun running around with a net all over town. The same with fish some 
 bugs are more valuable than others for instance the yellow and common butterfly are only worth 
 90 bells since the place is practically swarming with them. But, of course there is the gigantic 
 hercules beetle which you'll get a whopping 12,000 bells for. Other than selling the creatures you 
 find you can take them to the museum so they can be displayed for others enjoyment. You can also 
 find fossils in the ground which you can also give to the museum. Speaking of the museum they added 
 new departments to it such as the observatory and the roost (cafe) where you'll find k. k slider 
 the musician. Not only will you be able to catch insects and fish. But you will be able to let out 
 your creative side since you can decorate your house, create your own design with the stylus, and 
 make your own clothes, hats, and umbrellas. The able sisters sell the clothes you want and make your 
 own at the store. To design your house you can buy furniture, wall paper, and flooring at Nook's store 
 or some animals will give you things. Like, your animal neighbors or Redd (black market  
 and Gracie. Yeah I know alot of people. The best part is that the time changes as in real life. For 
 example if you're winter It'll be snowing in Animal Crossing. Animal Crossing is a great game for 
 those who like games that are fun yet easy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigfish2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 10, 2007 1:05 am PT
Review:  Animal crossing wild world will compel you to play it every day it's that addictive. I just had 
 to play it every day for 6 months just to see what my neighbours where oing and what events where 
 happening around town! There is no real plot to Wild world, the basic premise is that your a human 
 child who has come to live in a town completely populated by animals. When you arrive you have 
 to work for Tom Nook a business driven racoon who will give you a house. You have to work for him 
 to pay off the debt on the first house. From then on you have to pay a mortgage for all the upgrades 
 you get to your house. Don't worry though luckily you can pay the mortgage in whatever size instalments 
 you like, whenever you like so it's not like a real mortgage as such. Graphically the game holds 
 it's own without being exceptional and the sounds of the different animals voices and everything 
 else is just brilliant. The main gameplay involves you walking around town doing whatever you like 
 really. There's a museum which you have to collect the exhibits for, e. g fish, bugs, fossils and 
 paintings. It also has a coffee shop where K. K Slider the baird plays his music on saturday nights. 
 A lot of his music is actually quite good. There's a town hall with a post office for obviously 
 sending letters. There's Tom Nook's store which is basically a general store which upgrades when 
 you do certain things and Mable and Sable's clothing store. Here you can even make your own wacky 
 designs on clothing and wear it which is always fun. The best parts of the game however in my opinion 
 are talking to the villagers and running errands, entering in town competitions for example fishing 
 and actually fishing, fossil hunting or bug catching. It's also fun when random characters who 
 do different things visit your town.
  
  A key feature in the game and possibly the best is the wi-fi connectivity. If you have exchanged 
 friend codes with someone then you can visit each others towns and have lots of fun there. In fact 
 to get the last version of Tom Nook's store you need to have a wi-fi visitor purchase something 
 from it.
  
  Overall this is a game that will take over you life with how enjoyable and addictive it is. You 
 won't find much better on the DS and I can't wait to see how fantastic the wii version is going 
 to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamdown444
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This game has endless things you can do. There are tons of clothing and furniture. Plus theres 
 a musician dog named K. K. All games with musician dogs named K. K. rock. well since this has to 
 be 100 words. the panda ate my lunch and transformed into a disco racoon who eats zebras. I like 
 welch's grape juice. it tastes very good. welch's also makes other great juices. Monkeys are hot!! 
 they are our sexy cousins. i cant belive jerry is growing up so fast. yes i do like ice cream. 
 LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA LA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jukilum
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Game Play:
  The game play is very similar to the previous versions. You play as a new-comer to a town inhabited 
 by animals and live out your daily life there. The main and unnecessary draw back to this game 
 is that every one has to share the same house. You also have a limit on how many items can be placed 
 on one floor, so if you have a lot of things there is nowhere to put them. The loans return and 
 they are much more expensive. In addition to that it is much harder to get money to pay it off. 
 The feeling of repeating tasks that you already did on the cube gets tedious very quickly and causes 
 a lack of replay value before you've even gotten very far. The concept of visiting other towns 
 was a good idea, but being able to steal anything that is lying around takes away from that.
  
  Graphics:
  The combination of the top screen and the bottom screen is nice, but the other 
 graphics are 2-d or poorly rendered.
  
  Sound:
  Nice music. Not anything else to say about it though.
  
  Overall:
  This game had some great 
 ideas that weren't quite pulled off, but the game can be fun for a while. I would recommend buying 
 it, but don't be too disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamsterkirby
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Alright, the gameplay is O. K, but either you control with the stylus, or the buttons, you will 
 have some problems. The Touch Screen control makes it hard to pick up items, but makes it WAY easier 
 to write letters, and navigate around the menu. The Graphics do not look as goodd as the Gamecube's, 
 but compared to other DS games, this game's graphics are good. The Sound is awsome. Making your 
 own tunes is fun, and none of the other tunes get annoying. The Value of this game would be a 9. 
 I would highly recomend this game to any DS owner. If you want a game that can be fun for tons 
 of hours, or loved the old version and want to take it on the go, get this game! I must warn you 
 though, this game may get boring after 3 months if you dont play multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sky_ninja
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  To beat this game (by paying of your morgage) it takes a lot of work. You have to pay to build 
 up your house but you also have to pay to furnish your house. So when you're just about to pay 
 off your morgage, you see a rare item in the store. The game lacks in multiplayer and basic features. 
 There are no vehicles and no minigames. The game would be alot more fun if you could play sports 
 or visit a pre-built town. A pre made vacation spot such as a beach or ski resort would have made 
 this game alot better. This game isn't worth buying, but hopefully the Wii version will be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graffiti14
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a game where you have to make money and keep your town looking nice, fill up the museum, 
 and make your tiny house into a mansion! It has cool graphics, nice sound with the characters having 
 a very nice mumbo-jumbo language niose when thye speak; a very nice touch i thought. The only negatives 
 are that once you have made your house big and all that it kind of looses its touch and excitement 
 feel. Overall: Amazing game with nice graphics but it is not as addicitve as it should be. Definetely 
 get it if you have not already.
   (animal crossing cheats, just follow the links: P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2deluxe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing originally was on the Nintendo 64 and came over to the Gamecube a few years ago. 
 I have not played both. I have sisters who are huge fans of life simulator games (The Sims) and 
 they begged me to get this game. So I did (apprehensively) and did not like it at first. You start 
 off the game choosing whether you're a boy or a girl. Then, you name your town and choose the location 
 of your home. Just the fact that the only form of a straight objective you have is doing a few 
 errands for the first minutes bored me. After that; you basically run the show then afterwards. 
 You're poor from the beginning; you have no money and for some reason owe Tom Nook (a town businessman) 
 20,000 bells because he gave you a house to live on. The good news is that you have no due date 
 on your payment and you can pay him in as many increments as you desire. When you pay off your 
 initial debt, you can re-model your house at least 6 more times. Of course if you choose to do 
 so, you owe him even more money (it will cost you about a million bells just to get the final) 
 update. Each re-modeling will add 35 square blocks to your house and rooms will start to come about. 
 So you start off in a shack then grow your house into a mansion. Talk about pimping!
  
  The funny part about Animal Crossing is that you can be from dead broke poor to rich millionaire 
 without actually getting a job. After your quick stint as Tom Nook's slave, you have no job. The 
 good part; however, is that Tom Nook will practically buy anything that you sell to him. Whether 
 it be fruit from trees, bugs, used household items, fossil, works of art, fish, or sea junk, Tom 
 Nook will buy it off you. The game perfectly simulates your growth by judgment of hard honest work.
 
  
  You live in a small town and along the way you'll encounter neighbors for you to befriend. In my 
 game, I have a chicken best friend named Gladys and I give her fossils because she wants to turn 
 her house into some museum. Your friends are quite nice, every time you fulfill a desire of theirs, 
 they give you something back for your work. Write letters to them and they will write you back. 
 Do errands for them and they'll reward you handsomely. The amount of interaction you get from these 
 computer controlled friends is quite remarkable. From time to time, they'll even ask you bizarre 
 questions once in a while.
  
  You also will do all kinds of activities in your town from fishing to fruit picking. A typical 
 day is rather mundane but the game does have actual holidays and festivals that dot the map. The 
 game runs in actual time so if you set your clock to your actual time, the game will portray what 
 time it is. Stores run on from 7am to 11pm daily, bugs are plentiful on a sunny afternoon, and 
 the person who works at your town's civic center changes shift. Your neighbors will also reflect 
 on your playing habits. If you are seen for the first time on a day say at 3pm, the NPC will remark 
 something telling you that you must have took a half day sleep. Be gone for an extended amount 
 of time and they will comment on how long you were gone. To talk about all the other gameplay features 
 of the game would take way too long and I don't want to spoil anymore of the game's secrets. The 
 graphics look quite superb for DS standards. The characters animate quite well with nice cartoon-like 
 facial expressions. The game runs in 3D which is one of the few that do on the DS. The controls 
 are the weakest aspect of the game. While the d-pad and A/B combination works, you'll often accidentally 
 pick up something when your indoors if you press the B button indoors. It's pretty annoying. The 
 touch screen can be used to control the game but it's often cumbersome.
  
  There are lots of music on the game. It's quite impressive on the DS hardware. The sounds and music 
 are all cute and do the game right.
  
  You can take Animal Crossing Wild World online though Nintendo Wifi Connection and chat or play 
 with other players worldwide. Some common courtesy is advised though to all players. Ask before 
 getting something such as foreign fruit, don't steal anything from a host's home, and use polite 
 language. Of course you need friend codes in order to go online so you need to get in touch with 
 someone out of the game and make arrangements to play the game online.
  
  It will take years just to see everything that Animal Crossing Wild World has to offer. It's a 
 huge game that's quite appealing on a portable console. Add a touch of wireless online play and 
 you'll have one of the best DS games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiir007
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 15, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  If you enjoy making freinds wth pigs or guitar playing dogs, look no further because animal crossing 
 wild world is here.
  This game where you live in a strange town full of constansly moving animals with stores run by 
 racoons and hedgehogs, it is run by a tortoise and has an owl in the museum.
  For a brilliant shop it seems to be lacking things like pound land or a GAME.
  
  It is incredibly 
 enjoyable from the begging of the game when you make your town and meet the mayor. Right up to 
 when your a rich kid with a giant house and all the golden tools.
  It is rather disappointing that at the beggining you can't design your character, but it makes 
 up for it later on when you can have hair styles which can be hillarius.
  The main point of the game is to make your mark in the town by expanding the museum ,the store 
 ,getting lots of funiture ,placing it all in the right place, etc.
  You do all kinds of things to get precios bells.
  
  It is relatively good cartoony graphics. 
 With funny animations when yopu do things and the citizens always have something useful or funny 
 to say.
  It is always enjoyable to look up at your stars in the sky.
  
  The music is vey enjoyable and catchy. The villagers speak in strange squeaky voices which you 
 can actually hear a voice in there.
  Every item also has a unique sound effect.
  
  It is great value for your money and I recommend that you buy it and if you don't I'll come to 
 your house and eat all your cereal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony_vaio
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It is a world of living creatures that act in real time. If it day in real 
 life its day in the game. Same for night. Also it reconizes holidays such as Mothers Day and Christmas 
 and even your Birthday! Awesome huh? The gameplay is simple yet fun and the whole town is full 
 of people to meet and interact with. The graphics are simply some of the best I have seen on the 
 DS to date. A full 3-D world. You can fish in the rivers, oceans, and lakes. You buy stuff for 
 your home to decorate it. Just a ALOT of stuff to do in this one. Pick this game up you will be 
 gald you added it to your DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a slow-paced life simulation for the Nintendo DS, where you move 
 into a new town and in time build it in the way you want it.
  
  Graphics in Animal crossing are pretty humble, but at the same time there is a lot of different 
 things on the screen at once and the frame rate always stays solid. The use of colors is also great 
 making it easy to watch what&acute; s happening on screen. Sound is also great in terms of variety, 
 but in terms of quality it&acute; s not so great. There are some sound effects during conversations, 
 but no real voice acting.
  
  The core of gameplay is that the game uses DS&acute; s inner clock to progress. So if it&acute; s 
 May 14th in real life, then it&acute; s also May 14th in the game. What this means is that there 
 is only a limited number of things to do in one day (in your own village) . In the beginning of 
 the game this can be annoying, but a few weeks it&acute; s not a problem. What this means is that 
 Animal Crossing supports short bursts of play and in general is an extremely LOOONG game. In fact 
 it&acute; s endless as far as I know, but almost every day there is something new to do.
  
  In Harvest Moon series you are for the most of the time stuck in farming business in your own town, 
 but in Animal Crossing you can do pretty much anything: decorate your house, build a bigger house, 
 grow flowers, grow trees, be a fashion designer, collect fossils, catch bugs, write letters, go 
 fishing, create star constellations, talk to other members in your town (or someone elses town) 
 and so on. Controls are simple and they work very well.
  
  Surprisingly the multiplayer mode is the best part in Animal Crossing. You can get your friends 
 to visit your town either by DS wireless mode or by Wi-Fi and basically do all the things you can 
 do in your own town. This is a great way to collect money and exchanging gear with your friend 
 or buy it in his or her store. Of course through wireless mode or Wi-Fi you yourself can also visit 
 other people&acute; s towns.
  
  But that great multiplayer mode is useless unless both you and your friend register each others 
 friend codes. This prevents foreign vandalists from destroying your village, but it also makes 
 it harder for other people to visit you. After the trouble of hunting down friend codes it&acute; s 
 very much worth it.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World for the Nintendo DS is a great experience, if you approach it with 
 proper expectations in mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2robot
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 11, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  unlike other games this game is unique its not like a game that has a cutsean after every little 
 mission..... if you like to earn up money and do whatever you want this is your game..... if you 
 like surprises this is without a doubt your game there is so much to do and so much to see.... this 
 game is incredible when I first got this game I said to myself where is the reciept but after I 
 started play it I was like wow!!! well when I first started my thing was to shake trees to get 
 money and I was like how stupid is this but boy my mouth opened when I got stung by bees or the 
 time when a microwave and a snowboard poped out I was like awesome but thats just one example of 
 surprises in the game theres a lot more...... it hard for you to actually find all the secrets, 
 surprises, clothes and a lot more so I difenetly say buy it its a must have ...... well for me any 
 way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 3, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed playing the Sims and you hated Nintendogs? Animal Crossing is alot like The Sims 
 mixed with Animal people in a small town where you start your new life. There aare plently of things 
 todo like fishing, planting, digging and other simple things but when you start playing Animal Crossing 
 you will help out Nook who rans a shop selling interesting things in the shop everyday, once you 
 pay your debts to Nook you'll be free to do what you want. There are compitions that you can take 
 part in the game also if you have Wi-Fi connection you'll be having more fun and visiting someone 
 esles town with your friends. If you think the internet isn't safe you'll find Animal Crossing 
 safe and enjoyable to play. Is it worth buying? Yes it is lots of things todo in your small town 
 but will be poplular with more people coming to stay in your town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FabioFresh
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I own the first game and at first thought it was really fun. After a while a realized it's just 
 repeating itself over and over again. When I found out about the sequel I knew I had to buy it. 
 This tiem I came to the realization faster. It's repeating itself over and over again. Thing happen 
 only certain times a year. If you miss it, oh well. You'll have to mess up the time line which 
 could make your town worse. Also if you don't play for a while cockroaches come into your house. 
 You gotta step on them which is a pain in the a**! Then crabgrass come. You gotta pull that out, 
 if you don't your town is a mess. When I say it drag you in then spits you out I mean first it's 
 tons of fun then it repeats itself over and over and over. The whole point of the game is around 
 paying your debt. The most fun I got out of this was that it is better than the first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link2193
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 26, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a masterpiece! The style, the graphics, the characters are all brilliant 
 and it's fun! The reason that I love AC: WW so much is because it is a genre of game that I have 
 never played before. It''s free, lets you do what you want when you want! You name your character, 
 your town and then choose what you want to do!
  
  If you fancy a bit of fishing then get your fishing rod out and go to the sea or the lake although 
 the sea is better for making money on fish. Or you could search for fossils and donate them to 
 the museum like you can with insects and fish as well or you can sell them for a few Bells! You 
 can chat to your neighbours and trade with them, compete with them and play with them! You can 
 go on Wi-Fi and visit other people's towns, trade with them, compete with them or just play! The 
 depth is unbelievabke and you hardly ever get bored, I may leave the game for a while and then 
 come back to it a week later and there is still loads of stuff to interact with and explore! I 
 just wish your town could be a bit bigger with more residents! It's great if you haven't got it 
 buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach_101
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 26, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a great game that lets you relax by fishing, talking to friends, designing clothes 
 and more. I think this game is good for young and old people, since it is so easy. Yet it has lots 
 of little challenges for you to do, like paying of the debt on your house, earning money and things 
 like that. Everytime you start a new game, there are new people and different towns. I give this 
 9.3 because I think that this is a highly addicting game and deserves its popularity. This may 
 not be the game for you if you want something action-packed, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamespotEXE
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I loved the original Game Cube Animal Crossing, so I was certain that Wild World would either be 
 equally as entertaining or, better yet, improve it. It's obvious that the creators gave great effort 
 to try to preserve the old Animal Crossing formula, but many flaws and faults are rather transparent 
 and evident. Some things were changed that really shouldn't have been, but other changes made the 
 game smoother and more lively.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10 | You can fish, bug-catch, decorate your house with furniture, and much more! The 
 residents are quite realistic, although their phrases get EXTREMELY repetitive. Make them angry/ignore 
 them for long enough, and they'll move out of your town! Although there are many features in Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World, like making your own constellation or hitting the bell rock for plenty of 
 bells daily, flaws are much too obvious. Multiplayer and online lag and wi-fi scams are a few of 
 these flaws. Repetitive and 'chore'-like gameplay add to this, and pretentious, ne'r-do-well residents 
 are just plain annoying. Gameplay is okay, but there are many flaws that make it frustrating and 
 uninteresting. Graphics: 7/10 | 3D visuals and backgrounds are very nice and well-polished, but 
 they are too pixelated for my tastes. Characters' faces are also rather unrealistic, and a same 
 basic environment everywhere ruins Animal Crossing: Wild World's variety and uniqueness. Still, 
 these graphics are somewhat impressive for the DS to maintain without any single-player lag.
  
  Sound: 7/10 | A fair soundtrack plays throughout the game, and realistic sounds like bells 
 and television news add to the excitement. Unfortunately, that's as much variety as you get. Repetitivity 
 hurts the game's sound very much. What I liked, though, was that on Saturdays you can get a song 
 played by that dog (I can't recall his name) at the coffee hangout, which only vaguely helps out 
 this category.
  
  Value: 6/10 | I, for one, believe the price of this game should be about $20, instead of the $25 
 at which I bought it for (and it was on sale at the time!) , because it doesn't keep you interested 
 for very long. It kept me interested for about two months. For me, it went like this: first week 
 = awesome!, second week = all right, third week = starting to get bored, rest of the time = why 
 am I doing this? It's become a chore! Tilt: 7/10 | Most of my categories ended up at a seven, and 
 the game was good, so I'm giving it a seven here.
  
  Overall: 6.9/10 Fair | Basically, Animal Crossing: Wild World is on the borderline between fair 
 and good. It certainly isn't for everyone, and I got bored of it really relatively quickly. My 
 advice to readers is: rent this game before you buy it. However, in contrast to this game's many 
 flaws, at its peak, Animal Crossing: Wild World is every bit as engrossing, innovative, entertaining, 
 and poignant as its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paullywog
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 23, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a very unique little game for the Nintendo DS. It will have you 
 interacting with your neighbor animals in a little town, doing various chores and what not. Now, 
 if you are already turned off, turn around, because this game won't be for you. Now, for the rest 
 of the people reading this, it's a pretty good game. However, don't expect to be able to play for 
 hours a day. For the most part, you can turn on your DS, play for 10 or 20 minutes, and have everything 
 done for the day.
  
  Animal Crossing is a virtual life game featuring Animal Characters. This means it's far from anything 
 you've played before, and it also means you've got to have an open mind to fully enjoy it. The 
 graphics are pretty good for a DS game, and they serve their purpose just fine.
  
  The sound is very good, I love the song from the shop, it's all got the little Nintendo feel to 
 it.
  
  Gameplay. For some, this game will be nothing more than a tedious chore. For others, you will find 
 the game charming and addictive, at least for a while. Your personality and patience determine 
 how much time you invest into this game.
  
  Overall, Animal Crossing is a great game, but it's just not for everyone. First of all, you have 
 to be okay with the idea of a game where you basically live an alternate life. But at the same 
 time, it can't be played for too many hours a day. This works perfectly for me. Best suggestion: 
 try it if you can before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choc_hobnobs
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 23, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  The REAL Truth About Animal Crossing 
  It's hard to rate a game like this because there isn't really anything else like it. It's in a 
 category by itself, and that's how it should be. The game will get points for trying, but you should 
 know that this game is a very effective waste of your time and money. Do not let Nintendo suck 
 you in to this supposedly hot title.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY AND REPLAYABILITY
  If you want to escape from your daily real-life routines and replace them with tedious chores, 
 then this is the game for you. For instance, you'll have to water flowers and pick weeds and run 
 various errands for your neighbors and catch fish. If any of these activities sound fun to you, 
 then think of this: Imagine repeating them day after day after day. And you will repeat the chores 
 because this is all the game consists of. And if this still sounds like fun to you, then there 
 is no knowledge I can impart unto you.
  
  There is a break in the monotony in the form of monthly holidays or events. But they are fake holidays 
 and mostly unoriginal. For example, on La-Di-Da Day you go around and listen to various tunes from 
 your neighbors. This event is very basic and is over with in less than 5 minutes. Just talk to 
 everyone and it's done. That's how most holidays are. There is bright nights day in, um, February; 
 why would animals decorate their houses in Christmas lights in February? And all it consists of 
 is voting every day for a random neighbor that you think has the best lights; but here's a secret, 
 the developers are so unoriginal, they make every house decorated exactly the same with randomly 
 hung lights! No variety. That's a nice theme for this game.
  
  There are various other holidays that are even worse and more uninspired, if that's possible. There 
 are days where you have to wear a mask or catch the biggest fish/bug or buy neighbors' furniture 
 or make a flag design or breed flowers. You could do any of these events/holidays on any day; just 
 because they slap the label of holiday on these activites doesn't make them special. These holidays 
 are so boring and most people find them an annoyance because they take away from the special visitors. 
 Whenever you have an event, you will not get any special visitors, which is about the best part 
 of this game.
  
  The special visitors come very rarely. And when I say rarely, I'm talking like once a month. And 
 it's not like they are great either. There is a UFO that you must shoot down; there is a giraffe 
 that insults your clothing and may give you something rare; there is a fat walrus that gives you 
 designs; there is a frog that talks to you (wow, big deal) ; there is a pirate thing that gives 
 you an item after talking to you; there is a rip-off peddler; there is a fortune-teller who doesn't 
 do anything despite charging you 10,000 Bells. Look, most of the special visitors do is give you 
 junk. However, there is one special visitor that I liked, and that was K. K. Slider. I liked listening 
 to some of his songs because they were fairly catchy. I thought the fact that the credits roll 
 and you can watch your character jamming in a coffee shop was pretty fun. But there are 70 different 
 songs, and watching the same animations 70 times only to a different tune will get old, trust me.
 
  
  The main impetus for replaying this game again and again is collecting furniture. There are hundreds 
 of items to collect. But to collect everything requires you see the special visitors several times. 
 You won't collect everything without online play or some serious time-traveling, so don't even 
 bother trying.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics in this game are average for a DS game. They are very grainy despite being on a 3 
 screen; I thought it could look much better. Furthermore, if you plant too many trees and see some 
 of your animal neighbors walking around, the game has terrible slow-down. I was really surprised 
 to see such a thing in a Nintendo title, which are usually of high quality. But based on the quality 
 of the gameplay, could I expect anything more of the graphics and smooth processing?
  
  The colors are very drab. And if you do not cheat by time-traveling (changing the clock to your 
 every whim) , you will be stuck in the same looking environment for months at a time. It is sad 
 that one of the best things about the game is looking forward to seeing the scenery change. Again, 
 very little variety is a common flaw in this game.
  
  ONLINE PLAY
  The online aspect of this game is pathetic. You have to enter someone's 12-digit friend code, player 
 name, and town name AND give them your 12-digit friend code, player name, and town name to visit 
 one another's town. Not only is this another tedious process, it is very inefficient. So, let's 
 say you don't know anyone who bought this game. In that case, you'll need to go to an online community 
 site (like this site) to get friend codes. How can you trust the person who comes to visit? You 
 can't and more than likely you are going to get burned unless you are extremely careful. A visitor 
 to your town can change your environment however they want and take anything that isn't stored 
 in your house. And if you have worked hard on your town, you'll want to maintain it. But what fun 
 is it to have to monitor everybody who wants to visit? It turns you into a paranoid gamer, and 
 it just creates stress when games are supposed to be fun!
  
  MUSIC
  There are a few tunes in the main game, and none of them are particularly catchy. Sometimes you'll 
 even find the music annoying as it repeats over and over. The music reserved for K. K. Slider, however, 
 is fairly good. It's nothing to play on your iPod but it's good and a nice break from the repeating 
 tunes playing in the town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeTheDifference
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World was the first game I bought for my Nintendo DS. It's one of my favorite 
 games, because it offers so much to do. For those of you who own a DS and/or have played the Animal 
 Crossing for Gamecube, I highly reccomend this game.
  
  You start the game talking to Kapp'n, a turtle who was originally in the GC version who rode a 
 rowboat. This time he's riding a car and asks you questions that determine where you live in your 
 town, what the town is called, and what you look like. After going to the town hall to talk to 
 Pelly (another character from the original) , you end up at a small house with a raccoon by the 
 name of Tom Nook. You do small jobs to get the hang of the town and you're free to do anything 
 that your heart desires in your own town.
  
  Up to four people can live in the town at a time, and all of them live int he exact same house. 
 I'd recommend playing until your house has been upgraded a few times (it can be upgraded a total 
 of 6 times) so none of you argue about what theme your house should be. There are many different 
 types of furniture, such as Modern, Classic, and Lovely. There are a few new types of furniture 
 that weren't in the GC version.
  
  Up to eight villagers can live in your town at the same time, each having their own house with 
 different arrangements of furniture. There are different types of personalities too, like peppy, 
 lazy, grumpy, and snobby. If two villagers are living in the same town with the same personality, 
 they often say the same things but have different catch phrases at the end, which can be kind of 
 annoying. Other original characters from the original Animal Crossing include Mable &amp; Sable, 
 Blathers, Copper and Booker, and K. K Slider. New characters were added, too, such as Celeste, Blather's 
 sister who takes care of constellations that show up at night in town, and Brewster, a pidgeon 
 who works as a sort of bartender downstairs of the museum selling coffee that is a tad bit expensive 
 . But there are other often humorous characters that show up occasionaly in your town.
  
  Fish and bugs can be caught once again, and fossils are dug up too. Unlike the original, Blathers 
 can identify fossils at the museum as soon as you show it to him. A slingshot is also featured 
 in Animal Crossing: Wild World, which can shoot presents and other items out of the air. Flowers 
 can also be breeded into other colors, i. e putting a red rose and a white rose together make a 
 pink rose.
  
  Nook's Cranny can be upgraded 3 times, and each time it's upgraded more items can be added to the 
 store making it better if your searching for just e type of furniture, wallpaper, or carpet. Medicine 
 can also be boughten becasue every once in awhile some villagers get sick and need it to get better. 
 After healing the villagers they will reward you with a hard-to-get item.
  
  Well, in conclusion I think this game is worthy of playing at least a few times, just to see if 
 you like it. And why wouldn't you, with all these perks? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FenrirX1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is more or less the Sims with animals. You live life with your fellow townspeople 
 and work to earn cash to buy furniture and expand your home to even bigger sizes. The only goal 
 of this game, simply put, is to live.
  
  The gameplay in this game is very relaxed, so if you're not a fan of relaxed games in which almost 
 no intense action takes place, then this game is definitely not for you. However, many people will 
 find this style highly enjoyable and rewarding. Fishing, bug-catching, and even digging for fossils 
 are some of the things you can do to earn cash, or donate to the museum for your viewing pleasure. 
 The replay value is limitless, as there is always something for you to do. However, the transition 
 between using the stylus and the directional pad can be frustrating at times, considering you have 
 to tap the screen or a button to the change the control mode then proceed with what you wanted 
 to do. Also, the top screen is utterly useless and could have been used better. Some may find the 
 gameplay repetitive, and be to honest: it is. It is fun for a good amount of time before you decide 
 to put it down and forget about it for a few days.
  
  The graphics in this game are fairly well done, cartoony but not too blocky, with everything recognizable 
 and not too blurry or digusting.
  
  The music in this game may get annoying after a certain amount of time, and the weird sounds the 
 townspeople make when you speak to them may also get on your nerves.
  
  Overall, this game is worth checking out for the casual gamer, but it might turn off the gamer 
 more interested in action packed gameplay due to its repetitive nature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammer_of_thor_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  The follow up to 2002's Animal Crossing for the Nintendo GameCube was released on the Nintendo 
 DS near the end of 2005. Animal Crossing: Wild World was one of the first DS games to feature WiFi 
 capabilities. Even today, AC: WW has some of the better, more captivating online features on the 
 system. Being able to visit people from across the world is a great new addition to the game.
 
  
  Wild World essentially has most of the features found in the GameCube version, and then some. There 
 have been plenty of new items added to the game, many being easier to acquire due to the WiFi Connection 
 service. That is my favourite feature of the game. The idea is the same as the GameCube version, 
 you basically live the life of your cartoony character. You continually look for new furnature, 
 pay your debts to Tom Nook, go fishing, hunt for some bugs and fossils. It's all back in here. 
 One of the great features of the game was that it was all real-time. That is of course back in 
 here, as you travel through the seasons, getting special items from the mayor on holidays, etc. 
 The only problem with this is that you may forget about the game, and miss some once-a-year events 
 and will have to wait another year to get them again. There are ways around this though, but it 
 is still cheating, which I do not like to do.
  
  As far as Animal Crossing being a fun game, it is, but can wear off in time. The game is great 
 fun when you first try it, but can grow very old and repetitive as the days go by, doing the same 
 things over and over. On the flipside, a benefit of this game is that it never really ends, you 
 can continue to play it a month later for as long as you want. Personally this game can be addicting 
 in times, but after a few days of playing it, I end up putting it back on the shelf for a few weeks. 
 Although, if you have a goal in mind of obtaining a certain item, it does add some excitement to 
 the game.
  
  The visuals in Wild World not surprisingly have been dumbed down from the GameCube game. They still 
 look great as far as DS games are concerned, and it makes great use of the dual screens. You have 
 the option of using either the digipad or the touchscreen to move your character, which is great 
 since some people prefer one over the other. The game has a familiar soundtrack to those who have 
 played the original, which is nice and happy at first, but can drive you to insanity after hours 
 of playing it. K. K. is back as well, so you can get your songs from the coffee shop to pimp out 
 your home again.
  
  I'd recommend this game to anyways that enjoyed it on the GameCube. I think it is much, much better 
 than the GameCube one, which was good itself. Get some friends to play with, that's where this 
 game livens up too, since you can have up to four people playing in one town at once. I think this 
 is a must-buy for anyone who enjoys these life sim games at all, since there really is a lot to 
 do in this game. Well worth the money indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRealGameBoyx
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  there was alot of good to this game like..... there is alot to do in this game and there is new 
 stuff to do every day. also you can make your house bigger upgrade the stores and even donate things 
 to your local musseum. there are many outfits and lots of things for your house.
  
  BUT there is some bad..... i dont like how you can only do so much in one day then you have to 
 wait till tomarrow for the store to have new stuff. the game gets boring but when you wake up the 
 next morning there is new stuff to do
  
  WIFI: i say this is a pritty good wifi game its cool going to peoples town checking out there store 
 and house Overall its a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatLostKid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  In animal crossing ww you can get your own house. Your also able to get your own furniter and other 
 stuff to. Also you can get friends. Tom nook is a shopkeeper every time you buy somthing you get 
 points for his shop. When you get a amount of points he builds his shop bigger. There are a lot of 
 buildings in animal crossing ww like the Able Sisters, Tom Nooks, Town Hall and more. In the Town 
 Hall you can move to a different town and pay your morgage and you can do many more stuff. You can 
 get an axe, fishing pole, net, shovel, slingshot and a timmer. You can go into your friends houses. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melchenyi
Rating: 5.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  I got introduced by the shop attendant to get this game. He said it was pretty popular and interesting 
 since it's like the SIMS, you get to work and earn your keep, do little tasks for the town people 
 in return for some money to pay off the rent, design new costumes and buy new furniture to decorate 
 your house.
  
  I was ecstatic when I thought there were other towns that I could explore. But in due time, I only 
 found out the other towns meant other multiplayers that you could play with. I got bored of the 
 game after a couple of days.
  
  Yes, designing new patterns for your clothing, hat, gears and stuff, buying new furniture, doing 
 some tasks here and there could be interesting at first. But it gets really boring when all you 
 see are the same few town people and where you walk is the same silly map. And sometimes its days 
 before you get a new tasks, so before that you'll be walking around aimlessly trying to find something 
 to do.
  
  Get it only if you have a few friends playing it with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuckiechan43
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is a very fun addicting game. There is lots to do like fishing, harvesting 
 fruit, finding fossils, and much more. If you have wi-fi there is even more fun in this game. You 
 can show off your village to people, trade fruit and other items, and show off your flashy mansion 
 you worked so hard on. Some bad things are it does get boring and if you don't have wi-fi or friends 
 that have this game also you start to not care for the game after a while. Also if you don't like 
 spending days on growing plants and things like that, then this game isn't for you. But if you 
 like these type of games and you have wi-fi connection then i really recommend that you buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Tons of things to do; it's on the go Animal Crossing; online feature is pretty good; 
 multiplayer is pretty robust.
  
  The Bad: Not an entirely new experience; strange limitations with multiplayer; can only go online 
 with people who you've swapped friend codes with; having four people in one home is stupid; picking 
 weeds is still dumb, and now you have to water flowers.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World was one of the most hotly anticipated DS games when it was announced. 
 Finally, Animal Crossing's addictive goodness could be enjoyed on the go, or anywhere. Well, here 
 it is, and it doesn't entirely disappoint, but it fails to really enter the "sequel zone" and is 
 rather more of a different version with expansion-style new features.
  
  Animal Crossing is a very different kind of game. It's very laid-back and nonviolent. It never 
 once forces you to do anything at all, and offers all kinds of options for what you can do if you 
 really want to. Some would be turned off by this kind of calm gameplay, but it really does work 
 very well and it never ends, giving it incredible value.
  
  The DS version of Animal Crossing has some interesting new features. Inventory management and letter-writing 
 are easier now due to touch screen controls, and true multiplayer can now be enjoyed either with 
 multicard LAN play or online. Unfortunately, the online mode only works for friends or those who 
 have swapped friend codes online, which Nintendo disapproves of and won't allow in its forums. 
 The LAN play is great, though, and allows for quite a few things, though there are bizarre limitations 
 to it.
  
  Some bugs have been worked out of the original game as well. The town is now all on the same level, 
 so you won't have trouble getting around. There aren't any acres or separate screens for each one, 
 so it flows nicer. Your town has a nice rounded feel to it, and it works well in the portable aspect. 
 the top screen is usually used to show the sky, which is a tad boring, but it's okay.
  
  Some things here aren't done as well as the GameCube game. Instead of remedying the irritating 
 weeds issue, there is a new thing you must watch after: watering flowers. Why Nintendo is so adamant 
 about putting these kinds of drawbacks in the game is a mystery. It makes it less fun and more 
 of a chore to play.
  
  Lots of little tweaks here and there and a nice colorful atmosphere round out a good solid portable 
 package. It's just too bad there isn't a fundamentally new experience here for those who are familiar 
 with the GameCube Animal Crossing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Addicting
  
  Cons: Possibly the lamest game to ever exist.
  
  There is certainly something to be said for addicting. This game just feeds your desire to collect 
 junk. You want to keep playing it and getting bells and grabbing furniture and junk. It drives 
 you nuts. It pushes you to keep playing.
  
  But seriously, what's the point? I had an epiphany while playing this game last night. I had been 
 playing for several hours, and I closed it before crashing. Unfortunately, I lost power or something 
 and I lost a whole day or so of work.
  
  I thank God for this gift, because it made me see this game for what it is. I initially had this 
 feeling of OMG!! All my work!!! So I started to go at it again. There were different items in the 
 shop. There were different fossils to unearth. I started meticulously going through the little 
 world and doing the things you do.
  
  Then it hit me, I hadn't done ANY work. Nothing was lost. I mean, I was down some items. I wasn't 
 getting some of the same stuff. But, seriously, what had I really lost? Nothing. I had some junk 
 instead of some other junk. I was still getting bells and buying junk and putting it in my flat. 
 I was still paying off mortgage. I was still fishing and catching things and collecting bugs and 
 fossils.
  
  I was doing the same thing. And I wasn't any closer to anything. What had I lost? 1% of my things? 
 No, they were just a little different. 1% of my money? I'll get it back. 1% of my time? Wait, there 
 it is. I lost time. I sunk a bunch of time into this, and I'm not really getting closer to anything 
 at all.
  
  So, how to I beat this game? Oh well, maybe that doesn't matter. So, how do I complete it satisfactorily. 
 What am I doing here? Collecting things? Yeah, that's it. So how to I know when I'm done? Say I've 
 collected everything. Will I really have any sense of accomplishment? Great, it's over. That was 
 nice. I really liked listening to all that pointless dialogue day after day so I could.... have 
 all this stuff....
  
  The Feng Shui is ambiguous. What do I need to do? Oh wait, I read the guide. Well, you put it like 
 that and it really isn't fun any more. Either you're going for points and worrying about how you're 
 placing your furniture, or not caring at all, and not getting any Feng Shui. So, how is this even 
 an extension of you? I mean, to what extent are you customizing this world just for fun .
  
  You run around and do the same stuff every day. The people are annoying. The myriad of dialogs 
 you have to skip through to do ANYTHING is obnoxious. And in the end, you really aren't even creating 
 anything that custom. You're just trolling for another blue item you can put in the second square 
 from the top on the left so you can make more money tomorrow.
  
  So, what exactly is the point of all this? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sosamso
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  This game has given me sheer pleasure for the past 12 months ive had it. The day to day tasks enlighten 
 dull times and the colours and sounds make the whole experience delightful. Different aspects of 
 the game make the gamer feel addicted - from having a hybrid blue flower to completing the Mario 
 Set.
  
  The Wifi option gives the game its added unknown eternity into brand new experiences. Different 
 calendar occasions spark up the mood and you'll find yourself sat playing for hours, determined 
 to get that 48-inch Sea Bass in The Fishing Tourney. And lastly, why should you get the game?:
 
  
  -It's incredibly fun
  -Keeps you addicted forever
  -Unforgettable experiences
  -Its like a best friend
  -You can escape from dark moments in your day by playing on AC: WW! You'll 
 never know what might happen.
  
  PLUS: Dont just wait for something to happen, get yourself to find something and in no time you'll 
 have a bright big smile on your face.
  
  The best game in the WORLD, Faultless and highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeyore64
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World for Nintendo DS is a game set in a town where animals are the residents 
 and you can pretty much do whatever you want. Feel like fishing all day? Go ahead. Feel like scouring 
 the town for fossils? Be my guest. The problem is the variety of activities given to you in this 
 game is very limited and very very repetitive.
  
  Here is what you can do:
  
  Dig for fossils (and donate them to the museum or sell them) .
  Fish.
  Plant and water flowers 
 and trees.
  Shake trees and collect its fruit.
  Buy and sell stuff (clothes and furniture) .
  Arrange furniture in your house.
  Send friends 
 or NPCs mail with gifts.
  Catch bugs.
  Chat with the locals.
  Shoot presents out of the sky.
  Visit friends' towns and do all of the above.
  
  This will 
 pretty much be all you will be doing. So if this has already turned you off, then you can stop 
 reading here.
  
  When you first start the game, it doesn't make much sense to play more than an hour a day. This 
 may be fine for those who play casually. For those who have a lot of time to burn and would like 
 to invest that time in a fun game of sorts, this game is not it. The reason is, unlike similar 
 games like the Sims 2 and Harvest Moon, there's no way to fast forward time. The game is set in 
 real time and your neighbours sleep and stores close. So after you've talked to everyone, did your 
 daily tasks, bought and sold whatever you wanted at the store, that will pretty much be it for 
 the day. And this doesn't usually take more than 30 minutes to an hour.
  
  What is absolutely excellent about the game is the dialogue written for the NPCs. Often times will 
 the NPCs will make nicknames for you or say something or show you letters that will give you a 
 good chuckle. I really have to give the writers kudos on that, although you may find the NPCs repeating 
 the same lines often, albeit for anyone who plays RPGs, this is common.
  
  What really hurts the game is the lack of objectives. After playing for a while, I had to ask myself, 
 What is the point? The only real objective I can see is making enough money to pay off the mortgage 
 on your house so that you can make it bigger, but none of the activities that lead towards making 
 money are fun enough to make me keep going. Harvest Moon has some similar activites but the days 
 aren't tied to real time, and you pretty much have to pack in as much activity in an individual 
 day as you can. As you make more money, you can spend it on things that will help you work more 
 efficiently, making all the activities more manageable. Animal Crossing lacks this. Most of the 
 time when shaking trees and collecting it's fruits, I'd wish I could just pay someone else to just 
 do it for me (in-game that is) . Granted, it requires no skill whatsoever, it's just plain boring.
 
  
  The game lacks the depth of a game like Sims 2. The only real customization you have is arranging 
 the furniture in your house and what you wear on your head and your chest. You don't have any skills 
 to level up or anyway of building your house or anything. Granted this game was targeted towards 
 the real young to maybe middle school age, the game has no challenge in the sense that there are 
 few significant goals to try to achieve. It only challenges your patience. I highly suggest that 
 if you've been playing Sims 2 on the PC, please just stick to that. Although, I haven't played 
 Harvest Moon on the DS, you may want to consider that instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buffy2525
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a highly addictive game. There are tons of things to do, such as 
 fishing, catching bugs, forming relationships with all the animals in the town (your neighbors) 
 and of course, shopping at Tom Nooks! There are four seasons in the game (Spring, Summer, Fall 
 and Winter) ,as well as, plenty of events to participate in, such as a Fishing tourney, Bug Off, 
 the Flower Fest, the Acorn Festival and much, much more! There are plenty of ways to earn bells 
 (money) in this game and you can use them to buy furniture, clothes and, of course, to upgrade 
 your house. You'll have a mansion filled with stuff before you know it!!
  
  There are also other objectives, such as obtaining photos from your neighbors (by befriending them) , 
 earning the golden versions of all your tools (fishing pole, slingshot, shovel, etc.) and keeping 
 your town in top condition.
  
  This game also has Wi-Fi, so you can exchange your friend code with others and visit each others 
 towns no matter how far apart you live. This is a great feature and allows you to see what others 
 have done to their towns, as well as, let you trade items with each other.
  
  But be aware, that if you get this game, you will find yourself wanting to play it constantly , 
 as there is always something going on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thevincent56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:55 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10 -- This has perfect gameplay. You can do lots of things, like decorate your house, fish, 
 choose your clothes, hunt bugs, discover fossils, plant plants and more! The gameplay never ends!!! 
 If you somehow happen to get tired of your town, you can move to someone else's town, or at least 
 visit another town! It has the best gameplay I have ever seen.
  
  Graphics: 7---Graphics was the only real setback in this game. The box art was a turn-off, and 
 at one point made me choose MPH over this. In the game, the characters kind of bobble their heads 
 every time they talk. The graphics could have been better.
  
  Sound: 9---The sound was great. There's different music for different times of day. That's impressive. 
 Value: 10 -- You MUST get this game!!!! It's the best!!!!
  
  Tilt: 10 -- In my opinion, this is the best game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLeBlanc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  The controls are easy, and quick to get used to. Touch you'r'e character to interact with things 
 the Touch Screen, move stuff in you're invetory, add friends into you're Wi-Fi Friend List, etc. 
 Also, you can fortunately, type a loy faster then you had to in the GameCube version. So writing 
 letters to you're neighbors is a lot easier than it use to be.
  
  The graphics are a big improvment then they were in the GameCube version of the game. The environments, 
 the houses, almost everything of the graphics seem to be a great improvment. Bottom screen is you're 
 character, the enviroment, and the ground. While the top, is the sky. Sometimes important when 
 you would want to shoot down a present in the sky with you're sling shot, or other game events 
 that occur.
  
  Sounds are a lot different then they were in the GCN version. Every sound in the game has changed. 
 I refer most of the old music, and sounds though. Suprisingly, they are not so bad.
  
  Without the Wi-Fi supported in this game, Animal Crossing: Wild World would be nothing but a big 
 ball of boring. But I do not see why they did not put in voice chat for the Wi-Fi system.
  There is a big difference then it was with the house system for this game. It is not like each 
 person gets their own house, they all stay in one big house that people can add on to, put things 
 into, and all that stuff that has to do with decoration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sLider_fLO
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is sooooo addicting... This game never ends and that's just fine with me! Once you 
 get bored of playing, Nintendo has added a whole bunch of connectivity features where you can connect 
 and visit your friends' town through DS's peer to peer or through Wi-Fi via the internet... that's 
 why I live it so much!!! Getting used to the touch screen may take some time but once you do, it's 
 nonstop fishing, planting flowers and picking up garbage for you. You'll really get hooked on fishing, which 
 really is just waiting for a fish to bite then pulling out the line. Animal Crossing on the GameCube 
 was insanely addictive and fun-now imagine that putting the same game in your pocket! Nintendo has 
 done it again with a revolutionary new game that actually makes going to work and doing chores 
 fun! Only Nintendo can make something this simple incredibly fun... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I'll go through the premise real quick. You play as a boy or girl in an animal town, 
 meeting friends, paying off your mortgage, and doing everyday tasks such as finding stuff hidden 
 in the ground, fishing, catching bugs, etc. You can also cut down and plant trees and pull out 
 weeds to make your town more beautiful which causes more people to move in. The main goal if there 
 is one, is to upgrade your home with cool things and furniture, and pay off your mortgage to upgrade 
 to a bigger house. Keeping your town clean so new residents move in is also your goal. Oh, I forgot 
 to mention you can design your own clothes, umbrella, carpet and wallpaper. I never use that feature 
 though for some reason. :-P The cool thing about this and the GC version game is that it utilizes 
 Nintendo's internal clock (on the GC and the DS) , so that the Wild World shows nightime if you 
 play during the night, snow during the winter months, etc. So what's new here on the DS? Well, 
 one new activity you can do is make constellations in the observatory in the museum. Kinda dull. 
 There is also a coffee bar where you can sit, listen to music and drink a cup of joe. Everything 
 else is pretty much the same. The characters are new, but act very similar to the old ones. Actually, 
 a few of the old ones have carried over too. A small new feature is that you can sell multiple 
 things to Mr. Nook at once instead of one at a time, lol, which is nice. I wish you could do the 
 same for the owl in the museum, but nope, you still only donate things one at a time. BUT, you 
 don't have to mail off your fossils, the owl can identify them on the spot. :-) The biggest difference 
 here would be the look of ACWW. As the GS review said, the acre system isn't here anymore. Everything 
 here is persistant like in WoW. (What a comparison, WoW to Animal Crossing, lol) . Not only is it 
 persistant, you're also walking on a round world . Check out any videos of it to see what I mean, 
 but it's definitely a nice addition. The other biggest change is the graphics, which I'll get to 
 in a second. Some drawbacks to this and the GC version I would say are: Firstly, the world isn't 
 that big at all. It doesn't feel like a world but a very small town with maybe 10 residents. The 
 landscape isn't that big, it's just not near as expansive as it could have been. The other drawback 
 is that the tasks available to do, (running errands for townsfolk, digging, catching, fishing, 
 etc) just aren't THAT fun after awhile, and there also could be alot more variety of tasks to do. 
 As the GS review said though, you'll still want to come back to find rare items, and upgrade your 
 house. There are no enemies in this game or anything, and it's easy enough for kids to play. My 
 kids, who are 6 and 7 love playing this game, and do so with ease. My review is based on that this 
 game is more directed to kids anyway. Graphics: While not perfect and crystal clear, it is a BIG 
 improvement upon the GC version of this game. IMHO, the graphics here are much better. The entire 
 animal crossing world has new graphics here, as it doesn't look much like the GC at all, graphically 
 speaking. Sound: Bleh, the soundtracks can get pretty repetitive, and while the characters voices 
 are cute at first, they can get pretty repetitive too. The sound effects are okay, there's not 
 much in the way of great sound on this game. Value: This game has tremendous replay value, like 
 the GC version, since there is no end , and there are always collections to be completed, things 
 to be found. Tilt: If you exhausted the GC version of this game, Wild World doesn't really have 
 anything new to offer you. If you loved it and just want to see what this one is about, I don't 
 think my review would sway you either way regardless then, lol. IMHO, it's a great game to add 
 to your collection for DS owners, especially if you've never played Animal Crossing before. If 
 the mundane tasks sound kinda boring to you, it probably will be, and you should pass this game. 
 IMHO, it's casual fun and more directed for kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amz310783
Rating: 5.1
Date: Mar 16, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  I like the animal crossing series, but I think the original is much better than this, they have 
 improved a few parts of the game, such as the wi-fi aspect, but thats not good enough for me, I 
 only have 1 friend with animal crossing wild world that can go online.
  Its annoying that when you do visit another town you can't really do alot, the ds has a microphone, 
 so why not make it so we can actually chat instead of typing messages?
  I find this game gets very boring very quickly, you can pick it up when bored but it won't keep 
 you playing for hours.
  If it was achoice between this and the gamecube version, I'd go for the gamecube one, but I rarely 
 play either one now.
  I know many people love this game and will disagree with this review, but I was very disapointed 
 when it finally came out and wasn't everything I expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I have owned this game since it game out and it is still entertaining to this day. the whole game 
 is addictive from start to finish, and then some!! There is so much to do in this game and every 
 second of it is non-stop fun. Its really like living in real life except your living with animals. 
 You can go shopping at the store or get a new hair due (which is the coolest feature in the game 
 I think) . The best part of the game though is how the seasons change and how there is so many different 
 things to do each season. You can only catch certain fish and bugs in each season. Of course you 
 can just change the time date and month on your DS but then that just ruins the whole concept of 
 the game. If you are looking for a game that will never get boring and that has the best replay 
 value anywhere then go get this game ASAP if you haven't already!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: photonpoet2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 12, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Cute little game, is Animal Crossing.
  At the beginning, the charming, innocuous little world positively glows out of your DS, full of 
 fun characters and little things to do in and around your weeny town.
  
  After a while, however, you realise that the game is really and purely based on the evil capitalist 
 premise of the acquisition of worldly goods. What could be more natural in this day and age, except 
 that I found myself beginning to suffer from what I've come to describe as 'AC-OCD' - a curious 
 condition that starts with you picking up the DS every day and 'do something' in the Animal Crossing 
 world, whether you want to or not, whether you have the time or not and whether you're enjoying 
 it or not. By the time I reached the advanced stages of this condition, I was obsessively and jealously 
 digging up every fossil and catching every bug before the NPCs got a look-in, laughing out loud 
 on the train to work as I managed to grab that locust before duck-face from across the pond got 
 his net within three steps. Despite having more bells in the bank than anyone could possibly need, 
 a massive mansion of a house and a museum full of exhibits, finally it got to the point where I 
 wasn't enjoying myself any longer - just feverishly muttering about pears and 'dolls tops', shaking 
 every tree, getting stung by bees and not caring a jot, collecting and squirrelling stuff away 
 in my ludicrously over-crowded house which never managed a decent score from the travelling style 
 gurus.
  
  In the end, I found the only cure for the condition was to leave the damn game well alone, and 
 so ends my cautionary tale.
  
  I liked the cutesy design and the variety of things to do. I didn't like the fact that you had 
 to go through Tom Nook's 'tutorial' every time you start a new game or changed your town - oh, 
 and the AC-OCD thing.
  
  In conclusion, if you're a matchbox or stamp collector, this is right up your alley. If you're 
 an OCD sufferer, stay away or lose yourself forever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: island_21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! The addition of Wi-fi makes it even better! It's basically the old Animal Crossing, 
 only with more colorful graphics, different holidays, and new multiplayer mode. I love this game 
 to death! The endless, play-by-day gameplay makes it never boring, with something new everyday! 
 I love the new features, such as Wi-fi play, wireless play, the new holidays, and the fact that 
 you can take it anywhere! New options such as hairstyle make this game worth it! (That's right! 
 You don't have to wear the stupid phreaking hat!) Sadly, I don't like a couple of features, such 
 as the fact that there is no in-game calendar, so preparing for holidays is near impossible. Also, 
 to updrage your store to the final level, you have to have someone visit your town, which may be 
 out of question for some people. But, all over, I still give it a high rating! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eojrevrac
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  k k k k k k k k k k k k k k kkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkkk kkk kkkkkk kkkk kkk kkkk kkkk kkkkkk kkkk 
 kkkkkkkkk kkkk kkkkkkkkkkkk kkk kkk kk k kkkk kkkkk kkkkkkkkkkkkk
  pppppppp ppppppppppppppp ppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp pppppppppppppppppp ppppppppppp ppppppppppppppppppppppppppppp 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
 d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiall1984
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good it one of the ones that you can pick up and put down when ever you want 
 it endless another cool part it is in real time witch makes it even funner then most games it also 
 looks very good the sound it kind of wired but hey it work i like when you turn it on and there 
 that kiddie voice that says ninendo but on to the rest i would recomend this game for any one hard 
 core gamer or a newbie to games it fun it one of the best but hey if you dont already own it go 
 out buy it it well worth 35.00$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom_Mix_1969
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of Animal Crossing on the Gamecube, so when the DS version appeared, I had to get 
 it straight away.
  In the unlikely event you don't know anything about this game, Animal Crossing is not a game in 
 the traditional sense of the word. There's no score. You can't lose. You can't die. You can't win. 
 You just go about your day, in your community of bizarre and funny animals. The game is played 
 in real time. When it's morning for you, it's morning in the game. When it's summer for you, it's 
 summer in the game. When it's your birthday, your neighbours will bake you a cake. If you look 
 up 'kawaii' in a japanese dictionary, they just put a screen shot of this game for the definition.
 
  If you have a DS, you MUST buy this game. Over a year after purchase, I'm still playing it, and 
 so are many other people. You can visit their towns if you like! Graphically it's great (better 
 than the Gamecube version) . Audio is all the lovely tunes, that change each hour. Gameplay is the 
 big selling point. You just have to play, every day, even if it's only for a few minutes.
  It's like the Sims, only good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NS_Sonic204
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  Ah, Animal Crossing Wild World. One of the best Nintendo DS games out so far.
  
  The good: There's a little too much to put here, actually.. Well, the graphics are good, the gameplay 
 rocks. And, Wi-Fi!
  
  The bad: I'm honestly trying to think here.. glitches, and hackers. And disconnections.. that's about 
 it.
  
  Animal Crossing Wild World has been around since 2005. It all started with Animal Forest (N64) 
 In Japan. Nintendo created Animal Crossing (GCN) in 2002. Animal Crossing was a big hit and extremely 
 addictive, just like Animal Crossing Wild World.
  
  Gameplay
  If you played the original Animal Crossing for GameCube you'd already know the charming and fun 
 game this is. Wild World lets you fish for over 40 fish in the ocean, and the rivers. And over 
 30 insects for you to catch too. You can sell them at Tom Nook's shop. You can also create patterns 
 at the Able Sisters, and you can put them on the ground too. You can use your patterns as your 
 wallpaper and carpet your house. The best part is, you can share them with your friends over Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi Connection. Oh, you can also use them as your town flag. You can design your own Town Tune.
 
  Score: 10
  
  Graphics
  As in every game, the graphics always have their pros and cons. The graphics are amazing for the 
 Nintendo DS. Maybe occasionally your net will swing inside of a neighbors house, but unless you're 
 a graphic addict you won't notice and/or care. Anyways, the graphics are really good and some of 
 the best on the DS.
  Score: 9
  
  Sound
  Quite simply, whether the day theme or night time theme is playing, it's addicting and extremely 
 catchy. I find myself humming along with it most of the time. You can't go wrong with the sound, 
 trust me. Also, you can make your Town Tune just as catchy if you try.
  Score: 10
  
  Replay Value
  Ahh man. The replay value is getting the best score. This game will last you for 
 ages, it never ever ends. You have different goals including: Catching every fish and earning yourself 
 a Golden Rod, catching every single insect and earning yourself a Golden Net, making your town 
 beautiful and perfect and earning yourself a Golden Watering Can, etc. Plus, if you have Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi Connection, the Replay Value shoots up a notch. If you don't have Wi-Fi, go get yourself 
 a Router or a Wi-Fi USB Cord today!
  Score: 10
  
  Overall
  Overall this game rocks. If you had/have Animal Crossing for the GameCube, as I said earlier, you 
 will be hyped over getting your paws on this one. Once you get it, you're glued. You will NOT regret 
 buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenovio69
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Easily the best game for the DS out right now. If you (only) enjoy games where you shoot , blow 
 stuff up, kick, punch. Well this game may not be for you. It's fairly a simple little game that 
 has made its way from the Gamecube to Nintendo's portable system, the DS. To begin with, you start 
 in a taxi cab answering questions from the cabbie. This is actually setting up your settings for 
 the game. From there you get right to work for Tom Nook. Basically, learning the controls and/or 
 functions of the game, as well as meeting some of the town folk. From there the game really begins 
 to open. You basically have a mortgage that you have to constantly try to pay off. Either by working 
 (in the beginning for Tom Nook) doing odd jobs for town folk, fishing, growing fruit, or simply 
 by finding money (or bells as it is referred to here) . Now why can't that happen to me? the finding 
 money (not bells) part. Nevertheless, just as in real life, you try to pay off the debt accumulated, 
 as you buy things to spruce up your home or yourself. The task is never ending as you pay off the 
 first mortgage (s) off with relative ease. There is however a savings account in which you can deposit 
 bells and have them earn interest every month. Now if I could only apply this concept in real life. 
 Overall, you get a great game for the cost. Which I admit seems a bit much. But you really get 
 your moneys worth from this game. Gameplay is consistently interesting. Especially as seasons change, 
 or from day to night. Graphics are exceptionally great, considering the size of the portable and 
 what it has to do to generate those kinds of graphics. Sound, however has never been one of Nintendo's 
 strong suits, on either home console or portable gaming devices. I'd really like to hear something 
 really different from K. K. Nevertheless, they have given us some of the most memorable music and/or 
 sound ever recorded for video games. How about Mario Bros., Donkey Kong, etc. you know the deal. 
 As I've said before, you really get your moneys worth (value) from this game. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mississippi_mil
Rating: 5.8
Date: Mar 4, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Some people will love this game others will hate it. I see both perspectives. I can play this game 
 for awhile but after half an hour its just boring and repetitive. Some of the best things about 
 ACWW is that you can go into other peoples villages using Wi fi (YAY) but if you don't hav a wireless 
 connection this feature is useless to you. The graphics in this game are great unless you think 
 that just because they're kiddie that the graphics are horrible. If the graphics weren't kiddie 
 the game wouldn't have the same feel to it. Can you imagine this game with the graphics from Ghost 
 Recon . The sound is amazing especially when you get the town tune to be your favourite part of 
 a song. But the sound also can get annoying when playing for long periods of time . The replay 
 value of this game is... well there is no replay because you cant beat this game it just keeps 
 going and going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 28, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This is game got a lot of hype when it came out for the Nintendo DS. Everyones favorite game where 
 you can play hours upon hours with no real goal in mind just doing daily activities in your town. 
 This time you have some added stuff and stuff taken out. Is this game really a sequel or is this 
 a animal crossing port. You start your journey in a cab with a familiar character behind the wheel 
 its old kappa who was the guy who took you to your island. There is no island in this game so instead 
 he is driver. its very much like the gamecube version except your on a train and your talking to 
 Rover the cat. he asked you questions and what you answer is how you will look like. if you first 
 start out you will pick the name of your town. once you get there you go through the same thing 
 in the G-cube version. Tom Nook shows you your house you have no money and have to work part time. 
 only this time you have 1 house that you share instead of four homes. its good and bad. Good is 
 you have multiple people helping you out to pay your mortgage. if someone gets something cool you 
 get it in your house as well. and finally you can get more toons from KK. bad is not your own space 
 have to share. people can move your stuff when you have it way you like it. kinda weird with alot 
 of guys in one tiny house to begin. you go though the part time job doing stupid chores for him 
 with hardly any pay. once your done slaving to nook you are free. now you can literally do what 
 ever you want. you can buy new things pay your mortgage make friends etc.... lots of stuff to do. 
 also one this i had to add was the hats and other add ons to your guy. i hated the horns in the 
 first one it hated it so much i wanted to stop playing it for that reason i hate it. for the people 
 who liked it you can still do it. but now in this game you can have football helmets to afro wigs 
 to Hitler mustaches. makes the game even more customizable. This game is very unique because you 
 can literally play this entire game without pressing a button. some of these features are good 
 others are decent. Some of the holidays have been taken out like Christmas, Halloween, Thanksgiving 
 etc... but new ones are in that make there own holidays witch in my opinion is better and more 
 creative. like flee market, la dee da day. Acorn festivals and some others. There are some new 
 guys in this game like Bruster the pigeon who works at a cafe where kk plays. little owl who looks 
 a stars and you can make patterns in the stars to say stuff a draw pictures. A hair stylist who 
 you can visit when nook has is final upgrade to the shop. Some guys not in. Rover (although is 
 in the game as a cameo at the cafe she does not play apart in the story like the G cube version) 
 Jingle and the rest of the holiday characters. The monkeys at the train station (no train station 
 anymore) Farley who i believe was only seen late at night in g cube. there are prob others but 
 idk right now.
  
  I think this game has somethings that make this game its own. but in the end it keeps on most of 
 same ideals in the first game and brings it into the ds so yeah its a sequel but just not one i 
 have ever seen...
  
  Overall this game is great just to sum it up. its an great game that i love to play, that makes 
 it one of the best games on the ds right now. this game has something new everyday and you will 
 play it every day for some reason without having any bad guy to beat or town to save. you are just 
 living a life in a town of furry critters! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wanderer5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Wild World is much like the GC version (which came in 2003) but add a few more things. Two example 
 are online and touch controls. The story like the GC version is quite simple to tell. You as the 
 player are moving to a town which has animals as citizens of this town. At the start of the game 
 you name your player, choose boy or girl, and name the town that you are going too. Now this game 
 does not have a ending it will go on and on. It will fallow your clock on the DS. So if it 9:00 
 am on your DS on than it 9:00 am in the game. If you play the GC version you fine that this game 
 is similar. You can talk to your neighbors, water plants, go fishing, design cloths, and many more. 
 There the touch screen controls which is similar to the D pad and buttons controls. For this reason 
 the touch controls doesn't really do much to the game. It will make designing easier but other 
 than that you don't really need to use them that much.
  
  The graphics for this game are great. It has a nice cartoony design and it one of the best looking 
 games on the DS. The music for this game for the most are pretty good. It has a good cheery kind 
 of music. The sound effect is a hit or a miss. Some effect sound are good other do not.
  
  There are tons of event or tasks in this game. There are fishing tournaments, La de da days, new 
 year eve day, etc. Some of the tasks are boring however. There is multiplayer where you can visit 
 a town and do other things. the same go to online too. With the wi fi you can visit anyone towns 
 but you need their friend code and they need your. The game may be boring at first but once you 
 get into this game the fun start. So even if some of the tasks are boring or if the touch controls 
 don't really add much Animal Crossing: Wild World is still worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  When Animal Crossing came out, it never struck to me as an eye-appealing DS game. I finally decided 
 to try it out, and was a little disappointed with it's features, although it's quite a cute game. 
 ~GRAPHICS:~
  Well build, explores the DS capabilities well, although the character's head seems really TOO big 
 for its body. Didn't like that, although the time system is nicely built and immersing and the 
 town's detail is excellent.
  
  ~SOUND:~
  It's too calm for my taste. Not adequate to a town, where activity should have more jazz, and this 
 is certainly a miss. : (
  
  ~GAMEPLAY:~
  Nice, although not exactly wonderful. I liked the initial story, but sometimes you get the feeling 
 that you don't know what your objective is. Quite random and open for personal exploration, which 
 is exactly what a game of this genre should have. On the other hand, this game is too repetitive 
 and it's boring after a while.
  
  Overall, AC is a nice but quirky and repetitive game, but nice for the newcomers to this sequel. 
 Excellent graphics, but lacks in sound. GameCube AC owners won't find many new features here as 
 they expected, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destiny_Hero
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World for the Nintendo DS is a great game.
  
  Although it's mainly doing the same thing day after daaayyyy, youy gotta love it! The graphics 
 are very comfortable, and when you notice pixels- it just makes you feel better. It just does. 
 You get a tiny town to do what you want to with. Play it at least 20 minutes a day! You cannot 
 put this game away! No matter how much you start to hate it, you'll love it again in about a month. 
 Belive the hype.
  
  Hybriding flowers, talking to animals. Making constellations, chatting with friend. Growing, selling 
 and eating coconuts, cherries, apples, pears, and even oranges. This game has so much. Once you 
 really see what it has to be offering, you'll stop complaining about bad stores, tiny towns, and... 
 Uh.. That's all! Catching bugs and fish is fun, too! Using Friend Codes (...) , show off your town! 
 Talk to your guests, have a competition, trade items... Anything you want!
  
  Now, now, I've had the game for 11 months now, and I've gone through these little ACWW hater periods 
 3 times now.
  
  Perhaps the most amazing thing is that it plays in real time!!! You even see how weather and plants 
 change!
  
  IN all, if you DON'T have a real-time game yet, or are a DS-owner-soon-to-be, you've GOT to get 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manny_sim
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I owned the gamecube version of Animal Crossing, when I bought this game. I enjoyed the gamecube 
 version more... this game has a few extra features but also has a few less features. In comparison 
 to the gamecube version, the graphical quality is slightly less, the sound is slightly less, the 
 gameplay is about the same quality and the controls are of about the same quality. If you haven't 
 played the gamecube version, I HIGHLY recommend this game for your ds collection. If you've already 
 played the gamecube version and didn't enjoy it, then don't buy it!!! If you loved it, buy it!! 
 If you thought it was okay... then do as you please.. but you won't be missing anything if you 
 don't buy it. For me, Animal Crossing is highly addictive.. but for some reason, this DS version.. 
 just wasn't as addictive. Maybe I should stop comparing it to the gamecube version. When I do that, 
 this is one of the best games out for the nintendo ds. This game has great addicting gameplay... 
 great sound.. and great graphics! There are so many things you can do, to keep you busy in this 
 game.. there is no end to the game.. and it will take hundreds of hours... to reach the full potential 
 of this game... this is a great game, especially for creative people and on the go. It offers many 
 qualities good for creative people. Customizing your house, designing your clothes and much more. 
 This game is also great, regardless of gender.. it's not a boy's game.. yet not a girl's game. 
 A very great and universal game.. I'm giving it a 8.8... (There aren't many great Nintendo DS games 
 out) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World for the DS is basically a slightly enhanced port of the Animal Crossing 
 game from the Gamecube. That's no bad thing though, because this is one of the most strange, unique 
 and addicting games that the DS has to offer.
  
  Gameplay: Very simple and very addictive. That pretty much sums it all up! You live a life in a 
 nice quiet town inhabited by lots of other strange and wacky characters. You can talk to them, 
 go shopping, fishing, go exploring, send letters, upgrade your house and more. The best addition 
 to this new version of the game is without a doubt the fantastic online multiplayer. You can invite 
 people from all over the world into your town, or you can go to other people's! There's also some 
 fun local multi-card play as well.
  
  Graphics: Fun, bright, cute and colourful are the order of the day for this game. It's very Nintendo 
 and it suits the game really well. The characters are cute and wacky, the environments are nice 
 and the houses and furniture also look good. There's also a nice scrolling effect and a nice sky 
 view on the top screen. A nice effect. This visual style suits the DS and this game very well. 
 Frame rate is also smooth as you like!
  
  Sound: Some decent tunes but the animal's voices are great! They are crazy and if you listen closely 
 you can make out what they are saying. They just seem to be saying it all at ultra high speeds!
 
  
  Value: Had this game since the very day it came out here in the UK and I still get enjoyment out 
 of it. There isn't much to do in the town, but at the same time you'll always go back to it.
  
  Overall this is a great game ported from the Gemcube and it works even better as a portable 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfobfanx
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  This game was easy to pick up and I played it for hours. Sometimes, for me it's a little repetitive, 
 but there is so much to do, it's great for everyone. There are a lot of things to do in the game 
 as well as the wi-fi setting. I think it's a great value for the DS and something that fits with 
 the touch-screen. I've played it a lot when I'm bored and it's easy to start a new game and just 
 play it. There's a lot of variation, so I think it appeals to a wide range of gamers. The only problem 
 with the game that I found is the repetitive music that kind of got on my nerves, but other than 
 that it was a fun game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davideogamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 5, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Originally released for the Gamecube some time ago, Animal Crossing is a game similar to games 
 like The Sims, in which the focus is less on virtual-action and more on virtual- things you'd probably 
 never get around to doing in real life . But instead of trying to prevent your virtual persona 
 from killing thyself, or actually trying to kill them, either one, this one focuses more on being 
 a virtual-zen garden. Now that's it's on the Nintendo DS in the form of Animal Crossing: Wild World, 
 will people find patience for that which they couldn't do anyway?
  
  The game starts about the same as the last (I haven't played the other one anyway) , first you'll 
 go through a few questions to decide your gender and looks, then after visiting your home, more 
 of a shack at this point, the local hobby-shop/furniture outlet owner Tom Nook will pay you a visit 
 telling you about your current loan regarding your new house, and will offer you work to start 
 paying it off. And after working, meeting the neighbors and regular towns-folk and figuring out 
 the basics of interacting with them, as well as the quiet little town itself, you'll be off to 
 pursue your own goals at your own pace.
  
  There's several ways you can spend your time in your self-named, randomly generated town. As well 
 as several ways to make money ( bells as they're called here) so you can pay off the expensive 
 upgrades to turn your ruddy little house into a mansion almost worthy of an episode of Cribs . 
 Profitable hobbies include fishing, bug collecting, fossil collecting, fruit collecting, all while 
 keeping an eye out for the floating presents that might float by on the top screen... yeah. Of course, 
 just because you have the money doesn't mean it has to go toward the multi-month living quarters 
 expanding use, you can also buy furniture to decorate your house with and also buy clothes to deck 
 out your virtual persona with.
  
  Interacting with your strange, anthropomorphic neighbors is also something you'll find yourself 
 doing often. There are several dozen different characters that you may find living in your little 
 town, ranging from several different species such as dogs, cats, rabbits, bears, rhinos, and even 
 squids. You shouldn't have to worry about not getting to see them all, no, more, you should be 
 worrying about keeping them in your town. It doesn't take that much to make them want to suddenly 
 change their minds and leave, in face, you don't really have to do anything at all and they will 
 most likely pack up and go. This is probably where one of the most serious details about this game 
 comes in. Time.
  
  The game, of course, runs on your DS' internal clock, if someone has gone to bed for the night, 
 you'll have to wait until tomorrow before seeing them again, most bugs and fish will only come 
 during certain seasons, that kind of thing. What this also means is that, a lot like Nintendogs, 
 while you won't have all that much to do at the very start, give it a while and you'll find yourself 
 with about an hour or twos' work each day. You'll probably also find that, also like Nintendogs, 
 the game plays itself while you're gone, and if you do miss even a days' duties, bad things may 
 happen. Nothing really serious will happen, like your house getting burned down or something silly 
 like that, but you may find that your best friend will have suddenly left and you'll be stuck with 
 someone you might hate.
  
  Regardless, you probably won't even want to miss a day, as each one can bring something new to 
 see and do. Sometimes you'll see one of the games' special characters, like Gracie the fashion 
 queen, Katrina the fortune teller, Gulliver the space traveller and several more. Some visitors 
 might only visit you on certain days of the week, of course, during the week you'll get visited 
 by Redd who'll try to sell you rare items, as well as portraits, on Saturday night you can head 
 to the cafe to listen to K. K. Slider, and on Sunday mornings you can also buy turnips from the 
 peddler Joan, to participate in a stock market-esque buy-and-sell system which can make you a lot 
 of bells. And the game also has it's own set of yearly, or even bi-monthly holidays and contests 
 to participate in.
  
  You'll find that each of the characters in the game definitely has one thing in common: very humorous 
 personalities. In fact, you'll find that the whole game has a lot of personality, and sometimes 
 never ceases to elicit a laugh or two from some of the bizarre happenings in the game.
  
  Although fans of the first game are likely going to want to know what changes are made due to the 
 features of the DS', as well as what might have been changed due to weaker hardware. The games' 
 graphics look about the same, the lower frame-rate will probably be noticeable at first, but other 
 than that it still looks pretty good on the smaller screen. Though, the top-down view can make 
 some activities very annoying, very often Here, the top screen is simply used to see what's happening 
 with the weather, and for the aforementioned floating presents you might see, given the weather. 
 It's too bad that the touch screen wasn't implemented better here, as it pretty much just allows 
 you to perform all the basics with no added extras. Heck, you can't even select where you want 
 your fishing rod to cast off to. It's more of an annoyance to use the touch controls, fortunately 
 you can still just use the face buttons instead, which you'll likely do.
  
  Fortunately there is one part of the DS' capabilities that's used well. One of the new features 
 is online multiplayer. Though, unfortunately, you can't just visit any town you want. You have 
 to get someones' friend code first, and them yours, so that you can visit each others' towns. Very 
 fortunately, you can actually talk to others with the implemented text entry screen in your menu, 
 which should make things loads easier when it comes to actually doing what you want to do in this 
 others persons' town. There are plenty of good reasons for going to another persons' town, such 
 as the fact that each town gets their own native fruit, and any others can be sold at a much higher 
 price than your own. Also, other people will get different turnip prices, which is definitely a 
 good reason to drop by a new town. You can also play locally with nearby players, so it's safe 
 to say that the game delivers on the online portion of things.
  
  The various background themes you'll hear all convey the games relaxing feel, each of which you 
 might hear depending on the day, time, locale, or even weather, so the soundtrack certainly fits 
 for this type of game. The game doesn't have any kind of voice-acting (and why would you expect 
 any in this type of game anyway?) , instead having all characters speak in different tones of gibberish, 
 sort of like The Sims. Every single character, including the many, many different neighbors even 
 have their own little theme that plays when you talk to them, which helps give them a little more 
 personality.
  
  There are two things to considering when deciding to purchase this game; one, it wants you to play 
 it a very, very, VERY lot and; two, this is not a game for people who like to spend times collecting 
 coin or blasting aliens, unless you count shooting down Gulliver of course, but a game for people 
 who want to have hobbies, well, without actually having hobbies. It's a simple goal and it accomplishes 
 extremely well, and if you're the type of person that likes the sandbox- play at your own pace 
 -style, and if you love interacting with cute half-animal, giant-headed creatures, this game is 
 absolutely for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rave_n2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is a pretty... erm... different game. You take the place a human boy or 
 girl, and live in your town and basically have another life in the game. What makes it wierd is 
 that you are the only human in the game! Everyone else is an animal! You can communicate with the 
 animals in your town and start relationships with them. If you make them mad, it can take a while 
 to make them your friend again. The residents come and go, which can be sad if you really liked 
 that character, but it leaves room for new residents to move in. This game is perfect for the DS, 
 its great to be able to play on the go. The only complaint I have for this game is that there isn't 
 a lot of stuff you can do in one day. This limits the play a lot. But, this is a very good game, 
 and I would recomend it to all DS owners. The sound and graphics are great, and tons of replay 
 value because the game never ends. The minigames are plentiful and fun, and very rewarding. This 
 is an easy play, but a fun one. I HIGHLY recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenrir26
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Lets get right to the nitty gritty.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay in a nutshell is collecting. Everything from clothing, bugs and fish. Most of 
 your time in this game is spent collecting various pieces of furniture, clothing, fossils and critters. 
 There is a lot of character interaction with neighbors and if you have WiFi you can get up to 4 
 friends in your town at any given moment. This game has actually improved over the GC version with 
 the inclusion of the WiFi as you dont need to tote around your memory card to your friends house. 
 (Although you still need to register FCs on each game to visit) Texture and pattern making are 
 still in the game as well.
  
  All the characters you know and love are still in the game, plus the addition of some new faces. 
 Some do make little cameos like Blanca and Rover (Blanca is much more annoying, she will show up 
 in your town at random times sometimes day after day) their rolls in the game have changed except 
 for Blanca. You wont see Rover or Kappn on any trains/boats anymore but you may catch them from 
 time to time in the caf&eacute;. Some of the changes are evident the minute you start out in your 
 new town for the first time. Gone are the acres, Animal Island and the train station. But that 
 by no means ruins it for you. Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are similar to the N64 and are some of the nicest ones you can find for 
 a DS game. Very nice color and representation of real world items that you can collect, there is 
 much more detail than in the GC version.
  
  Sound: Very forgettable IMO, there are some nice nostalgic tunes you can get from K. K. but other 
 than that its the typical AC peppy tunes you come to expect from this series.
  
  Value:
  Very high, this game gives you everything you loved about the original AC in a small package (this 
 game was meant to be portable) bundle that up with some good refinements over the old one and WiFi 
 and you have an instant classic that will be part of your collection for a very long time. Watch 
 out though it has a habit of pulling you back again and again. This game is surprisingly addicting. 
 Even after a year I still find myself playing it.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall this game is a must have for any DS collection, the characters are lovable and there is 
 tons of replay value. Its going to keep you playing and playing just to get every last piece of 
 collectible there is in the game and then when thats all said and done there is still so much 
 more to do. If you like the sim type games this is definitely a game for you. And don't feel naughty 
 playing this one, chances are your neighbor does it too :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pieterll
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  It's the best game on the ds (for now) - this is a nice game because it is your second world, online 
 with wifi to make new friends. it is a perfect Evening game for in bed :P the fun of this game 
 is: it is a non-stop game you can play whenever you want because you can't beat the game.... another 
 + point is that there are much tips and tricks to learn, there are not much cheats but that doesn't 
 care... i like the many character in this game like Blathers, K. K. slider, Tom Nook etc. in one 
 word: S. U. P. E. R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redlazer2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 24, 2007 4:45 pm PT
Review:  As, a Ds owner i struggle to find games as good as animal crossing WW for the Ds , besides Mario 
 games. The gameplay is the same old Animal Crossing, but taking it on the go makes it funner. In 
 graphic quality the game has pretty good graphics if you want to comapare it to Ds standards. The 
 game sounds pretty catchy, an funny too. Since this game has a clock the game is like really living. 
 The only thing that kind of sucks is the Wi-fi, snce you need friend codes Never Turn the game off 
 without saving! Or a crazy beaver will get angry at you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InvaderWario
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  When animal crossing first came out in 2002 on the gamecube, it was a big hit. What made it so 
 unique was that it was a different game. It wans't a run and gun, platformer, adventurer, or a 
 RPG, well you can say it's an RPG but it's not one of those types, like TES or Fable. Animal Crossing 
 let's you live a life as a normal person (Boy or girl) and live in a casual house. But Tom Nook 
 lets you upgrade the house, with more room and space. You can fish, catch bugs, and dig up fossils. 
 You can sell them or donate them to the museum. You can talk to the other people living in the 
 town, mail letters to them. Also don't expect a small town left unfinished. After a couple of days 
 other animals will move in, while some others will move out. They will mail letters to you, send 
 you presents, or give you tasks that either involves delivering or trying to catch the biggest 
 fish. It was this type of formula that made the game so successful. Wild World exceeds everything 
 that you would expect from this series. In Animal Crossing Wild World, the game starts out when 
 a cab driver is droping you off at the town you are going to move into. He'll ask you a couple 
 of questions like, your name, the time, the name of the town you are going to, and why you want 
 to go to that town. He drops you off in front of the town hall. There you will meet the employee 
 that will show you where your house is, and how to pull up your map. Once you visit your house, 
 you'll soon discover what claustrophobia really is. The only items you have insde your house is 
 a cardboard box, candle, and a radio. once you step out of the house, Tom Nook will show up randomly 
 and wil ask you how the house is, how much it is and how to pay off 19,800 bells. Bells are the 
 currency of the town you live in. He will tell you to come by the shop to make some money and pay 
 the house bill. The tasks he gives the character are simple tasks. From planting trees, to mailing 
 letters. once your done he'll only pay the minimum of the house payment. When he is done work, 
 he brags and chants. From there, he is off on his own. Tom Nook metions that you can make money 
 by running arrands, or sell stuff and food. You can make a living off the enviroment. You can keep 
 ugrading house until to it's full extent. There are a variety of characters that have their own 
 motto or slogan. The dialouge was well written and the animals of the town will give some arrands, 
 and you would haved to finish them in a amount of time, but since it runs at normal clock speed 
 there really isn't much pressure. There is still more you can do, with the online enabled, you 
 can visit some else's town with wifi connection, but you can only move or visit if you a friend 
 online, it's these kind of restrictions that keep the online play from being all that it could 
 be. But if don't have online play, that doesn't mean you won't have fun. Your character can donate 
 money to a town called boondox, but he can not visit there. You can also change the town tune to 
 your own style. With a bunch to do and so many house payments, and highly addictive gaemplay, Animal 
 Crossing Wild World will appeal to hardcore and casual gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daisetsu-Horigo
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 12:39 am PT
Review:  Then this game is for you! It's pretty much a 100% RPG. You can do ANYTHING  
 in this game! Fans of the last instalment of Animal Crossing (and for some reason didn't know about 
 this) should really check it out! Its basicly the same game, yet portable! And some new nick-nacks 
 and feat. that you wished were in the last game.
  
  Gameplay: This game will keep you occupied for a LONG time! If you played Animal Crossing for the 
 Game Cube, you know this already! The game is basicly the old story, just in a portable form! Plus, 
 the new feat. s make the story even fun! You now can change your hair, wear glasses and masks, plus 
 wear different hats! To add on to all that new, you now have a HUGE selection of cloths and furniture! 
 At least 12x more than the last time! Although, I was a little disapointed when I found out that 
 the story was pretty much the same as last time, I was still blown away by how much they added!
 
  For those who are new: The story is, you *state your name* are moving to *state destination*. 
 When you get you *destination* you find that you are lacking in a few essentials when it comes 
 to moving... first is MONEY! And second is a new house! But don't worry, its all taken care of...
 
  
  ANYWAY!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not for those who love realism! The characters in this game are chibbis 
 which are small, Japanese cartoon people! But even if you love graphics comeing from games like 
 Oblivion, Doom3, and other high quality looking games; you will STILL love the graphics! Just all 
 the colors......
  
  Sound: The music in this game is fantastic no matter who you are! I say that because EVERY STYLE 
 OF MUSIC IS ON HERE! You just have to know the style you want, add K. K. in front of it, and go 
 talk to K. K. Rider on Saturdays at the Museums Coffee Shop! Its that simple! And when he gives 
 you the music, take it back to your crib and pop it in your stereo, and you can listen to it over 
 and over and over and over again!
  
  Value: You buy this game for what? $35 for this? That is CHEAP for a game like this! Heck! I paid 
 $50 for a just-out-of-the-box copy, and I could still tell you it was cheap for a game like this!
 
  
  Overall, I'd have to say this is a pretty solid RPG, or MMORPG if you have WiFi. If you're looking 
 for storyline, you'll be disapointed to find its almost the same if not exactally as the orginal 
 Animal Crossing for the Game Cube. But with all the new items they added, it pretty much makes 
 up for it! I recommend this game to people just getting into video gameing, people who want to 
 have a small house party with friends and still play video games with out draging out 2-4 TV+Systems, 
 and anyone who just wants to past time with a fun game!
  
  The only bad I see you can use the DS's Touch Screen to do everything, but simple tasks such as 
 walking, fishing, bug chatching, and whatever else are best left to the D-pad and the A, B, X, 
 Y buttons. Other than the stylius neglect, I say this game uses the DS to its highest level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wickerman2004
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  There is a legend... one that speaks of games that are so good and so much fun they can redeem the 
 bad qualities of other games in the universe. This legend sometimes fades from memory during periods 
 of drought-like conditions and downpours of mediocre titles... alas.... every so often the gods bestow 
 upon us the reasons of the legend - Animal Crossing: Wild World is one of those reasons there is 
 a legend of... uh... games and stuff.
  LET S GET IT ON!!!!!!!!!
  
  Animal Crossing on the Gamecube was a fun title, no one saw it coming and those that played it 
 were like.. WTF??? But had alot of fun holding the controller in the hand. I liked it on the Cube, 
 but somehow to me it felt.... out of place. I sold it. (There - said it, I SOLD it)
  
  If ever the definition of a perfect game for a platform existed - this is it. Wild Wolrd feels 
 so good on the DS that it seems the DS should have been made specifically for this game. The overall 
 look and feel of the Gamecube version makes it onto the DS. Sure because of size restrainst not 
 everything is there - but there's a ton of stuff on that little card... and I do mean a ton of stuff.
 
  
  You take a cab to town, your town - you name your town and then you start to live there. You work 
 to pay off your house and talk to the local residents, starting out... you are poor. Pushing on 
 you get some money built up, a bigger house, a bigger store and you start forming your tonw to 
 look the way you want it to look. Very short description... doesn't read like alot of fun... but 
 it is so much fun hours will pass by... your DS light will turn red and you'll have to plug in before 
 the unit dies on you sending you to Resetti for a lengthy scolding.
  
  What really opens this game up however is the WiFi, if you can procure a safe friend list.. you 
 will have so much more fun. I am lucky enought o have another DS locally to connect to via DS to 
 DS option of visiting and hosting, but I also have a lengthy friend code list of highly active 
 players in my age range that I can trust to just visit and wander around my town. That's a huge 
 bonus and makes the game very enjoyable.
  
  There are a number of AC: WW sites out there to help you get the list you want to have, just google 
 it.
  
  I honestly have no gripes with this game, if you like sim type games, you'll like this. If you 
 liked this for the Cube, again, you'll like this. I only have to say this is the most perfect fitting 
 game on the DS, and if you don't have WiFi - get the adaptor or buy a router (if you don't have 
 internet... how are you reading this?!?!?!?!?!) for your place - it's well worth it.
  
  Did I say alot about the game? Hmmm, not really - which is what you're going to find everywhere 
 and with a game like this - what can you say really? It's highly addictive... go buy it NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:42 pm PT
Review:  The game is pretty boring at first but as you keep playing it becomes better and better.
  
  Gameplay: The is even more addicting than The Sims series put together. You can decorate your house, 
 do errands for other people, fish, bug hunting, fossil excavating, meet with friends over wifi 
 or near-by, accesorize, and MUCH, MUCH more. The gameplay is awesome.
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't the best in the world, but it is colorful and charming enough to 
 keep you satisfied.
  
  Sound: The sound isn't that great but you will never notice the sound to care.
  
  Value: This 
 game will keep you playing for a long, long time if you have friends to keep you company.
  
  Tilt: The game is really fun. This is the game to play when you are bored anywhere. It is basically 
 your life outside of life.
  
  The wifi features are better than most DS wifi and there is so musch to do outside of the game. 
 I can't wait 'till Animal Crossing for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k3nn3th
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Like Animal Crossing is a good game on the DS first of all.
  
  But this is how my story goes, and also my opinion.
  
  When you start the game for the first 
 time, you can create a character with his own name and you can even name your town! After that 
 you can choose a town catagory, beach, city etc..
  
  Further on Animal Crossing your poor, so what do you do? Make money, ofcourse. When you start your 
 work first for Nook, this is the person who owns the Nook store and where you can sell things but 
 also buy. You need to do some stuff for him, like planting flowers etc.. After that you have your 
 own house but you want a bigger house eh? So he says you can pay mortgage for you house to expand 
 it and to pay off your borrowed money.
  
  Now, when you have worked for Nook and you need to pay debt of you can start your own way, fishing, 
 bug catching, fruit and also go to other towns with DS To DS or WFC (WFC is the most fun ofcourse) . 
 The Nook store is also gonna expand when you buy more from him. From Nook Cranny to Nookingtons 
 and it even has his own Hairsalon, but that's just cool. When you have a town, you have your own 
 fruit: Peachs, Pears, Apples, Cherrys and Oranges. But the town only contains 1 fruit of the same 
 and you have about, 30~40 trees in your town. You can add trees for planting them etc.
  
  Now this game is not a game like the BEST graphics, but that's not what this game is all about. 
 This game is for the fun and not to show off your handheld with graphics. I like this game because 
 it is fun to carry a good game in your pocket and it is time filling. Well, the sound is not what 
 you are listening to all the time, the sound does perfectly fit in with the graphics quality.
 
  
  So this game is full of things to do and is always good to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 9, 2007 4:08 am PT
Review:  This game is a very good game and with the online play it is even better
  I should say you get a piece of music every saturday at 8:00 P. M.
  
  That graphics are descent 
 but they could have been better
  Probably not much better but a little bit like how super mario 64 ds was
  
  The game revolves 
 on the calender and you have be in certain months to catch a bug or fish and also there is a bunch 
 of items you can get through out the seasons as well and I have yet to see a moon.
  I also got several rooms an egyptian room a somewhat zelda themed room
  museum room, a picture 
 room, and a mushromn room.
  
  I also should note (spoilers) That if you time travel like I do you get lots of wiids but I thought 
 it was worth it. (End of spoilers)
  
  I would say if you like virtual life games get this one or if you liked the origanal animal crossing 
 get it. But if you do not like virtual life games
  do not buy it.
  Overal this game is one of the best ds games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chibirevolution
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  If you are like me who has played Animal crossing before on the Gamecube, you wont be missing 
 out on a whole lot with this new edition on the DS. If anything I found it rather dull compared 
 to the Gamecube version. For the most part, this game is pretty much the same as the Gamecube version 
 but updated slightly. Having played this game for a few weeks, i couldn't help feeling the character 
 interactions with the towns people seem more limited. Plus theres no Mayor to talk to (only during 
 special events) , no light house, and the captn who hangs out at the dock? Hes now a taxi driver!! 
 The graphics also look worse, not as crisp and clear as before. But I guess thats to be expected 
 since its a DS version.
  
  So it looks like this game may not compare well to its older brother in some aspects. But the game 
 does have its own charms. Such as the simple fact that its portable! Now you can deliver that 
 parcel while youre on the bus, or sell those turnips while youre on the toilet (if youre into 
 that sort of thing. :D) . Im sure for those who have never played this series before will enjoy 
 it more than I have. Please keep in mind that this game is best enjoyed with friends. So if youre 
 a 30-something individual, whos living with parents, and/or has no friends, you may not get much 
 enjoyment out of this game. Hehehe!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hsimpson44
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 7, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  A fun DS game. You play as your own character, who buys a house. the object of the game is to pay 
 off your house. you can have up to four people in the house. If you have more than one person, 
 the money you have to pay is split. There is no time limit to play on the game so you have time 
 to just play around. The game runs on real time and is basically like it's own little town, with 
 neighbors and a store. Out of all of the DS games, this is prouble one of the best. Also, the game 
 teaches you a little about moraging and how to spend money. Most people that just like simple, 
 fun games will like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natyoshi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Hi,
  
  With Animal Crossing, you will end up with countless hours of pure fun.. things go much faster 
 then with the GC version. Interaction with other animals are more mature. Sending and receiving 
 letters is easier and animals seem to understand what we right much better. The one &laquo; bug&raquo; 
 I see is that the clock in AC does NOT follow the one adjusted in my DS. If I set my DS at 19:30 
 it will show 7:30 in the morning in AC. Hey,,, I did NOT want to miss seing the fireworks on Jan 
 1st 2007 !!! If you have an explanation I would like to hear it... Much thanks to the creator of 
 that game :O)
  
  NathYoshi from Montreal, Canada 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bad-boy-gamer19
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  It is amazing.. That is all i can say really it is like your own little town, even your friends can 
 come to your town you can even talk to them, even though connecting to WI-FI is hard you can come 
 close enough and do ds to ds and it is just the same just you can't go as far away. I have had this 
 game for nearly 2 months and i am not bored of it yet. There are some games you get bored of and 
 fiddle around with the cheats and then enjoy it but on this game (if there was cheat codes) i would 
 not use them. You can unlock Tom Nooks shops first there is.. Nooks Crannys (First) . Next there is.. Nook 
 'n' Go (First Upgrade) . Next there is.. Nookway (Secand Upgrade) .. Next there is Nookintons (Final 
 Upgrade) , with the final upgrade you get Shampoodle if you don't know what that is it is a hair 
 dresser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t8z
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Animal crossing for me was a surprise with the game play. I first expected it to be like Harvest 
 moon, as thats what my friend told me. Although, when I loaded up the game and had played for 
 more than an hour, I realised this was a NEW game! And then I realised this is a sequel. If you 
 are considering playing this game, do! Although be aware that to get the best out of it, you need 
 to play for at least an hour a day! With the real time feature that can be seen as a con or a pro 
 in this game, and the lovable yet unrealistic characters that you befriend in this game it is definitely 
 best to check back every day. The graphics I thought were one of the down sides, and the worst 
 was the way the touch screen doesnt help you, it actually is best to keep the stylus tucked away 
 for most of your game play. I also found it hard to position your character for the small tasks 
 like watering and fishing. These down sides are tiny, compared to my favourite part of this game, 
 the WFC, allowing you to visit friends towns. This is definitely the best factor, as once you 
 have your mortgage paid off, and most things done to 100% the only thing left to do is show it 
 off!
  
  Overall this game takes a long time to completely finish, without cheating. And once youve done 
 so there isnt much else to do unless you have the internet. But, the ever changing world of Animal 
 crossing: Wild world mixed with the awesome WiFi Connection makes this a big hit with me, a must 
 play if you will! If you have it, or are thinking about it, enjoy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoannaDarkxoxo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  I first got hooked into Animal Crossing when it was on the Gamecube, so when i heard that Animal 
 Crossing was coming to Nintendo DS I was super excited. However i didnt know which version i would 
 like better. Once i started playing the Nintendo DS version, i realized that i loved the DS one 
 much more then the gamecube one. I have many reasons why the DS version is my favorite. One reason 
 is because of the nintendo wi-fi. The nintendo wi-fi made it so i could visit my friend's town 
 and my friend could visit my town. The most awesome part about that is the fact that each town 
 has different fruit growing on the trees, so when you visit your friend's town you could steal 
 some of their fruit and then go back to your town and sell the fruit for a lot of bells because 
 of the fruit being an import. I thought that was very original and realistic at the same time. 
 It was also fun to see how your town setup was different from your friend's town setup. Another 
 thing that i found very interesting about visting your friend's town was that if you talk to the 
 residents and become friends with them, some of them will actually move to your town. I mean how 
 many other games do that?? Second, the gameplay. The gameplay is sheer brillant. The game is so 
 much fun to play. There's so many things you can do in this game. You can go fishing, you can go 
 digging for fossils, you can go shake trees for money bags, you can build up your house, you can 
 design your house anyway you want, the residents are interesting animals, there's so many items 
 for your house. I could seriously go on and on and on but i wont. Overall I LOVE THE GAMEPLAY!! 
 Basically, this game is just pure fun and highly addictive. I recommend this game to anyone. They 
 will get just as hooked as everyone else who plays this game. This game is so awesome to the point 
 where i got this game in 2005 and i still play it everyday and it's 2007. If you diss this game, 
 then you suck and you dont know a great game if it hit you in the butt. GET THIS GAME!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diceman18
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  You play the role of, well, YOU! You go around trying to make a life in ACWW. You can upgrade your 
 home, add new things to your home and yourself, buy things, sell things, fish, dig, catch a bug, 
 use a slingshot and so so so much more. Tom Nook is your god . He sells you things at very good 
 prices and you can sell him things as well. the Able sisters are clothing people. They sell shirts, 
 hats, glasses, masks and umbrelelas. You can only sell clothing etc. to them but they will pay 
 abysml prices. This game is a must own for ALL ds owners. If you dont have this fantastic game, 
 buy it NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  When Animal Crossing was released for the GCN, I bought the game impulsively (It came with a free 
 memory card! I had to get it!) . The experience was odd but unexplainably addictive. I just needed 
 to find all the fish, I just needed to find all the fossils, I just needed to dig up all the gyros, 
 I just needed to talk to those charming animals, I just needed to play this damn game everyday 
 because I didn't want to miss anything. Wild World for the DS has the same premise as the GCN counterpart, 
 it's just more of everything. While it's disappointing Wild World doesn't take advantage of the 
 touch screen to make it truly unique or different than its previous game, Wild World is portable 
 and that justifies a purchase.
  
  Wild World starts off a lot like its previous game. You've just moved in, and you're broke. The 
 cute but total money whore Tom Nook offers a house for sale. You do a couple of menial tasks for 
 this insidious little raccoon and then you're set loose. The game doesn't push you to pay off your 
 debt but there is a nice incentive if you do. Your house gets a remodeling so that you can shove 
 more stuff into your home. Just prepare to pay off the enormous debt for each upgrade however (See? 
 Total money whore) .
  
  To pay off your debts, the game more or less requires you to do same things you did in the previous 
 game, with some minor changes. Fossils can be identified on the spot at your local museum instead 
 of sending by mail to another museum. Other than that, all the other mechanics work largely the 
 same. You still find fish in the waters by identifying their outlines in the water, you still catch 
 bugs by slowly sneaking up to them and you still dig for fossils. It's just now, you've got a whole 
 lot more to collect than the previous game. Everything's just as addicting and fun as the previous 
 game.
  
  Therein lies the game's most obvious flaw. It doesn't do much to stand out from the previous game. 
 The touch screen controls don't make the game any better or any worse. You can use the touch screen 
 to move your character but it's way too imprecise to be of any use. The touch screen does make 
 writing letters a whole lot easier though. It also makes sending mail and selling stuff a little 
 bit easier and streamlined. Besides that, the game doesn't utilize the unique functions of the 
 DS.
  
  The online while working, is sort of a pain. You have to exchange those infamous friend codes with 
 other people and you must also schedule when both of you will meet. After you the pass that hurdle, 
 it works great. Chatting works well and the ability to trade items will just encourage you to find 
 more things to trade. You can't send mail via online, you can only send mail to other players by 
 going to the town they're in. It's a bit restrictive and the friend codes will always suck, but 
 it's nice to have an online mode.
  
  Remember when you just couldn't wait to find those NES games on the previous game? Well don't try 
 here because you won't find any. It's not something to cry over because well, to be honest, some 
 of those game should stay in the past (well... I guess the lack of Punch Out! sort of sucks...) . 
 Most real world holidays have also been thrown out and instead have been replaced by made up holidays. 
 While it does give the game a sense that it's its own world, the lack of holidays, like Christmas, 
 is a bit disappointing.
  
  BUT IT'S PORTABLE! Don't let my criticisms about the game stop you from buying this game. The best 
 thing about Wild World is that it's portable. It's everything the GCN version was and more, and 
 you can take your town anywhere. Sure, the visuals are a bit of a downgrade from the GCN version 
 and that's understandable. In fact, it's impressive to see how the well the DS version holds up 
 compared the GCN version graphically and in all aspects of the game. The music is left intact with 
 great tunes for each hour. And don't forget all those KK songs. Wild World is a game that you can 
 theoretically play forever. There's always something happening or something new which makes the 
 towns feel like a living breathing world, on or off. Throw in the online mode and this a game you'll 
 want to play everyday. If you hated the previous Animal Crossing game for some reason, this game 
 won't change your mind. For everyone else who like fun, pick this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vihno0201
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:02 am PT
Review:  It is fun for few months because in this game you can do many things. You can catch fishes, bugs 
 and dig some fossils. In this game you need to pay the mortgages set by Tom Nook. He is the owner 
 on the one and only item shop in Animal Crossing WW. As you pay the mortgages your house will be 
 bigger and bigger until it reaches its limit. The fishes, bugs and fossils you have can be donated 
 to the museum to make it more interesting to visit. And there is this academy named Happy Room 
 Academy (HRA) who is sending letters to you to let you know how beautiful your home is. And the 
 online play is just MASSIVE!!!
  
  I got bored in a few months because you kept on doing the same things over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad_revolution
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  There is only one word to describe this game ADDICTIVE!. the moment that the cab drops you into 
 town you'll be sucked in.
  
  Animal crossing was a surprise hit in the gamecube and now online for the nintendo DS. This game 
 has no story what so ever you just try to pay the mortgage to tom nook and watch him get reach. You'll 
 plant flowers so your'e town can get beautiful. Plant trees so you can sell the fruits, fish and 
 collect you can choose if you'll donate it or sell it of course i choose sell. You can dig fossils, catch 
 bugs there's a million things to do in this game. Collecting makes this game addictive you'll search 
 for that perfect couch, that perfect costumes and that rare fish, if you progress in the game your 
 house can get extra floors for extra furniture. And thanks to the Nintendo WFC you can invite your 
 friends to your town just make sure they dont chop down your trees! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loyed
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is just like the GC version with some extras and dis-extras (?) THE GOOD: talking to 
 the villigers, helping them out and chatting is fun. There is hundreds of different items to furnish 
 your house with, you can slingshot UFO's and presents out of the sky, catch fish, and watch weather 
 on a TV if you have one in the game.
  
  THE BAD: The graphics are kind of sketchy and blury when you move anf=d the idea of the world being 
 round when you walk is neat but it gets you dizzy after a while so i dont play while in the car. 
 after you dou your daily choors, talk to the villagers for a while there is nothing else really 
 to do for the rest of the day on wild worlds, on the gamecube version it at least tide you over 
 with a vast selection of NES games you could play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahaumet992
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is overall good. It's pretty much a copy-over from Game Cube but with amazing new features. 
 The Multi player is great, the town is easier to travel. Designing shirts, caps, umbrella's is 
 much easier because of the stylus. The only thing it lacks is better game play. The unlock ables 
 are pretty much the same as the Game Cube game. There are a few new events, but nothing big. The 
 wireless multi player play saves this game from a horrible review. It being on the DS also helps 
 it because walking/running around is easier to an extent. The inventory is better because now you 
 can see what fish you've caught. When they appear, and where. You can also put on Hoods and Caps. 
 You can see the same info as fish for bugs. The constellations and stargazing is a nice time-killer 
 for the game. People who played the Game Cube game will agree that this is a nice new addition 
 because it includes things you like from the old game and brought them into the new. Like I said, 
 Game play could use some new things. It is pretty nice that you can play wireless ly with other 
 people but that doesn't really make up for the fact that it has just as many downs as ups. I give 
 the game a thumbs up. The graphics are the same if not better. I think that the night and day is 
 much better in this game than the other. Also, the ability to interact with your Neighbors more 
 is better. Overall Good game. 8.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinosaursgirl
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played Animal Crossing, I was hooked. My friend had it on Gamecube, and I constantly 
 had them bring it over when they came. We had fun in our little town. We compared it to Harvest 
 Moon often, but Animal Crossing is much, much better.
  On DS it is no different. It is still addictive, and it is still an awesome virtual life game. 
 You would think living in a town of jibberish talking animals wouldn't be so much fun, but it definately 
 is.
  In this game, you start out in a cab with a frog driver. Unlike the past one where you were on 
 a train with a cat. The Frog will ask you if the time on your DS is right, what your name is, figure 
 out your gender, the town name, etc. Just like the old one. You don't see you character until you 
 reach your town. This is the only part I dislike. Unlike the other game, you can't just start over 
 with a new town, you can make a new resident, but all human residents live in the same house. My 
 character has some wierd pigtails/mohawk thing going on, but a hat easily fixes that, haha.
  After you get out of the cab, Tom Nook (owner of the local everything store, Nook's Cranny) will 
 meet you. He'll start talking about mortgage. You will own him 18,000 bells (bells is the game's 
 currency) for the house. You start off with no money though, so you will have to earn all that 
 money. You begin earning money and figuring out work working in Tom Nook's store. He'll have you 
 run some errands, go meet the townsfolk to get acquainted, and then run some more errands, and 
 then you're done. You'll hardly earn enough money to pay off your debt, so you need to learn some 
 basic ways to earn money. You can pick things like shells off the beach, flowers from the ground, 
 and shake trees. Although, be ware, shaking trees can get you money, food, and even furniture, 
 but they also bear bees.
  After that, living your life is all up to you. Love your neighbors or not. Fill the Muesam with 
 all sorts of fossils, bugs, and fish or sell it all to get more cool stuff. Do anything you want. 
 And everything gets better with Wi Fi and DS connection. Possibilities are endless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic3333333
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This Virtual Life Game is Great! Seriously, theres always something to do in ACWW! You can go fishing, catch 
 bugs, and more!
  From the night owl Blathers to the wanna-be comedian/doctor Dr. Shrunk, the characters are all great!
 
  Even though the game is almost an exact copy of AC, fans will cry over the loss
  of Animal Island and Porter the monkey.
  Porter is replaced by copper and booker who keep all 
 the services from the original AC except being able to tell you of special visitors ahead of time.
 
  Seriously folks, this game is awesome!
  The acre system is gone and you can now donate to the town of Boondox.
  But really, you would 
 probably prefer not to.
  Why?
  because all you get in return is feathers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyrulelink919
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  This game, is in a word, cute. Another word for it is BRILLIANT!
  Yes, people, when you open up your DS with ACWW loaded you'll never come off it until wears down, 
 in which case you'll charge it...
  This game's replay value is simply amazing. There are loads of different types of fish, bugs and 
 fossils to collect and sell/donate to the museum. You can also buy an astonishing amount of furniture 
 for your house, and decorate it so it looks exactly like you want it. Come on people! Fork out 
 your hard-earned cash for it. Swap your essential organs for it. Sell off your grannys antiques. 
 However you want to get it, get it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musicsponge123
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  I first bought the animal crossing game for gamecube and i was amazed at how addictive and how 
 much fun it can be with fishing finding fossils collecting all the bugs looking after your town 
 etc. But one problem was it's not portable so you have to make time to sit in front of your tv 
 and play. Which is when I heard animal crossing was coming to ds I was ecstatic.
  When i first began to play the game I was amazed at how good the game's graphical power was it 
 really did look good ( for the ds anyway) . Once I had gone through the stage of having to work 
 for Tom nook and having to meet everyone etc. i was addicted i wanted to pay off my debt donate 
 all the fossils and still make time to have a cup of coffee down at the local cafe. Now that i'm 
 around 7 months in it still is addicitng not as much but i still play it for around an hour a day 
 . The new features in the game which include desinging clothes with the stylus making star constellations 
 customising your character etc. It all adds a little more magic to this wonderful game. One tiny 
 problem is that there aren't as many special days ok theres yay day, the flea market and the fishing 
 and bug tourney and theres acorn week and the fireworks but you want something to get excited about 
 which you got with the cube version. Conclusion:
  This game is truly amazing the addiction of it is awesome and really is a star. don't knock it 
 before you've tried it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evrynitewithyou
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  This game to some people might seem boring if you just watch videos and read reviews by it, but 
 you can't really describe a game like this. You have to play it first hand to be able to experience 
 its true value. before playing this game i thought it was kinda dumb. But its really addicting in 
 a fun type of way. If you enjoy simulation games then this is just right for you. If you are also 
 a fan of the sims i think you should pick this up and give it a try it will be well worth it! The 
 Multiplayer is rather fun too. Neighbors in your friends towns will come and live in yours and 
 you make new friends. Definatly a must for a present to anyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Over the past few years, I've heard a lot of wonderful things about a certain Gamecube title (although 
 I don't have one) titled Animal Crossing, and considering that many DS owners were anticipating 
 the handheld version of the game, I was also looking forward to purchasing my copy, and I couldn't 
 be more disappointed. It wasn't bad, but it wasn't too great either, and I kinda wish I had purchased 
 a different game instead. Don't attack me just yet, because I have eventually grown to really enjoy 
 the game.
  
  The purpose of the game is simple. You move into a town, make money and buy stuff for your house, 
 which can be expanded with an extra floor, or expanded rooms by paying your mortgage to Tom Nook. 
 You can also make friends with your animal neighbours and collect goodies such as fish, insects, 
 fossils and paintings. That's pretty much it, really. The game is quite open ended although I really 
 wish they had some goals thrown in, just to keep the game refreshing.
  
  You do however, have the random mission thrown at you by one of the NPCs in the game as they give 
 you an item or a letter to deliver to another NPC. There are also some odd surprises during the 
 game. Turning off the NDS without saving is DISCOURAGED in this game, and if you dare to do so, 
 you'll be harrassed by a beaver named Resetti. :P
  
  Despite his threats, he won't really delete your save games, he's just there to deter you from 
 reverting to your last save.
  
  Talking to neighbours is fun, quirky and random, albeit repetitive. And after a certain number 
 of animals move into your neighbourhood, one will move away, only for a new animal to move in a 
 few days later, just to keep the experience realistic and refreshing instead of talking to the 
 same darn animal all the time. Although I really enjoy spending time with Olivia, Patty, Deena 
 (before she moved away *sniff*) and Daisy. :)
  
  I initially wondered what the hell I was thinking when I first bought the game, but it really grew 
 on me this past year and I've really come to enjoy the game. Even though I don't have Wi-Fi and 
 I've only found one legitimate painting thus far. :P
  
  ==Graphics==
  The graphics are great, but they would be much better if the Nintendo DS had a larger screen and/or 
 resolution as there are only so many pixels you can see on the screen at a time as some detailed 
 objects can't be seen clearly on such a small screen. A zoom-in/out option for when your character 
 is out of the house would have been great.
  
  ==Sound==
  The sound effects, music and animalese language sound great on the DS. Although they sound a bit 
 repetitive at times. You can also change the town tune which is a plus. Mine sounds like The O. C. 
 theme song. :P (My town is also aptly titled The O. C. hehe)
  
  ==Value==
  Initially, I felt completely ripped off when I bought this game. But by playing with an open mind, 
 and trying some of the in-game activities, I've learned to appreciate the game more, and I think 
 I've gotten my money's worth out of this game.
  
  Overall, I enjoy playing AC: WW on my DS, even if it just wasn't what I hoped it would be. Now if 
 you'll excuse me, I only need one more fossil to complete the museum's fossil exhibit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disneyknight467
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is that cute game you never gave a chance on the Nintendo Gamecube, 
 but now its on the DS! With cool online play and many things to do it's a really addicting game. 
 Want to fish? Fish! Want to catch some bugs? Go for it! Want to dig up some holes? Dig damn it! 
 Dig! You can also buy a variety of things from the local shop run by the Racoon Tom Nook, He Re-stocks 
 everyday so if you don't see something you like, come back tomorrow. You can also visit the Tailor's 
 shop where there are clothes to choose from or you can be the fashion designer and make your own 
 clothes! Want your clothes to be spread around the net? Post them in other's clothes shops! You 
 can also talk to the villagers who are more than happy to just chat a little or ask for a favor. 
 This cool Sims-meets-Cute and cuddly character's game will keep you occupied for a while, and if 
 it doesn't play online with a friend! You can go over thier town or they can go over your town! 
 The only downside is that you need a friendcode to do so and you'll need to have a friend with 
 the game so he/she can give it to you, or go online and find a website that hosts friendcode sharing. 
 Overall this game is awesome, Go out and buy it damn you! You'll regret not having it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iman2050
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  WARNING this game is not Violent. I like this game because its not like any other game i mean take 
 shooting games the point KILL but this game is fun because its a life game. You do many things 
 like fish, collect rocks, collect bugs, and pay off your rent and also chat with friends which is 
 cool and very interesting and fun not like other games. I also like the animal part very cool that 
 they added that to a game like this. This game is fun and cool and For ONCE do believe the HYPE. 
 I also feel if they make more Animal Crossing games people should by these type of NON-Violent 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clefairy2000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing has become so popular because its fun. Not in a blast enemies to smithereens kind 
 of fun, but a different kind of fun. You just live your life day by day, chatting with neighbors (who 
 really are WILD) fishing, gardening, or just hanging with friends. Wild World lets you do all that 
 and more.
  Most people would be pretty taken by how unusual Animal Crossing is. You live among animals in 
 a small town that is different from all others in the world. Each town has a different name, residents, 
 fruit trees, and layout from all others. There are a nearly infinite number of possibilities, which 
 will make you want to go out and see everyone.
  The town changes every day: new residents come in, old ones move out, trees grow, mail comes, and 
 the seasons come and go. This makes every day a brand new experience. You also can do any number 
 of things: fish, catch bugs, gather fruit, talk to neighbors, garden, make snowmen in winter, redecorate 
 your house.... The list goes on and on. The animals have funny dialogue too: One minute, they'll 
 talk about sugar-free sugar cookies, the next about penguins not being able to fly.
  The only thing that really gets me is that after you pay of your house, there's not much point 
 to playing the game anymore, since you can do everything you need in the time it takes to pay of 
 your house. But other than that, don't overlook Animal Crossing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divinenanny
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot of fun, with new things to discover everyday! Playing real time is sometimes 
 frustrating (when villagers are asleep or Nook's is closed for construction) , but in the end it 
 adds to the greatness of the game. Also the seasonal events, like building a snowman are fun to 
 discover! Fishing is profitable and addictive.
  The wifi function is special and adds a lot to the game, especially when visiting an AC: WW community 
 online to find friends. The fact that the game downloads info when you are connected makes it special. 
 For instance patterns designed by other users or villagers from other towns might show up in your 
 town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The first Animal Crossing was an amazing game that had fantastic, addictive gameplay and charming 
 graphics &amp; sound. The sequel which is basically a portable version of the original game isnt 
 as addictive as the first one if you played the original but if Wild World is your first Animal 
 Crossing game you will be hooked for a long time. The gameplay is exactly like the original with 
 a few changes like being able to have more then one person in a house you can have a max of four 
 people in your house and the house that all these characters live in is on the same DS card. In 
 Animal Crossing you have a person and pretty much live their life but your town is different than 
 regular towns. The towns residents are animals instead of people and your character is the only 
 human in the town. There are numerous things to do in Animal Crossing such as fishing, catching 
 bugs, decorating you house, and interacting with the other residents of your town. There are some 
 changes made in Animal Crossing: Wild World in the original you had different squares and there 
 was a two second wait before you could go into the next square in Wild World the town is like a 
 miniature planet and it rotates as you walk around the town. Another addition is multiplayer in 
 the original you could visit other peoples towns but you couldn't interact with people besides 
 the animals that lived in the town you were visiting. In Wild World you can play on either WI-FI 
 or on DS to DS and you can interact with the other people playing and opens up more things to do 
 in Wild World you can play different games, do fishing tournaments, and other things. The graphics 
 are great for the DS and are much better then other DS games. The sound is also fantastic with 
 charming music like the original. Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great game if this is your first 
 Animal Crossing game if not it won't be as addicting.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenA1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  What a game, I only bought this game a month ago and already I enjoy it. It took me a while but 
 I finally understood it.
  
  I took a while to understand what was happening in the game, but not before long I understood it, 
 and being the person that I am I naturally restarted the whole game to make things better for me 
 and the poor helpless animals. It was only the first time I played a game of this kind in a while, 
 but it opened my eyes to see that not all games are crappy. The graphics are quite good for a handheld, 
 I was ammazed at the quality of the sound and all the music it had. This game would really last 
 a lifetime with you. A must get game.
  Smiles ^ ^ \-- /
  
  Damn Resetti 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Brandon-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  This game has a great game play! Including more items, fun stuff, And The WIFI CONNECTION, that 
 give you the ability to chose DS to DS or wifi that lets you go to other player's town! And some 
 old stuff like fishin and catching bugs, etc. plus if you connect to wifi you get letters from 
 nintendo and a free gift from mail!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are great for a ds. 3D indeed
  
  Sound:
  The sound is great! and with surrond 
 sound setting on, it sounds better!
  
  Value:
  The game is hard to find in the markets (cause its hot) , its only $34.99.
  So if you decide to 
 get it look hard for it!
  
  Other stuff:
  You exchange friends to visit your friend's town or to invite your friend to your town once in 
 awhile!
  
  This game is Worth getting if your a big fan of nintendo or you love wifi! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  Just also a fun game for the DS, instead having on the gamecube you can now take this game anywhere 
 you like. The Online is another add on as well, its a great thing to trade with others chat with 
 friends and able to things. The graphics are still the same and there aren't that much characters 
 as the gamecube one I also keep getting two same characters. But sometimes it can get boring and 
 its really a long time to build up cash. I like playing it alot and it's really addicting as well. 
 The music is okay too same as the old one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafreak2080
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is the second game in the Animal Crossing series. It isn't really a 
 seqeal to the original game since the game doesn't really have a story line. It is basically the 
 same game, there are some minor features that were added but nothing that really changes the game. 
 What you do is, you are this cute little human that moves into this town inhabited by cute little 
 animal villagers. Basically, it's The Sims, but there are alot of differences between the two. 
 You can collect furniture, make your house the coolest place in the town, you can fish, hunt bugs, 
 buy cool clothes, or just talk with the villagers and do little odd jobs for them. The game is 
 all in real time, the game uses the DS clock for the game clock. Of course that means on like December 
 25, it's going to be Christmas Day in Animal Crossing land. If you really want to experince everything 
 that this game has to offer you are literally going to have to play every single day. Something 
 new happens every day like, a black market opens on a certain day of the week, there is a flea 
 maret every Saturday stuff like that. If you make your house as big as it can be and you get all 
 the really rare furniture and you become like filthy rich, there isn't much more the game is going 
 to give you, but that doesn't stop you from playing. The graphics look just like the original game. 
 The character models do look a little more blocky and there are some minor frame rate issues, but 
 overall the graphics are very good for a portable game. Sound, again is just like the original 
 game, the animals talk in a very strange language with a bunch of beeps and boops. However, it 
 is a little disappointing because the game recycles MANY of the original background songs, but 
 that isn't saying that the music in the original game were bad, it's just they didn't add as many 
 new songs that you would have liked them to. The last game was excellent and having that game with 
 you on the go is just wonderful. If you have a DS I would highly consider picking this game up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carnage646
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  ill start by saying this game is very fun, i have had for almost a year now and i still find it 
 as good as i did the day i got it. it may seem childish but once you play it you will no how good 
 it is. it starts of with your character sitting in a taxi on your to start a new life in a town 
 were you are the only human. the good thing is you get to name your town just what you want. when 
 you get to your town you must go to your house, after going inside to have a look you will be greeted 
 by tom nook, who offers you work to earn a little cash. once you have completed your work your 
 free to do want you want, plant trees and flowers, go fishing, dig up fossils and much more. because 
 theres so much to do this game never gets old. great fun for every one, worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatgoat1994
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  After playing animal crossing for the first time on the ds i realized that games don't have to 
 be for older gamers for them to be fun. Infact i found animal crossing both addictive and interesting. 
 Cool little thing's like yor houses feng suie, or a dog that plays guitar make the game like a 
 never ending rollercoaster. In fact its hard for me to write this review now and not paly it. However. 
 a slow frame rate and less than perfect graphics keep it on par. At least apperance wise. For the 
 lovers of vitrual life, and lovers of real life this game is a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith500
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  This game has so much to do in it and is such a unique game that at first you will love or hate 
 it but either way after a month or two your gonna start getting bored of the game.
  
  Many people say it feels like a chore sometimes and although at the start it doesnt it will feel 
 like a chore when you have to spend an hour everyday playing just to water your flowers and purchase 
 stuff from the shop etc.
  
  I really enjoyed exploring my village and doing the little jobs and chatting with my villagers. 
 And you just cant wait to see who the next villager to move in will be and the events of this game 
 are really lacking compared to the gamecube version.
  
  Really to end all I can say is if you have wi-fi then I would rate this game an 8.4 like the Gamespot 
 reviwers did but without it my review of 7.7 is accurate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 22, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing for Nintendo Gamecube was a game that was very charming and very fun. Though due 
 to the memory card and the gamecube controller, it wasn't all it could be. A few years later and 
 out comes Animal Crossing: Wild World for Nintendo DS. This game is great, the controls are awesome, 
 being able to switch control schemes without going through the options menu is great. Don't like 
 using the stylus to fish? Then use the D-pad. And that's it. Just press a button and there you 
 go. The stylus controls are awesome and work great. The D-pad isn't as good but the option is still 
 there which is great. The graphics are awesome for the DS. They don't look as good as the gamecube 
 but still look awesome on Nintendo's handheld. The sound is just amazing! With over 50 songs by 
 K. K. Slider and a tune for every hour. Combine that with the customizable town tune and that's 
 a lot of sound on a little game card. Not all of it's good, but most of it is and that's why I 
 gave sound a 10. The multi player is great fun. Chatting with people online in real time will turn 
 night into day. Competitions are decent fun, there not great but they get the job done. Your able 
 to do almost anything in multi player that you can do in single player, which is great. But the 
 major downfall of the multi player, is that only two people can go in the same building at a time 
 which is kind of retarded in places like the museum which has over 5 rooms! And when your house 
 is at the max only 2 people can come in which is a total letdown. Overall, ACWW does a lot of things 
 right, while the multi player isn't all it could be it's definitely a step up for the series. The 
 game is Phonomenal. And will stay in your DS for a long, long time.
  
  -Poe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  While there is a decent amount to do at first, it takes some dedication to keep up with the game 
 everyday and use it to it's full potential. To ACs credit it kept my attention alot longer than 
 other games and found that this was another one of Nintendo's pick up and play for 20-30 minutes 
 games. That isn't a bad thing. It had great replay value if you use WiFi.
  The controls are great for the game and give you options while making good use of the stylus, even 
 if it is fairly straightforward to do certain motions like tapping to do a number of things. I 
 found myself using it to walk/run on occassion, too when I was in a position that wasn't comfortable 
 for using the standard d-pad.
  As for the graphics, there is a good art style, but not much to it. It's the company that gives 
 this game it's charm, and they do just good enough to make you not notice whether they are good 
 or bad while playing.
  Overall, I was impressed with this game, and while it may only grab a niche audience, it has proven 
 to be a big audience indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanderer108
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, don't get me wrong, I've had it for a year and still play it. It's just that 
 it's missing some of the key elements that its predecessor on Game Cube.
  
  Holidays! This game needed holidays. One of the great things about Animal Crossing on the Game 
 Cube was the fact that you could come in on Halloween or Thanksgiving or Christmas and see the 
 villagers celebrating the event as well. These were my favorite reasons for playing the game. In 
 Wild World, holidays are done away with and replaced with a random festival or event. It's just 
 not the same. I can see how holidays may be taken out for religious or regional differences, but 
 they could have at least had in game parodies of them anyway.
  
  Patterns! Another thing that is a downgrade is the amount of patterns a character can save. In 
 the Game Cube version, you could save a large amount of patterns into a storage section. In the 
 DS version you are limited to having 8, not counting the extra 8 that is displayed in the store. 
 I found this to really be a bummer, especially when having to choose between keeping two of your 
 favorite patterns. But there are also some great improvements. The additions of having the house 
 upgrade is to the sides is very nice. My favorite improvement in this game are the new hats and 
 other accessories that can be placed onto your character. It really allows you to make a character 
 that is uniquely you. My only real problem with the Game Cube problem was having clothing patterns 
 appear on my characters head as a hat. A tuxedo looks good as a shirt, not as a hat... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkdumpling
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Well.. Animal Crossing was the first game that I got for my DS. It's a good game overall but it 
 gets boring after a while.
  
  Since AC was the first game that I got, it was my only game for a while. AC is not a good game 
 on it's own, you will need other games too. AC got very boring really fast, but if you play it 
 and play other games on the side, its not so bad. =)
  
  AC on Wi-Fi is also good, but the downfall is that its kind of hard to find friends. (I sound like 
 a loner) . Unlike Mario Kart DS and Star Fox Command, there is no option to randomly find friends 
 to play/hang out with. = (
  
  I would recommend this game... but have another game on the side. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staticmario
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  The Games graphics can be a right blow at times but, The gameplay and experience is amazing! With 
 Wifi you can have the full action and adventure of trading, chatting and meeting friends! I have 
 the game and i am constanly asked for friend codes. If you are getting a DS for a birthday or a 
 christmas present i urge you to purchase a copy! With beautiful scenery and never ending gameplay 
 this truly is the game of the century!
  The game, when released was at top of the list and continued a classic for over 3 months. I hope 
 you get this game and enjoy the experience of a lifetime! If you have any questions be sure to 
 give me an email!
  Thanks
  Staticmario 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PerfectParadox1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 5, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  Players make their own stories. A player and up to three friends move into a village and just live 
 life, extend a home, interact with their neighbors and explore the village. Much of the cast of 
 the original Animal Crossing returns, including animals of all shapes and personality types: K. K. 
 Slider, Tom Nook, Blathers, Mr. Resetti and more. There are also a number of new characters. Players 
 move into village, buy a small house and then do whatever they want. Time and seasons pass as they 
 do in the real world, so there will always be something unpredictable happening. Collect or buy 
 items, talk to neighbors, go fishing, catch bugs, dig up treasure or hang out with human friends. 
 Tap the touch screen to type letters, draw designs for clothing or wallpaper, drag clothing or 
 items onto characters or just lead them around the world. Using DS Download Play or Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Connection, players can hang out in real time with up to three friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Good: Wi-fi connectivity, Graphics are some of the best on the DS, Golden Items are much easier 
 to obtain, special items are much more unique in this version, lots more fish and bugs, Clothing 
 Options improved alot.
  
  Bad: Friends come in and cut down your trees, Crazy Red isnt as fun as he was in the first game, 
 Obtaining Money is so much harder and difficult in this game, and is sometimes just annoying.
 
  
  Hey, the Wi-Fi is free with this game, so who can complain? But I seriously did like the GCN Animal 
 Crossing way better. But this is still a solid version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whatitistoburn4
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  used to this is animal crossing im sure if youv'e been alive for the past year that you have seen 
 the commercials of what appears to be a simply child's game by the looks of the graphics and characters 
 but if you play it you will realize how complex things can get i have played the original when 
 it first came out and yes after a while i did get bored with it and put it down and a week later 
 come back and play it again its not the kind of game you can play constantly as there is no real 
 time action but many events and things take place i have yet to play it over wifi and probally 
 never will because of the cost of the wifi connector but if you have a ds and you want something 
 you can play for short bursts of a time then this is a great choice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime_Crusade
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Why that I'm saying that Animal Crossing: Wild World is boring because I played the original game 
 on the Nintendo Gamecube before. The DS version isn't both as much original and as fun as the GC 
 version. For those of you who had played the GC version of Animal Crossing or doesn't have wireless 
 internet should stay away from buying the DS version. Animal Crossing: Wild World looks like the 
 original game, but doesn't reflect the GC game the everyone knows and love. For example, some of 
 the holidays arn't featured in the DS game and some features, like pattern saving, has been taken 
 away as well. The DS version isn't as good as the GC version, but regardless of that, it's Wi-Fi 
 compatible and is good on the go.
  
  It's nothing to miss out on except for special holidays, where you get bonus items. Every single 
 day when you're playing AC: WW, there's nothing much to do except for talking to your animal friends 
 (to either do some simple/boring tasks or just killing a couple of seconds talking and discussing 
 boring things) , fishing for fish, catching bugs, harvesting fruit to get money for paying entirely 
 for your house, and some more boring things to do. It's nothing good in Animal Crossing for both 
 hard-core and impatient gamers, who felt despirate to play a cool action game instead of holding 
 back all that fun just for one, simple-boring game like this game.
  
  If you like relaxing and less-stressful games with Wi-Fi connection to talk with your friends, 
 this game is the right game for you. But if you want some more activity than what Animal Crossing 
 delivers, I suggest playing Harvest Moon to keep you busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 1, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  the game is good but aftter a while it u get bored .... well basically u have to get a house and 
 decorate it then fish and catch bugs, sell them to earn money and buy a bigger house....
  decorating ur house is fun but how many times would u do it?
  fishing and catching bugs is also 
 fun but then again how long can u do it?
  u can sell ur stuff and earn money, buy a bigger house maybe... but how big do want ur house to 
 be?
  then u talk to ppl and they give u simple/boring tasks and after completing the tasks u go back 
 to them and get a gift... yay?
  the game has an option of using the touch screen but why bother when u could do the same thing 
 with the d-pad and the other controls...
  to sum it up, this game is good but gets old too fast... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomseal45
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It is the first Animal Crossing game I have played and it is great. One problem 
 I have is that it gets kinda old after awhile, but I still play it. I like the variety of items 
 in the game. I also like the fish they have. I am fishing for sharks now. It is good if you have 
 a busy life and not much time. You can pick it up and go. I wish Nook's shops would hold more furniture 
 and other items. I also would like special characters to come in on every day, not just the weekdays. 
 I have a problem with them just coming on the weekdays. They only come a couple of times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Popolopolous
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  How can I put this? Animal Crossing Wild World is simple to play and simple to understand, at the 
 same time being extremely quirky and very hard...
  
  The visuals need one word to describe them: rockingness. They aren't perfect, as when you're in 
 the cafe and K. K. Slider is playing to you, it's a touch chunky, but the feel that you're running 
 on a sphere and things loom in the distance then rapidly approach you is excellently done.
  
  The sound is presented in two different ways: The first is the outside way. The sound outside 
 is a calm, almost soothing tune. Inside, you can buy a stereo (or use the tape deck that is there 
 when you first move in) and on Saturday nights get K. K. Slider to play you a song, which is then 
 accesible for you to place in your stereo/tape deck. The voice acting - if you can call it that 
 - is charming. It's simply a cute little babble by your character, although it is possible to change 
 it the the traditional beeping sound, if you really wanted to. But who'd want to, as the babbling 
 is too cute to resist!
  
  The gameplay is going to need a loooooooong section, as there are mountains upon mountains of things 
 to do. I'll start with the moving in: The game starts in a cab, with a sort of amphibious creature 
 as your driver. He'll ask you your name and the name of your town, as well as numerous other unimportant 
 questions. He'll then pull up outside the town hall, and the receptionist will tell you where your 
 house is. Visit your house, and as you leave the local shop owner will give you a part time job 
 at his shop - this is mostly to start paying off your house mortgage and learn how to play. After 
 work, you're free to do whatever you want - buy certain items at the store (which expands the more 
 you buy there) and fish, catch bugs, dig for fossils and items and numerous other things depending 
 on what you buy. Everything you find and place in your inventory can be sold, and on top of that 
 you can change clothes (you can buy clothes at the tailor's shop) , design your own clothes (for 
 a fee) , furnish your home, run errands for residents - who will move in and out randomly - visit 
 the museum, where it's possible to buy coffee, create constellations, and donate certain things 
 to the staff member (an owl) who will then place them in his prepeared exhibits for public viewing. 
 Once you have paid off your house mortgage, your house is expanded, and eventually you will have 
 an absolute monster house! Everything else youcan find out for yourself - if I tried to put it 
 all here my head would explode.
  
  The multiplayer is also awesome - it's possible to just do a DS-to-DS multi and visit each other's 
 towns - or even better, let one person visit your town and trade items, donate money and simply 
 explore the town! The same applies for Wi-Fi, which is even more awesome due to the fact that you 
 can do the same thing, except with someone from a completely different country. The multi on this 
 game is some of the best I've seen.
  
  To sum this game up in a word, this game is AWESOME. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentay0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World for the DS is a port of the Gamecube game of the same name (minus the 
 Wild World part) . Okay first off I remember when this came out on the Gamecube among other launch 
 titles and I thought to myself Why would I get that game when I could get Super Mario Sunshine 
 or something . Well many year later after about a month of thinking about getting this, or just 
 saving my money, I decided what the heck might as well see what all the fuss is about. I did and 
 now I'm sad that I didn't get it back then but you know, no use crying over spilt milk. Anyway 
 to the review...
  
  Gameplay-The games gameplay is like The Sims done right unlike the Sims you do not have a whole 
 bunch of stats that you constantly have to keep above a certain level. So you can go where you 
 want when you want, without having to worry about your sleep meter or your bladder meter. You can 
 design your town your town (to an extent) and you can also customize your characters appearance.
 
  
  Graphics-The graphics look alright but you're not going to get a billion pixel explosion or anything, 
 but the graphics look ok for what going on.
  
  Sound-Sound is great, you can make your own town tune which plays every here and there.
  
  
 Value-The game is simple fun for anyone.
  
  Reviewer's tilt-If you have a DS you need this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Next_In_Line
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  When you have spare time, take a vacation to Animal Crossing Wild World! If you have a DS this 
 is a must have. When you first start it take 30 minutes to get the hang of things. The gameplay 
 is the same as the original, other than the online, but that is for later. The music that you hear 
 over and over again repeating is nice, but annoying. The music matches the feeling and gameplay 
 of the game, and in events, they make different music. The sound of running or walking is different 
 depending on what type of material you are walking on (ex. snow) . This game looks better than the 
 original, and it's because the world is round, and there are not squares. It's worth the 30 dollars, 
 or even more! Online is where you could meet up with friends or even with people online who want 
 to trade! There is always something to do in Animal Crossing (Wild World) even if your there or 
 not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: striker821
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Animal crossing has improved in only few ways which makes it to similar to the game cube version 
 and in which both versions get extremely boring over an extended period of time. Basically the 
 only things that these two games differ is that this one uses the touch screen allot in a way is 
 simple to do regular tasks in this game, the other new things are that the items and accessories 
 which have expanded by so much that it is so unbelievable. I strongly suggest this game to someone 
 new to the series, and if you have played the old one too much and are bored of it do not buy this 
 title hoping for something better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMTarien
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  There is a good chance you are thinking the exact same thing I was when you see this game. I am 
 a hard-core die-hard gamer. And I didnt know much about the Animal Crossing world. Just enough 
 to know that is sounded uber LAME. Well, being the Game Guru that I am, I had to at least try it. 
 I couldnt rightfully diss on something I didnt know anything about. So.. I played it. Boy was 
 I wrong. Animal Crossing: Wild World is a simulation life game. The game starts by you heading 
 to your new town in a cab where the cabbie is asking you many questions. These questions are 
 going to determine your gender and appearance. Once you get to the town you are introduced to some 
 basic characters (all the NPCs in this game are humanoid animals) and eventually get some tasks 
 to do from Nook (the resident Donald Trump of the town) . After doing said tasks.... Your free! 
  Most everyone wonders what the heck to do now. But that's the beauty of it, you can do ANYTHING 
 now! The time in the game rolls by in real time, following your DS clock. You start playing at 
 3 AM it will be 3 AM in the game. Seasons change as well. Same cheaters like to time travel (setting 
 your DS clock ahead to the time you need or to gain interest on your money in the bank) , though 
 I think that ruins the heart of the game. To list some of the things to do: You can donate one 
 type of each bug, fish and fossil to the museum in an attempt to fill it. You can donate paintings 
 to the museum to fill it. You can plant fruit and flowers. You can do any of the before mentioned 
 things to sell for Bells (the games currency) . Sound simple? Well there are only a couple holes 
 in the ground a day that might not even hold a fossil. And bugs and fish only show up at certain 
 time a year and weather conditions! You are really in for the long hall on this one. And money? 
 Hoooeeee! You can spend it paying off the mortgage on your house and eventually increase its size, 
 donate money to a failing community, buy furniture for your house, clothes, or just throw your 
 money in the bank. Thats not even everything! Do special events, chat with the NPCs, send gifts, 
 design patterns for clothes, hats, the ground! And then this game really opens up on local multiplayer 
 and Wi-Fi. The graphics on this game might look silly at first, but it is actually quite pleasing 
 to look at. The music score is nice. The controls are smooth as well. Thought the transitions from 
 buttons to touch screen can be a trifle annoying. You pres a button - it changes the mode to such, 
 then the buttons work. Same with the touch screen. Tap the screen to get it to accept touch, then 
 the touch pad works. But thats just a mild annoyance. Honestly this game is so simple its complex. 
 For people out there who like to collect everything? This game will well keep you busy. There is 
 so much furniture to collect it is mind boggling. And the sheer insane amount of customization 
 makes you want to bring everyone to your town to show it off! This game is hard to really explain. 
 It is much more an experience then something that can really be judged. The feel and enjoyment 
 factor will differ for people as much as the gameplay. In closing this review is short. I can cover 
 every little aspect, but that would be overkill. The summaries I have thrown in here should be 
 enough to perk your interests or detour you. One way or the other I would highly recommend giving 
 this game a try. Essentially this game isnt a shrill test of skill. Its a game of chill. Just 
 existing, hanging out and having fun! Bottom line this game is very addicting and is quite enjoyable 
 from almost every angle. It might not be for everyone, but it is definitely for most. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truk1600
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is very fun but as i sad its simple even people i know who cant play video games had 
 a fun time playing this game.
  first of all i like the 3D of the game that is a nother thing i like abought the game. but some 
 times whin you need to deliver a pacage you some times cant find the person and thats very annoing.
 
  other then that this game is fun and i hope that they make a new one for the Wii and that you 
 can conect with the DS.
  if you want to start to play the DS start with this game.
  or if you dont think that you wont like this game you should maby start with MCDS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deku-shrub
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  if you wona buy a game that will last you animal crossing wild world is your game. It basicaly never 
 ends, its a game were you are a human who moves into a town of animals (as you do) . you live in 
 a tiny house but if you pay more money to pay off your morgage your house will go bigger till its 
 a mansion. You will get more items and youll keep getting more and what keeps you goin is there 
 will be some great rare itemsthat will take ages to get. This is a great game i would sugest if 
 you like games like the sims or just want some fun. One bad thing is once youv done most things 
 it does get quite boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blatin_power
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  better than simms (in my oppinion) extreemly fun for all styles. the game play is awwsome and easy 
 to learn whitch is good. u dont want to stay and learn all the button hour after hours. this game 
 is simple and cool makes u feel like the npc have a total life of their own, they can like you 
 hate u and new characters move in... BAD SIDEs::
  when winter its snowy and theres allmost no way to get money
  the city you live in needs you 
 to::: get rid of weeds- quest to help others in town- plant flowers to make the place nicer, if 
 you dont, there will be less tourists AND if you stay a month whitout playing or treat the town 
 bad, some will move out until theres 4-5 houses a good thing if u want new nighbours
  JOBBS OR/AND SKILLS
  ATTENTION!!!!!
  skills are not determinated by points but by how god you 
 self are in the game att doing it for examle::you love fishing but when you'r going to catch a 
 bug you fail since you havent trained on it much... NPC STYLES :P
  not all are big smillies thera are a few draculas, pirates and agyptian zombies.
  2PLAYER
  when 
 you play two player the world is still no diferent exept you will be in your friends island
  things you can do: hide and seek tag
  snow ball fotball
  fight over: catching fish or bug
 
  race
  chat
  give or trade items
  eat togeter
  listen to the radio :P
  go shoping
  trap!!!! trap in your friend whit a shovel by digging around him TIP do it when hes fishing.
 
  
  GRAPHICS//OTHER
  graphics are lego star wars1
  still sutch a smooth playing feeling that makes you forget it and gives you a sensation of almost 
 real life ;P
  sounds are good BUT some of them can make u want to scream LOUD!
  still it gains in it.
  bonuses are there like : luigis shirt -- marios hat -- links sword -- space 
 stattions -- all other kinds of nintendo games.
  put this game in three words and it is :: MAKES YOUR DAY!... thanks for reading* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheetoz4444
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is good but later on it gets a little boring. While you start playing you notice that 
 it starts getting a little boring because you pass most of the goals and missions. All you get to 
 do is buy new items and fix your house from the inside. You also get to go fishing and bug catching. you 
 can also get music. For example: K. K. Calypso ------------------- Mr. K. K. ------------------- K. K. 
 Rock ------------------- K. K. Metal ------------------- K. K. Western +-------------+
  And this is my favorite one: K. K. DJ +-------------+ If you want to know more song or need help 
 or want to know some good cheats add me as a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spyrodrag4
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 18, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  animal crossing wild world is a famous game. many people say its the best game on the ds ... i completely 
 disagree. it is so repetitive and boring that u will soon be bored. you just do the same thing everyday 
 so there is no replay value. the only reddeming feature is that u can swear at the other characters 
 which is a lot of fun! but even so this game is a buggy mess and doesent deserve the scores it has 
 been given. so dont play this game unless you are a hardcore fan of the animal crossing series. i 
 give this a 5.2 only because the music was good and some of the characters like biskut are really 
 funny! im not saying DONT PLAY THIS CRAP or anything but animal crossing wild world is just not 
 that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freddyjasonmyer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Overall Score: 8/10. Even though it tends to get old after a while, Animal Crossing: Wild World 
 is a fun game. If you thought the original was highly customizable then wait until you see this 
 version. Now you can do what fans of the original have always dreamed: take your town on the go. 
 Idea: Live life in a town inhabited by talking animals. The meat of any AC game is making money 
 and spending it. Almost everything you do uses or helps you make Bells (the currency in Animal 
 Crossing games.) Controls (8/10) : Walking around is fairly simple: use the D-pad. Easy, right? 
 Managing your inventory is easier in the DS version with the help of the stylus. Shaking trees, 
 casting out your fishing line, swinging your net, etc. is done with the buttons. The buttons are 
 arguably easier to use than the stylus. You can walk using the stylus but it's not nearly as precise. 
 The best uses for the stylus are for the inventory, writing letters, and designing clothes. The 
 controls aren't anything special or fantastic, but they get the job done. Entertainment (9/10) : 
 It's always hard to explain what's so fun about Animal Crossing. How could arranging furniture, 
 talking, running errands, writing letters, fishing, and a bunch of other stuff be fun? Good question. 
 But the Animal Crossing games have made it ridiculously fun. There's just something about finding 
 the right look for the interior of your house, catching bugs and fish, and talking that makes it 
 fun in this game. Speaking of talking, the animals' dialogue is well-written. As I said in the 
 Idea, this game revolves around money. You can sell stuff at the local store run by a racoon named 
 Tom Nook to make money, then blow all your cash at the store the next day. At Nook's store there 
 are certain tools you can buy, such as a shovel, fishing pole, net, or axe. Wild World introduces 
 two new tools: a watering can and a slingshot. These two tools are not, however, very fun. The 
 slingshot is only for chasing down balloons and shooting them to make them drop presents. The watering 
 can is for watering flowers you plant. If you do not they will wither. This watering gets very 
 tedious and is by no means fun. And there's always that one question: What about the NES games? 
 In the original you could find and play some old NES games. Not so in this version. Big mistake, 
 Nintendo. The entertainment, despite its few shortcomings, is pretty good. Some days, however, 
 there really isn't much to do. Graphics (8/10) : The graphics in Wild World aren't bad. They aren't, 
 however, the best on the DS. They look a bit similar to the Gamecube version but lack the texture 
 of the previous game. Since this game is, from a certain point of view, a sequel a graphics downgrade 
 isn't a good thing. It couldn't be helped, but it simply doesn't look as good as the Gamecube version. 
 Sound (7/10) : Most of the sound is cheery and upbeat. But for a game that is meant to be played 
 a long time, the music grows repetitive. In the bar in the museum is a dog named K. K. Slider who 
 will play songs on Saturdays. He usually gives you the music to these songs that can be popped 
 into the tape deck (or whatever music object you might have.) This means you can have a variety 
 of music in your house. Much of the sounds seem recycled from the original, though. The animals' 
 babble grows very annoying as well. Replay Value (9/10) : There is so much to do in Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World it isn't even funny. It's scary. You could play this game for a year and still find 
 something you haven't seen yet. But there lies the problem. This game gets old by or before a year. 
 It's meant to be played for a very long time. Sadly, it gets old before a long time passes. But 
 Wild World is enjoyable while it lasts. Multiplayer (5/10) : Nintendo Wi-Fi uses a friend code system. 
 In Wild World you cannot play with someone online unless you do know their friend code. This is 
 very annoying. Multiplayer really isn't very special to begin with, either. It serves little purpose 
 but to show off one's town. Final Thoughts: Animal Crossing: Wild World is a good game. It has 
 shortcomings and does get old after a while, but it's a good game. If you wabt to buy this game 
 solely because it has online, don't. For fans of the original the ability to take your town with 
 you and even more customization is appealing but if you have played the original and that doesn't 
 appeal to you, there isn't a reason to buy this game. The formula doesn't change much from the 
 original. For sequels that isn't a bad thing. But for virtual-life type games such as Animal Crossing, 
 that is a very bad thing. Even more customization doesn't make this sequel an improvement over 
 the original. Wild World is fun for those who haven't played the original. But for those of us 
 who have, Animal Crossing: Wild World is not much of an improvement over the original. The Verdict: 
 This game isn't for everyone, but it is worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_guy2500
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing all started in Japan on Nintendo 64. It is known as Animal Forest there, and the 
 original was never released in US. See, Nintendo had doubts about US gamers actually having any 
 interest in the game, which we all obviously know was not true. However, over time, Animal Crossing 
 first appeared in the US region in the form of Animal Crossing for GC. It was a very good success 
 for the most part, but there were those annoying types complaining about it all the time. Funny 
 enough, Japan never actually even got the GC version of Animal Crossing that we know, and though 
 that may seem funny, it is more of a joke on us than them because later they got their own GC version 
 that was an upgrade over the US version! It included new features such as the ability to hold flowers, 
 give medicine to towns folk, and a way to shop at night, and some other things. But all previously 
 created things in the past, we now have the latest version of Animal Crossing (as of 2006) that 
 is probably best described as an expansion pack to the GCN version, because it doesn't change the 
 style of the game at all, just adds alot of new items, animals, and features to the mix. All in 
 all, this is probably the best version of Animal Crossing to date, and one of the most worth while 
 games to pick up for DS.
  
  One of the major features of this game, is the new online connection that allows people from all 
 over the world to visit each others town. It is kind of funny that Nintendo put online in this 
 game, because the original idea of Animal Crossing was to feel like an online game without really 
 being online! Whatever the case, this is sure to make fans of the previous games happy, if you 
 always wanted to be in the same town as your buddy at once and chat, you can do that in this game.
 
  
  But, online is a mode I like to stay away from, because to me, a game is only great if the game 
 is fun offline. Sure, online can be enjoyable for some long period of time, but like many things 
 in life it eventually dies. What I mean is, all online servers get shut down after a while, in 
 all games on console. Good news is, this game is wicked offline, and it is truly where the gameplay 
 shines the most. It is in truth, the exact same game that you may have played on gamecube, but 
 now it has a hell of a lot more content. You can also customize your character more, like buy hats 
 and glasses and stuff. And you can still make designs at the able sisters.
  
  One thing I love about this game is that it looks so good for a DS game. It has smooth textures, 
 nice character models. Most of the furniture looks very nice as well. Overall, it looks above average 
 for a DS game.
  
  Just for those of you who have never played Animal Crossing, the whole point of the game is, well, 
 pretty much what the point of real life is... Living. Money makes the game go round, because you 
 will be doing a lot of money managing, trust me. With the bank account, your dept to Tom Nook, 
 making donations to the poor town. It isn't really that difficult to make cash, because you can 
 sell almost anything you pick up, but it is hard to pay off those loans sometimes, and still have 
 some spending money to show for it. You might think you'd learn some valuable life lessons from 
 the game but, I don't think you will, because you can't just go out and catch bugs and fish, and 
 pick flowers and stuff and carry it to your local store for cash. The only real lesson you'll learn 
 from Animal Crossing is, don't hit the reset button. Of course, that'll never help you in real 
 life, and even that is something you'll still do on purpose from time to time despite the outcome.
 
  
  But the main drag in Animal Crossing is really all about your very own house. You are always paying 
 money to make it bigger, or buy new furniture and wallpaper for it. Some of your funds might go 
 to the occasional new hat or shades but, really this is where most of your money goes to.
  
  I can't reccomend this to hard core action game fans, myself I like about every genre of game, 
 as long as it's good. But all I can say is this game is pretty swell, and is extremely faithful 
 to the GC version. It is all in all a great virtual life game that definitely shouldn't be missed 
 by fans of the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robert-Sapolski
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is one of those games that looks really kidish. The visuals and presentation make 
 this look like a kids game. Some people may be put off by this but it doesnt stop it from being 
 highly addictive to anyone who plays this.
  
  You are you, you move to a randomly generated town (name of your choosing) to start a life. You 
 move away from home and arrive in your town. You get given a house by a squirrel who goes by the 
 name of Tom Nook. You then spend the majority of the game making money, paying off your debt to 
 Tom Nook and upgrading your house. But, theres tons to do along the way. First of all, you get 
 to make friends with the cute little Animals that live in your town, they will give you various 
 things to do in order to get a greater friendship and send you letters in the post which you can 
 reply to. What is so amazing about Animal Crossing is that the game moves on whilst your not playing 
 it.
  
  The DS's internal clock moves the game along when your not there. So everyday something different 
 is happening, sometimes Animals move away and this can be really upsetting and you can beg them 
 to stay. Sometimes there are some not very nice characters, in my game there is a giraffe named 
 Angus who bullies Tom Nook into buying fruit for a high price to make loads of money, thankfully 
 i was mean to him and he moved away. As there is something different everyday, the game keeps you 
 coming back, even if only for half an hour to an hour, you will play this game ever day just to 
 find out whats going on in your town.
  
  Theres loads to do in Animal Crossing and one of the main things is to completely fill your town 
 Museum. Every bug you catch, fossil you find or fish you catch can be donated to the Museum and 
 everything gets put on these really cool displays. Its really nice to invite people to your town 
 and show them round at all of the things youve caught or found. Animal Crossing also has a great 
 multiplayer element to it. You can play wi - fi online or DS to Ds for up to four players. This 
 is great for finding new things to do in other peoples different towns.
  
  What was really amazing is that when you play DS to DS Animals can move from your town to your 
 friends even after youve stopped playing. For example, I played DS to DS at the weekend, during 
 the week someone moved from my town. I played DS to DS again with that same person to find that 
 they moved from my town to his and that character remembered me. You can even send messages to 
 characters in other towns and this updates when you play DS to DS. All these features work online 
 as well. I think the only problem with Animal Crossing is that the sound can get on your nerves 
 a bit. The Animals seem to talk like The Clangers but in different pitches and it kind of gets 
 on your nerves.
  
  Overall Animal Crossing is a great game with lots of charm. Some may be but off with the kiddy 
 visuals but the way that your town lives when your not playing gives the game a great amount of 
 depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theartistgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  I bought this game without realizing that Hey! You can play with friends on Wi-Fi! At first, before 
 realizing this, I thought the game was amaizng in itself. It added things that the first animal 
 crossing never had, which made the ds version just that much better.
  
  After discoving the amazingness of Wi-Fi AA: WW action, I realize that this game had so much more 
 potential than I thought. You can actually visit other peoples towns that are across the country, 
 or even on the other side of the world! This game is definately a great addition that will be a 
 Player's Choice in a few years. I would highly suggest buying it and it is worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JazzySax4559
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  This Animal Crossing does not disappoint for it supplies the gamer with hours of fun. Its predecessor 
 for GameCube will go down as one of the best simulation games for the GC. While the DS version 
 will go down as one of the greatest simulation games for the system. There isn't a whole lot of 
 explaining. You move into town that you create. From there you get a temporary job working for 
 the local convient store. He will supply you with your first house that you can continue to upgrade 
 throughout the game. Some activities that you can do revolve around fishing, bug catching, digging 
 for fossils, and designing. Shopping is another activity that gets very addicting for those who 
 have a theme for their home and want to complete it. There is a new feature (that the GC version 
 did not have) that involves shooting down presents with a slingshot. Great idea. There are different 
 events in the game. These include fishing tourneys, bug offs, and fireworks. (just to name a few) 
 Don't miss out. They are very rewarding.
  The one bad thing about this game is that it sometimes becomes repetitious. So it is a good idea 
 to try and do different things each time you play the game. With this being a handheld game now, 
 it will not take long for you to grow tired of the fishing and catching bugs. But with the wi-fi, 
 that's when it becomes a different experience. Grab a friend and log on and enjoy each other's 
 town, challenge each other, and trade items. Sometimes you can find items you need in someone else's 
 town (please go to the store and buy and do not steal) . And if you go to forums you can make new 
 friends and keep in touch (don't give out personal information. please stay SAFE!) .
  I enjoyed this game because it was a classic put in a portable version. That made it great for 
 me to bug Hoppers will riding in car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: channtheman
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World has received mixed reviews since its release: some have enjoyed it 
 immensely and play it all the time, while others haven't enjoyed it so much. I am a group of the 
 latter.
  
  This game is repetitive. It forces you to play everyday. I didn't play it for a week or so and 
 when I went back to it, my town had a bunch of new residents that I didn't even know. The tasks 
 you do are also pretty boring. People act like fishing, catching bugs, searching for fossils, etc. 
 are extremely fun, when in reality, they're not. At the start of the game, you have to pay off 
 a mortgage before you can start adding on to your house. This makes the game more fun, but it still 
 gets boring because you have to do all that tedious stuff to get money to pay for everything. I 
 suppose you could say building your house is the games goal, but its not really any fun. The one 
 place where this game does shine though, is the WiFi.
  
  The only reason I think you should get this game is for the WiFi. It's really fun to go to other 
 people's towns and chat while you see what they have done. It's also fun to show off your town 
 to them. If WiFi is not available for you, I don't recommend it unless you can get it for cheap. 
 (I bought it at Walmart for 30 bucks and barely play it anymore though with the WiFi)
  
  The graphics are on the better side of the DS games I've seen with good looking characters and 
 all that. The sound when people talk remind me of Charlie Brown's older people that didn't even 
 use words. The use of the real time clock is cool but like I said earlier, it can mess you up if 
 you don't play everyday.
  
  All in all, Animal Crossing is an okay game, but the repetitive things that you have to do feel 
 more like a chore than like something fun. Don't buy into the hype that people will tell you. I 
 suggest you rent it or play a friends or something, and see if you like it. But, you have to play 
 it for more than just a few minutes, because it seems fun at first, but the tasks you do WILL get 
 boring after a few days of playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Faithe_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World now fits into the DS, and utilizes the features of the portable DS 
 with ease. The idea of AC: WW is that you are moving into a new town (which you will name) and begin 
 your life anew. With up to eight neighbors and various buildings like the Town Hall and Tom Nook's, 
 you'll have all the resources you need to create a flourishing town.
  
  Not much differs from the original Animal Crossing from the GC's formula, but with a few positive 
 tweaks, you'll find something new to do everyday. From being able to plant trees and flowers to 
 changing your hairsyles and hair accessories, the choices are endless. You're now able to have 
 neighbors visit your home, and if you forget about what time they visit, they won't be happy with 
 you. Being able to listen to other neighbors' conversations is another addition to the game, as 
 well as fishing and bug contests with your friendly neighbors. There are also more events in AC: WW 
 than in the original, so don't forget to take part in the monthly Flea Market or Fishing/Bug Tourney. 
 On Sundays, Joan visits your town to sell you turnips. The innovative stalk market is your best 
 bet to earn money faster to pay off the ridiculous mortgage payments. Try Wednesday, Thursdays, 
 and Fridays as the peak days for selling your turnips to Tom Nook.
  
  The feature that really shines, however, is the ability to show off your town or visit someone 
 else's! It truly is a great addition to the game, and this may be the sole reason to pick this 
 game up. Wi-F- is an excellent addition to the game. You can invite up to 4 friends to visit your 
 town, but friend codes MUST be exchanged before you can step out from your town. This may seem 
 dangerous, but if you begin to notice a hacker is in your town, simply turn off the game and all 
 will be well. Make sure to watch out for the infamous Mario and Luigi hackers. Although Wi-Fi is 
 not needed to enjoy the game, it does make it much better.
  
  Of course, keeping your town in excellent condition and staying on good terms with your neighbors 
 is very laborious. Attempting to collect and complete various sets of furniture can also be tiresome 
 and unworthy of time if it's not your thing. So while it may be fun for the first few months, the 
 game may lose its appeal as time progresses. Normally, you need to play the game once a day to 
 clean out the weeds in your town, check on your villagers, etc. Overall, you will end up doing 
 the same thing everyday. This isn't a game that's in between games, as you'll find that the game 
 will demand your attention everyday.
  
  AND THE VERDICT IS:
  
  If you are a fan of the AC series, then definitely give this one a try. You won't be disappointed! 
 As for those that haven't tried AC before, invest in the game only if it appeals to you. Otherwise, 
 it will just be a waste of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EACHNAMEISTAKEN
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Game play:
  A ton to do.
  
  Anyone can pick up this game and start going. Once you get done with the few initial tasks your 
 free to do whatever you want in the world of Animal Crossing. You can become a fish or bug collector 
 or just focus on making your house bigger. The game is addictive, once you start on a task it's 
 difficult to stop. Random events will keep you playing for at least a little bit every day. What 
 really sets this game apart from the Gamecube version is Wifi. No longer is it difficult to find 
 an item that you want to decorate your house. You just find someone online who has it and pay/trade 
 them for it.
  
  Graphics
  Refreshing and sharp. Definitely one of the best for the DS.
  
  Sound
  The tunes are quirky and compliment the gameplay well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is so fun.. We all have a copy, my girlfriend my brother, her sons, and my daughter/ thats 
 right folks we actually have AC day on saturdays where we still play this over the top fun game 
 that never ends. My daughter loves all the animals me I like watching the trees loaded with money. 
 Its good clean family fun or a fun time by just yourself. I have the biggest house over 5 million 
 and I havent even went online yet. This game is loads of funa nd should not be missed!
  
  Dont miss this one or the one on GC these games are sure to have your 8 year old occupied for every 
 minute you let them play... Im sold! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okami195
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 13, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is the latest installment in the Animal Crossing series, which debuted 
 on the Nintendo GameCube to give children and older players alike a well rounded and simple yet 
 infinitely deep game that the family could enjoy. Now, thanks to Nintendo's portable DS system, 
 fans of the series can bring the entire Animal Crossing world with them anywhere they go, complete 
 with some new features and a nice WiFi multiplayer addition.
  
  As far as gameplay is concerned, fans of the series will feel right at home with AC: WW. Players 
 are thrown into a randomly generated world, complete with a town hall that hosts all of the area 
 events, a museum that gives players the opportunity to collect items for, two shops to buy various 
 items and clothes from, and several residents that all have their own lifestyles that they'll attend 
 to daily. The player's own character will be randomly created as well, though their appearance 
 can be changed later in the game. Overall, the best way to describe AC: WW is that it's similar 
 to the Sims, in the fact that players are left to do virtually whatever they want in a constantly 
 evolving town. Players can run errands for their neighbors to gain their friendship (and presents) , 
 they can decorate and expand their homes with the hundreds of items present in the game, they can 
 hunt and fish for both pets and donations to contribute to the museum, and much, much more. Without 
 a specific goal to shoot for, players are left with a very open feel as to how to play this game 
 and, while it's not for everyone, the open-ended gameplay and endless number of customizable options 
 will satisfy just about any one that plays this game. Players can also control the game completely 
 via the stylus, or using a more standard button layout, depending on their preference.
  
  In terms of graphics, AC: WW is top notch considering it's still technically a DS title. While players 
 will definitely notice the texturizing of the graphics while playing, the representation is so 
 true to its GameCube counterpart that fans of the series will come to love the looks of the game 
 in no time. The game is gorgeous, especially when compared to other DS titles on the market today, 
 as it renders the entire world in full 3D. The world is bright and colorful, especially when played 
 on the DS Lite, and any fan of portable games will be able to truly appreciate the look.
  
  Sound, like the graphics, is true to its GameCube counterpart, which means that simple, yet entertaining 
 tunes will be accompanying you throughout the game. Different songs play depending on the passing 
 of the day, at different locations, and during events, and players even have the option to write 
 their own Town Tune that will play during special occasions. All the sound effects fit the cute 
 world perfectly, and, surprisingly, none of this gets too terribly obnoxious after playing for 
 some time.
  
  Perhaps one of the strongest points of AC: WW, though, is its new multiplayer ability that lets 
 players visit each others' towns via local wireless connection or the WiFi capability to connect 
 to friends anywhere on the globe. In-game characters will acknowledge and remember their visitors, 
 and even have the ability to move between towns of players. While this is the closest players will 
 get to co-op play on the DS to date, it definitely adds a nice touch to an already great game.
 
  
  Overall, Animal Crossing: Wild World is a nice remake of the original GameCube game, but comes 
 complete with several new features to keep the game fresh. While the game isn't for everyone, most 
 will find something to entertain themselves with in the game's immense, yet simple world to explore. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kraeg
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best game on the DS. It takes the old formula and makes stunning tweaks. 
 Everything is a bit more simplistic than before but still manages to offers hundreds more options. 
 The clothes designing is amazing and arranging your rooms to gets HRA points is great fun. Unfortunately, 
 you can quickly tire of the mindless repetition to earn money and you spend half of your time wiching 
 that you could slap the animals. Also, dialogue has little originality and generally give you no 
 reason to talk to the creatures, tasks are infrequent, gifts more so. Overall, brilliant but little 
 lifespan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zills-
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 11, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game it provides months of fun and though it seldom changes week after week its 
 still is extremely enjoyable. The graphics are very good comparable to Super Mario 64 DS. This 
 game falls short of a ten because of the fact it gets boring after a while just like the Sims and 
 many other games but after a while is around a year or 8 months so thats still good. I never played 
 the gamecube version before and played this no problem so if your new to the Animal Crossing series 
 thats no problem. This game is arguably the best game out for DS to date and buying this game would 
 not be a mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rey06
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  O. k. let me tell you, if you have a ds then you must buy this game. Why? cause this game is fun, 
 innovative and highly addictive. First you choose a character a girl or a boy, than you name your 
 town... yes your own town with people ehem not actually people they are animals around you and 
 they all like you, you feel like a ruler or a hero in town. You could plant some flowers or trees, 
 even chop em. Collect more fish, fossils, paintings and other stuff and put it on the museum or 
 keep it to yourself!: lol: There is simply just tons of things you could do such as you could mail 
 to your friends via wi-fi or your friends on town (not with wi-fi) .
  I can simply say its both fun and innovative! Wi-fi just adds to the fun and it makes these game 
 more amazing, once you've share friend codes with your friends you could go to their town, or invite 
 them to your town! You could chat each other, play games and do everything the thing you want! 
 All in all this game is just so fun just buy it! If you are new to this series and want a fresh 
 new gameplay then you might want to check this out. And for ds-owners this is a cool game just 
 try it out if u haven't yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is Soo fun and the good part about it is that it never really gets boring!
  Because theres soo much to do on this game!
  You can invit friends over, buy things, upgrade 
 your house, talk to neighbors, make new friends, plant trees, send mail to your friends, catch 
 fish and bugs too, collect sea shells, and play games with your friends!
  It NEVER gets boring!
  And if you run out of festiviles to do in your town, make your own!
 
  you can creat games and make prizes!
  And then invit your friends over to have some fun!
  And theres No challenge to this game soo if you by this game and you are hoping that it will be 
 a adventure or a game that gives you a good challenge you may be disapointed in this game there 
 are no worrys!
  its like a virtural paradise!
  I think this game is worth buying!
  I highly recommend it!
  But if you are going to get a Wii I suggest you get it on the Wii!
 
  But if you want to take it where ever you go then buy the DS version! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jervous
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 9, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing game! I loved the old one, and now a sequel! In the older one, Animal Crossing 
 (or also known as Animal Forest) you had to put in two memory cards (Your's and a friend's) to 
 go to each other's towns.
  But you still couldn't play at the same time, seeing each other. Which made Animal Crossing a lower 
 rating. But in Animal Crossing WW, you can have 4 friends go to any town you want! (If you have 
 their friend code or their DS is close) You can play games and other stuff, but this game never 
 really gets boring. The only bad thing is on WiFi, you have to have their friend code listed, and 
 they have to have your friend code listed. But Single Player is amazing too! You can take care 
 of flowers, upgrade your house, buy furniture, catch fish and bugs, talk to villagers and make 
 friends, buy accessories for your character, go to a hair salon, buy clothes, make your town whatever 
 you want with pattern placing on the ground, plant trees, run around, run from bees, etc. There 
 is so much to do in this great game, you may not have time to finish what you want to do in a day!
 
  This game is VERY worth it! Buy it today! Or tomorrow! Or a week from now!
  
  Jervous, signing off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninja929
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  Having played the gamecube version, it was a no brainer to pick this title up. Although a simplified 
 version of it's predecessor, it's still a game worthy to any DS collection. One element missing 
 from this version are the original Nintendo games that caught my attention. The core game still 
 hooks a person. Animal Crossing makes mundane tasks like furniture arrangement, fishing, fossil 
 collecting, along with many others entertaining and addicting. The game is is real time so if you're 
 playing the game on a friday afternoon, it will be Friday afternoon in the game. Event like Christmas 
 and holidays also happen in real time as well. Although Animal Crossing seems to be a cute game 
 for children, I am hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicShadowBat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Back at the launch of the Gamecube there was a weird little game that was one of the most eye catching 
 games on the system. This game was Animal Crossing. The story of the game was that you were a person 
 moving to a new town. You then met Tom Nook and you bought you first house from him. From this 
 the game turned into this wide world where you could do whatever you wanted. You could start earning 
 bells so you can pay back you debt to Tom Nook. You could ignore that all together and just go 
 out and start collecting things. You could make t-shirts or buy firnishings for you house. This 
 is basically what Animal Crossing Wild World is except for a few new features. The gameplay in 
 Animal Crossing Wild World is really good. The controls are easy to pick up and learn to use. The 
 screens are easy to navigate and are easy to understand. When you are designing a shirt it is easy 
 to do that to. You use the styles to point where you want the the colors to go. Making designs 
 are easy to make to. The biggest addition to Wild World is multiplyer. You can do this several 
 ways. You can do it wirelessly or you can do it with the Nintendo Wifi. These both are good systems 
 but Wifi has one major problem. When you want to go visit someone, you have to have their friend 
 code first. This is really iritating and maybe kind of frustrating. The online play works really 
 well. There is almost no slowing down in the action. You can also talk to the people who visit 
 your town. They can take fruit of your trees, bye stuff in your shop, or just walk around. It is 
 really cool to show people your house and show of any of your rare items. The graphics in the game 
 are pretty good to. They look almost exactly as they did on the Gamecube, but the is pretty amazing 
 considering that this is a hand held game. The buildings have lots of detail. The items you buy 
 look really good. There are item sets in the game and they all have their own unique look to them. 
 Your animal neighbors also look really good. Their clothes have good details and their bodys have 
 lots of details to. The graphics in the game still look really good on the DS and maybe look a 
 little bit better. The sound in the game is exactly like the sound from the origonal game. The 
 same toons from just walking around town are back and still sound good. K. K Slider is back with 
 his awsome toons. The best music comes from K. K. His music is unique and all of it sounds really 
 good. The music in the game is really easy to enjoy and is hard to get sick of. Overall this game 
 keeps the charm that the origonal Animal Crossing had and really lives up to the expectations on 
 it. This is one of the must have games for the DS and should be on your wish list if you don't 
 already have it on it. This game is also a perfect reason to get the Nintendo WiFi addaptore out 
 and running again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gammagoat
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  The game has great features. It is like your living two lives at once. The only problem is, its 
 too life like. The game revolves around everyday chores and hobbies. Its not a bad game, but after 
 a few months of checking mail for that well-liked resident to move out gets old. You tend to forget 
 to play it, especially if you have other things you have to do during the day. Also, since it is 
 in real time, events only occur during certain parts of the year, and if you miss those events, 
 you have 2 options. Cheat and change the clock or wait a year. Cheating has its consequences, and 
 waiting is too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonKage
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  A much better version now that it is on a handheld! No more acres to bother you and more new things 
 added to it!
  
  For instance, more BIGGER and BETTER houses than before! More rare items such as the legendary 
 Metroid from Metroid Prime! The Triforce from The Legend Of Zelda! And items you use daily like 
 the slingshot or the watering can!
  
  Shoot balloons down for presents or shoot 15 down for the rare GOLDEN SLINGSHOT which can shoot 
 3 bullets at the same time, and in all different directions! But there's more, keep your town perfect 
 for 14 days straight and you will get the magical GOLDEN WATERING CAN which when you water some 
 dead flowers, the next day, it will become golden roses!
  
  No longer buy everything in Tom Nook's shop, now buy clothes in the Mable Sisters! Also hats and 
 accessories!
  
  A great game to play which have new and improved add features to it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreakLink
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is a near perfect port of the earlier Gamecube game. The most important 
 part of any game is the gameplay and Animal Crossing Wild World has the best gameplay of any DS 
 game because you can do whatever you want whenever you want. The graphics for this game are great 
 for DS if slightly worse than they were on Gamecube. The sound is the only slightly negative thing 
 about this game the animal voices in this game are so annoying I play with the sound of sometimes. This 
 game is well worth the 30 dollar pricetag in fact I would pay 40 bucks. In the end this is the best 
 Nintendo DS game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brybry
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I really think this game is fun. It still doesn't match up to the first one, but at least you don't 
 have to wear the silly hats! There is one down side, and that's the annoying mole that pops out 
 if you don't save! I do have to say, this is a great DS game!!! I really am sure this is a great 
 game. I think though, is that they could have put in some more things. I thnk, if you want a fun 
 easy game (with no objetive) then you should get this. But, really overall this is a great game! 
 I still wonder how the Wii one will be? It's probably good though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xid32
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good! I like the open ended nature in it. But the gameplay leaves something to 
 be desired if you have already played it's predecessor on the gamecube. If I had one complaint, 
 it is going to go to the character named 'Resetti' people who don't know resetti is, he is this 
 damn mole that comes whenever you turn off the game without saving, it's down right f***ing annoying. 
 Moving on to another positive, you can furnish your house, and have up to 3 more roomates in your 
 house, and if they are trashing the place, you can just as easily kick them out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicnshadowfan
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  So what is Animal Crossing? Well, it's like this. You live with animals. Yeah, that's it. That's 
 all it is! But you got to agree with me, this is one heck of a game! Altough it does not have the 
 elements to make you laugh like the GameCube version did, the touch screen feature is awesome! 
 It dosen't come complete with NES games (I know. I was upset, too...) . But TVs have channels now! 
 Not just one boring one like the apple TV. And the Wi-Fi feature is amazing (I don't have Wi-Fi 
 but who cares?) ! It also takes a longer time for you to upgrade your house and Nook's store! But 
 the music isn't as beautiful as the GameCube version...
  
  Hope this helps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wangamanga
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:00 am PT
Review:  When I saw the advert of AC: WW I went crazy. Every 3 seconds I was mumbling must buy, must buy, 
 must buy..... MUST BUY!!! HOOOOYAAAA!
  At the end I bought it from Game for the highest price: &pound;32.99. I was soooooo into it. It's 
 super addictive. I skipped my 10th birthday because I was busy playing AC: WW. Sell fish, bugs, 
 fossils, hidden items. Buy:
  Shovel
  Watering Pale
  Net
  Plants
  Over 3000 other clothes &amp; furniture
  
  Unlockables:
  
  House 1st/ How to Unlock: There 
 from the beggining
  House 2/ How to unlock: pay Tom Nooks 1st morgage
  House 3/How to Unlock: pay Tom Nooks 2nd morgage
  House 4/How to unlock: pay Tom Nooks 3rd morgage
 
  House 5/How to unlock: pay Tom Nooks 4th morgage
  Last House-mansion/How to unlock: cash in Tom Nooks final morgage!
  
  Golden Shovel/ How to 
 unlock: get 2 shovel and bury 1 of 'em, the next day dig it out and tah dah: it's a G Shovel.
 
  
  Golden Pale/ How to unlock: keep the whole of AC flowery.
  
  Golden Net/ How to unlock: catch a certain amaount of bugs.
  
  AND MANY MANY MORE....
  
 
  Grahpics- 8/10
  Superbly animated!
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  What can I say. No DS game better. I like fishing best. I caught a Dodrado once and sold it for 
 15,000* AC $!!!!
  
  Sound-9/10
  Uplifting joyful music, very catchy mind. #bum bum dum dum wee do yo# oh sorry, it's just that 
 AC music is extra extra super duper catchy!
  
  Lifespan-9/10
  Super duper addictive. But gets boring after a month... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cortot20
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Improvong upon the Orignal Gamecube title was a difficult task. But this kind of game is perfectly 
 suited to the DS. if it had a handwriting translator that would be even better but I will take 
 what I can get. The newest part to the game is the online options. Not only can go to other towns 
 to find new items or hang out with someone but nintendo can add content this way as well. Such 
 as holidays or special items. One of the most important parts of the game is also its most annoying 
 features. Time, Time controls everything. including plant growth. So in order to keep your town 
 weed free you most play it regularly. There is plenty to do in Animal Crossing and its a great 
 game simply put. If it could be called a game as there is no overall objective, other than to just 
 live in the town and go about your daily life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesimsfrk111
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  FACT: Animal Crossing Wild World is a FANTASTIC videogame.
  Ir has eaten up countless hours of my life that quite frankly I enjoyed.
  It is a life simulation, 
 with all these cute little animals living in your city.
  Pay off your debt, fish, catch bugs, plant trees, socialize with the neighbors!
  Those are only 
 a few things you can do in this revolutionary videogame.
  This game is a must-buy for ANY DS owner and is DEFINITTELY worth whatever the price is of this 
 game (it shouldn't be over $30...) .
  
  SUM IT UP SENTENCE: Animal Crossing Wild World is an amazing revolutinary expirience that shouldn't 
 be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razy1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest games out there for the ds or at all. there aren't to many games better 
 then this! if you dont have this game go out and buy it right now!!! i TOTALLY RECCOMMEND THIS 
 GAME TO EVERY ONE ESPECIALLY THE FANS OF THE FIRTS ANIMAL CROSSNG FOR THE GAME CUBE SYSTEM! ANIMAL 
 CROSSING WILD WORLD IS A GREAT GAME! IF YOU DONT HAVE A DS YOU SHOULD GET ONE FOR THIS GAME! THIS 
 IS DEFFINTLY A MUST BUY VIDEO GAME! NOT ONLY IS THIS WAY TOTALLY BETTER THEN THE FIRST ANIMAL CROSSING 
 IT IS BETTER THEN ALMOST ALL OTHER GAMES ON THE DS / DS LITE! IT IS AMAZINGLY AWESOME! WITH THE 
 NEW WIFI YOU CAN GO TO OTHER PEOPLES TOWNS AND LOOK AT IT! YOU CAN ALSO LET THEM VISIT YOU WITH 
 YOUR FRIEND CODE! THIS IS A MUST BUY GAME AND EVERY ONE SHOULD AGREE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princetonwuki
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 27, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is grrreat! Sometimes your character is evil! Also includes stupid jokes everytime you 
 catch a bug or fishy!!! Funny music, great value, and tiny characters! Lots of new stuff everyday 
 and more than 600 items to collect and over 100 bugs and fish to catch, and some can only be found 
 at different times of the happy year! If it is a sad year, you will have to buy a new DS because 
 sad years make your DS explode. Mad years are mean to you on Wednesdays. Shy years are very funny 
 if you're their friend and they have many eyes to eat with you on special Tuesdays except Ruby 
 Tuesdays!
  
  Gameplay: 8
  
  The gameplay is shmooblay! Kinda confusing sometimes, though!! The stylus kinda sucks with this 
 game because of the smagadones, and you can always use thee smacky d-pad for ultimate madness!
 
  
  Graphics: 9
  
  The graphics are smoolala! It is great!! Lots of great clothing to design your characters look, 
 and smacky whacky items for your house! Sometimes houses disappear and stupid stuff happen to everything 
 if you smaber too much. Buildings disappear when you eat fruit behind it... 0. o
  
  Sound: 9
  
  The sound is absolutely smainy! It has great music!! Music changes every hour of 
 the day, and you can make your own town tune for your towny! Sometimes it is cooler if you have 
 a Tony Baloney Action figure! K. K. Slider is a dog who comes every Saturday night from 8 pm to 
 12 pm and you can request a song from him and get ONE song each character. The songs are unbelievably 
 snackers, and theres over 70 great smabby songs!
  
  Value: 10!
  
  The value on this game is smookatay! It is endless! Theres over 600 items to collect, and some 
 are very rare and cause smally attackers! Bugs and fish can only be caught at certain times of 
 the year, too! And when your done with this smabby stuff, you can just play with a WiFi friend 
 online! It is great smaggatizers! And you can chat with them, too! THE VALUE IS JUST MAGICALLY 
 DELICIOUS!
  
  Tilt: 9
  
  The tilt on this game should be smorkers! Even Porky the Pig says so! Yeppers!
  
  I hope you 
 liked this review today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingamez
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 27, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing : Wild World (or AC: WW) is an impresive sequel for the original game for GCN. There 
 are tons of things to do. Catching fish, decorating your home, talking to other characters, or 
 using the wi-fi.
  
  When you start off your house it's very small. But don't worry, once you get into the game you 
 can upgrade. You can decorate your house with furniture and anything else you want to make your 
 house symbolize your personality. The money in this game is bells. Everything is bought with bells. 
 Bells, bells, bells.
  
  This game runs in real-time. There are pros and cons to this:
  Pros: Very cool and intriguing. For example, if it is 8 am in real life (depending on your time 
 zone and what you set your DS time to) then it is 8 am in AC: WW. If its 9 pm then its 9pm in the 
 game and it becomes nighttime. Also, the seasons are real time too. If its winter in real-life 
 then it may snow in AC: WW. Note that it when it snows outside your house it doesnt mean it will 
 snow in the game.
  
  Cons: The game can take control of your life. You will be worried about your town and because its 
 in real-time, things are always changing and you will be constantly checking on the game for anyhting 
 new.
  
  Instead of the normal goals you would expect from games you can create your own goals, such as 
 to have a huge house, catch a certain fish, anything. You will find yourself trying to acheive 
 certain goals you set for yourself.
  
  Gameplay: Lots of things to do- 9
  Graphics- Colorful, and visually appealing. Since DS doesnt have the best graphics I give it an 
 8
  Sound- Good and matches the game but can get repetitive- 8
  Value- Great price- 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberZero104
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  There are times when bad games are released. And right down here with the worst DS games such as 
 Pokemon Dash and Nanostray, is called Animal Crossing: Wild World. Like the name suggests, the 
 game is a sequel of the GCN AC. Unfortunately, it's even worse than its prequel. Executing Review 
 Program now.
  
  Gameplay: Awful. Pitiful. Terrible. You name it. ACWW has one of the most failed gameplay ever. 
 First, you tell the game what your name is, then your village name. Then, all you do is wander 
 around talking to people, catch flies, watch fireworks and a whole bunch of garbage. But worst 
 of all, the game is WAY too easy, and there are no NES games to play. What, NES games are unpopular 
 now? :P The game case also signals that the game is compactable with Wi-Fi Connection. I heard 
 that you can visit other people's villages when in Wi-Fi, but even online can't save it. Yes, it's 
 that bad.
  
  Graphics: Also one of the most failed graphics. Everything looks like cardboard cutouts, all the 
 characters look really childish and all of the animations are clipping.
  
  Sound: Most cheesiest sound I've ever heard. When talking to people, you hear that character speaking 
 gibberish. They could've used English, or no voice acting.
  
  Value: Everything in this game is highly repetitive, even in the beginning. Very cheap showing.
 
  
  Final words: What was going to be the perfect game, fails to deliver any pros with cons that low 
 it so badly. The game is worse than its GCN prequel, the entire game is way too easy (yeah, I prefer 
 more challenging games) , there are no NES games to play (why?) and the entire game is aimed at 
 a younger audience. Unless you want to be bored or you want to be five years old again, avoid this 
 game at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Plenty of things to do, fun activities, good customization, leaves you to make your own goals.
 
  Cons: Sometimes activities get repetitive, real time can be hard to adjust to with a game, game 
 can make you go by it's schedule instead of your own.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a very...... interesting game. The game starts you off in a cab. 
 The cab driver asks you questions, and you answer accordingly. You get to choose the name of your 
 town, your name, and there are other questions that decide what you look like and what gender you 
 are. When you reach your destination, a sly raccoon named Tom Nook pushes a home and mortgage on 
 you. Which isn't really a problem, since you have no where else to live, right? It's really small 
 at first, but you can upgrade later. You have a mortgage to pay off, so Tom Nook offers you a job 
 for a while. You run errands and do things for him for a while, and that pays off a bit of your 
 mortgage. After this, you can make your own goals. You can pay off your mortgage at any time you 
 want, and when you are finished you can talk to Tom Nook and upgrade your house. The basic ways 
 to pay off your house is by collecting sea shells, digging up fossils, fishing, catching bugs, 
 and picking fruit. A few of these things require tools to do, but they are a very good investment. 
 If you want to dig up stuff, you can buy a shovel. To fish, you buy a Fishing Rod, and to catch 
 bugs you buy a net. All these cost 500 bells each and are all available at Nook's shop. The sea 
 shells can be collected on the beach, all you have to do is pick them up, no investment required. 
 After that, you can sell these to Tom Nook for some bells. (or, if you want to, you can donate 
 fossils, fish or bugs to the museum)
  
  There is usually alot to do in the game, all year round. It can snow in the winter, and you get 
 a chance to make perfect snowmen and get rare furniture items for your home. There are many fish 
 and insects in the game; some are available at all times, but most are only available during certain 
 months. And the rest is up to you. You can make your own goals, such as catching every fish, getting 
 the biggest house, filling up the museum completely, things like that. The game also has fun events, 
 ex. every Saturday night K. K. Slider comes to the Cafe in the museum. You can get songs for the 
 radio in your house from him. There is usually something new, so it's fun to come back and see 
 what is happening. There are also over 600 furniture items in the game, which means plenty of customization 
 for your house:) Overall, the game is quite addictive, and it's easy to have fun with because you 
 can do things your way, but the events can be annoying because you have to actually be on time 
 for them in real life. Another cool thing about the game is that you can go to the Able Sisters' 
 clothing shop. The Able Sisters sell shirts, Umbrellas and hats. Though if you want, you can design 
 your own clothes to wear there, which is pretty fun because you can get creative. It costs 350 
 bells. You use the sylus, and it is pretty much a simplified paint program that you design on. 
 It has basic colors, and controls. You can also choose something off of the display rack, if you 
 want, or choose to display your own creations.
  
  Gameplay-Plenty to do, nice residents in the town, fun customization
  Graphics-Cute, colorful, 
 and 3D. Very nice:)
  Sound-Nice sound effects; The music matches the game, but it can get repetitive sometimes
  Value-Alot 
 to do, new events keep you coming back 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan12_2004
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Animal crossing: Wild World is MUCH better than the original animal crossing for the GC. Why? b/c 
 there is a lot more things for you to do. you can visit the cafe, make constellations, have some1 
 over at your house, compete with other villagers to catch something, get that new stylish hairdo 
 you always wanted, expand your house to even GREATER heights than in GC, Choose location of house, 
 have more than one person live in YOUR house, water flowers (&amp; create hybrids) , get a slingshot 
 &amp; shoot at baloons in the sky to get goodies. The best thing about it though is Wi-fi. Wi-fi 
 is highly addictive on this game cus you can do ANYTHING with other players. it is amazing.
  Gameplay: pretty good. better with Wi-fi
  Graphics: their ok, better for GC i think
  Sound: pretty 
 cool musice (especially when you vist K. K. Slider)
  value: worth the 30 bucks that it costs.
  overall: the game is pretty good &amp; one of my favorite 
 DS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lmon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 18, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Jeez, what can be said about Animal Crossing..... a lot. First of all, this is not an action game. 
 And it does not want to be. I like Halo, Far Cry, and Splinter Cell, but I will play this game 
 much more than any of the other games.
  ACWW features a few great gameplay features, including writing letters, fishing, stalk market (yes, 
 I spelled that right) , and decorating your house. Buying and selling items in game and over WiFi 
 gets really addictive really quickly, and soon you wil need to come back every day just to get 
 on top of everything. This game is like crack. I bought it the day after it came out and I still 
 can't put it down. Like Nintendogs, it requires a lot of time-sensitive events, and coming back 
 no longer becomes a choice, it is a routine. Of course, there are a few flaws. The graphics aren't 
 exactly pretty, but it really does push the DS. The WiFi connectivity can get glitchy and wierd, 
 but it is still fun. The touch screen stuff feels tacted on, save for writing letters, which is 
 much improved over AW for the 'Cube. Overrall, do not buy this game if you have some semblence 
 of a life. For the rest of us, spend the money now. It will be the best investment you've made 
 for your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 18, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  Animal crossing is a bit of a weird game. You live in a virtual town full of animals trying to 
 pay of debts, customize your avatar, and get more furniture. It's an amazing idea full of possibuilitys 
 to be as addictive as diablo II, but just falls a bit short. (I never owned animal crossing for 
 gamecube BTW)
  
  Pros:
  -Features online
  -Lots of items to collect
  -Touch screen controls add a nice touch for menus
  -Tons of KK slider music and music for every 
 hour of the day
  -Tons of NPCs
  -Random Town Generator is great.
  
  Cons:
  -I often encounter NPCs who feel like copy n paste of other NPCs
  -Lack of real holidays is monsterously 
 disapointing. -The custom holidays are extremely lame. Are you telling me I traded in halloween 
 and easter for crap like yay day?
  -It's a small world. Your town will will feel small after 1 day.
  -Little items truly worth going 
 for.
  -Online is exacally as it sounds, online. No special features for you having a friend over, it's 
 just him being over...
  
  Having played this game for a while, I just feel like it's empty exicution. This game could have 
 easly been 9.0 up but the town just doesn't evolve with youenough. We just need more seasonal stuff 
 to fill in the gaps with nothing. For instance, on summer, there's a fireworks show every saturday 
 night, but there's nothing on fall other than a 1 week acorn festival. Items also lack, there's 
 just nothing worth showing off and not enough hugly rare expensive things, nothing hugly fun like 
 an interactive airhockey table.
  
  That being said, this game will not disapoint too much those lookingfor animal crossing on the 
 go. It's got the essensials and does have online like people wanted, just feels like they deleted 
 more feature then they added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonhartman84
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  I love this game, there is so much to buy and do. It has great graphics and will provide hours 
 and days of entertainment. Nintendo occasionally releases special items via the wi-fi connection, 
 and in store DS download stations. The game is fun, and is very cool to pay off your house, and 
 get a bigger one to house all of your awesome items. It also is a very patience driven game seeing 
 how it is played in real time. It also is a lot of fun to play with friends on the DS connection 
 or Nintendo Wi-fi. It is fun to trade items, and compare insects, fish, and fossils with friends 
 and other players online. Farming fruit is also very fun, and provides most of your income on the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryMe01
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 18, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  With many already playing this game, it is hard to disagree with the vast number of players continually 
 living in a virtual town with animals! Yes, animals (hence the name Animal Crossing) . If you have 
 played the Sims (and I havent) , then it should be farmilar where you control what you want to do.
 
  
  Better still, with the power and capabilities of Nintendo's new portable, the Nintendo DS (Lite) , 
 touching and Wi-Fi is simple. All you need is the included stylus and a wireless internet connection 
 (and a friend code) . But it is so much better than sharing memory cards and even better when 3 
 other players in your town (or not when axes are involved) .
  
  If you own a DS and yet to pick up a copy, do so and join the MILLIONS playing the amazing game. 
 It will own! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_returns29
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great game that has unbelievably good replay value, but, the game 
 wasn't made for everyone. The game is a life simulator game, so, if you do not like games without 
 action, this is not the game for you.
  
  Animal Crossing is excellent; the game becomes your second life. The game is simply about living 
 a life in a small town. You can do many things in the town, such as from picking fruit off trees, 
 speaking to the residents, exploring, fishing, looking for treasure and earning money.
  
  At first, the game will rotate around you paying off your home loan. An animal named Tom Nook builds 
 a house for you and then he expects you to pay off your entire loan. So you need to earn money 
 to pay off your loan. Eventually, when you pay it off, he will offer to make your house bigger, 
 if you accept, you will have to pay off another loan.
  
  The game also has great W-Fi capabilities. You are able to actually visit other peoples towns 
 from around the world and they can visit yours. You can go to other peoples towns and speak to 
 them face to face, meet their residents, collect their fruit from trees and much more.
  
  All up, I think Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great game if it was designed for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GungraveZero
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Now let's start off by saying this game is great. It has everything you don't want to do in real 
 life packed into a cartridge, but it makes it fun. It has tons to do, but it also sometimes has 
 nothing to do. The reason I'm stopping this game from getting a 10 is because it can be down right 
 boring at times. When Nook's is closed, there are no special events in town, and you don't have 
 a usb connector then consider yourself done for the day. But I mean its not really that big of 
 a problem anyway, but still. If you want to buy a ds game, and you don't really care then pick 
 it up, but there are a few games better than this so dont rush out to the store to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunk3nrabbit
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 11, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  I'm going to make this one short, because i have to get back to playing it. This game is really 
 good! I played the original Animal Crossing and was soo addicted. I really like how you can customise 
 you room with different items and you have to pay off your loan.
  
  Gameplay-
  The fact that there are cutesy animals that roam the land scape make it a bit hard to play at school, 
 i wish i could make it a bit darker so it was more manly to play, and then quickly switch it back 
 to cutesy at home! Since there are a lot of things to but to put in your home, i just use action 
 replay because the whole collecting thing doesnt go well with me (its the same thing that I don't 
 like about Pokemon) , but other than that, getting everything together and then showing off to other 
 people is fun. Ooh and i forgot to mention, the fact that you can have a bunch of people come over 
 and visit your town is awesome. The last thing that I found to be neat was the extra NPCs that 
 would visit your town from time to time and give you a few extra enhancements to your character.
 
  
  Graphics-
  This is where AC: WW has its weak points, it often looks like they used the gamecube version's graphics 
 and tried to use them on the DS. This often results in grainy images and a high need for anti aliasing 
 that the DS doesn't have.
  
  Sound-
  Not much to say here, since it is a cutesy game, there doesnt need to be great sound, the animal 
 noises are funny and the background music is pleasant and not too repeating.
  
  Value-
  Since this game is never ending and you have to play it every day to get the full effect (you don't 
 have to play EVERY day though) you can never beat it and never be done with it. Now that's value!
 
  
  Tilt-
  I had a really great time playing this game, i love every moment that I play, because i never know 
 what will happen the next week, it changes as time ACTUAL TIME progresses, that's cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fires_in_the_sk
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  So Animal crossing on the DS yippee this game is brillent I love it its a little diffrent from 
 the Game Cube.
  I beilve it very cleaver as it works to real time which is very clever (use internal clock) reminds 
 me of Christmas Nights on the Saturn.
  I found it funny becasue I tend to play games in bed so when I start playing there all in bed them 
 selfs. Which was intresting.
  Another clever iteam is when you conect DS to DS your friends can vist and each Town is diffrent. 
 Also the chraicters react to new vistors. They also rember your friends when they left.
  Its very fun.
  Ok Graphics - The graphics are strong and clear I love it in the coffee shop you 
 see them making the coffee little touchs like that make it great.
  Sound - The sounds are clear and strong.
  So over all a fab game and enjoyable to play all through 
 the day and night 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowboy_Aki
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  I don't exactly own it yet, but this is an extremely fun game, believe me, i just played it randomly! 
 as i said i played a friends copy and i love it to hell and back! it is just plain fun, very addictive, and 
 im trying to buy it for myself, so expect to see my friend code pop-up soon! it is very worth the 
 thirty-four dollars, i suggest buying it all the way, you'll be instantly hooked! so if you have 
 the money, get it, if you don't, try your best to get that cash! well, im off the raise money to buy 
 my own copy now!
  just remember, you may not like it at first, but keep going, it gets better, besides, its one of the 
 easiest games to learn that i know of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldaplaya
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I can't say enough about AC: WW. This is by far the best game I've ever played on the DS. It kicks 
 most games for consoles' in the cojones. It has no questionable content. It's way better than the 
 first Animal Crossing for many reasons. It has online and offline multiplayer so three people can 
 come and visit your town while you're playing. You can buy hats, wigs, glasses, masks, etc. In 
 the last game you could only buy shirts to wear. You can make your own constellations. There are 
 more songs to listen to. And it is a lot funner controlling your character with a stylus. I'm pretty 
 sure there are more fish and bugs to catch also.
  
  In AC: WW you start out in a taxi. The driver is a frog named Kapp'n. He'll ask you some questions 
 that determine whether you're a boy or a girl, what color and shape you're eyes are, and what your 
 town will look like. When you get there, a raccoon named Tom Nook wants to hire you so you can 
 pay off your house that he's letting you live in. You have to work for him for a little while. 
 You have to run errands like getting to know everyone in town, writing letters and such. When you're 
 done he will give you some money. Then for the rest of the game you harvest fruit, catch bugs and 
 fish, find fossils, etc. to pay Nook back. You can even run around and shake trees to get items. 
 Sometimes you get money, sometimes you get furniture, other times you get a bees nest, and sometimes 
 you get nothing. There's also a museum where you can donate bugs, fish, fossils, and paintings. 
 The game uses your DS's clock for real time in the game.
  
  After you pay your house off, Nook will ask you if you want to remodel your house. If you say yes, 
 the next morning your house will be bigger and you have to pay off your house again. This happens 
 many times and is the point of the game. One of my favorite things about Animal Crossing games 
 is the ability to create your own patterns. You can use them on your shirts, your wallpaper, your 
 carpet, umbrellas, hats, and even put them on the ground.
  
  To sum it up, this game is meant to be played little a little bit everyday. But it still rocks. 
 It would make a great gift for just about anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic_kid15
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  best game i seen for the ds i never stop palying it i can not let my animals down i play like 4 
 hours a day i can not stop playing it one of the best games i have (well halo1 and 2 is better 
 then it) whats bad is the online play what if someone chop down your trees and your not looking 
 i mean i dont what to bye new trees to plant in the game its a waste of time i real like the game 
 its like real life u pay your debt and u put what you what in your house its a littile better then 
 animal crossing for the gamecube i say that people who have a ds should buy this game a most have 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeb1uk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  I've never played the first animal crossing so it's quite good for me to be playing an 'updated' 
 version of it. Animal Crossing: Wild World is a fun and creative game for a big range of gamers. 
 Gameplay: Lots and lots and lots of things to do, you can concentrate on catching bugs, fishing, 
 digging up fossils, decorating your house and more! The main focus of the game is to pay off your 
 dept to Nook increasing the size of your home more and more, lots of great interactive items to 
 place in your house including some very nice furniture sets. You can create amazing towns using 
 the pattern creator, I've seen beach themed towns, christmas themed, urban style, forest style, 
 it's fantastic! Just let your imagination go wild and see what you can get
  
  Graphics:
  The game runs smoothly with no lag at all, the only graphic errors I see are when you create patterns, 
 they go a bit blocky and out of shape depending on where you're standing, other than that are the 
 hacks people do XD the graphics are great and good enough, you don't anything better for a game 
 like this
  
  Sound:
  Nice calming music that varies throughtout the time and season. I really like the music at early 
 morning at around 02:00am aswell as the new years eve music. Character's voices are funny to listen 
 to, not as in the funny that you burst out laughing but it's not annoying to listen to. There's 
 sound effects for the river, sea, mosquitoes, bees and other insects.
  
  Value:
  I never like to judge the value of the game but I would say it'd be worth your &pound;35 but I 
 got it for &pound;20 off ebay hahah!
  
  Overall a game just a bit better than great, recommened for most gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyreofKoL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I've played the original Animal Crossing to death. I have so many bells that I actualy have 
 to bury money just to keep my inventory clear. :P Then I hear about an Animal Crossing game coming 
 out for Nintendo's wonderful DS handheld gaming system. Now that I've played it, I really wonder 
 why it took me so long to get it. Animal Crossing: Wild World is, of course, just as addictive 
 as it's GCN counterpart. However, Nintendo took the time and energy to improve on a whole plethera 
 of small things that plagued the first game in this DS gem. That and they added a buttload of great 
 new items, catchable creatures, and even MORE things to do. The other thing that impressed me is 
 the smoothness of the game. Good job, Nintendo. Keep it comin'! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prophet-0-doom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  I played this game on my brothers DS and loved it! From that moment on i was hooked. The game combines 
 some nice looking visuals with fun gameplay. granted, the game CAN get a tad boring after a while. 
 But hey, its meant to be played in short, spontaneous bursts anyway. The most fun can be had online, 
 in my opinion. Its a blast fishing, shopping and catching bugs with up to three friends. Its great 
 fun to chat, and play practical jokes on my friends in game. muahaha! I strongly recommend this 
 game for ANYONE who has the 30 bucks needed to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing started off very successful on the Gamecube, but I believe that Nintendo actually 
 did the smart thing and make it portable. There are many features in the games. I found a few negatives 
 in the game was well. You are the only human in the town you create, you will have 3 citizens in 
 the town who have nothing to do except do hobbies such as fish, dig holes, shop down trees, etc... 
 You can have up to 4 human players at a time. The thing I find bad about that, is that you will 
 all have to share a house, instead of owning your own. That means, the people that play your game 
 can buy new furniture and redecorate the house. But when it is time to pay your mortgage, your 
 friends or family will have to spare a few Bells (money) so you can expand your house. The graphics 
 in the game are pretty sweet for 3D. The map is kind of odd. It seems you are walking on a big 
 ball, like a giant on the earth. The people are well designed, as are the eqiupment, clothes, etc... 
 Well, there isn't much of a story to the game. You are just living day by day making your house 
 bigger, and bigger. You are designing your house for a company to give you a rating and sometimes, 
 even a present. You will meet new people, discover new abilities, and do tons of other things.
 
  
  Communication is a big part in this game. If you didn't talk, read mail or send mail, then you 
 probably wouldn't get to do the coolest things in the game. So, make sure to talk to people to 
 find out cool and interesting facts, tests, and even places!
  
  As a Nintendo and all around video game fanatic, I would recommend this game to kids. Adults, this 
 could be a cool thing to try as well. It is a game that shows you how you can live and have fun. 
 It is a game I should recommend to any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaner258
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 8, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This game comes together so well that it can easily be reccomended to anyone who likes this type 
 of game.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is great. You can do anything you want in a day and it is great how it is 
 all real time. What makers it great is how the day isn't over in 10 minutes so you don't have to 
 rush to do anything. You can just take you time and do what you want. You can collect several things: 
 Fish, bugs, fossils, and paintings. All of these you can keep or you can donate to the museum. 
 The painting finding is a little annoying because You can only get paintings from Redd and most 
 of his paintings are fake. The fishing is a little hard some times but that makes it a challenge. 
 You can eventually get a house that is really great and you can fill it with all kinds of stuff. 
 ou can have different themes in each room and you can even invite the animals from your town to 
 come over. You can talk to the animals and become freinds with them, if you are best friends with 
 them they might give you their picture. This is a real challenge to do but it is rewarding.
  
  Online play: No Alex idiot Navaro, the online is not strangely limited! You should have to 
 get the friend code of someone because there are hackers. They can plant dangerous things in your 
 town that could corrupt your card and they can put rocks in front of the store and your house. 
 The online is great but you need to find a good forum with enough people so you can make a fiar 
 bit of cash off of selling and trading. I myself have had much fun making loads of cashand finding 
 hackers towns where they give away stuff for free.
  
  Graphics: Nothing too special.... it is true that nothing is as colourful or sharp as the gamcube 
 version. The faces do look a lot better they are not blurry or anything. Nothing is really bad 
 that you could get annoyed by. It pretty much maxes out the DS power which is limited which really 
 sucks. I wish the DS was more powerful because I would pay the extra 50-100 bucks for Gamecube 
 graphics. Wild world would have looked so awsome. The outside flowers and anything on the ground 
 look like paper. There aren't any graphical glitches which is good.
  
  Sound: Ten out of Ten here. There are many different songs for each time of the day and it all 
 sounds really good. There a lot a K. K. slider songs (a singing dog) and it is all really great 
 because you can have them playing in your house all the time. The sounds for catching things and 
 other stuff are great two. The animal talking noises are fine. The songs for the two stores, the 
 museum, the coffe shop, and the main gate are all well done. Yes the sound is great and sometimes 
 I just hold the DS to my ear and listen to the great music.
  
  Value: 49.99? 39.99? great deals! If this game was 69.99 it would still be worth it. This game 
 gives you one of the longest and best experiences you could ever ask for. It is so addictive and 
 if you have an attention span and you are patient sometimes then this game can offer you more then 
 100 hours of fun, which it has for me, for sure. When I first got this I played it for 8 hours 
 a day, maybe even more. Yes more because I had to recharge my DS almost every night.
  
  Tilt: Tilt is 9 because there are some things nintendo did that annoy the crap out of me. MR. RESSETII. 
 THIS WAS THE WORST THING EVER THOUGHT UP. Why would they put this in. With the ds's crappy power 
 button I would lways hit the power button instead of the start button. Loosing all of the stuff 
 I did. To make that worse you have this idot screan at you for a while. Sometimes he asks yout 
 to say sorry to him and when you do he keep telling you to say it again and again. The stupid sliders 
 are dumb and it takes so long for him to accept your apology. What a waste of time. Sometimes what 
 if you start the game but the you have to go away fast so you havn't done anything. You shut it 
 off. You have to endure the rath of stupid ressetti.
  
  Wow I just wrote a lot.... well this game should be bought by anyone who owns a ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogameplaya2
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good, very good in fact for about the first week. After that i rarely find 
 myself playing it, and when I do i'm not playing it for very long at all. It will last you a while 
 but don't burn it out. I would find myself playing it for 2 or 3 hours a day for a while then I 
 just stopped. I might suggest another game because the wifi is terrible unless you have a friend 
 that has this game. You run out of things to do quickly during the course of the game. I might 
 play this game once every two weeks. I think if you enjoyed the original animal crossing for gamecube 
 you will feel right at home. But I don't think it is worth $35. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheatdealer
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  The game is pretty good and having your town on the go is great and all, but there could have been 
 more.
  
  Animal Crossing WW is great to play on a rainy day and it is a good traveling game to play in the 
 car when you are bored. The most fun you can have is only if you have people that live near you 
 or if you have Wifi. Other than that all you can do is stay in your town and try to get a big freakin' 
 house. You can sell stuff and make a buisiness delivering stuff and having an orchard.
  
  If you don't have Wifi than the game is kind of good but would be better with Wifi. There really 
 isn't a storyline to this game except buy and sell stuff. It is pretty much freeroam but only in 
 your own town.
  
  You can talk to your friends and fish, but there isn't alot else you can do. A persone that never 
 played the others will like this game but I say it is okay.
  
  Thank you for your time and go buy this game if you want to!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcspenny
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I never played the original Animal Crossing, but after hearing all of the positive reviews I decided 
 to give the DS version a try. I must admit that I was quite impressed - for the first month and 
 a half.
  
  Since ACWW runs in real time then everything moves quite slow, which I'm fine with. However, I'm 
 the kind of person who can play DS for hours on end and prefer games that let you do that. Fishing 
 is fun for awhile, but it's not something that keeps you thrilled for hours. Same goes for bug 
 catching. There are also only 3 - 4 things to dig up most days. You can also talk to the townspeople 
 and run errands for them. However, all of the things I just mentioned can be fun for around an 
 hour, if you're lucky. You'll find yourself wanting to set the clock ahead to speed things up. 
 Unfortunately, even that grows boring after awhile.
  
  After a couple months of playing this game I had grown fully tired of it and started playing the 
 newer games in my collection. However, I must admit that I went back to it again after a couple 
 months of not playing it and am enjoying it like it's new again.
  
  ACWW is a collector's game. And, since fish and bugs change with the season, it could take you 
 a year at least (unless you time travel) to collect everything. That is definitely a plus. There 
 is also tons of furniture to collect.
  
  All in all this is a really good game. However, just make sure you have other games handy for when 
 this one grows boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clubhaxor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 20, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is an addictive Virtual Life Sim. You can customise your house and your 
 character. It is hard to describe what makes this game so addictive maybe because it is a game 
 that rewards time. You can make money by Fishing, selling Items, Bug Catching and running erands 
 for your fellow citizens of your own town. There are heaps of different town people that you can 
 have come live with you, sometimes they leave which makes room for new faces :) It can get repetitive 
 and tiresome but you'll be back the next day for some more I promise you! I play Animal Crossing 
 everyday it is an excellent DS game. The museum is a great feature of the game. It is very satisfying 
 when you complete a collection. There are 4 Exhibits to complete, The Fossil, The Insect, The aquatic 
 and the Art Gallery. The animal townfolk are fun to talk to and are very funny but it can get a 
 bit boring staying in your own town, talking to the same people so that's why Wifi is such a welcomed 
 addition! You can visit friends in other towns and they can visit you too! Get this game! You won't 
 be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thehuntingdeath
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  I have played the GC version a lot and I was really looking forward to get this one, but it wasn't 
 as good as its prequel. I may just be tired of the style, but I think the GC version is way better. 
 But it got some bright sides too. it's kinda hard and the special events are ok, still, I got tired 
 of it in a week or something like that. The map is hard to understand and it makes some tasks harder, 
 all the animals keeps moving out and new one's coming, I don't know if anyone thinks that is good 
 or bad, but I think it suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AsadMahdi59
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  u start off with a small house and no money. u can expand ur house by paying off your mortgage, 
 then u can decorate with over 500 pieces of furniture. u can make friends with the people in ur 
 town, fish , catch bugs dig up fossils and make ur town look nice by planting trees and flowers.
 
  theres also a museum to donate things 2 like fish and bugs. u can desing clothing or wall patterns 
 or floor patterns. there are also many random visitors that come 2 ur town on any given day of 
 the week. there r several events and ur town changes with the seasons so u'll have many things 
 2 do.
  this game has good graphics, the music is fun and changes hourly. if u like the game play animal 
 crossing will last u a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaps
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Wild World is the portable version of the GameCube virtual life hit, where youre plonked in a 
 colourful town full of cute little animals to lead a second life. Little has changed from the original. 
 Upon arriving in your newly named town, Tom Nook, the raccoon owner of the local store, has kindly 
 built a house for you to call your own. Sadly, you are now in debt to him and must slowly repay 
 the large sum. But it doesnt end there. As soon as youre done paying off the mortgage, Nook happily 
 expands your home in return for more bells (the town currency) and you find yourself owing him 
 more than youd like. Repeat this several times, getting extra rooms and a second floor in the 
 process, until you end up with a mansion. Sounds boring, doesnt it?
  
  But part of what makes Wild World so appealing is its charm. From the first moment you step into 
 your randomly generated town -- a neat feature that makes each one unique -- youll notice that 
 each resident is brimming with personality. Such examples include Blathers, the enthusiastic, yet 
 bug-fearing owl curator of the museum, and Phyllis, the irritable duck working night shifts at 
 the town hall. Your town is also populated with up to eight other residents selected at random 
 from over two hundred. The species of your neighbours vary wildly -- from dogs to bears to even 
 anteaters -- as do their personalities. Some are extremely peppy and make the most out of their 
 day, while others are more level-headed. There are even some that love being rude and grumpy for 
 the sake of it.
  
  None of them are shy to interact with you, either. If you talk to them one too many times, theyll 
 make it clear that theyre sick of the sight of you. Whenever you smack them with your bug net 
 repeatedly, they wont be afraid to shout at you. And if youre close friends with them, expect 
 to lend an ear as they moan about neighbours they dont get on with. Over the course of your stay, 
 youll also find them challenging you to bug-catching duels, inviting themselves to your home, 
 and taking advantage of your good nature by asking you to deliver letters and presents.
  
  Oh my goodness, theyre just like your real friends!
  
  In fact, getting rewarded for running 
 errands and selling rare bugs and fish to Nook are two of the many ways you can pay off your debt. 
 But if you dont fancy delving into wildlife, how about digging up fossils or shooting down balloons 
 of presents with your slingshot instead? Or maybe youd like to sell fruit off trees. Of course, 
 your life doesnt have to revolve around your mortgage. Maybe you get kicks out of cross-breeding 
 flowers, donating to the local museum, or chilling out at the bar with a cup of warm coffee. There 
 is an overwhelming amount that you can spend hours upon hours on before you get bored, and because 
 of its portable nature, theres no reason why you cant play in short bursts either.
  
  Another big draw is the games use of the DS internal clock, and fortunately, its not just used 
 for cosmetics sake. Sure, its nice to see the sky bright when you play during the day and dark 
 at night, but its even more pleasing to attend pre-arranged birthday bashes and firework displays 
 or hear the clock chime every hour -- neatly accompanied by a change of music thereafter. But the 
 real beauty of it is that it takes a whole year to experience everything within Wild World. With 
 the environment changing season by season, leaves slowly turn brown during the autumn before snow 
 falls upon the earth at the end of the year. Likewise, you may find yourself catching butterflies 
 and honeybees during the brighter months, yet hearing locusts buzzing and crickets chirping instead 
 as the days get shorter.
  
  Just like in real life, you can also customise the way you and your house look. Over time, by either 
 regularly checking in Nooks and the local clothes store or by receiving gifts from fellow residents, 
 youll build up a sizeable catalogue full of clothes, wallpapers, floors, furniture, and even writing 
 paper. And with an eventually roomy house, youll have the opportunity to decorate it as you see 
 fit. Maybe you want a second bedroom, a game room, a glamorous kitchen, or an indoor garden; the 
 choices are endless. The same applies to customising your characters appearance too. Heck, why 
 not wear a bushy moustache, top hat, and a tuxedo?
  
  Of course, if youve played Animal Crossing on the Cube, barely any of this is new. So, in an 
 attempt to make buying this version more justifiable for veterans, Wild World comes with online 
 play through the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Unfortunately, it feels like an afterthought, as theres 
 a distinct lack of activities to do when visiting someone elses town. Besides trading items and 
 visiting your buddies neighbours, theres barely anything to justify the hassle of micromanaging 
 friend codes. Its also worth noting that hanging out in your own town becomes repetitive and unexciting 
 after a while. Though the temptations of shopping and chatting with your favourite animals may 
 be enough to keep you visiting from time to time, tasks like catching bugs and fish and earning 
 money grow old. Nevertheless, even if you dont stick with Wild World long enough to see everything, 
 itll easily keep you occupied for at least a month.
  
  The effort that has gone into this virtual life simulation is substantial, even going beyond the 
 games everyday tasks. Should you disturb a beehive, a swarm of bees will sting you in the face; 
 if you dare to reset the game without saving, a short-tempered mole will pay a less than friendly 
 visit telling you off; and you may find yourself occasionally reeling in worn tyres and smelly 
 boots whilst fishing. What Wild World does best is immerse you in its vibrant little world. With 
 these small touches, lively personalities, and some great utilisation of the handhelds internal 
 clock, at times it really does feel like youre living another life -- all in your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonganu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  this is the most addicting game ever!!!!! its sooooo awesome i play it for hours on end but the 
 only flaw in it is you have to share a house with other players on your ds. but the whole real 
 time thing is sooo kool . its my favorite ds game of all time. this beats the crap out of the lame 
 rayman remake that they made. but seriusly this is the bestest game ever i love it i have tthe 
 best house ever!!!!!!!!!!!!
  ill be posting my friend code soon but im really lazy so maybe someday..... i think this game has 
 incredible graphics and insane gameplay. its a timeless game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninty_man
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 16, 2006 2:45 am PT
Review:  Well how do i start this game is one of my favourite games on any console!!!! i was even sayin 
 it was better than GTA once bloody hell!!!
  
  Graphics: Very smooth and nice good affects 8/10
  
  Gameplay: Works well with the touch or the 
 d-pad easy to get used to aswell
  10/10
  
  Sound: Youll wanna play this game just to listen to some of the music and not to forget how good 
 kk. sliders singing is 10/10
  
  Value: I got this game before U. K realese from ebay in january and im still playin this game, it 
 wont have u hooked for months it will have u hooked for years!!!! 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwgober92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 15, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Well, let me start off by saying that ive been playing this game from day ONE and actually had 
 one of the most popular towns in the game at one point. Once I got it i was intstantly hooked. 
 I was fixing to go on a LONG (21hr) road trip and when i got this game i actually wasnt that excited 
 because im not, well, WASNT, a big AC fan. But after i began playing i couldnt stop! I would reccomend 
 any beginner to begin by cutting down ALL non-fruit trees and creating organized patches of trees. 
 This helps a whole heck of alot when you first start because you are able to go in and get what 
 you need fast and easy without having to scrounge around and skip through several trees to find 
 the last few bells for that new table. After that your pretty much set.... a golden axe helps wonders 
 if you can manage to get a scallop and see pascal early enough in the game. A golden watering can 
 also helps with breeding flowers that sell for MILLIONS of bells online... So, i guess thats about 
 it for ACWW. The single player is fun and the Online (Wi-Fi) is AWSOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! so if you 
 havent gotten this game yet then go get it and join the new MMORPG on the ds, lol... well, its 
 not that massive, but im sure you get the point ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGTNAPALM
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  when i first heard of animal crossing, i thought "hey, thats a dumb idea, itl never work. i was 
 wrong.
  
  i like to play it on my spare time. there are so many things to collect, though... i have t pet 
 hammer head!!! his name is joe... i liked the viarity of items. so wide i cant even begin to describe.
 
  now, people mighit tell you its a girly game. its not. it is like the sims, but you dont worry 
 about feeding anything. you DO, however pay a morgage, but that last about 6 days.
  
  you can also make your house bigger after you pay off. you can make custome designs (for a price) , 
 and put theme all on several stuff, like wallpaper and umbrellas.
  
  if you are running out of things to do on the ds, get this. it deffenantly lasts a long time.
 
  
  i give it a 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy45
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 12, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  this game is awsome, especially the multi-player part. see the point of the game is your a charachter 
 who just moved to a new town by yourself, and your living on your own! you can decorate your house 
 to the style of which you choose, you can name your person and even name your town! you can have 
 three friends visit your town at a time or you can go to a freinds town! you and three friends 
 can visit a town at once which means some days you might want to just have a little time to yourself 
 fishing or maybe you would want to party with your friends! sometimes having people could get annoying 
 but its still fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacf
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  when reading other reviews i found that this game would get old in about a month. i wasn't sure 
 if i sould get it, then my sister got it and i loved it. i play this game usually once a day, sometimes 
 more, its just so addicting! to me this game just wont get old! theres always new things to do, 
 and you can even cosmize your house and the sounds inside of it!. theres something new everyday. theres 
 partys, events, contests and even seaons, there are different fish and bugs every season so you 
 dont usually just catch the same bugs. this is probably the one of the best simulation games realeased 
 for ds, and it has great graphics and the sound dosnt get old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBooom
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 8, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  A great game with a lot of 'replay value', as the game is always changing and there are always 
 new things to do. In Animal Crossing you collect or create items for your house, meet your computer 
 controlled neighbours and explore your town. It does get repetitive if you play it often, and you 
 will find yourself without anything new to do, but the basic things.
  
  The most fun that you can get out of the game is to take your character and visit other people's 
 towns, or allow them to visit you, and this is where the game really comes to life. It's not an 
 easy task to get started, visiting towns, but when you have found people with the game (most likely 
 on the internet) who wish to play online, it's great. You can chat away using the on screen keyboard 
 and do whatever else you like really. Get new items.
  
  Though that is about it. The technology behind animal crossing is advanced, and opens up the way 
 for new similar games taking advantage of the online WiFi connection, hopefully Animal Crossing 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P0W3RH0U53
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 3, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World
  
  Well i have to say at first I thought it was the most boring game i had ever seen. But I was bored 
 and thought "what the heck!", so I bought it.
  WOW This is one of my favorite games ever! I cant believe I didnt buy this sooner. Single Player:
 
  
  Well there is a lot to do at first but then later you realize you need some more people to spice 
 things up. But we'll get to the multiplayer later.....
  You start off in a cab with your driver. This is where he will ask you questions about yourself 
 like "I didn't quite get your name, what was it again?" and so on. When you finish this you arrive 
 in your customed named town. The first thing you do is go into the townhall.
  This is where you are shown your map and such. Next, you go take a look at your house. When you 
 exit, Nook, the stores manager tells you that he built that house, and that you need to pay for 
 it.
  Yes you have to work for it! You do a couple of chores for him like "deliver this to him", or "Go 
 plant some flowers outside." This takes about a halfhour but be patient. You wont have to work 
 for him again.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  Now that your finished, you have a lot to do. Go meet neighbors, water plants etc. Then you realize, 
 "Hey theres' nothing to do, i need better fruit, I dont have any good items in stock!" Well lets 
 put gamespot to better use. Ask for one of your friends friend code or post on the ds forum. Also 
 when you goto other peoples towns, their neighbors can move to your town!
  So they can meet your friend again, when your friends come to your town.
  You can ask for your 
 friends to lend you some money but a better way to make your own money is to take some of their 
 fruit that you dont have in your town back to your town and plant it. Fruit that you didnt have 
 before is worth more than double fruit you had before. (The best........ no, an easier way to make 
 money is to sell fruit)
  Also this is a kinda game that may get boring fast, BUT!!!
  when you play the next day, there is always something new and that is what makes this game so enjoyable.
 
  
  I give this game a 9.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PattyGoalie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 3, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: It is a great game. You can catch fish, bugs, dig up fossils to give to your museum or 
 sell. You can also pay off your loan and you can collect furniture for your house. Special characters 
 such as a UFO, Crazy Redd's tent (he sells rare items) a fortune teller, and a turnip seller that 
 comes once a week to sell turnips. Turnips are used to get lots of bells (money) . There are many 
 other special characters. There are special events that are sometimes in your town like fireworks, 
 Fish tournaments, Bug-Offs (tournament) and many more. Graphics: The graphics are good but they 
 could have been a little bit more realistic with the characters and the ground. I do like it how 
 they made the neighbours houses look and your own house look.
  
  Sound: The songs get very stale very easy but the gameplay makes up for it. The sound is pretty 
 good besides that.
  
  Recommendation: I would highly recommend this game to anyone because you can't stop playing it 
 and it is just a great virtual life game.
  
  Value: It is about $60 Canadian and $40 USA.
  
  I hope you recommend this review, Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreichel
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 1, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a game worth wasting 10-20 Mins of your life on almost each day. It 
 wont make you want to play for hours and hours on and on but its still a very fun game. In my opinion 
 not all hard core shooter fans will love it but its worth the pick up!
  
  here is the basic layout in my opinion:
  
  Graphics: For a DS game pretty good graphics but 
 they dont stand out as much as you would think.
  
  Gameplay: Awesome gameplay it would be almost impossible to run out of things to do in this game 
 and I like that ther is always someone new to move into your town.
  
  Sound: The sound quality is Pretty good Although they can get a bit boring and the "Town Tunes" 
 are a fun thing to do but they can get boring Aswell.
  
  Value: It Has its ups and downs but the value they put into it is fair enough to make it good.
 
  
  I Hope my review was helpful, Have a nice day :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JKG33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2006 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: It has a good gameplay. From paying off your house loan to trying to get your neibours 
 pics. You can catch fish, bugs and collect fossils to give to your town museum,. Special guests 
 will also come to your town. You can visit your friends town using DS to DS or Nintendo Wifi. Overall 
 the gameplay for AC: WW is really good!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good for a DS game but when it comes to the charecters the graphics 
 look a little "cartony" if you know what i mean.
  
  Sound: The music gets a little boaring after the first couple of days other than that the sound 
 is good.
  
  Value: For 30$ to 45$ it is a REALLY good game if you like Virtual Life games you will like AC: WW. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genjio
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 31, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I think Nintendo tried on this one, but maybe the DS didn't have the hardware to support it. No 
 review can sum up the heart of this game. It's fun year round with all the contests and events. 
 They left out a lot of american holidays (X-mas, halloween, 4th of July, ect.) to make it fun to 
 any culture. In my opinion, their made up holidays are silly, but real holidays would be better. 
 Unlike in the original animal crossing, they left out most of the town basics. And if you get bored 
 in your town, don't fret. There is a whole Wild World for you to travel. I made many friends over 
 wi-fi and its fun comparing towns. Game Play: 9. It's fun the moment you pick up, and its really 
 simple. You can play the whole thing with touch screen, but for classic gamers, buttons work just 
 fine. Graphics: A good balance of polygons and 2d objects. A bit choppy, but gets the job done. 
 Sound: Every hour on the hour a new song to get stuck in your head, humming it all day. Best soundtrack 
 in a long time. Calming music, lots of sound effects, the works. Value: Worth it. Its good for 
 about a year. By then you probaly got all the bugs, paintings, fish, fossils, and your house and 
 town should be perfect. So If you have a year to spare pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 31, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Take cute kids and cute animals in a revolving planet with collectables and you have Animal Crossing!.
 
  
  GOOD- great graphics, planety of collectables, awesome Wi-Fi
  
  BAD- The game is all about collecting things, repetative
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  You may select your 
 charater from a girl or a boy and you live in this world were you can collect many things, and 
 when i mean many, i mean tons!, theres hundreds of things to collect, you can also buy things with 
 money and sell your collected items you find, but thats practicly what you only do in the game!, 
 but theres an exseption, this features Wi-Fi which is awesome, you can go to other towns thta other 
 people has made across the world and chat to them, its the bets bit!.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are realy good, superb even!, not bad nintendo!, the revolving world is very crazy 
 and mind mobbaling, but it does look realy good!.
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is pretty decent, but basic noises and music, theres nothing realy exsiting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Knight6
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 27, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  In Animal Crossing: Wild World you play as a character who is moving out of his/her parents house 
 and into their own. You start with a small, one room in the village but it soon grows to a big 
 five room mansion after paying off mortgage. The single player is fun and can keep you pre-occupied 
 for a while. But, you will get bored from time to time and will have to put it down. There are 
 also others in your village. They are all animals and up to 8 will be in at a time. The animals 
 in your village will move out after living there for a while. The online wi-fi play is also very 
 fun. After you exchange friend codes, you can have up to 4 other players at your village. There 
 is also local play which works the same way but without friend codes. This game is good for on-the-go 
 play or home play. you cna transition from stylus control to using the d-pad and other buttons. 
 But when using the stylus, you may have to cluick things several times to make them work. All together, 
 this is a great simulator that veterens and noobies should definelty own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madogmgd
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 26, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  great game sequel to the popular animal crossing gcn Pros: good game like animal crossing gcn but 
 portable wifi is great theres new stuff new items new fish and bugs and a hair salon!
  
  Cons: can seem like a chore sometimes of having to check everyday if your favorite animal is moving 
 or watering those rare hybrids and flowers wifi lags sometimes no more holidays like Christmas 
 Halloween thanksgiving etc. friend roster only holds 32 friends can be a problem if your popular 
 on wifi also a friend is needed with animal crossing wild world and a ds to upgrade to nookingtons 
 not very good if your in a neighborhood with few kids no friends or just no ds around you can go 
 on wifi for a friend but you need to either know somebody in real life or search for a forum for 
 trading friend codes can get dangerous letting a stranger in your town
  Especially hackers and people with seeds A sequel to the popular animal crossing for Nintendo game 
 cube
  It may be even better than the first more new stuff wife is great and it is fun
  
  
  
  Animal crossing wild world is a great game and is worth buying for any ds owner or ac fan 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bens_dream
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  WOAH! Why have I never bought this game before! At first I wasn't sure if this would be a good 
 game or not... When I got in to it (after 1 second!) it was actually a great game. NO SET MISSIONS! 
 YAY!!! LOVE THIS GAME! Free-roaming game with loads to do. A very underestimated game. Addictive 
 and unable to put down. A must buy for DS and probably the best DS game out there. Lots of stuff 
 to buy from shops and a very cheap game for what you get. Has DS WI-FI mode and can play with anyone 
 in the world.
  ABSOLUTELY AMAZING - TOTALLY FREE ROAMING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakelhj
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Animal Crossing I scoffed at the idea of a game that is in real time, 
 and requires you to play everyday. I thought to myself, "I can't even watch TV shows on a regular 
 basis, how would I ever play this game?" I borrowed a Gamecube from a friend so I could play Zelda 
 Windwaker, but she also brought Animal Crossing with her. After awhile, I got bored of just Windwaker, 
 so I set up a cozy little home in Animal Crossing. I went from testing it out, to playing it for 
 hours on end and even getting my boyfriend set up in my town. OK, fast forward to when I saw one 
 of my friends brand new DS lite, just as it graced the shelves. I fell in love, and on one day 
 when I got absolutely no sleep, I found myself going to and from several stores in search of a 
 DS and Animal Crossing.
  
  THAT SAID, let me get to the real meat of this review. For those of you who are familiar with Animal 
 Crossing for GameCube, there are are few significant changes between them, some of which make gameplay 
 much easier, and some that don't. When I played it on the GC, I wish I had some way of watering 
 my trees to make sure that they grow, or give some water to a wilting sprout. While Wild World 
 has a watering can, pouring water on a baby tree has absolutely no effect to it's growth. In fact, 
 the only way to ensure a tree will grow is to cut an old tree down and plant the new one in it's 
 place. Of course, you'll have a lot more luck if you keep the trees at least one or two spaces 
 apart from each other and away from any walls or buildings, too. Instead, the watering can is used 
 to bring dying flowers back to life, which is an incredibly cumbersome task, especially if you 
 are on some mission gathering oranges, delivering a package, catching fish, collecting fossils 
 and finding the money rock and you come across one of these doomed flowers. One of my major complaints 
 with Animal Crossing in general is its use of the tools. It would be far better if there were a 
 seperate, additional place for you to easily store your tools, and cycle through them like a first 
 person shooter or something, so that you don't have to keep coming in and out of your pockets display 
 and draging a tool to your person every time you want to switch a task. The new slingshot feature 
 is incredibly hard in this way, because by the time you switch to your slingshot tool, it's too 
 late and the present-toting-ballon is already beyond your range and floats off-screen. Not to mention 
 that you rarely NEED it, and it can be annoying having to carry ti all the time in the off-chance 
 that you see a balloon or UFO. One way around this is to keep letters in your mail column, and 
 then stuff your tools in them as presents, but then when you need a tool, it's quite easy to forget 
 which letter you hid which tool in.
  
  Another major critism is the lack of... say, a purpose? Sure sure, you want to have a big house 
 and make sure you score lots of points with the Happy Room Academy, which helps make your town 
 better, which is another "goal" that strives you to pick weeds, water flowers, plant or cut trees, 
 donate to a museum and write a bazillion letters. But aside from this, there really is no other 
 point to this game. There are a million things you can see and do, and a lot of neat things, but 
 all the while I don't feel any major sense of accomplishment. Don't get me wrong, this game is 
 an amazing little timewaster and I've spent more time with it than I'd care to admit, but it can 
 get rather tedious at times.
  
  Letterwriting is one of my least favorite activities, and it seems if you don't bother, then your 
 townspeople will move out at quite a steady pace. With all of the different things you have to 
 do on a daily basis, it's easy to forget about the letters, mostly because I never know what to 
 say. It doesn't seem to make much of a difference because the responses are never remotely coherent 
 to what I said, so I try and come up with the craziest things I can say. It's not necessarily hard, 
 just tedious to write these letters all the time. To keep it interesting I try and have love affairs 
 with the various opposing gender animals.
  
  I like how the staple characters that are in each town i. e. Tom Nook, the Able Sisters, etc each 
 seem to have their own story in Wild World (and if it was in GC, I wasn't aware of it) that you 
 can follow if you keep up with it. I look forward going to the Able Sisters and hearing what they 
 have to say about their family and growing up. In fact, I wish there were more of these story-driven 
 dialogues throughout the game. The townsfolk say some pretty crazy and funny things, but it never 
 seems to be coherent or reflect on things unless they are seeking a certain type of furniture or 
 an outfit, which believe me, gets mighty annoying after awhile -- every time you talk to they they 
 say the same thing: that they can't live without such and such item. And there's not much you can 
 do about it if someone doesn't give that particular item to you or if it's not in Tom Nook's shop.
 
  
  I don't like how Crazy Redd's tent now requires a password and membership fee. First of all, it 
 doesn't matter how many times I read that letter with the password in it, when I go up to the tent 
 and have to put it in I get it wrong at least the first time. Second of all, why pay a membership 
 fee? I fail to see the point. I'm also skeptical on the purpose of Lyle as the insurance agent. 
 I bought the first insurance package because I couldn't get out of it, ever since then I put all 
 of my money in a bag and hide it in my letters when I talk to him just to see what he's about. 
 I don't really see why I'd need "damage insurance" in Animal Crossing so I haven't bothered spending 
 6,000 bells to find out.
  
  I can't seem to figure out the t urnips either. They seem to go rotton after three days. Though 
 there is a cheat where you can drop a shovel on the ground in front of a table and then drop your 
 turnips on it, but if you aren't careful they will go spoiled anyway... and I've never been able 
 to make a profit on them either. Every time I go to Tom Nook's shop (and the prices change throughout 
 the day mind you) it's always for less bells than what I paid for them. So, I've pretty much given 
 that up and now earn all of my money with foreign fruit. I pull in about 130,000 bells every two 
 days that way, and could easily be more since I haven't totally gotten rid of my local fruit trees.
 
  
  I love how Wild World is on the DS and has ultimate portability. While the graphics are a little 
 compressed at times, I have always found the graphics highly appealing and so irresistably cute. 
 The multiplayer and wifi offerings are really neat, although I haven't explored it in great detail 
 yet. I was disappointed that you have to know someone before you can visit their town, or have 
 someone visit you, though I understand the concern in doing so, though I'll have to say if someone 
 completely damaged my town, I just wouldn't save, Resetti or not! The problem is that I don't know 
 many people who have Animal Crossing AND a wifi connection, and of those I do, it's difficult trying 
 to arrange a time to play together, and I can't pretend to consider it a priority either.
  
  Overall, this is a pretty fun game to play if you don't mind that there isn't much purpose 
 behind it other than, well, simulating life, albiet a cute, unrealistic incarnation of sorts that 
 focuses on a lot of the mundane parts of life, such as earning a wage, gardening, caring for your 
 house, keeping up a social life and so on. Furthermore, this game is great for those who maybe 
 are a bit timid about playing video games or have never considered themselves good at video games. 
 I have to admit, that I am in that category, or at least, I have been for most of my life. For 
 that reason, I found Animal Crossing a pretty fun game to play because it doesn't require any intense 
 amount of button combinations to slay an enemy or anything of the sort. It's a great timewaster 
 and there is always something to do. It's not *too* difficult for chidlren, yet it's still rewarding 
 enough for teens and adults. If you can, I would try buying this game used, which I would have 
 done if I had any patience, but hey, when I bought my DS, I didn't want to have to wait 2 weeks 
 before I could play any games! Though, it must say something that even though I knew how I felt 
 about Animal Crossing for the GC, I still bothered to shell out $35 for Wild World! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wahsu_1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 24, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  This version of AC has everything you could ask for, minus the NES games, or voice chat. To add 
 those would make this game perfect.
  Still after months since this game has graced us, I still play it.
  There are tons of things 
 to collect.
  I must buy for any DS owner.
  Can't wait till the Wii version comes out!
  The ability to change your hair was also a great addition to the game.
  The only thing I did 
 wish they placed in, was the ability for more than one person live in your town, image one of your 
 friends from another country living in your town, it would be great, or even a town full of people 
 living there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eikumbokum
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  This review is being written assuming that if you are planning on buying ACDS you have access to 
 a local wireless network. (if you dont have one, get a router for $40 and then buy this game, it's 
 worth it) But let me tell you why... Well its hard to describe really, but the thing that keeps 
 me coming back to ACDS is The sense of comunity that you get once you make a few friends. Yes, 
 the graphics are nice, and the Animal Crossing experience that you got from the Gamescube animal 
 crossing is improved (keep on reading if you want to find out WHAT that experience is) . The sound 
 is also nice, and like the graphics, gets the job done, even though personally I liked the main 
 theme for the GC version a little better. So now that you know that I feel animal crossing is a 
 great game, let me tell you what it is, because many people seem to be confused as to exactly what 
 you do in the game. To put it simply, you maintain a life as your charachter that you create at 
 the start of the game. You collect money, furniture, clothing items, fish, bugs, tools, personlize 
 your appearence, and my favorite part of the game; meet friends using wifi. You may know that the 
 DS needs friend codes to connect with friends on wifi for many of its games, and Animal Crossing 
 is no exeption, But in this game, It actually works out for the better, as a community of players 
 is formed, and you really get to know the people you have met. To get started online, all you need 
 to do is get 1 or 2 people's friend codes (just post your friend code on a forum, this works fine) 
 And visit someones town once they give you their friend code. If they already have people on their 
 friends list, someone will soon come into their town and join you, and you can easily add that 
 person to your friends list. Soon you will have all 32 spaces for friends filled up (trust me, 
 you will, I started out with one friend) Yes, 32 spaces might not be enough, but thats fine with 
 me, you can always delete inactive players and add new ones. As you can tell, I think very highly 
 of this game, and you most likely will to if you are the kind of person who likes to chat online 
 (I honestly didn't think I was one of these people when I bought the game, but I got less and less 
 timid as time went on.) Animal Crossing is truly a game unlike ANY OTHER, and you owe it to yourself 
 to go and buy it. I bought it the first day it came out, and about 8 months later, I am still playing 
 2-3 hours EVERY DAY, It has that much replay value. So go ahead, join the millions of players who 
 have already discovered this amazing game that really doesnt receive the praise it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Widger5000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 23, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  You begin riding in a taxi toward your destination (your town) and the taxi driver several questions 
 that will effect your outcome in the game. When you arrive in town you work for a store owner to 
 obtain your first bit of currency. From then on there is plenty to do everyday to keep you occupied 
 for at least an hour. You can sell fruit, fossils, fish, bugs, and furniture. You can enjoy speical 
 visitors, holidays, and weekly events. Not to mention growing a garden, and donating things to 
 the musuem! Every feature in this game is spot on. Absolutely nothing bad to say about it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JacksonWery
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  This game is a big improvement over the Game Cube, because you couldn't very easily carry a Game 
 Cube, a controller, and a Game Cube Memory Card, could you? Now, you can just slip it in your suitcase, 
 backpack, whatever! Now, you and up to three friends can do anything between hitting each other 
 with a bug net for laughs, or do major landscaping. You can even visit their neighbors, who almost 
 always have something to say. Furniture and fish aren't blocky, but are textured, giving the game 
 a nice feel. But waiting for weeks for Nook to sell that special spotlight item makes you play 
 every day, giving it lasting value, because it cannot be "won". You may play for only a few days 
 and toss it away, but if you do, you are missing out on one of the best Nintendo DS games ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roywood1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Okay, so heres my review of Animal Crossing: Wild World
  
  Graphics: Well for this game, the graphic are quite good, you can clearly see the facial expressions 
 of some characters, and you can see the details in the furniture and other items recieved in the 
 game. However some things that I noticed about it was during multiplayer play there were little 
 cracks in the floor while walking up and down the map in the background. Also some of the bugs 
 in the game look like little smudges on the screen (brown cicada for example) and not very detailed. 
 Other than those problems the graphics were well done.
  
  Gameplay: This game is very fun and quite interactive for the player. You can do a lot of cutomization 
 in the game such as moving furniture around, choosing outfits, doing your hair, etc.. Some things 
 that brought the gameplay down, was how the slow the game can sometimes go such as when talking 
 to Nook to sell things or when going inside of buildings, the sequence just seems a bit too long. 
 Another thing is the fact that the stylus controls are average at best, moving the character around 
 just seems like they wanted to put the touch screen to use any way possible. 
  
  Sound: The sound is quite enjoyable during the different seasons and times of day. There are many 
 different songs used throughout the day which change every couple of hours (morning song, mid day 
 song, evening song, etc.) . Also there is a wide variety of songs that can be listened to in the 
 house in the radioes. A downside about the sound is that the bebese and animalese get kind of annoying 
 after extensive periods of listening to them (thats what no sound is for though) . Still, the sound 
 is quite exceptional.
  
  Value: Well this is pretty much a wasted effort typing this because this game can last you forever. 
 There are just too many things to do in this game for one to just put it away. Examples of these 
 things can be paying the rent, filling the catalogue completly, donating all things to the museum, 
 getting the neighbours pictures, the golden tools, the list goes on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sefpeach
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 22, 2006 1:31 am PT
Review:  if you have never played an animal crossing game before, forget everything you think it is. its 
 nothing like that. infact it is nothing like any game you have ever played. the main inovateve 
 thing in it is the time system. it playes on the DS's system clock, so if it is july 23, 2006 at 
 night in real life, its july 23, 2006 at night in the game. and that my friend, is awsome. the 
 game requeres ALOT of waiting so if the store closes in the game, you have to literaly go to sleep 
 and wait for tommorow to go there again. 
  
  the game starts you off with no money, a tiny @$$ house and a truck load of chores given to you 
 by the local shopkeeper, tom nook. but thats ok, becouse once you gain some money, finish the chores 
 and upgraid your house, the game gets alot funer, of course, this may take a couple off days. the 
 villege, is actualy rather small, but thats ok, becouse then you get more atatched to it and fermiler 
 with its peaple, there are also events that realy keep the game going like the bug off, fishing 
 turniments and fireworks. and sometimes mystereouse visiters come to sell there goods. its surprising 
 things like this that make you want to play this game every day.
  
  the sound is interesting with wierd french acordian music, and gibberish voices. but its nothing 
 to make you extremly exited.
  
  the graphics are very good for ds. but the framerate is not as good as other ds games. making it 
 look lesser then it is. and sometimes the a. i. can be a little funny (villegers walking into walls, 
 bugs crawling strait into water and drowning, ect...) but its nothing drastic.
  
  this game will last you your whole life long. its so awsome. i play it every day. if you want a 
 grait ds game to get that will last you a looooong time, buy this game, not rent, buy.
  
  i didnt play the online yet, but im asumeing its good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machine_Shop
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing for the Gamecube was an excellent life simulation game and so is Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World. The story of Animal Crossing is you move into a town, but you have no money to pay 
 for your house. You have to work for a local store owner, Tom Nook. Once you are done working for 
 him, you can send him money through the mail system to add more space and rooms to your house. 
 The game is extremely laid back. You can do pretty much whatever you want, whenever you want. This 
 includes fishing, catching bugs, finding fossils, talking to towns people, trading items, and so 
 much more, it would be hard to list. This may seem boring to you from just reading this, but I 
 assure you, it's not boring if you give the game a chance. One of the amazing aspects of Animal 
 Crossing is the use of the DS's internal clock. If you set your DS's internal clock to the date 
 and time it is for you in real life, the game will mimic the dates. In the Winter it will snow, 
 in Fall the leaves will brown, on Major holidays there will be celebrations, and if you tell someone 
 in the game your birthday, when that rolls around, you'll get a present. This is an very impressive 
 part of the game. Another great part of the game is the townspeople. Each person will have his 
 or her own personality. Some will be kind and give you items. Some will be mean and tell you to 
 leave them alone. Others are just plain idiots. Also, people can move in or out of your town. The 
 graphics on this game are the same as the gamecube version. A cutesy art style that is very differen't 
 from most games. The music is pretty nice and matches the laid back feeling of the game. Sometimes 
 it get's a little annoying, but nothing that will make you dislike the game. If this is not enough, 
 the game has Wifi. You can visit anyone's town as long as you have their friend code. Overall Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World will not disappoint fans of the gamecube game, but it's similarities won't 
 change people who didn't like the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cantlooseu
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 16, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  animal crossing wild world has a long life spam, and manages to keep the gamer interested in the 
 game well.
  
  you start the game off as a new person moving into a town, you give your name and the name of the 
 town. 
  
  in the game, you have an awfull lot to do, and an awfull lot of money to earn to truly complete 
 this game, altho funny enough it doesnt have a true ending!
  
  What makes this game interesting, is that it uses reall time, meaning, ig you play it in winter 
 where you live, in the game it will also be winter. and i have noticed that it manages to keep 
 the weather perfect, which is an amazing feature.
  
  the main aim of the game, is to keep eaning enough money to pay off the morgage.
  
  you start 
 of with a little house and a little sum to pay as morgage, but as you progress, and pay off more 
 morgage, andexpand your house more, you will be asked to pay a larger bill. Believe you me earning 
 money in the game is not easy. there are various ways to but you cant get alot every day.
  
  for example, you can do some jobs for towns animals, like deliever presents or mail to other 
 animals. As a prize, you either get some bells, or a present, like clothes or furniture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: materialweapon
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 13, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World
  
  Game Play: 9
  Just like the Animal Crossing for Game cube except it is portable and has many new features such 
 as Nintendo Wi-fi. This game never ends, you never actually finish the game, meaning it is never 
 ending. There are many things to do to keep you entertained such as catching bugs, fishing and 
 getting fossils. After all thats done their isn't much to do.
  
  Graphics: 8
  The graphics for this game are good for the DS. Not the best but definitely good and has nice texture 
 effects.
  
  Sound: 8
  The sound in this game is good. There is different music for every hour of the day and you can 
 make the animals talk like animals or not. Not much else to say about the sound. Though it can 
 get annoying at times.
  
  Value: 9
  As I mentioned before this game is never ending. This game lasts a long time and is great if your 
 looking for a long lasting game for the DS. After a while it does get boring though, but a long 
 while until that happens.
  
  Overall: 8.5
  Overall this is a great game and lasts forever because it is never ending. The graphics are good 
 and the sound is good. The only problem is that it does get boring after a while for some people. 
 Also the game is more for the "young side" so you might not like it if your an adult gamer. Other 
 than that, Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great game and a must buy for the DS.
  
  Thank-you . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squidward117
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  If you played the first AC, don't pick this one up.
  If you haven't played the first AC, pick that one up instead of this.
  IF you don't have a Gamecube 
 and have no plans of buying one (shame on you!) then go ahead and get this for the DS.
  
  This game brings back the same good ol' AC gameplay we've come to know and love from the first 
 Animal Crossing. Only this time, portable, extra items/characters, Wifi enabled, and now, with 
 shottier sound and choppier graphics!
  
  The town you start out in is smaller than the one in the first AC. It has newer yet, needless features. 
 You go about your buisness paying off your debt to Mr. Nook and catching bugs, fish, etc... Really, 
 really similar to AC. Only NO NES GAMES!!! (I'm sorry I just had to let that out....) Really dissapointing...
 
  
  Well, it... Ugh... Forget it... The first few lines speak for itself... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PShack
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:45 am PT
Review:  Originally Posted Aug 11, 2006 2:22 pm CT
  
  Don't believe the negative reviews!!! Those people just aren't patient enough to earn money. And, 
 they don't realize, there is MUCH more out there than they probably realize. Also, you don't have 
 to do chores (except for nook's at the beginning) unless you want to, it's a video game! Yes, there 
 are weeds to be plucked and towns to be perfect, but usually older people do that kind of thing, 
 as i don't mind weeds.
  
  After playing it for a couple of months, i found a website  it's 
 a fan site, but it is the most complete fan site i have ever seen. You can display and find patterns 
 there, trade with people over wifi and get free stuff (sometimes) .
  
  There is stuff i didn't even know existed! There are models of buildings, mush furniture, not used 
 furniture (which you can only get using an Action Replay) and much more. 
  
  Also, i have many people i have met online registered in my friend roster. It is just wrong for 
 people to complain they don't have anyone to play with on wifi, because there are sites where you 
 can post if you want people to come!!!
  
  Gameplay (10/10)
  The game play is very simple, it won't take you long to catch on, and you can use the stylus a 
 ton, if you like it.
  
  Graphics (9.9/10)
  The graphics are pretty good, the heads are semi-big, and it has glitched up on me once or twice, 
 but i also play it a TON.
  
  Sound (10/10)
  Great sound, just calm relaxing melodies.
  
  Value (10/10)
  Shouldn't there be an 11? this game has practically infinite replay value. 
 I've had it since New Year's Day, and have played it everyday! 
  
  Tip: Look at the pictures on this site. they might help.
  
  This is the best game i have ever 
 played! Look at the ds games board if you don't believe me, it's #4, and it's been out for 8 months! 
 GameFaqs has it at #1! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runefox
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  As soon as you start the game, you are thrown into a town with no supplies or items. Sound harsh? 
 It isn't.
  Animal Crossing: Wild World leaves you to do whatever you want after completing a tutorial. This 
 tutorial is given to you in the form of working under the local shop owner, Tom Nook. After this 
 slightly annoying introduction, you are left to your own devices.
  AC: WW is in real time. There are obvious changes of seasons and time periods. The game constantly 
 changes, leaving you wondering what is happening in your town today.
  All in all, Animal Crossing: Wild World is well worth your time and money. It is a successful venture 
 for Nintendo. I would rate it 8.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS2TRUNKS
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Now I love t AC games but the grafix are to weird wen u walk in to someone u morph in to them. 
 And there should be a way to beat the game. And the game is to short and it is to easy. So if they 
 make another AC game it should bebetter, longer, and a little bit harder. But not to much harder. 
 So thats pretty much it sooo thats wat I have to say about the AC games soo seeya.:) (: (: :) ya 
 ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya ya yay. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BooReno62
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 15, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This AC isn't really anything new. The only major difference is that it's portable. I like all 
 the new stuff (Fish, Bugs, Cafe, Constellations etc. etc.) but I was a little bit disappointed. 
 First of all, the Wi-Fi wasn't made with great thought, I mean you have to have a person's friend 
 code to go to their towns which means you can only go to your friends' towns, which can be good (We 
 don't want anything like the MySpace thing to happen) , but you can just exchange friend codes with 
 people online, but friend codes are still stupid. Reason 2. You pretty much have to plan your meetings 
 ahead of time, because both or all three or all four have to be playing WW at the same time and 
 one person has to have their gate open and unless you want to go find a Wi-fi Hotspot you both 
 need Wi-fi at your household (Your real one) plus there really isn't that much to do in other people's 
 towns, and you can't participate in holidays when your gate is open or when you have others in 
 your town bla, bla, bla, In short the Wi-fi just sucks and there's nothing to do over wireless. That's 
 not the only problem. There really isn't anything major in the New category in terms of gameplay. 
 Yeah, they added new house expansions but paying off 800,000+ bell debts over and over gets boring 
 and repetitive. None of the new things they put in add very much content. In short: This game's 
 new stuff isn't that great, but AC WW is still worth buying as a portable town, and let's just 
 say I have high expectations for the Wii Animal Crossing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dead_Rises
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: WW for the DS is fun for a week. Pretty much you work towards upgrading your house 
 and beautifying your town for visitors to see. It's nice having a friend come over but it's a little 
 difficult if you ask me. I don't like the fact that you have to add your friend's code and your 
 friend has to add yours to be able to play with him/her. What really bothers me is that there are 
 no mini games that you can play when a friend comes over. You can do all the things animal crossing 
 offers on single player mode, but it's not very fun trying to see who catches the biggest fish, 
 or playing hide and seek.
  
  I like the whole online playing capability Animal Crossing has to offer. There's always something 
 to do. I'm usually too busy during the day to play animal crossing so I'd get on sometime after 
 9 and that become a problem. After 8 pm the shop is closed so I am unable to sell the things I've 
 gathered.
  
  Online feature needs some improvements.
  
  It'd be nice to keep gate open when playing so that friends can come over without having to plan 
 what time to get on. It'll be even better if you can get into a channel where it shows a list of 
 open gates. I can see a problem with it like people trashing other's town for the fun of it. Maybe 
 you have a reset mode where you can reset everything back to the way before the person came in 
 if there was ever a problem.
  
  All and all, this game is a game of itself. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnipeyMcSnipe
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty simple to pick up and just as easy to put down, which is what I like about. 
 There is no story to get addicted to, or one to lose your interest. It's always fun finding ways 
 to make money and to watch your house grow. You can do anything to pass time from fishing, collecting 
 stuff, catching bugs, farming, talking to people, etc. The great part is that there is no consequnce 
 if you don't play for a awhile, unlike most MMO's and such. 
  
  The multiplayer is also fun. You can always just hang out with your friends, chat with em, fish 
 with em, trade items... whatever. Sometimes it's nice to find a game where there isn't always that 
 stress to try and beat it, but to just relax and chill out. It does get boring sometimes but then 
 again, there is no consequence if you don't feel like playing for a coulple weeks.
  
  If your looking for a good time waster on the DS this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlmoore
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I have fallen in love with the great multi-player options. They are incredible. When I go to my 
 Mom's house I always talk to my friends without e-mail address's (losers) talk on animal crossing 
 and we show of our furniture. It is aw3som3! If you are looking for an awesome kick butt game get 
 animal crossing! I will never forget it and I will play it until I'm 41 and then I'll probably 
 die....... Well what are you reading this for?!? Go buy the friggin' game! Alright never mind just 
 keep reading....... THIS GAME KICKS B U T T!!!!!! SO GO BUY IT NOW OR I WILL KILL YOU! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_VADER_X
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild world is a very fun DS game even though the gameplay looks very basic
  
  In Animal Crossing Wild World you are pretty much a new resident moving into a new town. In 
 the start of the game talking to a Taxi guy as your talk to him it is creating your town and character. 
 As you get off the Taxi you can do ANYTHING you want.
  
  Fish, Shop, Decorate your house, Donate to poor towns and museum, Sell items to pay off mortgage 
 or buy more thing for your house, Grow plants and Trees, Do tasks for neighbors, Make constellations. 
 Alot of things.
  
  This game also macthes with time. So if you set the game with your current time it will make the 
 game turn day and night and make seasons change. Also special events on special days.
  
  Overall for a DS game this is very very fun. For doing regular tasks its not fun in real life. 
 But fun in Animal crossing.
  
  8.8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutrino626
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  The first game I purchased for my Nintendo DS was Animal Crossing Wild World and when I purchased 
 it I had no idea what I would be in for. What drew me to this game was the fact that it was Wi-Fi 
 enabled and I wanted to try only gaming on the hand held for the first time.
  
  In this game you are dropped if in a town and you basically have to make money to pay off your 
 house loan and each time you do your house will continue to grow until you get the final house 
 layout.
  
  There is no real objective in the game which is what makes the game so replayable, you decide what 
 you want to do in the game. You can make money by catching fish and bugs, or selling fossils and 
 other things you find around the town like fruit and sea shells.
  
  There are goals that you can work on accomplishing which can range from catching all the bugs there 
 are and to fill up your museum. To do this you will have to play the game for a year as certain 
 bugs only show up around a certain time of the year.
  
  The game is tied into your systems clock and calendar which help the game decide when it is day 
 and night and what season of the year it is and how it can be best represented in your town.
  
  There are also many other side things you can do like participate in the turnip market (stock 
 market in Animal Crossing) and also try to fill up your radio with bootlegs from K. K. who plays 
 at the Cafe on the lower level of your museum.
  
  Another thing that you can try to do in your town is to keep the environment clean and weed free 
 and to try to make and maintain relationships with your residents so that they don't move away.
 
  
  The Wi-Fi component of this game is great in that it allows you to go to other towns and get other 
 fruits that aren't native in your town which you can sale more money than your native fruit at 
 Nooks. Nintendo is also great at giving you some cool item that you can only get through wi-fi 
 at certain times of the year such as sombrero on Cinco De Mayo.
  
  The only thing makes the Wi-Fi component fall short is the friends code system. With this system 
 you must have your friends code on your game card and they must have yours on their card for you 
 to open the town gates and visit each other.
  
  Their is no centralized lobby where players can pick the towns of people they want to go to, instead 
 they must know someone who has the game before they can visit the town. If you don't know anyone 
 who has the game you can however find towns to visit by making friends on sites such as ds-play. com.
 
  
  While I consider this a weakness in the games Wi-Fi component after visiting others people town 
 I can understand why this system is in place. I have visited different towns where people have 
 taught their residents profanity and places where some of the constallations are rather suggestive.
 
  
  At the end of the day however Animal Crossing WIld World is a great game that will have some people 
 playing it on a daily basis, while others may not enjoy this type of game at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CloudMaker9
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 6, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  This game is a well rounded game, it has its advantages and its disadvantages but overall was a 
 good game. It was missing a few good things that only the first one had but made up for it all 
 with all the new stuff it has. I highly recommend this game if you loved the first one. Its a well 
 suited game that teaches you lessons in life but some aren't fun and can be over used and can get 
 annoying. At times this game gets very annoying so my advise to you is to stop playing it for about 
 2 months and start back up again and you will find yourself loving the magic of this game all over 
 again for about 2 more months before it gets annoying again. (It's kinda like a cycle)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Apollo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 11:33 am PT
Review:  What can I say about this game? It is one of the best video games that I have ever played and I 
 don't know why. The first game was amazing and it spill over into the DS version. Here is what 
 I feel:
  
  Graphics - Transported nicly to the DS. Gone is the old acre system and in with a "rolling" landscape 
 that works well.
  
  Gameplay - The game is still so fun to play. With it being on the DS, it is easier to do everything 
 such as checking your inventory, writing notes, whatever is you do, is easier. The basic motto 
 of do want you want still applies here.
  
  Sound - The sound is nice, nothing too ground breaking, but I love the way the animals talk.
 
  
  Multiplayer - It works good in this game (better than the gamecube, imo) because of the wireless 
 aspect. I always hated the memory card system because I hated watching someone else play. But now 
 you either visit there town or they visit yours. This systems is brought online with the friend 
 code system and plays the same way with no lag. Even though I don't really like the Friend Code 
 thing, it is good for this game so people don't destroy your hard work. To get the full game experience, 
 you should really try it online.
  
  Overall - I just can't seem to put this game down. You won't find yourself playing it for 5 hours 
 a day, but it will be in your DS at least an hour a day. If you have a DS, pick this game up. It 
 is truly a must buy for the platform. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop_1717
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  animal crossing is the best game for the nintendo ds!!!!!!!! It is so fun doing chors, catching 
 bug, fishing, ect. one awsome thing is that you can go on wifi and local ds to ds it is the fuest 
 game ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  animal crossing is the best game for the nintendo ds!!!!!!!! It is so fun doing chors, catching 
 bug, fishing, ect. one awsome thing is that you can go on wifi and local ds to ds it is the fuest 
 game ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  animal crossing is the best game for the nintendo ds!!!!!!!! It is so fun doing chors, catching 
 bug, fishing, ect. one awsome thing is that you can go on wifi and local ds to ds it is the fuest 
 game ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  animal crossing is the best game for the nintendo ds!!!!!!!! It is so fun doing chors, catching 
 bug, fishing, ect. one awsome thing is that you can go on wifi and local ds to ds it is the fuest 
 game ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  animal crossing is the best game for the nintendo ds!!!!!!!! It is so fun doing chors, catching 
 bug, fishing, ect. one awsome thing is that you can go on wifi and local ds to ds it is the fuest 
 game ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  animal crossing is the best game for the nintendo ds!!!!!!!! It is so fun doing chors, catching 
 bug, fishing, ect. one awsome thing is that you can go on wifi and local ds to ds it is the fuest 
 game ever!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmisImp
Rating: 5.8
Date: Aug 3, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing WW was a big disappointment. Truth be told, it gets old, real fast. Animal Crossing 
 WW seems like a failed attempt at taking the GameCube game, making it portable, and making it multiplayer. 
 Yeah, its not fun at all. Much like the last game you start by paying off Tom Nook, you start out 
 totally broke and you have to work for him, what fun eh? The focus of the game is, well, I'm not 
 so sure, I guess making money and making your town look good, while you talk to animals who get 
 really annoying. The multiplayer isn't bad, well not too bad atleast.
  
  Overall, don't waste your money, this game gets old fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mistergalaxy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 3, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  My friends say: "Look theres Gabriel playin that baby game! He is gay!! Laugh at him!" Well I say 
 that they have not played this game cause at first sight it may look like a baby game but after 
 u play it u cant stop!! Its highly addictive. Its got multiplayer to meet new people. Its all Ive 
 ever wanted. The best game of the DS till now (matched up with New Super mario bros) . I say that 
 if I gave this game to my friends they would themselves buy it. Its like heaven on a video game. 
 If u like this kind of games u should buy it cause it rox! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesszelda
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  The original Animal Crossing was introduced to us back in 2002 on the Gamecube. The game was respected 
 by many and hated by many more because of its simplicity. The same is to say for this installment 
 of Animal Crossing for the DS. 
  
  When you first start out playing Wild World, you are asked a series of questions that determine 
 the gender of your character and the name of your town. Once everything is confirmed you are thrown 
 into your town and thats where all the fun begins. It wont take long to realize that you are 
 going to need some money and a place to say. There are many ways to make money around town. You 
 can collect fruit, catch bugs and fish, Tom Nook, the local store owner, plays a big part in the 
 game because he gives you a loan for your first house. 
  
  The game play is very simple and standard which makes it perfect for casual gamers and also the 
 gamers that want to take a break from their hardcore games. There is so much to do and it never 
 feels like a chore. It is your responsibility to take care of your town so you will have to pick 
 any weeds that appear along with planting flowers and picking up trash. As far as flowers go, they 
 have to be watered every couple of days so that they dont wilt. If you choose not to spend your 
 time fishing, decorating, or gardening then you could just go around time socializing with the 
 other animals in town. 
  
  The sound in Wild World is very unique. The animals speak a different language, something similar 
 to Similish (from the Sims games) . Plus you can hear different sounds that the bugs make.
  
  The graphics are really something to brag about. They look almost similar to the Gamecube version 
 of the game, which is awesome considering that it is a handheld game. One innovative thing is the 
 fact that, depending on the season, it will be snowing or raining in your town. Also, depending 
 on the time of day you play the game you will be able to see fog (early morning) and sunset. There 
 are even shooting stars. 
  
  The replay value is basically endless. There is just so much that you can do in the game. Every 
 month there are special events like the Bug Off (contest to see who can catch the biggest bug) , 
 Flower Fest (who can create the best garden) , and the Fishing Tourney (who can catch the biggest 
 fish) , along with many other events. There is also a museum in your town which consists of bugs, 
 fossils, fish and pictures that you have collected throughout the town. This gives you the opportunity 
 to work at collecting all of the bugs and fish that you can just so that you can fill up the museum. 
 
  
  Wi-Fi is where it is. There is no comparison between the original Animal Crossing and Wild World 
 when it comes to the multiplayer aspect of things. Wild World gives you the chance to visit other 
 towns via Wi-Fi. The fun thing about this is that once you get to another town you can collect 
 fruit, furniture and other objects to take back to your town. The only disadvantage about the Wi-Fi 
 experience is that you have to collect friend codes in order to visit another persons town and 
 they have to have their gates open in order for you to go in. So essentially if you dont know 
 anyones friend codes than you really cant play over the Wi-Fi connection. 
  
  So in a nutshell, Animal Crossing Wild World is simple game that is like a breath of fresh air. 
 The possibilities are endless and what more could you ask for when it comes to portable gaming!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheezyFrog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- Its quirky like Katamari Damacy & simplistic like the Sims, you dont know why its 
 so fun, it just is. It takes a little getting used to at first if youve never played Animal Crossing 
 before but once you get in its hard to pull yourself out. The Animal Crossing Wild World or ACWW 
 multiplayer is amazing both the WiFi & the DS to DS multi-player offer a great gaming experience.
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics are outstanding; better then the original GCN Animal Crossing.
  
  Sound- The sound is crystal clear, theres absolutely nothing to complain about in this department.
 
  
  Value- ACWW is one of the most popular, most recognizable games on the Nintendo DS and the meager 
 $35 dollar price tag is nothing to complain about, especially if you have WiFi that doubles the 
 fun.
  
  Tilt- Perfect 10/10 its one of the greatest, longest lasting games available on the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  In conclusion Id just like to say that Animal Crossing Wild World combines solid game-play with 
 outstanding graphics to make a spectacular "Virtual Life" DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hue14
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Right when I started playing I fell in love. No, not the quirky graphics that sprucen it up to 
 perfection, but it's fun gameplay that make it silly, fun and enetertainable. You will get the 
 hang of things with the in-game effect where characters give you tips and hints on how to enjoy 
 the full game. They wil also have fun, depressing, funny, exciting, and shoking conversations with 
 you as you get further, and further in the game. One con is that it lost the NES game features 
 that the original AC contained. Also, after at least 5 months and you have gotten far in your character's 
 life, the game is just a bore. WiFi is pointless, since you need to know your friends friend code, 
 and lots of server downtime or glitchy responses that make it all pointless to even accept.
  
  But Animal Crossing satisfies and projects an overall fun time to play, interact and enjoy 
 before you reach the point when it's all just boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BabyAlf
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  This Is Relativly Easy Game That Would Keep Anyone Busy For Hours.
  I Myself Am Still Playing It ,Since It Came Out And i Have Hardly Done Anything In It. The Wi Fi 
 Feature Is Great Wicth Alows You To Come To Anyone's Town, And Let Them Visit Yours. You Start 
 The Game Off In Cab Being Driven To Your New Home. You First Meet Tom Nook, Tom Is The Shopkeeper 
 in Town. Tom Built Your House. So The Basicly Main Goal Of The Game Is To Pay Off The Money You 
 Ow Him. When That Is Done You Just Continue With Your Life, Like Making Friends With The Neighbors, 
 Collecting Items For The Museum, And Many Other Things. Over All Its Fun Game Thats Sutiable For 
 People Who Like This Sort Of Game, And I Hope You Enjoy It! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LITEMYFIRE
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I agree very much what SpecialED1020 said about this game. It is fun for a long time but then you 
 realize that it is boring. Its like work! You have go pick the weeds, then you have to go sell 
 your fossil to Tom Nook, then you have to go pick up some fruit, sell it to Nook, go back and get 
 some more, then sell it to Nook. You get my point.
  
  Other then that, yeah, its great! Its very fun but sometimes when your fingers hurt and stuff, 
 you just don't want to play. When I first played it I was having fun for like 2 months. The Wi-Fi 
 is an awesome addition to the game by the way. Eventually, you just don't feel like playing.
  
  I mean its cool how much stuff there is to do but it just gets OLD. Yes, there is alot of replay 
 value but once you've done all you need to do in the game, theres nothing more! There is nothing 
 to do! Nothing fun that is.
  
  But in the end, it is worth buying. It will get old but try to keep yourself pleased. So yes, it 
 is worth buying.
  
  -Jon R. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waldok00
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is an odd game. There is no "End", but for some reason it continues to entertain 
 you. Maybe it's the items and furniture you can get to trick out your pad; or maybe it's the endless 
 and witty conversations of your animal neighbors. Also the town in this game isn't all that big. 
 IT's just ONE town. However, the interactions and things that go on in that town created just for 
 you is different then anyone elses in the entire world.
  
  There are also so many things to do that time does play an important factor in the game. Although, 
 what makes this a very good portable game is the fact that it is able to be played for a few minutes 
 at a time. The internal clock is in real time so if it's 4:00pm it's 4:00pm in the game. Certain 
 events happen at certain times, and certain shops close and open, too.
  
  The music in this game isn't anything special, but that's how you'll like it. It doesn't get in 
 the way and it's pretty mellow, which reinforces it's area.
  
  Graphics are great for the DS. Colorful characters and bright and vibrant surroundings.
  
  
 All and all, this is a great package with tons of customization, multiplayer, and a few other things 
 that make it great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RpGamerzzz
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:01 am PT
Review:  This game is really fun. In the beginning of the game your in a taxi being asked various questions 
 and such determing how you and your town will look (i think) after that you get dropped off in front 
 of your town hall and get various tasks from tom nook (the merchant of the town) once your done 
 with that you get tons of different things to do in your town. You can catch bugs, grow plants, 
 gather fruits etc. all the things we avoid to do in real life and play video games instead =P. 
 100's of different items to customize your life and your house different accesories to make you 
 like how you want and things like that.
  
  Pros; long gameplay, interesting online, many different items and such, various different tasks.
 
  
  Cons; bad sound, slightly repetive tasks.
  
  Gameplay; at times touch screen is too faulty to catch or gather something
  
  Graphics; really 
 good graphics but some games have slight better
  
  Sounds; boring music. con of the game.
  
  Value; worth a buy, try it out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperLinkX
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 29, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  this game is sweet it has like millions of things like furniture, clothes and things like fishing 
 rods, nets, axes, and slingshots!............ its awsome.
  if u like real like sims , or like virtual life games u will like this. u hav ur own house and all. 
 if ur friends hav it too they can come to the town u created, and u can use wifi to go to others 
 houses if u hav the wifi adapter, go to mcdonalds, or got to a place that has wilerless internet 
 connection! its freakin sweeeeeeeeeeeeeeet! buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy 
 it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it, buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ra-Qin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 27, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  So what makes a game great in my eyes?
  - Playability (the controls make good sense, and take only a minute to learn) 
  - Functional 
 Graphics (like cars, games cannot be all-show and no-go)
  - Audio that is not annoying
  - A compelling plot or series of goals that make you want to play it every minute that you can 
 stay awake!
  
  Animal Crossings: Wild World did this for me. The game was simple to play, the graphics work very 
 well in the functionality of the game. As for the audio, since I have not bothered to turn off 
 the background music it must work well (I usually turn it off inside of 5 minutes) .
  
  The best aspect of this game is the goals... I mean, in the virtual-life genre, it is just fun to 
 make stuff happen, tinker with this or that, and build a world around your character, but I have 
 never been so DRIVEN to do so! The importance of productivity in this game is well established 
 right at the onset; casting a line for the various kinds of fish is a blast, digging up fossils 
 is a pretty cool concept, and I can't wait to get into bug catching. But he social aspects of the 
 characters is compelling, and runs deep with the non-player characters sending invites to parties, 
 celebrating holidays, and sending you various pieces of mail. 
  
  These social interactions take this game beyond the importance simply acquiring wealth, and material 
 goods. In AC: Wild World, your social skills make a difference, your fashion sense has impact, 
 and your skill as an interior designer can make your characters status in the game soar to the 
 ceiling. The whole concept of this game is a draw, and it sucks you right in.
  
  Player age is not really a factor as long as the player can read... There are a lot of important 
 instructions given during the game-play, and a poor reader (at or below 1st Grade level reading) 
 might not play this game past the opening sequences. The game is fun for adults and kids alike. 
 Lots of good gaming, and nothing violent to consern yourself about if you are giving it to children 
 as a gift.
  
  Having never looked at the Game Cube version of this game, I cannot take anything away from AC: 
 Wild World. This game stands on it's own two feet and does not need an existing game franchise 
 or previous big-brother-console version to give it legs. 
  
  Cheers and happy gaming,
  Ra-Qin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlord_Bowser
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 24, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great game to play. Its fun and terrific to play. It might not 
 have a storyline, but you try to pay of your house, which is kinda like my story line. There are 
 actually many things to do in the Animal Crossing World like: Go Fishing, Catch some bugs, Plant 
 a tree, some plants, pay of your house, talk to your neighbors, collect seashells, have a cup of 
 coffee, mail a letter, and much more. Its quite fun and I dont even have Wi-fi which probably makes 
 this game really fun.
  
  Gameplay - This game has good gameplay and you won't be bored for hours.
  
  Graphics - Great 
 DS graphics and not many glitches like most of these games. 
  
  Sound - The Sound in the game is goes pretty well with the scenary.
  
  Overall - A fun game 
 to play, best in its Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrylchew91
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  bought this game also becos of the great review. played it for awhile and left it aside. then played 
 it again after awhile, managed to clear the debt and the real fun begins. truely it is a do nothing 
 kinda of game. jus walking around catching things, picking things and selling them to get more 
 bells (money in animal world) . good part about it is e real time thingy, characters in the town 
 will tell you things but not whole story! eg: tom told me to upgrade my house and choose a new 
 roof colour. then he told me to come back e next day to check out the new drawing. it makes you 
 go back to the game to check things out again. overall it a game that you can keep playing and 
 keep yourelf entertained for hours without worrying about not able to complete mission, got kill 
 etc. this is the kind of game that you can play while in lecture hall listening to boring lectures!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth_paki
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  In Animal Crossing: Wild World for the Nintendo DS, you move into a town filled with animals with 
 different personalities. There is no main objective, nor end in this game. You get to catch various 
 fish and bugs, and collect dinosaur bones and famous paintings. You can also sell items to receive 
 money, or "bells". You can spend these bells on furniture for your home, hair cuts, clothing and 
 accessories. Keeping your town perfect can sometimes be a hassle, and seems more like a chore at 
 times. But in the end, it is all worth it when you have beautiful trees, flowers, and patterns 
 well placed all over your town. There is also a surprisingly good on-line mode where your friends 
 can visit your town and communicate and play around with you. This is an amazingly fun pick up 
 and play game that keeps you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah10106
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  As I said I do like the game just not as much as I like the game cube one, I dont know why excatly 
 but I think its because The gamecube one you could help your neighbors deliver stuff, and all that 
 and get something after you did it and in this you have to talk to them alot to get them to get 
 you to go do something for them, And In the other ones you had a choice to talk to them, to do 
 something for them, or you just didnt want them at all. Yea Im pretty sure thats what bothers me 
 about it. But other than that I love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turimoster
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a wonderful game in many aspects. The main idea is to just live, 
 and for many of you who don't have lives and haven't been able to aquire one for quite some time, 
 this virtual life is handed on a plate for you... in exchange for 25.
  
  You begin the game on your way to a town which you will be able to live in. Once you arrive, you 
 will be in debt to Tom Nook, a shopkeeper who helps you out by setting up a house for you and has 
 a pushy personality. Once you have worked for him and paid off your loan, you will be free to do 
 whatever you want!
  
  The term "free" is not used loosely either. There is a massive amount of things to collect, people 
 to see and things to become a member of within your town; and that's not mentioning the fantastic 
 multiplayer which this game offers you. You can play single-cartridge multiplayer or go online 
 via a friend code, and have your friends visit your village or go to visit your friends village. 
 It is amazing that you can connect up this way, and it is great fun; certainly the highlight of 
 Animal Crossing: Wild World.
  
  During the single player mode, if you're unadventreous with this game, you may find yourself doing 
 the same tasks day-in, day-out until a special event comes your day. This is because Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World takes good advantage of the clock on the Nintendo DS, which means that your fellow villagers 
 will celebrate Christmas and your birthday with you, as well as things like Bug Contests happening 
 of the 2nd Sunday of a certain month. This is a fantastic trend breaker if you have slipped yourself 
 into one.
  
  Another thing which strikes me with Animal Crossing: Wild World is the AI of the characters within 
 the game. If you connect up with another DS and a friend comes to visit your village, you will 
 hear them talking about it for the next few days. Or, if you have not gone on the game for a few 
 weeks or so, they will be asking you where you've gone and what you've been up to. Another fun 
 thing is seeing different villagers talk to each other outside, and you can listen in on their 
 conversations which can be very amusing at times.
  
  The touch screen is also put to fantastic use on Animal Crossing: Wild World. You can control your 
 character in two different ways: by the buttons or by the touch screen. Of course, this comes down 
 to personal preference, but I would recommend using the touch screen all of the time whilst playing, 
 as it it easy to choose options in the menus and a great way to move around. At first when you 
 begin to play, you may find yourself accidently pressing your character instead of pressing an 
 apple to pick it up or something. This can mean one of three things: you have bad eye to hand co-ordination, 
 you need your DS touch screen calibrating, or you just need to get used to it. Either way, this 
 is an innotive and fun way to control your character through the game.
  
  The graphics on Animal Crossing: Wild World are very good for the Nintendo DS hardware. It may 
 not be as sharp looking as some other DS games like Electroplankon, but it is only a minor downgrade 
 from the origonal Animal Crossing game which was released on the GameCube. It is still as colourful 
 as the previous game, but the textures arn't as smooth, as you'd expect. The graphics certainly 
 get the job done, and you're more likely to be consiously thinking how nice they look rather then 
 the opposite.
  
  The sound in Animal Crossing: Wild World is of very high standard. The variety of sound effects 
 and music on this game is right up there by the standards of the DS. For example, you can compose 
 your own tune for your town at the Town Hall. You will hear this tune jingle as you open doors 
 in the game, and also you will hear it play by different instruments depending on which character 
 you talk to. This is a great yet subtle addition to the game. The music which plays when you're 
 in certain shops is nice, but there are some really well composed tunes when you're walking around 
 the town at night for an overworld theme. This adds a relaxed tone to the game, which suits to 
 a tee.
  
  A lot of people would see Animal Crossing: Wild World as a bit to babyish or perhaps aimed at the 
 less mature audience, but it doesn't matter what your age or level of maturity is, it is a great 
 way to have some portable fun on the DS. Whether it be the crazy animal characters which fill up 
 your village or the incredible turning of the seasons made possible by the Nintendo DS clock, Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World is a way you can live, whilst having a break from life itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: easy0neasy0ff
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  A title like Animal Crossing doesn't typically top an avid or hardcore gamer's most wanted list. 
 Being an avid/core gamer myself , you might ask 'Why would you then purchase said game ?' Simple 
 - 
  1.) I was looking to increase my DS Library.
  2.) Ive loosely played and enjoyed the GC version 
  3.) The idea of baseically building your 
 own little town was interesting.
  
  I figured I would give it a shot. You start out riding in a cab to an unknown location. The cab 
 driver asks you questions which will require varied answers. These answers ultimatly mold how your 
 town will be , what its name is, ect. At the end of this 20 question cab ride , you will be dropped 
 off at your new town. Personally I feel that some of the best parts of any game are the exploring 
 and testing of new things on our own. A lot of Animal Crossing does this, but then it abruptly 
 stops. Talking to the locals is a hoot, but then you find them saying some of the same things repeatedly. 
 You just more or less run out of new things to do or say. Sure you can do alot of stuff , but you 
 did them all yesterday . . . and the day before that. . . and the day before that. This is a game 
 that forces you to continuously play all year long in order to get the most out of it but herein 
 lies a pretty big obstacle for avid/core gamers like myself . . . I like to finish things and move 
 on. I dont particularly spend a whole lot of time on just one game. This game however does not 
 end. I like to play lots of games and I just dont have the time that Animal Crossing requires. 
 There are certain people you just wont see or certain activities you cant participate in unless 
 you picked up your DS at a certain time of day/year. Another thing that annoyed me was the only 
 way to get the most out of this title is if you took your town online, or had a friend who could 
 visit your town. I couldn't do either of these and this really dampened my fun with this title. 
 I still have fun collecting things every now and then , but most of the fun has gone out of it. 
 If your someone who spends lots of time with one game, or if you always have your DS near you and 
 are just itching to use it for something , then by all means this is most likely a game for you. 
 But for a gamer like myself, I had to move on to better things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detroit222
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It's easy to play and there's always so many things to do. You move into a town, 
 try to build up your house, make a living, make friends. (Real life with animals.) There's a lot 
 of things to collect: bugs, fossils, fish. You can sell them or donate them to the local museum. 
 And the museum is astonishingly beautiful! You can design your own clothes (some people have even 
 designed murals!) . You can create your own tunes. You can watch the seasons of the year pass and 
 enjoy each one. It's going to take a long long time before I get bored with this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hayaoji
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: WW for the DS is fun for a week. Pretty much you work towards upgrading your house 
 and beautifying your town for visitors to see. It's nice having a friend come over but it's a little 
 difficult if you ask me. I don't like the fact that you have to add your friend's code and your 
 friend has to add yours to be able to play with him/her. What really bothers me is that there are 
 no mini games that you can play when a friend comes over. You can do all the things animal crossing 
 offers on single player mode, but it's not very fun trying to see who catches the biggest fish, 
 or playing hide and seek.
  
  I like the whole online playing capability Animal Crossing has to offer. There's always something 
 to do. I'm usually too busy during the day to play animal crossing so I'd get on sometime after 
 9 and that become a problem. After 8 pm the shop is closed so I am unable to sell the things I've 
 gathered.
  
  Online feature needs some improvements.
  
  It'd be nice to keep gate open when playing so that friends can come over without having to plan 
 what time to get on. It'll be even better if you can get into a channel where it shows a list of 
 open gates. I can see a problem with it like people trashing other's town for the fun of it. Maybe 
 you have a reset mode where you can reset everything back to the way before the person came in 
 if there was ever a problem.
  
  All and all, this game is a game of itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecialED1020
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  AC: WW was my first DS, and I wanted it really bad. When I first played it my reaction was just 
 what I thought it would be. The game was fun. I played it non-stop for days, even weeks. I thought 
 it would enver get old due to the many items and things to do. But as the weeks went on I just 
 got bored and annoyed at the fact you HAVE to play it everyday to get things done and if you don't, 
 you fall behind and have to work even harder the next day. So it just became another chore, and 
 video games should take youn away from your chores around the house not add one on to it. The online 
 play is pretty good, as long as you know a lot of people who own the game, as for me only one person 
 I know has a DS so it kinda sucked. Overall the game is fun for a couple weeks but after a while 
 you realize that its jsut another chore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukeNukem77
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 17, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Wow this game was fun and very enjoyble...... for the first month. After that the game got boring 
 i dont want to live a life on a game. But if you have a lot of time i really reccomend this game. Well 
 the gameplay is fun i love the animals they are funny. But like i said it gets boring you do the 
 same thing over and over. If your going to buy it buy, it cheap and dont expect to play it for months. The 
 graphics are ok i guess there not bad but there not great. I like the idea of moving to your friends 
 town its kewl but like i said its not the greatest game. Thank you for your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuffTheDragon
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a wonderful game. When I first bought it on Boxing Day, I popped 
 it in my new DS on the train ride home, and didn't stop playing for another four hours. There was 
 so much to do! I fished, bought furniture to decorate my small house, payed back my loan, designed 
 new clothes, made friends with my villagers (and laughed at what they had to say) then went and 
 saved feeling happy.
  
  The next day came. I fished, bought furniture, laughed at my villagers, picked fruit, dug up fossils.
 
  
  Next day: fished, dug, planted, bought, sold, laughed.
  
  Next day: Okay, this is getting a little bit repetitive.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Graphics 
 are everything one would need for a game like this. The graphics are crisp, the world moves nicely 
 as you do, and the furniture/clothes are all wonderfully detailed. Although, to tell you the truth, 
 I really preferred the Gamecube's graphics. Just personal taste, I guess.
  
  Audio: 6/10
  Music: 5/10
  
  The music is soft and boring, while the audio is annoying. I don't play with 
 sound unless it's at night (when the music gets a little better) , and I have the animal "voices" 
 permanently turned off.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 for the first few days, but it quickly reverts to a 5/10.
  
  It's boring. The 
 only real way to get money is the tenuous Stalk Market (selling turnips for more money than you 
 bought them for) or harvesting foreign fruit (which takes so damn long) , and money itself is pointless. 
 The game repeats the same stuff over and over, and while it takes your full attention the first 
 time someone says something like "douse your face in milk tea!" to you, it quickly stales.
  
  Special Extras:
  
  Multiplayer: 6/10
  
  Serves no more function than to allow two people 
 standing next to each other to send messages, or trade useless items. Internet multiplayer is off-limits 
 for me, not being in possession of a wireless router, but I've heard it adds life.
  
  Whimsy: 8/10
  
  I did enjoy the random comments and conversations between animals. Good show.
 
  
  So in short, I'd recommend borrowing this game from a friend, as it's not worth the current price, 
 unless you're a fan of hideously boring games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cursed_Shadow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World isn't quite a sequel to Animal Crossing for the gamecube, it is pretty 
 much the same game, just with a couple of things added. The game starts of with you in a taxi, 
 going to your new town (you pick the name) , the taxi driving, being a frog like creature, asks 
 you questions which will determine what you character looks like. When you get to your town you 
 will meet a racoon named Ton Nook, he is feeling very nice so he buys a house for you, of course 
 you will have to pay him back about 19,000 bells (bells is the currency in Animal Crossing) for 
 his generosity. That is where the game starts and it is different for everybod after this point.
 
  
  Gameplay: This game is different everyday! certain events will happen on different days, different 
 items will be for sale and more. This game also has seasons, which means different bugs and fish 
 can only be caught in certain seasons and times. The game is real-time, meaning if it is 5 o'clock 
 where you are, it'll be 5 o'clock in the game. There are 4 obvious time frames, they are: morning, 
 afternoon, noon and night. This also means the shops will open and close at certain points during 
 the day.
  The game pretty much is implying to just pay Tom Nook back, but its not forced upon you to do it, 
 if you rather spend you day hunting for bugs and fossils, thats fine. There is no time limit in 
 which you have to pay Nook back. Lastly the game has its own Museum, being you can donate the fish 
 and bugs you catch in the game and you can see them in the museum. You can also donate fossils 
 which will end up making dinosaur skeletons.
  
  Graphics: the graphics are done quite well, there isnt a big difference between the gamecube and 
 ds versions. All the characters look good and so do all the surroundings. If there is one complaint 
 i have about the graphics, is they arent quite sharp enough to always see the bugs on the trees, 
 so you might hit a tree and see a bug fly away and just get angry. You may find yourself doing 
 this a bit, thats why i gave the graphics an 8.
  
  Sound: The sound is good, there is always background music playing and you can hear bugs making 
 noises on either side of you so sometimes you can pick out where they are. So it has very good 
 stero sound. The characters talking is quite funny, they are pretty much actually saying what the 
 text says... just really fast, so sometimes you can actually pick up what they are saying without 
 reading, but thats very rare. One complaint is the 'town tune' you can create by yourself, the 
 only times you hear it are when you first talk to something, it is not available as background 
 music.
  
  Value: FANATSTIC! this game is different for everybody and is different each and everyday. The 
 value of the game is added with the WiFi, where you can visit other peoples towns and have fishing 
 competitions or bug catching competitions, or just hang out.
  
  All in all: this game is really good and i'm very happy i picked it up, with things changing everyday 
 i am suprised everyday i play it. i would reccomend this to most people. but if ou dont like real-time 
 games dont get it, because if you time travel you are ruining the game for youself, this game was 
 made to last people a long time.
  
  Finally: the good- different things everyday, everyone has different experiences in the game, customise 
 you house, different looking playable characters, playing with your friends through WiFi
  the bad - not a game for everyone, only so much you can do in one day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic2DAmax
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  Animal crossing is a game where you live the life as a small human and converse with the other 
 people in your town. First you have to submit ur information to kapp'n who is ur taxi driver. And 
 once you arive at the town hall you get a say that "your the new person tom nook is needing you" 
 So you pull out your map and and look for nooks shop.
  
  Once you get there Nook will show you your new house and offer you a job.
  You get a work uniform 
 and start making deliveries. Tom nook also asks you to pay the debt of your house. After your done 
 with your job the shop will close until tomorrow. 
  
  You can meet lots of friends in ur town and eventually there will be lots of animals. The animals 
 talk a different language which can get annoying. So if you dont want them to talk that way just 
 call the town services and change that.
  
  Collecting bugs and fish and fruit and selling them will get you a high profit count and once you 
 pay off all your debt your house will get bigger and you have to pay more.
  
  Buying stuff from Nook is easy once you make Nook enough monet he will upgrade his shop.
  
 
  Never just turn the power button off or you will be visited by an angry mole that yellls at you 
 until he feels like youve learned your lesson.
  
  There are also events that appear on special ocasions and the constilations that appear on certain 
 dates.
  
  The Nintendo W-Fi connection alows you to meet with your friends over the internet so you never 
 get bored.
  
  There is always something to do in animal crossing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shew0lf76
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 16, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  I enjoyed Animal Crossing on the cube although checking in regularly and having to keep plucking 
 more and more weeds got very annoying. I was hoping for different characters and gameplay in the 
 DS unfortunately, I was quite dissapointed. 
  
  The game is very much the same as the cube version, even down to the tasks that Tom Nook makes 
 you do when you first start out in town. Your cottage looks much the same etc. etc. Hence, if you 
 played Animal Crossing to death on the cube, I wouldn't recommend getting the portable version.
 
  
  However, for those of you out t here who have never played Animal Crossing, then you would probably 
 quite like it here on the DS. The fact that it is portable and you don't have to hog the telly 
 and can check in a few times a day, write some letters when you have a spare moment to people in 
 the town etc. would be very handy. 
  
  In short, if you have never played it, get it for the DS. If you have, your bells would probably 
 be better spent on another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emulcimator
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  If you have played, and enjoyed Animal Crossing for the Gamecube, plus you have a DS... this game 
 is made for you. The most appealing part of the game is the portability... made possible by the 
 DS. With the ability to live your life day by day, new things happen, new people, new items to 
 buy, every day is different. The depth of this game is incredible. The controls take a little while 
 to learn. Mainly because of the stylus. But once you learn it, you'll love it. Granted there are 
 not as many real life holidays as in the original but they've created some pretty fun new ones. 
 If you want a break from killing people in first person mode, this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_JoGamer93
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a fun enjoyable game yet sometimes feel like a chore. Basically has everything 
 the gamecube version has except no NES games. After I have been playing this game for a month I 
 realized this game s stupid yet addicting and once and a while annoying. Finnally I am starting 
 to get bored with it and really what kept me going on the gamecube version was the NES games. I 
 have paid of most of my debt and my house is quite large yet i don't really care. At least fishing 
 and bug catching are still fun. 
  Graphics are pretty good but aren't any thing special. Sound is good as you can hear birds chirping, 
 water rushing and bugs humming in the distance. Value depends on on the person playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 14, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Now this DS port still offers new things and new looks for Animal Crossing. In this installment 
 you get to personalize even more your character by making him have special hair cuts, get hats 
 and costumes, etc. But now the big feature is online play. Up to 4 players can play and party around 
 on your town or can go to their town. The problem here is that Nintendo's Wi-Fi friend code system 
 limits the fun of online play. You can only play with your friends by sharing friend codes. However 
 it is helpful in some ways because some random players could just come and destroy your town. Still 
 is a solid port of the original and those who want to play with their friends should pick up the 
 game otherwise if you are looking for a totally new Animal Crossing game then you should wait for 
 a future Wii installment.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogirlgamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 13, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be my favorite games ever. You move to a town (you name any town and Kapp'n, the 
 taxi driver, takes you) , and everybody's town is different, and you live in your town peacefuly 
 as a human. There's only one thing odd about this town, you're the only human and all the other 
 people- er... residents are animals! There are two shops, actually three if you count the come-and-go 
 Redd, Nook's and Ables. But like I said before Redd will come to your town for a day and leave 
 the next.
  
  The difficulty is nothing, all you do is live and talk to villagers and be peaceful with the wild 
 world and that's it. But you can set out to make your village perfect, then the game starts to 
 get difficult but after some tree chopping, flower planting, and weed picking you add some trees 
 here and there and before you know it your town has a perfect rating and you have the golden watering 
 can (after a few days) !
  Getting the golden axe is now different, if you've played the original Animal Crossing you know 
 what I'm talking about because you read the above paragraph, but for those who don't know: In the 
 old Animal Crossing you get the golden axe by having a perfect town for about 2 weeks. But now 
 it's different, very different and some what difficult... You need to trade special items and soon 
 you talk to Pascal (a person who is at your beach every once and a while) and he'll give you the 
 golden axe as long as you give him something he wants in return (I won't tell you what it is) . 
 But it's really not difficult to play.
  
  The Graphics are good, this has to be the best handheld gaming system Nintendo has made. I wish 
 they would make some Sonic games like this.
  
  I love the music, it's the best. The music changes every few hours and each song is very, very 
 good and fits this game perfectly.
  
  You will never want to sell this game, and if you're thinking of it you are making a very big mistake 
 if you do sell it!
  
  
  Overall I LOVE this game and you should pick it up at your local gaming store! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Calkaimainer
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 21, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is the 'sequel' to the Gamecube game, Animal Crossing. In the original 
 Animal Crossing, you moved into a village of animals (You're a human.) and had to pay off your 
 house debt to Tom Nook, the local shop keeper. You could just live your life, chat with the villagers, 
 catch fish and bugs and just live a life that is different from your own. The problem with Animal 
 Crossing was that the animal AI was very dull, as you would see the same phrases repeated a lot. 
 You would also find that, since time is based on the Gamecube clock, the day would move slowly 
 and you would find you had nothing much to do for most of the day. The premises was good, though 
 and Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great leap from the original game, which was a Nintendo 64 
 port with added extras.
  
  In Animal Crossing: Wild World, you follow the same basis as the Gamecube game. You move into your 
 own named town with your own named character and then get confronted by the local shop owner, Tom 
 Nook. He then lays you down with a house and a debt, since you have no money at that moment. After 
 that, he requests of you to work part-time at his store. At this time, you can't do much but what 
 he asks. To start off, you are asked to plant some flowers and trees around the shop, though you 
 can plant them anywhere around the town. After that, Nook gets you to meet your three starting 
 villagers, who are randomized each time. You are also asked to meet the mayor of the village, Tortimer. 
 You then follow Jobs which teach you the basics of the game, such as delivering items and learning 
 how to type things out on the game's keyboard by delivering letters and posting on the towns bulliten 
 board.
  
  After that, the game is pretty much yours to do whatever you want. You still have to pay off your 
 house debt and you will be for a while, since Nook will keep upgrading your house and, believe 
 me, you will be given a fair bit of money to pay off. Way more than you original 19 Thousand Bell 
 debt. Anyhow, you can do whatever you want. You could catch bugs in summer, or fish throughout 
 the year. You could plant a tree orchard with foreign fruit, (Any of the 3 types of fruit that did 
 not grow on your towns trees.) such as Peaches. There is a near limitless amount of things you 
 can do in this game- and it all depends on what you want to do. Don't like a persons phrase (the 
 saying animals use often) ? You can change it. Don't like your native fruit? It is plausible to 
 just cut down all your native fruit trees and replace it with a new type of fruit. You can also 
 create your own patterns to put on shirts, your town flag, hats and more. You can design these 
 the Mable and Sable's, a store next to Nook's Shop. You can buy Pre-Made Shirts, Hats and Glasses/Facial 
 items. In Mable and Sable's, you will also be able to get your own design, put it on display on 
 at your store and hope animals wear them! If you have friends coming over to your town, you can 
 get them to take a copy of the pattern and put it in their Mabel and Sable store. As I have said 
 many a time, the game is yours to shape.
  
  Among the other things you will find in your town are a Museum, where you can donate fish, bugs, 
 paintings and fossil you find in your adventures. Downstairs there is a bar called 'The Roost', 
 where you can buy Coffee and K. K. Slider plays every Saturday Night from 8 - 12pm every Saturday. 
 K. K. Slider is a musician who will give you 'bootlegs' to play on your stereo. You get given one 
 at the start, but it's not very good. The owner of The Roost is Brewster, a shy rooster.
  Going up two storeys from The Roost, is the Observertory. Operated by Celeste, the Observertory 
 lets you make constellations, which will show up in the night sky, a nice little addition.
  There is also the Town Hall, where Tortimer, Pelly, Phyllis and Pete reside. The Town Hall contains 
 the Post Office, where you post letters and the Civic Center. The Civic Center lets you change 
 the Town Tune, check the rating of your town, donate to the poor town of Boondox and more. There 
 are also tools in the game you can buy at Nook's Store and use outside. There is the Fishing Rod, 
 one of the most important tools, lets you (obviously) catch fish. Fish are important in the game's 
 economy. They provide many people with their money, since they pay high. At least, the rare ones 
 do. The Bug Catching Net, is not as important, unless you're in summer. Bugs don't provide more 
 of an income, but are still a worthy investment in summer. There is the Shovel, which lets you 
 do lots of things, such as digging up fossils, which sell for more than fish, but are less abundant. 
 You then are left with the Slingshot, Axe, Watering Can and the Timer. The Slingshot is important 
 for a few things. You can shoot down Balloons carrying presents, which house Furniture which will 
 spruce up your house or give you a little more money in the bank. The Axe lets you cut down trees 
 to make way for new ones and that's basically it. Then there's the Watering Can. it lets you water 
 things, such as flowers and trees. It isn't actually all that useful, but I still carry it around 
 for some reason. The Timer is a waste of money. You can time things, that's all. You could probably 
 play games with friends or whatever, but I find it useless otherwise.
  
  The Variety of characters in this game is huge. There are over 200 villagers you could get, each 
 with their own style. Then you have all the main characters, such as Tom Nook, his rival Redd, 
 who comes to your town weekly and gives you a choice of buying out of 3 items. The catch is though, 
 they are usually high priced and can be found at Nook's for cheaper, but some items are an exception, 
 like the paintings he has on sale, but they could be fakes. You also need a password to get in, 
 which is said by one of your villagers when he's there. Among other charcters are Booker and Cooper, 
 who are Ex-Policmen. Booker is a shy dog, who handles all the reports and item handling for the 
 Town Gates. Cooper handles all the Wi-Fi options and settings. He also lets you connect to the 
 outside world and let people into your town. You can find random various animals roaming your town 
 on random days. Gracie, an immensly popular fashion designer. She is a complete snob and will give 
 you a personality quiz, which is always not a good result. You just have to find a way to get back 
 at her. You may also get visited by Saharah, who will get you to do deliveries for carpets and 
 wallpapers. Wendell, a hungry walrus who will give you a pattern for some food. The more exotic 
 the food, the rarer the pattern will be. We are then left with one person left, Dr. Shrunk. Doctor 
 Shrunk is a doctor, who will teach you some emotions with the in-game keyboard, such as Shyness.
 
  
  Nintendo has been a smart developer for the Nintendo DS and added internet play over Wi-Fi technolgy. 
 This game uses that to it's advantage. You can visit your friends town and invite up to 3 people 
 to yours. Nintendo have thought about the kids, though and made a Friend Code system. You can not 
 visit another town, or invite people over without their Friend Code and them having your Friend 
 Code. Now, it may seem complicated, but it is actually quite a way of making the game safer for 
 children. You can hang out and have fun, trade items, hunt/catch bugs/fish together, though as 
 far as I can tell, you can not see the other persons fish and you can not find bugs whilst the 
 gates are open in WFC. You can receive special letters from Nintendo on special occasions, which 
 contain presents. You can also choose to receive a 'Mysterious Cat' which is Blanca. Blanca is 
 a cat with a face that can be drawn on and wiped off of. So when you activte this option, you will 
 sometimes receive, after Wi-Fi play, Blanca, with a face made from a random player. This kind of 
 thing sort of detracts from the Safe for Kids style this game had. But it's a nice feature. After 
 you've found her, you can draw a new face onto her. Nintendo's Wi-Fi website has a section with 
 the featured faces for Blanca, which you can use put on your own Blanca if you're not that creative. 
 There are a few problems with the Online Features, But I must say the Wi-Fi play is good, with 
 little lag. But, if you do not have access to Wi-Fi communications, there is still the normal multi-player. 
 You can play with your friends simultaneously, unlike the original, where you could go to a persons 
 town, or they could go over to yours. You couldn't play as two people simultaneously in the original, 
 so this greatly enhances on Animal Crossing with Multiplayer. But enough about the past, let's 
 get to the present! The Local Multiplayer is just like Wi-Fi play, except Keyboard Chat is a little 
 useless since in the range you'll be, you will be able to hear each other, unless you were in other 
 rooms. Like Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connection service for this game, you can have 4 people visiting your 
 town at one time. That's you and three friends, more than enough in my opinion. You and 2 other 
 friends could also come and throw a party at another persons village too, so there could be plenty 
 of fun for all. But be wary. If you're visiting a person's town with no one else, that person will 
 lose a villager and you'll gain one, assuming you haven't filled all the villager slots and Vice-Versa. 
 With the DS, everything is faster. You can navigate menus easier, and dragging items to sell is 
 so much easier. Running and doing actions with the touch screen is a little Awkward. You will miss 
 objects, trample over flowers and it's just plain annoying. The bottom screen, which, if you don't 
 know, serves as the Nintendo DS' touch sensitive screen, is the main screen used in Animal Crossing. 
 You will see your character on it all of the time (except for when a menu is open) and the menus 
 will appear on it. The Top Screen, which is not touch sensitive, shows the sky or your character 
 when a menu is up. The sky is actually a little important, though it may not seem that way. It 
 will show the weather and items that may (somehow) be flying in the sky, such as presents on balloons, 
 or Pete the Pelican postman. The Graphics in Animal Crossing: Wild World are great for the DS and 
 about the same as the Gamecube version. That may come as a suprise to many, but considering the 
 Gamecube Original was a (mostly) direct Nintendo 64 port, it shouldn't suprise you. The graphics 
 are more muddy, as I say, than the original, but are still great quality. Most images of things, 
 (Fruit, Furniture icons) are just sprites and they are noticeable, but they don't get in the way 
 too much. The Models are nice and not too polygonal. The buildings follow normal game fashion, 
 being bigger than they look on the outside, but that's a space thing. You do need room to move 
 around in your town, don't you? The Sound and Music in this game is very good. The Music is light-hearted, 
 but that doesn't bother me for some reason. The music changes every hour. From the Midday when 
 it is nice and happy till Midnight when it is slow, quiet and relaxing. It does suit the time of 
 day that that it is set, which is good. In Christmas, the music is more jingly and in Hallowe'en, 
 it's more 'spookier'. (Note: Don't quote me on that, I'm just assuming from the Gamecube version) 
 The Sound Effects are nice, with no 'glitches' as far as I can see. There is a feature in the games 
 I have yet to tell you about- and that is the Town Tunes. For those of you who have played the 
 original Animal Crossing will know what this is. Basically you have a selection of notes you can 
 use, and you make a very short tune about it. It then plays when the hour turns, you talk to an 
 Animal or sometimes a very short piece of it is played when you open a villager's house's door. 
 The Longlivety depends on what you have.
  If you have access to Wi-Fi the game will last you longer than it will than when you don't have 
 Wi-Fi access. When you are playing Wi-Fi there are more things to do, thus the game lasting you 
 longer in total. But I still would recommend the game even if you don't have Wi-Fi access and like 
 the genre of the game. You will get a couple of weeks or more of the game before you get bored 
 however. This is what I call Animal Crossing Syndrome, where you just stop playing for a while, 
 then you completely stop. My cure is a little thing called a 802.11b Wireless Router. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X3oNR3g1z
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Upon seeing my friend play Animal Crossing for the GCN I made fun of him for spending so much time 
 on such a kooky little "non game." Of course, I didnt understand how Animal crossing used the gamecubes 
 internal clock to create a fully functional 365 days per year calander. this is the main gameplay 
 element to animal crossing which all other aspects of play revolve around. I also didn't grasp 
 the complex-yet simple NPC interaction which gives the game a true purpose, actually making you 
 CARE about the neighbors of your town. Item collecting, I imediately understood. Unlocking classic 
 NES games for play on an in-game nes console, That little tibit made me blink in suprise before 
 I put the game out of my head permanently and went back to the Sam Fishers and Master Chiefs of 
 the video game world. 
  
  Now I spend my Days off (and none to few hours at work, on the sly) cradling my DS feverishly, Cursing 
 Tom nook for keeping his store open a mere 15 hours a day, and designing custom-made clothing for 
 my neighbors and (soon) online friends. Because you see, even when I turn my DS off, the wild world 
 of Animal Crossing keeps on going, my neighbors get new clothes and furniture, get in fights with 
 the other animals, write me letters and even somtimes move away!!! There's always somthing to do 
 or discover in this deceptively childish looking but incredibly deep game. 
  
  For veterans of the previous gamecube installment, aa: ww will be all quite familar, with a plethora 
 of new items and a few twists to the concept. graphics are simple and extremely well done. details 
 are and animations were lovingly crafted, music is subdued but effective. Unfoturnately NES unlockables 
 have been canned in favor of an even greater feature: wireless and Online play. One town and four 
 players can be saved on each cart. towns cannot be tranfered from cart to cart wirelessly, but 
 players can, meaning you can move into your little sisters town, share her house and mess with 
 all her stuff!!! additionally you can open up your town gates and allow up to 3 friends to frollic 
 around your town, collecting and trading items and Insults with your neighbors. try throwing a 
 message in a bottle into the sea where it will travel through the nintendo wifi ocean, randomly 
 landing on some other player's beach.
  
  This game is geared towards absolutely EVERYBODY and therefore consists of simple, laidback activities 
 such as gardening, fishing, bug catching, designing (textile pixel art ala mario paint!) and other 
 simple activites. Once you've built up enough cash you can start on upgrading your house and furnishing 
 it to your taste. aa: ww is more geared towards personal expression than most games and creative 
 gamers with thrive within its compelling world. touch screen controls could have been a bit more 
 fleshed out but are still invaluable for typing letters and dragging items into your inventory. 
 In winter (like, real winter) roll snowballs around to make snowmen and join in new years festivaties. 
 in summer go fishing for sharks and collect rare, summer only bugs. Play this game for weeks on 
 end or an hour a day, it will be constantly changing and providing you with new content, even when 
 the game is turned off!!!!
  
  In closing, make no mistake: this is a must have title for any DS owner, it will grow on you, trust 
 me. the portability factor raises the bar considerably from its clunky GCN big bro, but this is 
 no scaled down port by any stretch of the imagination. 5 out of 5 stars!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gogetaex
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 11, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Best Virtual life game ever. You buy your own house, pay your own bill, create your own town talk 
 to the locals create themes in your house it will take days to grow your house to maximum proportions. 
 I have spent a lot of time playing it any one who has a Nintendo DS or might be planning to get 
 a Nintendo DS should consider purchasing this game. It is much better than its Nintendo Gamecube 
 counterpart. I would suggest buying a Nintendo DS for the sole purpose of being able to play this 
 game. This is also not a game that can necessarily be beaten so you can play it and always get 
 something new out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff_d5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  this is a prety nice game i loved the gamecube version alot and i think this is just as good maby 
 even better love the world it is much better to navigate around then the game cube version because 
 there is no loading time between 10 yards of movement its a round world and that is cool :D
  
  love the online play i think it is fabulous that i get to go to my fwends towns so that is 
 kool
  
  love the way it starts off too in a cab and all thats sweet customizeable is probably one of the 
 coolest aspects of this game its almost breathtakeing and too unique lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColossusKiller
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 8, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Anyone here remember Animal Crossing for the GameCube? I owned it once. It was a breakthrough title. 
 Even if you didn't play, something was going on in the game. It's the sims with animals! Now that 
 game makes its way to the Nintendo DS with Animal Crossing: Wild World. Now don't get me wrong, 
 the game isn't bad. However, it is the exact same game from the GameCube, with a couple tweaks 
 here and there. For starters, up to 4 players can live in your house. Now you can pay off that 
 debt on your house 4x as fast. Cool. Also, there are some new events, such as La-Di-Day. They are 
 just minor improvements to the year. What truly brings this game up is the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection 
 capability. Add someone to your friends list, and they can visit your town, or vice versa. This 
 adds replay value, as you can visit the store, chat with the locals, and mess with someone else's 
 town. It is fun, and the online community is happy. There is a chat feature, but it is hard to 
 reach quickly. This game is pretty good. If you liked Animal Crossing. Go wild. Buy it, and lock 
 the doors. You won't even know you're lonely! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rifleman91
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 8, 2006 12:17 pm PT
Review:  i loved ac: ww when i first got it, i loved it alot. but then i saw the money u needed to pay on 
 ur house to get it to its next level and im like #$%@ this. the game doesnt have much to do but 
 little side charcters such as sahara the camel and the doctor throw in the kick u need when u need 
 it. but with your town so small and wi fi trying to be thrown in there really isnt much to do... fishing 
 and bug running is fun cuz u try to get them all but to wait an entire year just to get a fish 
 so u can get an exclusive item is not worth the wait. wi fi feels like it was just thrown into 
 the mix to kinda stir up nintendos whoel "we finally are going online" campaign. all u can do in 
 wifi is all u can do by urself. fish, bug catch, plant and the occasional, let me ruin ur town cuz 
 i can. all in all animal crossing wild world will keep u intrested till this up coming holiday 
 season, but if ur a boy i suggest tony hawk or mario kart as an online game and if ur a girl u 
 should try this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjb-sensei
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing, one of the most unique, quirky, and just plain weird titles you'll likely ever 
 encounter, finally decides to leap onto a portable platform. And what better way to get itself 
 acquainted with portability than with Nintendo's latest ingenious hardware creation, the Nintendo 
 DS?
  
  Featuring, for the first time, online playability with friends not just in your neighborhood, but 
 all throughout the world, in conjunction with many new items to find and decorate your house with, 
 and plenty more activities that you can apply your unused time toward, Animal Crossing: Wild World 
 is, for the time being, the absolute definitive installment in the Animal Crossing series. No longer 
 are you tethered down to your GameCube at home. Now, you can play basically anywhere you want (even 
 in the bathroom for people who like to play games in the bathroom... for whatever reason that may 
 be) .
  
  Wild World, just like its predecessor, doesn't necessarily have a story to tell. This time, instead 
 or arriving to the village in a train, you arrive in a car. Once that happens, you'll need to immediately 
 look for a job to help pay off your debt for your house (what, you think that house was free or 
 something? Not if you're playing by Nintendo's rules!) .
  
  One parallel to the GameCube game, though, is the fact that once again, you'll need to create your 
 in-game persona. As a human in a world full of animals, you'll obviously be able to be one of two 
 genders, male or female, although what gender you actually become in the game isn't immediately 
 accessible. You'll be asked some questions, and depending on what your responses are will result 
 in what kind of character you become in the game.
  
  The game is, graphically, impressive for a handheld title. It replicates the look developed in 
 the GameCube incarnation rather successfully, only with slightly less dignified textures when compared 
 directly to that version (for instance, pixelation is a rather bothersome sight on the DS -- rather 
 than having textures that are smooth, they appear blocky) . Still, the visual style the game is 
 fashioned in could be considered appealing. It really is unlike any other game out there, outside 
 or inside the genre, and that really helps as it gives it points in the originality department.
 
  
  Controls in the title can be operated via either the DS' touch screen, or with the standard d-pad 
 and face buttons. Personally, I like to use a combination of both at times. Basic actions like 
 simply moving around is where I'll use the touch screen, while the d-pad/buttons faction will be 
 more prone for use when I do some fossil hunting or gardening, just for that extra added bit of 
 accuracy and consistency.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World features plenty to see and do. There's a museum, which you can donate 
 items to, like any and all fossils you may unearth somewhere in the city. That same museum is also 
 home to a bar, and in that bar you may occasionally run into K. K. Slider, who likes to spend time 
 there entertaining visitors with his music. There's also the Able Sisters' shop, where you can 
 create your own custom brand of clothing and other things. Finally, last but certainly not least, 
 is Nook's shop, where you'll be doing the majority of your shopping and perusing. Nook is the person 
 you owe your house debt to, so you'll obviously be seeing plenty of him during your time with Wild 
 World.
  
  Before too long, you'll be able to upgrade not only your house, but also Nook's shop. Improving 
 your home has benefits that are apparent at first thought, like granting you more access to space 
 to place objects you value, while adding to Nook's tiny little store will enable him to stock more 
 items at once, which can truly help you when it comes to specific situations, like decorating your 
 lovely little home.
  
  Speaking of your home, you're not the only person in town. You share the city with animals, who 
 you can either befriend or piss off. These same creatures have the tendency to offer you an item 
 (at a price, of course) or, if their in the mood, might even give you something for free! You're 
 also susceptible to receiving mail from them, which can range from merely asking you what's up, 
 to notifying you that their birthday is coming up and they'd like to invite you over.
  
  You'll also be able to do activities that were present in the original Animal Crossing, like being 
 able to go fishing, growing your own garden, and hitting rocks with your shovel for money (I'm 
 serious) . Oh yeah, there are also trees that have fruit that you can harvest and either eat or 
 sell for bells (the game's form of currency) .
  
  By the way, did I mention that Animal Crossing: Wild World has online play? Finally, you can visit 
 other people's towns that are more than a few feet away from you. Yes, you can exchange items with 
 your closest friends, as well as play a game of tag. Honestly, while the addition of online play 
 is a big step forward for this series, you can't help but get the feeling that it isn't quite complete 
 in that area. Maybe in a future edition...
  
  Anyway, moving on, Wild World has a nice musical score to it. You'll find beats that that have 
 sort of a jazzy sound to them, which is fine in my book as I like that sort of style when it comes 
 to music, and others that are quite a bit more upbeat and fast. It's not Final Fantasy, mind you, 
 where you're in awe, but it gets the job done quite competently.
  
  A lot of people complained about the original game when it came to the replay factor, the point 
 being that there really wasn't much of one. It's nice to simulate a digital life, but for how long? 
 After a while, you're going to get tired of it and realize that you have an actual life of your 
 own that you need to put into the forefront and that's where Animal Crossing is lacking. It's no 
 doubt a fun game for the first few weeks, but, after that, you're more likely than not going to 
 start getting a bit bored or tired of it. It doesn't help that Nintendo decided to remove the NES 
 games that were in the original game, either.
  
  Overall, Animal Crossing: Wild World is a very solid entry in the Animal Crossing series. It is 
 the best game in the series thus far, and has a lot to see and do. The problem is, it, at the end 
 of the day, isn't enough to continually draw you in. The addition of online play is a positive, 
 but even that isn't going to add that much to its replay value. Still, with all of that in mind, 
 you can certainly do much, much worse than opting to pick up Wild World. It is without a shadow 
 of a doubt one of the best RPGs available for the DS, as well as one of the best games for the 
 system, period, and proves once more that Nintendo knows how to craft a quality release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Positive Notes
  -do what you want when you want
  -you're only limited by your own imagination
  -plenty of unique activities and holiday festivities 
 to take part in
  -near full customization
  -Wifi play
  
  Negative Notes
  -you're limited to being a human
  -to get the final upgrade of Tom Nook's shop you need a friend 
 to visit your town and buy from Nook's store.
  -Shops close at 11:00pm (matches your in-game clock)
  -If you're collecting a large quantity 
 of items you have to run back and forth to the store every-time your inventory is full, maybe a 
 way to sell items straight from your inventory would have made it easier.
  -Wifi can only be played using friendcodes (no random match-ups)
  
  Suggestions for a sequel
 
  -allow players to choose a species other than human
  -random Wifi match-ups of some sort
  -allow items to be sold straight from your inventory and at anytime
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightfellower
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  If you can get past that occasional weird stare while chuckling at its sheer brilliance and humour, 
 youve got yourself a game in Animal Crossing: Wild World.
  
  The beginning of the game sees a cut-scene of your character in a taxi. For some reasons, you could 
 not decide on your name, sex, and location until this friendly driver asks that of you. So depending 
 on your preference, or weird preference, if you like, you are granted the permission to play god, 
 to a lesser extent; or like what you can do in the seemingly endless Sims games, also to a lesser 
 extent. Oh, have I mentioned the term seemingly endless already? Because Ive meant to use the 
 term later. This game is endless.
  
  This is not a game where you can aim to finish in X number of hours, and to do that to a game like 
 this would be quite simply an insult. Some wouldve like it, some wouldve not; theres no grey 
 region here, only of black and white. Its really ambiguous, so Im not going to force any of my 
 opinions on you. From a personal perspective, I have thoroughly enjoyed the whole gaming experience. 
 However, to say that its a gaming experience could perharps be inappropriate. Thats because 
 Animal Crossing: Wild World, albeit being a game, doesnt necessary play like one. The genre virtual 
 life seems forced, but it would be hard to categorise a game which main game play involves fishing, 
 catching bugs, and paying mortgage, wouldnt it?
  
  Okay, in case I start to digress more, lets get back to the review. Before the game really starts, 
 you would be asked to choose your characters name and sex, some particulars, and a short description 
 of the town that you are about to move to. This isnt the most delicate of customisation process, 
 but its served its purpose, to say the least. Besides, as you would soon discover, this game hardly 
 needs any more customisation.
  
  The good: If I am to cringe each time I mention the word game play here, I would have well paralyzed 
 to death, so please pardon my choice of word. I said pardon, because if you are looking for those 
 devil-may-cry-esque game play here, it could have well scored a fat zero in this department. Try 
 not to laugh too loud, as the main game play here involves a delicious mix of interactions with 
 animals, bugs-catching, digging and fishing. Hope that didnt disappoint you too much.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World, as the name suggests, is really about animals. You are played as a 
 human, but do yourself a favour and forget that simple fact, as you immerse yourselves in this 
 wonderful mixed of feline and canis. Thats quite an understatement there; as you would soon discover; 
 as the town you are about to live in is inhabited with the widest species of animals you could 
 have ever imagined. That is not forgetting the fact that they are now all your neighbors. Now, 
 imagine all that.
  
  Interaction is a dangerous process, for each animal is armed with the most ferocious and gruesome 
 of weapons available: its cute personality. From anteaters to elephants, each has their unique 
 personality akin to what we humans think they should be like. True to the core, this game portrays 
 cats as vain creatures, (some) dogs as their hostile counterparts, and ducks as bugs lovers. Maybe 
 we are not very sure about the ducks part, but itd definitely served as a pleasant surprise for 
 the game. Interaction with the animals, as implausible as it sounds, turns out to be the most satisfying 
 experience you could possibly gain from Animal Crossing: Wild World. Ill explain why.
  
  Dialogues. Ever thought what itd be like to be talking to animals? This game offers quite a probable 
 answer for that: out of the world. Approach an elephant in the rain and his response could well 
 be  Aww, now Ive got to count the number of raindrops all over again! Just try not to fall off 
 your chair too hard the next time a deer runs happily to you, only for it to ask of your opinions 
 on her newest make-up. Forget the meows, the woofs and the quacks, after this game, we should all 
 come to terms that animals in the real world should just speak.
  
  The animals in this game are a friendly lot, the sort of helpful, interesting and fun neighbors 
 we all hope to be acquainted with. Over the course of the game, you will be tasked by your newly 
 acquired friends; which can be as minor as delivering a letter; as fun as challenging them to a 
 bug catching contest; as outrageous as rating friendships; or as ridiculous as helping them come 
 up with their newest, hippest catch phrases. They are also very business-minded, and if you are 
 not careful, you may well risk yourselves spending too much money, I mean, bells on a piece of 
 worthless furniture; which they so despicably coaxed you into buying. Some could be generous, offering 
 you some items which they deem useless; but that may just be a pick up from the recycle bin, as 
 they so willingly tell you. You will also discover that they are an encouraging lot, which never 
 shy away from offering their applause on your next successful fishing attempt. That is, if they 
 witness it.
  
  It is going to be hard, but try not to fall too deep in love with them. Sooner or later; however 
 satisfying their lives are, these animals will see the need to move town, exemplifying their nomadic 
 nature. Sure enough, you can offer some last-ditched efforts to stop them from doing so, but you 
 may not find yourself doing that too often. The number of animals that can reside in your town 
 is capped, so if no one offers to move out, no one else can move in. Its a simple equation, but 
 I cant say so for its execution. Trust me, deciding who to keep and who to ditch could be a heart-aching 
 process indeed. Its also good to mention that the number of animals available is enormous. Therefore, 
 its not that wise, nor value-friendly (for the game) if you are to adhere yourselves with a few 
 favourites, however tempting it becomes.
  
  Thankfully, not all of them are prone to this  disease. These 
 are the main stayers, or NPCs (non playable characters) , in your typical gaming terms. Thankfully (again) , 
 the fact that theyre NPCs did little to undermine that charm which all your other friends are 
 so full in abundance of. 
  
  Tom Nook is the sole landlord of the town. Monopoly style, he did the favour of building you a 
 roof and giving you the option of paying the mortgage in installments. Fancy enlarging your house? 
 Hes the person to approach to, but only when you have fully repaid the last of the bells you owed 
 him for that last renovation job. Money talks, and that is mirrored in this mini, enchanting virtual 
 world. Typically businessman, sorry, raccoon style, he also has a second job in the form of your 
 friendly next-door supermarket owner. You will soon find yourselves going there often for 2 reasons: 
 buying and selling. Its a wonder why he offers to offload that dirty boot you just fished from 
 that nearby river, but no ones asking. 
  
  Right next to Tom Nooks shop is the Able Sisters. From clothes, to accessories, and to umbrellas, 
 this outlet serves as your one-stop station to all your fashion indulgence. Allow me to tag the 
 word outrageous to it, because fashion is quite simply that. Ill cover that later. Mabel is one 
 half of the sisters, and her main job here is to serve the customers. Shes a shrewd one at that 
 too; for she almost always manages to pull off that oh, that looked great on you! trick every 
 time you try something on. Sabel is the other half of the evil twins; the tailor of the shop; or 
 the creator of that ninja hood you pull on your head just a moment ago. The Able Sisters also doubles 
 off as a place where you can fulfill all those burning designing urges that you may pertain. This 
 is one of the few areas where you will finally be able make use of the systems touch screen capability. 
 Armed with your stylus, you have the easy job of filling in different colours in the many little 
 square grids you see on screen; and in doing so, something nice may just turn up. You are only 
 limited by your imagination and creativity here. What makes designing great is that your animal-neighbors 
 actually love them, however horrible they looked to you. Theoretically, you could have made a you 
 stink design and the animals would have happily embraced it, no strings attached. Now, havent 
 I mention that they are some encouraging creatures somewhere before?
  
  Next up is Blathers, the curator of your town museum. Typically owl-like, he has that niggling 
 habit of falling asleep during the day and being really active at night. Arguably the most important 
 figure of the game, Blathers provides you with the option of keeping the bugs and fish you caught 
 in a carefully crafted man-made habitat inside the museum itself. The contrast in his attitudes 
 towards bugs and fossils is quite staggering, and it is here where you will find most of the games 
 humour. As for the fishes, lets just say that he has a few tricks up his feathers in the preparation 
 of their, well, dishes.
  
  The characters in Animal Crossing: Wild World is definitely a lot more than that, but theres more 
 to the game than just a fine cast.
  
  Game play, however weird it sounds in this game, is good. Not the kind of good you would expect, 
 but the kind good in the most peculiar, wacky and innovative way. If Animal Crossing: Wild World 
 is a cigarette, then bugs/fish catching is your nicotine, and the adorable towns-animals could 
 well be the tar. Its a lousy analogy, but I hope you get what I am trying to put across: this 
 game is addictive. It does not demand your long hours of attention each time the Nintendo DS is 
 powered up; but it expects you to grow with it slowly, day by day; as it unveils its true beauty, 
 little by little, to you. It is important to check back to the game every now and then , because 
 each day is so different in the world of Animal Crossing, and you would not want to miss anything, 
 especially when theres so many. The game runs on a real time clock according to the configuration 
 of you DS, and the fact that the town never sleeps is just a bonus.
  
  Fishing is an activity you will find yourself doing the most in the game. First, you would want 
 to uncover the newest species to build up that miserable collection in the museum. Second, fishing 
 is simple, and as such, its a fast way to make some hefty bucks at Tom Nooks. The mechanism is 
 also quite easy to get into. Thered be a snap-sound when your victims take the bite and that signals 
 the time to reel your bait. Bug-catching, on the other hand, requires more skills. Like their real 
 life counterparts, these bugs are extremely sensitive and any careless motion could have doomed 
 your efforts. Thus, success in bug-catching would pretty much depend on how well you could move 
 in stealth before unleashing the net for that scoop. The type of fish or bugs you can possibly 
 catch is also influenced by the season, the weather, and the location. Ultimately, this is the 
 factor which forces you to come back to the game time and again. Like it is even needed.
  
  Customisation forms the other half of your core game play. In Animal Crossing: Wild World, the 
 calling is yours, and its really up to you how you want yourself, your home, and your town to 
 look like. With fashion, home furnishing, and town building, its really easy to fall into the 
 trap of modern gaming terms and place them in that uninspiring category that is side-quests. With 
 hundreds of wallpapers, floor patterns, and furniture, you have plenty of choices on how you want 
 your home to look like. If that doesnt fancy you, you can always go on a town rebuilding frenzy, 
 with trees, flowers and the town flag all at your mercy. And if making yourself look good is all 
 youve ever cared about, that desire is also well catered for, with its huge collection of clothes 
 and accessories. Customisation is rife; its ubiquitous; its gratuitous, but you wont hear anyone 
 complaining about it.
  
  Humour is the main song played of this game. Its impressive how a game manages to make fun of 
 itself with its clever use of carefully thought-out puns, without reeking much of its cheesiness. 
 To best illustrate my point, heres a recent favourite:  Goldfish! Worth its weight infish! 
 Ouch. We all know how ambiguous fashion can be, and that could almost be mirrored here in Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World. With its ridiculous mix of clothes and accessories, coming up with the weirdest 
 look could well be more satisfying than say, looking good! Besides, its really tempting to put 
 on a bunny ear and heros mask combo, isnt it?
  
  With so much to look out for in this meaty little game, you could be forgiven for not realising 
 how wonderful the sound in Animal Crossing: Wild World is. Theres certainly no voice-acting in 
 this game, but its not missed much here. No, not when each animal spouts a certain animal-accented 
 voice which may resemble more like gibberish to the unappreciative ear. The game also does a 
 good job in music selection, and the fact that they change it once every hour helps. The sound 
 of lightning storms, raindrops, fish-bites, bell rings, and a certain singing dog perfects the 
 art of this very aspect.
  
  Last but not least, I am proud to say that Animal Crossing: Wild World also supports online game 
 play. Thats a crime in my opinion, but if you ever grown sick of your little town, you would always 
 have the option of moving to a friends; and if not, inviting him for a cup of tea at your cosy 
 home. Mutual interaction is only possible if you possess a friend code (for security reasons) . It 
 is not user-friendly, but this eliminates the fear of having an unknown 5 year old ruffian entering 
 your town with a razor-sharp axe. That would have been a fearful thought indeed.
  
  All good things come to and end, lets turn our focus on what in my opinion, the bad aspects of 
 the game.
  
  The bad: As mentioned, this game hardly boasts any conventional game play , and if you include 
 the fact that it requires a huge amount of attention; and a routine one at that, this game can 
 potentially put off many gamers. The cutesy nature of the game may also prove to be a major mental 
 block to guys, especially the egoistic ones. Its fair to say that this game is not for everyone.
 
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World, albeit a great portable title, hardly did any justice to the DS capabilities. 
 The prospect of using dual screens to good effects went hugely unnoticed, as you could almost play 
 through the game without paying much attention to the upper screen. The core of the game takes 
 place in the lower screen, while its counterpart takes care of other unflattering aspects such 
 as the scenes of the moving clouds, and the occasional items navigation. Hardly exciting, isnt 
 it? To further prove my point, this game did no attempts to make use of any voice control, and 
 the touch screen is rather needless in the end. It is apparent that the producers are focusing 
 more on making it a great game as compared to making it a great DS game.
  
  Technically, Animal Crossing: Wild World hardly qualifies as a great game. The game does not excel 
 particularly in any of the attributes we based our scores on, but to be fair, this is never their 
 intention. If you can afford to see the term gaming in a different light; and if you dont mind 
 making a fool out of yourself in the mean time, this game could well be your Pandoras box. Yes, 
 addiction is evil, and youve been warned.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yerdua2093
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 19, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is GREAT! I used to LOVE it and then i got tired of it for a long time and now I LOVE 
 LOVE LOVE it! The wifi on this game is AMAZING! Thats really all there is too say! There are so 
 many things that you can do on this game, the possibilities are endless! Its so great! You do get 
 tired of it every few weeks, but then its back and better than ever! Hmmm.... Now i have to take 
 up space. Excellent game, and pretty much glitch free! la la la la la la la la la la la la! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_Chezzy_x
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 5, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Great game but the graphics aren't as good as it was on gamecube, of course.
  Some of the features like making your own design, pull weeds, plant flowers ect. still stays the 
 same.
  Yes, it has different features now too and you can bring it with you anywhere with you! New characters 
 and old! The game seems to keep playing even when you arent, is really unique.
  
  The ACC World still turns even if you're not there. You get to see your own town change even when 
 you're not there!
  
  This game is totally worth buying.
  
  Also, cheap ol' Nook will be there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoourrmoom
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 3, 2006 5:16 pm PT
Review:  A few years ago, i wanted to buy a gamecube. i was thinking about getting Animal Crossing for it. 
 Sadly, my parents wouldn't let me buy it. When i heard that AC: WW was coming 2 DS, i wuz so happy. 
 *end story*
  
  This game is by no means hard but it makes up for it with its creativity and randomness.
  AC: WW 
 is one of my favorite games for the DS (tied with MPH) for a few reasons:
  
  1. innovation- the stuff that u can do in this game is endless. i don't play it every day now like 
 i used to (i got it for Christmas) but i still find fun things to do.
  
  2. Realism- there are lots of holidays and events you can attend. Every animal has its own personality, 
 sayings, and birthday.
  When the time is 8:00, the clock rings 8 times! Heck, they sometimes invite you over to their house 
 (you can even choose the time they come over!!!) . it's wayyy better than interacting with your 
 real neighbors. lol
  
  3. Replay value- Whenever i get bored, i can put this game in my DS and know that i'm guaranteed 
 a good 30 mins of fun.
  
  4. (the best one) Creativity- you can teach your neighbors to say stuff (I taught Rolf, the wolf, 
 to say "I have AIDS!" whenever i talk to him!!!) now that is my type of game! If you fail Gracie 
 the fashion guru's fashion test, she mails you a dirty, tattered shirt! Nintendo got creative with 
 the clothes in this game as well. My character has a samurai wig, 3-D glasses, a Mario hat, a King 
 Tut mask, and lots of other stuff. The computer in my room actually sounds like it's connecting 
 to the internet when i turn it on (it makes those screeching noises) . When you don't play for a 
 month or so, bugs can be found in your house and you have 2 step on them in order to make them 
 disappear. Nintendo went overboard with their creativity but it worked out well.
  
  In conclusion, AC: WW is one of those must-have game for the DS. Grab $35 and run to your nearest 
 Walmart and buy this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amir_manu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 2, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  Animal crossing: wild world is the best in the series.
  
  in this game you do lots of different things. for example : 
  fishing- fish then sell them to 
 nook
  
  The story is about a guy/ girl who goes in a taxi to a new town. you name that town yourself. A 
 big guy in the town is tom nook. he is the man who gave you your house. but its not FREE!
  you have to pay mortgages. everyone time you have payed ur required amount your house gets bigger 
 and bigger.
  
  Its a game that you will play forever, about 30 minutes- 2 hours a day.
  its worth the money so please get it!
  
  wifi: you can go to other peoples towns and they can 
 come to your too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elPistolerro
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 1, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game. I haven't played Animal Crossing for the gamecube so I can't really compare 
 the two games.
  The game's graphics are good. They're quirky and original. The character animations are good and 
 there's never any lag. The music in the game is nice and suitable, it compliments the good sound 
 effects.
  In this game you basically live the life of a character you create, and accessorize and clothe 
 and control. There are loads of fun things to dress your character in, from a Mario Hat to a King 
 Tut mask. They're lots of variety and something for everyone.
  The main goal in the game is to pay off your mortgage, and then expand your house, and continue 
 this until there are no more expansions. But there are lots of mini-tasks. There is a museum which 
 has slots vacant for all the things you have to find or catch. Fish, insects, fossils and paintings.
 
  There are numerous animals living in your town, that move in over about a weeks time from when 
 you begin. They usually just talk with you, but occasionally ask you to compete in fish or bug 
 catching competitions, or deliver something for them. These characters add life to the game and 
 keep it from getting boring. They'll give you nicknames and ask for catchphrases.
  Events keep the game fun, like the flea market or special holidays like christmas or Father's day.
 
  The game doesn't use the touch-pad too creatively, you can control your character with it, but 
 it's awkward and you'll find the d-pad much easier. I think the only real practical use of the 
 touch-pad in this game is when you're typing, dragging items or fishing.
  All in all it's a good game which will last you a good while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokessweet7777
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 1, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  this game is so fun and you want to get on every day to chat with your friends on wifi, catch fish, 
 collect bugs, gather fruit, buy and sell items, and even get a hair cut. This game has so much 
 to do, and is fun for any person. i LOVE Animal Crossing Wild World! ITS A WILD WORLD! if you dont 
 have this, get it. Its even more amazing that its a hand held... it feels so much like a consol 
 game to me.
  
  5 Stars!!! A+++!
  
  
  Anyone ever find that one hundred words is a lot of words??? Anyone ever find that one hundred 
 words is a lot of words??? Anyone ever find that one hundred words is a lot of words??? Anyone 
 ever find that one hundred words is a lot of words??? Anyone ever find that one hundred words is 
 a lot of words??? Anyone ever find that one hundred words is a lot of words??? Anyone ever find 
 that one hundred words is a lot of words??? Anyone ever find that one hundred words is a lot of 
 words??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quadrafop
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  The replay value on ACWW has to be the highest of any game I've ever played. Even if I just open 
 it to run around and check for new things, I STILL WANT TO CHECK IN EVERY DAY and not miss something. 
 It really starts to grow on you, and what you think wouldn't be all that great, turns into simple, 
 enjoyable fun.
  
  And the sense that the game seems to keep playing even when you arent, is really unique and cool. 
 Another reason to want to check in.
  
  We'll I'm off to the flea market to buy some cool stuff for cheap!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JestaDude
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for any DS owner whether or not you have played the original Animal Crossing! 
 With large-headed lovable neighbors and dozens of things to do whenever you want, Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World is a highly addictive game! The game features hundreds of items including everything 
 from furniture to a model of the moon that's FOUR sizes larger then yourself!
  
  The game starts you out with the choice of a name for both you and your town, along with a few 
 questions to create a character model that best fits your answers. Then, you are introduced to 
 a ambitious shop owner by the name of Tom Nook. After given a quick chat, and a loan for a small 
 house to get you started, your character is unleashed upon the inhabitants of this happy little 
 town!
  
  Now, although just about EVERYTHING is fun and games, your little friend Tom (whom you'll be seeing 
 quite a lot in this game) makes it clear that you're in dept to his gracious favor at the beginning 
 of the game. This dept unfortunately takes the form of cold hard cash... otherwise known as Bells. 
 This makes up just about the entire main plot line. Earn more bells, pay off what you owe, expand 
 your house, and repeat. Of course the fun part is how you go about doing it, or whether you do 
 it at all! Nothing is holding you back from selling the junk that comes with your house to start 
 for a few extra Bells, or stealing the fruit from a neighbors tree and selling them to Tom! After 
 you've earned enough cash from helping out neighbors or finding your goods, items like the axe, 
 shovel, bug net, watering can and fishing rod open up a whole new window of activities! The game 
 continues to expand with everything from holidays to completely random events. Haircuts, new clothes, 
 mail, facial expressions, and features that the Nintendo DS make possible makes this game a great 
 pick-up-and-play experience.
  
  "In comparison to the first Animal Crossing"
  Three main features that make Wild World better then its predecessor in my opinion are as follows. 
 (and of course this is certainly not all of them)
  
  1. Wild World features a fully grid free town where as the original was cut up into sections that 
 the screen would have to shift over to when you reached the end of each section. Now it's entirely 
 free-roam!
  
  2. With the wonderful touch screen you can now use the stylus and a small keyboard to type out 
 your letters or what you want to say quicker then before. In the original you had to move an arrow 
 with the joystick over each individual letter... (this unfortunately caused it to take a loooooong 
 time to write a few sentences)
  
  3. The third and final feature is... Wi-Fi play!!! This allows for up to FOUR PLAYERS at one time 
 to hang out, trade, chat, and have fun in a players town via wireless internet, or being near them 
 while they're playing on their own DS!
  
  The game is just plain fun... even if you put it down for a few weeks you can always pick back 
 up and play (although I won't guarantee your neighbors will like the fact that you just up and 
 left for a "surprise vacation" without telling them) . I would definitely recommend this game to 
 anyone looking for something new!
  
  
  P. S. - - - One other bonus to this game as I'm writing is that Wild World has been out for a long 
 time on the DS and is pretty cheap at most stores (around 20 dollars or so new or used) . So, if 
 you're looking for a great game and you're on a tight budget, this game will definitely keep you 
 busy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DramaRyan984
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  To those of you who enjoyed something like Harvest Moon, this is the game for you. It may not come 
 fully stocked with livestock and there arent any chores that you have to do, but that is what makes 
 it so great. After completing the jobs for Tom Nook you dont have to do anything at all... You can 
 sit on your butt and do nothing all you want. Running around fishing or catching bugs is a great 
 way to pass the time. You may do those things for sport, or you may do it for personal gain either 
 monetarily or for the museum. The Best part is, it is completely up to you how you spend your time. 
 You can work hard to pay off your debts or you can work on decorating your house. Maybe you want 
 to be artistic and redo the entire town, you can customize it however you want. Its amazing! There 
 is some much to do in the game that it is mind boggling. Things get even more fun when you invite 
 friends over. You can have contests or play games or any other number of things. If you go to a 
 friends town you can be mean and wreak havoc on their town. Its great,,,, the possibilities are 
 endless.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyh15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 30, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  
  I love this game, as fun as the game cube version plus more. You can use the buttons or the touch 
 screen for controls, thanks to touch screen it's easier to write letter to people in your game. 
 Surprisingly the graphics are almost as good as the game cube version. If you didn't get to play 
 the original, it's all about living in a town with animal friends. You go to work, buy a house, 
 pay a mortgage, even go fishing, basically establish a life for yourself. The only bad thing about 
 the game, is while it does have wi-fi and you can game online with other people. You have to find 
 a person's game code and they have to have yours in order to play, you just can't go online and 
 find someone. Over all I love animal crossing; wild world. This is a game that lets you take a break 
 from the violence. It's got great reply value, and every day is filled with surprises. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scared_link
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing has finally come to the DS. But this is the best Animal Crossing compared to the 
 other ones. I'll tell you why...
  
  You arrive at your destination, you're broke you need a house when suddenly a man gives you an 
 offer. You can have a small house, and pay him back 18,000 bells when you have the money. That's 
 all dandy, but then there's another alternative, you don't ever have to pay him back, you can live 
 in your small house or pay him back and make your house bigger. Anyway you're here.
  
  There are loads of thing you can do. From fossil collecting for the local museum or fish and give 
 those to Tom nook for some cash, either way you have a few things to do. To move you use the stylus. 
 In fact you don't need the top screen at all, only for Star-gazing or when there's something up 
 there to shoot. So you only need your lucky stylus pen. 
  
  Animal Crossing is online, which is amazing. You can go to other people's houses and explore around. 
 You can write down your mate's friend code and go to their town. To let people in you open your 
 gates but be warned, strangers and lurkers can come in and chop down you trees, and you wouldn't 
 want that would you?
  
  You can play Animal Crossing for 6 hours a day or only 5 mins a day, but it will never lose its 
 magic. It's quite easy and worth playing. It will take 10 mins to catch onto the controls. IT provides 
 a steady gameplay, good graphics and it's worth your money. The sound is horrible, how they talk 
 can make you cringe.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOM-D
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Man. This game is great, I mean its so many things you can do on this game. I mean you can cut 
 trees down, Cacth fish and bugs all kind of stuuf! Donate stuff to the musem. The gameplay of this 
 game is great I mean you can do like a free roam all the time! Its no mission on this game you 
 just make money and make your house bigger! The sound is great overall! The graphics are nice the 
 models of the animals look nice! The vaule is very high in my opnion because you can play wifi 
 invite people to your town have fishing tourneys i mean its so worth it! I defintley reccomend 
 this game! It will last you a long time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing's NGC version was a really good one, but Nintendo knew they could do better, and 
 so, they've done it. 
  
  Everything is still here, fish, bugs, paints, furniture, K. K's songs, and all the other features 
 (read my Animal Crossing review) . But talking about the improvements Nintendo has made. 
  
  Now you can actually customize your entire city using the patterns and if you really use your creativity 
 your town can become a great resort when using the Nintendo Wi-Fi, for example there are some very 
 famous cities as the Aqua World or the Witch World. 
  
  Besides that you can trade items, have fishing contests, sell rare items and meet new people using 
 your connection, that really ads a lot to the game, because the main point of Animal Crossing has 
 always been the communication. 
  
  But I tell you that if you already have played the first Animal Crossing's version and had already 
 get tired of it you'd better not try this one, because it will sound like it is more of the same, 
 unless, of course, you get a Nintendo Wi-Fi USB connector 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevespag101
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 25, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  Upon seeing my friend play Animal Crossing for the GCN I made fun of him for spending so much time 
 on such a kooky little "non game." Of course, I didnt understand how Animal crossing used the gamecubes 
 internal clock to create a fully functional 365 days per year calander. this is the main gameplay 
 element to animal crossing which all other aspects of play revolve around. I also didn't grasp 
 the complex-yet simple NPC interaction which gives the game a true purpose, actually making you 
 CARE about the neighbors of your town. Item collecting, I imediately understood. Unlocking classic 
 NES games for play on an in-game nes console, That little tibit made me blink in suprise before 
 I put the game out of my head permanently and went back to the Sam Fishers and Master Chiefs of 
 the video game world. 
  
  Now I spend my Days off (and none to few hours at work, on the sly) cradling my DS feverishly, Cursing 
 Tom nook for keeping his store open a mere 15 hours a day, and designing custom-made clothing for 
 my neighbors and (soon) online friends. Because you see, even when I turn my DS off, the wild world 
 of Animal Crossing keeps on going, my neighbors get new clothes and furniture, get in fights with 
 the other animals, write me letters and even somtimes move away!!! There's always somthing to do 
 or discover in this deceptively childish looking but incredibly deep game. 
  
  For veterans of the previous gamecube installment, aa: ww will be all quite familar, with a plethora 
 of new items and a few twists to the concept. graphics are simple and extremely well done. details 
 are and animations were lovingly crafted, music is subdued but effective. Unfoturnately NES unlockables 
 have been canned in favor of an even greater feature: wireless and Online play. One town and four 
 players can be saved on each cart. towns cannot be tranfered from cart to cart wirelessly, but 
 players can, meaning you can move into your little sisters town, share her house and mess with 
 all her stuff!!! additionally you can open up your town gates and allow up to 3 friends to frollic 
 around your town, collecting and trading items and Insults with your neighbors. try throwing a 
 message in a bottle into the sea where it will travel through the nintendo wifi ocean, randomly 
 landing on some other player's beach.
  
  This game is geared towards absolutely EVERYBODY and therefore consists of simple, laidback activities 
 such as gardening, fishing, bug catching, designing (textile pixel art ala mario paint!) and other 
 simple activites. Once you've built up enough cash you can start on upgrading your house and furnishing 
 it to your taste. aa: ww is more geared towards personal expression than most games and creative 
 gamers with thrive within its compelling world. touch screen controls could have been a bit more 
 fleshed out but are still invaluable for typing letters and dragging items into your inventory. 
 In winter (like, real winter) roll snowballs around to make snowmen and join in new years festivaties. 
 in summer go fishing for sharks and collect rare, summer only bugs. Play this game for weeks on 
 end or an hour a day, it will be constantly changing and providing you with new content, even when 
 the game is turned off!!!!
  
  In closing, make no mistake: this is a must have title for any DS owner, it will grow on you, trust 
 me. the portability factor raises the bar considerably from its clunky GCN big bro, but this is 
 no scaled down port by any stretch of the imagination. 5 out of 5 stars!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amber_Blaze1717
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 24, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  It's quite good, and it has a nice touch of enabled wi-fi connection. It has a few secrets to keep, 
 but hey, what game doesn't? Quite addicting, and it, in my opinion, is better than the animal crossing 
 for gamecube. But that's just my opinion. I like how it is lifelike in ways, except that it has 
 animals for townsfolk. But hey, that's the creativity that's in a game! The mortgage and the favors 
 and gifts, selling and buying is all in the plot. I especially like the way animals alert you when 
 they have moved out. I also enjoy the personalities of animals, some are fashionistas, some are 
 athletic, some eat a lot, and some are quite respectful. Others, well, aren't so "on the positive 
 side", shall I say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashbroz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  animal crossing was a good game on the gamecube with a lot of stuff to do, but animal crossing 
 wild world is even better with more stuff to do. it has the same gameplay which is nothing special 
 but is still good. The sound is the same and sounds maybe a little bit better. the graphics look 
 like they have been enhanced. it is a very long game that does not really ever end. there are lots 
 of special events to do like holidays. you can convince your neighbours not to move. the only bad 
 thing about this game is that tom nook is still a loser. i give this game a 9.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flan_Man
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 23, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing for the Gamecube boasted many fun little chores and animals to bother while paying 
 off a mortgage to a power hungry raccoon. Animal Crossing Wild World manages to capture that feel 
 on the DS and pack in online play.
  There are some things lacking from the Gamecube version. There are no playable Nintendo games hidden 
 away in there anymore. The system of acres has been eradicated. The animal townsfolk have received 
 major upgrades in terms of personality and being a little more cohesive. No more train tracks to 
 the north because now there is a gate to the world wide web. There aren't as many fetch quests... 
 or many quests at all.
  The graphics are chunky and bright. The houses look like houses, the water looks like an adequate 
 representation of blue water, the sky looks like a sky. That is right, the top screen doubles as 
 the sky when you aren't operating a menu or are indoors. The little characters are lively and expressive 
 if simple. It looks good, but still is a little choppy.
  The controls work well. You can use nothing but the stylus or never use the stylus. Not using the 
 stylus limits your movement capabilities to 8 directions and two speeds, but allows for less accidents. 
 Using the stylus allows movement in any direction with speed varying from a crawl to dashing, but 
 sometimes it is far too easy to drop something repeatedly. Your character doesn't instantly turn 
 to face where you are going automatically. He/she must first turn completely which makes fishing 
 tricky sometimes. Catching bugs requires precision aim and is unforgiving when it counts.
  The story.... well, you moved into town and need to pay off your mortgage to a greedy raccoon who 
 probably sold his offspring to pay for his shop. There are residents in the town which you may 
 interact with and odd chores to do. The townsfolk have several personality types which are easy 
 to identify and they initiate some weird conversations with you. They seem to have relationships 
 with each other and will often ask you if you think they are friends with some other resident. 
 No matter what I pick, they always seem angry and run off to pout. Yeah, story. It is what you 
 make of it.
  The downside to having this sort of open game play is that there isn't much inspiration to go about 
 making the perfect town, catch every bug, dig up every fossil, pay off your house, or fill an acre 
 with pitfalls so that Curly the annoying pig falls into one and is easier to smack on the head 
 with the bug-catching net so he gets the idea that he isn't welcome in town anymore. Okay, so there 
 was a lot of passion in that last crime...
  Writing letters to your animal friends and having them send a reply is fun, but gets tedious after 
 a while. Lucky that we have the open game play. If writing friendly little welcome messages to 
 new move-ins is your cup of tea, then go ahead and knock yourself out. If you want to make a ton 
 of money and send tires and rotten boots attached to death threats to Curly the pig everyday, then 
 I'll go ahead and knock myself out. It is fun to do whatever I want to do in my town with some 
 limitations.
  Questionable material? Well, K. K. Slider comes to town on Saturday night and gives out boot-leg 
 renditions of his popular pieces to keep the record-industry fat cats down. So if you have major 
 qualms with music piracy then you would be really turned off by that sly dog. There is also a black 
 market fox who sells you forged paintings. So lies and deception, if you can't stand those then 
 I guess you wouldn't like to shop in the... black market... yeah.
  Now for something really annoying. The online play would be great if only there was a way to go 
 online without getting someone's friend code. That is what really drags the experience down. I 
 can get my friend code and hook up to a hotspot, but if I don't have anyone's friend code I just 
 sit there isolated. There are no rooms you can go to and meet people from other towns... the entire 
 purpose of the game. You either have to butter up somebody over the net or be really sneaky and 
 find someone who owns this game and get their code. If you don't get a code then you are stuck 
 in the same boat as me. Hey, why don't we exchange friend codes? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediBmoney
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  When i first Pre-orderd Wild World i was getting some Mixed reactions from the folks at EB but 
 after playing it for almost a year here is what i hafta say.
  
  When i first picked this game up i found myself Nameing Me. My Town inside a Taxi. i didnt know 
 what to think. but once i got DEEP into the game after that i found myself working for Tom Nook. 
 and the story goes on
  
  the addictiveness of this game is amazing. i found myself waking up just to get the Morning Bells 
 from the Trees and the "Magic rock" and i kept doing that for a Long while.
  
  In the afternoon there is plunty to do like Plant trees and get to know your towns folk. witch 
 are AI that you kinda can get attached to. LOL. i had Mallory in my town for 5 months straight. 
 
  
  the customization is amazing in the house. as it gets bigger the customization gets better. 
 
  
  and on a final note this was my first run through with Animal Crossing and I am already a fan. 
 Be ready to see my Animal Crossing Wii reveiw sometime in 07-08, ;P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oxjames
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: fun but the same it got boring reallly fast. i play it maybe 10 min a day no longer.
 
  Graphics: There are very good for animal crossing. they did great.
  Sound: great melony for the town but gets annoying really fast.
  Value: its worth about $20 but 
 you will play it maybe 5 to 10 min a day soo.......... its kinda for stupid to get.
  Tilt: i presonlly like it but it was not worth $35 im kinda of p/o but your choice on this game.
 
  
  this game is really fun but the space ship is impossible to hiit lol that was my only problem with 
 this really. and the wi-fi is sweet tho. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  They brought back the addictions of the original Animal Crossing for the Gamecube. All the chores, 
 the fishing, bug collecting, fossil hunting, furniture collecting, and NES collecting. But there's 
 more fish/bugs/everything this time so it just adds more to it!
  Multiplayer is a lot better. It's like a mini-mmorpg game, or The Sims online. You can visit people's 
 town from across the internet via the wifi signal. It's pretty cool.
  The way the world moves with your character is neat. When I first saw the world actually moving, 
 I was thinking 'This is what the original needed too'. It's something simple that adds a lot more 
 to the gameplay.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  The stylus controls are funky sometimes. They don't seem to work very well when you hold a tool 
 and run around. If you try and walk, rather than run, it seems as though your character wants to 
 use his tools. The shovel is just plain aggravating to use with the stylus. Although, I will say, 
 selling items with the stylus is the way to go.
  They removed the seasons (such as  I didn't like that at 
 all.
  They removed a few things I really enjoyed. One thing being the junk yard. I miss getting my papers 
 from there to write stuff.
  
  :Overall:
  There's a few things I didn't like, but the overall experience with the game is a really nice 
 one. It's one of those games you won't put down anytime soon. I'd recommend it to anyone who is 
 a fan of The Sims or the original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inde_
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is the sequel to the hit game for the Gamecube, Animal Crossing. The 
 game starts off pretty much the same as the original. You go to your town find your house and work 
 for Nook for a while until you pay off your debt to him. But this time, there is no train. So you 
 catch a cab with Kappn, the same turtle that took you to your Island in the Gamecube version. 
 Be sure to answer the questions that he asks you properly because the questions will choose what 
 your character looks like.
  
  Also other new features in the sequel are the town hall, the caf downstairs in the museum, and 
 the observatory upstairs. The town hall is pretty much the dump, town tune board, fountain, and 
 post office from the original game, all in one. In the upstairs of the museum you get to meet Blathers 
 sister, Celeste, who runs the observatory where you can view constellations in the sky and make 
 your own! This feature is cool because when you walk outside at night you can see them in the sky, 
 also some constellations that people in other towns made can appear in your towns sky after you 
 visited their town. The downstairs in the museum is the caf called The Roost run by Brewster, 
 the pigeon. Here you can see K. K Slider on Saturday nights, hang out with your friends on Wi-Fi, 
 and also meet some villagers there if you come at the right time. Also at the museum you can get 
 your fossils identified by Blathers himself now, instead of sending them in the mail (which was 
 a total pain) .
  
  In the new version you still have the Able Sisters and Tom Nooks Shop. The Able Sisters shop 
 is the same but now they sell clothes, umbrellas, hats and accessories. The touch screen on the 
 DS makes it much easier to make designs now, but can be a little imprecise at times. Nooks shop 
 can be upgraded up to Nookingtons just like in the last game but now it comes with Shampoodle, 
 a barber shop run by Harriet the poodle. To get the perfect haircut you get asked questions and 
 depending on your answers she chooses a hairstyle and color.
  
  One of the harder things to do this time is pay off your house. This time you can get 7 upgrades 
 to your house! You start off with a bottom floor and an attic. The attic is worthless, because 
 you cant put wallpaper, carpet or furniture in it. You can change the bed that is up there, and 
 also download a Mysterious Cat and Billboard Messages from the phone that is up there though, 
 along with changing the sound and resetting the clock. With the upgrades you can also get 3 rooms 
 to each the side of the first floor and also get a room upstairs. Two things taken out of the game 
 though, is the basement along with the beloved NES games from the Gamecube version.
  
  There are still many ways to make money this time around. Whether you harvest fruit, fish, collect 
 fossils, catch bugs, or just sell old furniture youre sure to make a decent amount of bells. Along 
 with the other new features there are new bugs, fish, and furniture too! This will keep you catching 
 fish and bugs until summer comes around.
  The music in this game has mixed thoughts depending who you are, you either love it or you absolutely 
 hate it. I am one of those people who love it. After a couple of days you will definitely be humming 
 along with it. The sound effects are just like the original game with a couple new ones added in. 
 The animals still speak "Animalise", but if you dont like them talking (or just find it really 
 annoying) you can change it at the phone in the attic.
  
  K. K Slider is still in this game but now hes at The Roost. He has the same old songs but with 
 a couple new ones also. If you somehow find a country guitar, or buy one from your friends on Wi-Fi, 
 you can give it to K. K Slider and get his photograph! You can also get other animal's photo's if 
 you are nice to them and become friends with them. I've yet to get one though...
  
  
  There are a lot of secrets and other cool stuff that you will find once you play the game. The 
 first one was great and this one just gets better. Be sure to pick it up if you have a DS and if 
 you dont this is a good reason to get one. It's only $30 and will last you forever so go get it.... now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramitz
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 17, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Having missed the original title on the pretty much now defunct Gamecube,
  I decided to pick up a copy of the highly hyped and heavily advertised AC: WW. Not really knowing 
 what to expect other than you 'collect stuff' I expected something similar to maybe Pokemon or 
 The Sims (and was pleased to see it wasn't like either) .
  
  You create a character (sadly with a rather limited choice of options) and go about living in a 
 randomly generated town. In this town are upto 8 computer controlled neighbours who form the backbone 
 of your social interaction. There's a general store where you will buy things to decorate your 
 house and to sell items you find in the game world (which forms the majority of the gameplay) . 
 There's also a museum for housing your collections and a town hall to write letters for your previously 
 mentioned neighbours.
  
  Gameplay takes place in real time with various events happening depending on what hour and even 
 week/month you happen to be playing. Activities consist of either talking to your neighbours via 
 a preset selection of questions to which you get a varied amount of random responses or requests 
 (dependent on the neighbour) . Doing this helps build up your
  friendship with this neighbour in a sim-style fashion which if you max out rewards you with a picture 
 of that character to place in your ingame house. Neighbours will come and go from your town after 
 a set amount of time (or if they are especially unhappy) so this is an ongoing challenge to mantain 
 friendships.
  
  The rest of the gameplay amounts to fishing in lakes/ponds to complete your fish collection, trying 
 to catch bugs in a net to achieve the same result with your bug collection or digging up the ground 
 with a spade to find fossils or plant flowers. The problem with these activities are that they 
 are all rather simplified and provide no real challenge other than patience to randomly catch whatever 
 it is your missing from your collection.
  
  There's a few other activities but prove much more minor to the game than the ones above. Due to 
 this it's very hard to find more than 1/2 an hours worth of gameplay a day as neighbours usually 
 won't talk to you more than 3 times in a 24 hour period. The breeds of fish and insect are dependent 
 on the season so if you happen to catch all the ones that you can in the spring as a result you 
 won't have anything to do until the summer comes.
  
  Somewhat of a saving grace is the games wi-fi multiplayer where you can visit your friends town 
 see how they've decorated their house from items they've bought and maybe trade some stuff/go fishing 
 together etc. The major drawback in this is that you can't visit a random town, you need friends 
 codes and you need to allow access to your town at an exact time to be able to connect. It's a 
 flawed system to say the least. The major problem comes over from the single player portion too 
 which is that there just isn't much for you to do.
  
  With this game I suspect you'll get as much out of it as you expected from it in the first place. 
 If you wanted a fun life-sim style game to play for 15 minutes a day while your on the bus or the 
 train then you'll probably get a good few months of enjoyment out of it before it wears a bit thin.
 
  If you wanted a game to spend the evenings working on then once the initial novelty of it has 
 worn off you probably won't be able to find anything worth doing when you do actually get around 
 to loading it up.
  
  It still remains somewhat of a charming and unique game however and technically is presented well 
 for a DS game. Easily on par with the best of the N64 generation. I just can't see the justification 
 for charging full price for a game which similar to 'Brain Age' you can only get so much enjoyment 
 out per day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kanden_Killer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 15, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  animal crossing wild world should have been named perfict crossing perfict world! now with on-line 
 play (kinda) and shrunken down to poket size it's taken the old animal crossing you new and gives 
 you pleanty more to make it a must have for AC fans.
  
  you still have good old nooks cranny that is upgrade able to nookingtons with a twist... when you 
 get nookingtons you also get the hair salon where you can give your character an extreme makeover... 
 acualy it's just a hair cut but that's still awesome! now as part of the museem you get the "roost" 
 it's a coffee shop that K. K. comes to to play his good old tunes along with some new ones! also 
 part of the museem is the observatory where you can make up your own constellations that you see 
 in the sky on the top screen at night.
  
  instead of a train station you now have the town hall where you can mail letters and access your 
 bank account (that's right i sead bank account) as well as change the town tune, donate to the poor, 
 and check on your town rating. As for visiting other towns that's what the town gate is for. it 
 gets guarded by boker and copper. talk to copper for all your visitation needs and talk to booker 
 for changing the town flag (yes there is a town flag now) , the lost and found, and learning who 
 is visiting the town today out of the selection of automated characters.
  
  they have included a few new animal residents this time as well as the ability to acuire there 
 picture witch is a lucky item when you place it in your home. speaking of wich there is a system 
 of feng shui that lets you increes your luck which effects many aspects of gameplay.
  
  this time around the have cut out the four houses and the basement that you can get but don't worrie 
 you can have up to four human characters shar the house as room mates and as for the house upgrades 
 instead of getting the basent you can get 4 diferent rooms: the upstaires, leftand right rooms, 
 and the back room. were you frustrated by that silly 3 items per closet? well now you get a space 
 of up to 90 items spread through out all the closets in the house! now this may seem silly to have 
 only 90 spaces that are accessable from any closet in the house, as you could have lots of closets 
 that hold 3 and get more space but trust me 90 is more than enough.
  
  now with the use of hats you can get rid of that ugly viking hat and put on a fresh ball cap and 
 a set of glasess or a helmet that covers your whole face.
  
  now the graphics are great and really show off the DS's ability. this game is the best AC yet and 
 if you don't have it yet you should run out a buy it right now or else! mwah-ha-ha-ha-ha!!!! J/k 
 but still you should get it it's the best AC yet and your missing out on some awesome online ability! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Final13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 14, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically the exact same thing as the GC version just with updates added. First you 
 are moving into a new town. You then have to work for Tom for awhile. After that the game is up 
 to you. Some things that are different about the DS version include the following. First of all 
 you can wear feathers, hats, etc. Another cool thing is you can see star systems, i know there 
 is a name for them I forget, that you can see on the top of your screen at night. The biggest difference 
 though is that you can visit a friend, who lives half way around the world, town. I personally 
 have not done it yet but I plan to soon. Kind of a short review so if you want more info I will 
 be making a review for GC animal crossing soon. Thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infernoply
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:02 am PT
Review:  when i first heard about animal crossing i was not quite sure whether it would be worth buying. 
 i had heard my friends make fun of the game but i decided to give it a try. i was not dissapointed. 
 within minutes i was totally engrossed in the game and couldnt put it down. 
  
  we will start on sound. i love all the very catchy humable tunes in the game (i dotn know whether 
 anyone will agree with me) and i like the fact thqat there are different tunes for different times 
 of the day. there is a town tune which plays whenever you talk to someone and this can be edited 
 which is great fun! there is a tune for every shop and building which gives great variations. you 
 can also buy radios and music players in the game and these play the tunes that you have got from 
 kk slider (basically the guy who gives you music) . there are good sound effects in the game (footsteps 
 etc) and so overall the sound is very good.
  
  the graphics are in full 3D and are a little grainy in the outlines and overall. but considering 
 its on the ds they are very good and you will be very pleased with them. the colours are great 
 and will be even better if you get a ds lite.
  
  the gameplay is very easy to get into and the controls are very easy to get into. you answer a 
 number of questions at the beggining of the game which determine your characters appearance and 
 your towns basic layout (although most is random) . your town has about 8 villagers at a time and 
 they all move out and new ones move in throught the game. this adds a nice dynamic and touch to 
 the game which makes it even more worth it. there is a letter system in the game and your villagers 
 will send you letters and presents every so often. there is also the HRA who judge your house and 
 so it is impotant to tyr and get a good score from them. you can make your house bigger by paying 
 off your mortgage and this will get you more room for furniture
  
  the multi player is arguably the highlight of this game. you can play it over WFC or by wireless 
 link up. bear in mind you cant go to someones town online unless they have your friend code and 
 you have theirs. you can go into peoples town and go to there shops museum and have fishing tourneys. 
 you can also have custom non in game games like hide and seek. you can sort of ruin other peoples 
 town by cutting downs all their tress or digging holes everywhere so make sure you invite people 
 you trust.
  
  nintendos site claim this game will take you 3 years to fully complete (all furniture, every character 
 in your town at 1 point) and you will keep coming back to it to see what is in the store that day 
 and what events are going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romaru
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 9:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a true gaming experience. You make a town and buy and sell items and clen up your town 
 and improve it to mkae it as good as it can get so that more townspeople will move in. This game 
 plays even when your arent there, which is a totally innovative experience in games.
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay of this game is very easy to understand. Once you get used to it the game 
 becomes very easy to handle and understand. You can use either the D-pad ot the Stylus to move 
 and you can switch between the two depending on what you are doing. The best part of this game 
 would definitely have to be the WiFi multiplayer. You can visit other peoples town and have contests 
 and convince their townspeople to move into your town or help their town grow.
  
  Graphics-The graphics in this game are pretty good. They have their faults like when you go through 
 other players or trees but other than that, they look good for a game like this.
  
  Sound-The sound in this game is excellent. Their are songs that play while your going around your 
 town that most people will like. You can also make your own town tune that plays on the hour, when 
 you talk to anyone, and when you touch a musical instrument.
  
  Value-This game has a very high replay value. Anyone who even plays this game for 5 minutes will 
 instantly love it and never want to put it down for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  my friends have been telling me ever since i bought the DS to get this game i never did because 
 i never liked these types of games but finally i got it and oh sweet jesus this game is the best 
 i only had it for three days and i found out so much to do i actually had to charge my DS after 
 only one day of playing the game i can't put it down it follows real time like if its 3 o'clock 
 at your house it is also 3 o'clock in the game and it tells you on june 11 this shop will be closed 
 and other stuff also every town is diffrent so like you buy the game you will have a diffrent town 
 and diffrent people in it also if you have a WI-FI connection (i dont) you enjoy the game even 
 more with people sending you messages in a bottle and visting each other's town or if your 30 feet 
 away you can do the same thing i can't explain the game all i know is im hooked i stopped playing 
 other games this game is awesome and its the type of game where one day you play it you find somthing 
 to do the other day you play it your done in a hour but have to play anyway because you just like 
 have to this game is for any type of gamer and a must buy for any DS owner plus a 20 dollar price 
 tag its more than worth it also for a portable game the grapics aren't that bad at all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 11, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  U get to design your own character, go fishing, catch bugs, lots of replayability. Its like sims, 
 but with funner characters. More kiddie than adult oriented. Which is good for younger audience. 
 But still cool for the RPG player. U wont be dissapointed. Also u can link up with others with 
 DS that also have Animal Crossing. U can visit each other, u can move town to town, interact with 
 u as a friend. pretty coo stuff yo's. I think this game is still $34 at Gamestop. But its well 
 worth it. Trade in your stupid xbox games or ps2 games and get cha a copy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mattarat
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 11, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  I had waited ages to get this game and when it came thorugh the post i was through the roof. You 
 play as yourself gonig to your town (you name it) . Thats basically the story over and done with, 
 now its time to live your life. When you get into town, you'll get introduced to the town and then 
 shown where your house is. You must then pay off the mortgage to Tom Nook for he built the house. 
 As time goes by, more residetns will move into your village and you'll be able to upgrade your 
 house. Theres so much to do such as; fishing, fossil hunting, bug hunting, gardening, posting letter 
 or even better put a message in a bottle and send it out to sea, then someone from around the world 
 will get that letter. These are all great aspects of the game but my favorite is the Wi-Fi. I love 
 that you can just type in a code and then visit someone village. They could be someone in America, 
 or your mate who's just round the corner. What i think is also really cool about this game is that 
 every single village is different, so when you go see your friends, they will have different layout 
 and different people, along with different fruits aswell. This game is a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agreb91
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 11, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  The Good: The game is cute: colorful; and offers you something to do on a rainy day.
  
  The Bad: The game does not offer enough for you to keep coming back; what you do in the game becomes 
 tedious running back and fourth. 
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is not a sequel to the original Animal Crossing on the GameCube. The 
 game takes place in an animal village, which you name. The game starts out by asking you questions 
 about your name and whether your name is burley or cute. The way you ask the questions is how your 
 characters look is generated. Of course like the original you are given a house, and then met by 
 Tom Nook, who informs you need to pay the debt on your house. You of course do this by working 
 for Tom Nook, by doing what he asks of you. Once you have completed he has needed of you are laid 
 off and set free of the shackles of real work. Now you start the collecting, buying, selling, and 
 trading of the game. You now make a living by completing task your neighbors want done. Since they 
 are animals and would like humans to do their work, they of course ask you. If you agree you run 
 around looking for the resident and give them what they lost or need. If you completed the task 
 you are rewarded with furniture, money, or stationary. Throughout the game you meet a cast of whacky 
 animals who bring furniture, cloths, turnips, carpets, etc. But do not forget the faceless cat 
 which you can design a face for. The seasons change through out the year and the time passes like 
 real time. You can catch fish and bugs and bring them to the museum. You can dig up fossils and 
 collect art and give them to Blathers at the museum. New additions to the game include a hair salon, 
 coffee place, and observatory which you can gaze out at the stars and constellations. The game 
 dies down after you have experienced all the holidays and events, caught all the fish and bugs, 
 and paid off your debt to upgrade your house to its full potential. 
  
  The sound of the game is pretty good. The music changes through out the day and the town jingle 
 rings out through the town at the change of the hour. The animals voices do get annoying so you 
 might turn the volume off time to time. The sound of the town also changes during the seasons. 
 The spring music has that tone of new life, the summer has the tone of the joy of summer, fall 
 has the tone of the year dying tone as things quiet, and lastly winter has the Christmas jingle 
 to it. 
  
  The graphics are cartoon-like and are fit for the Nintendo DS. They are what you expect from Animal 
 Crossing; yet the game is less colorful from its GameCube counterpart. 
  
  Gamplay becomes tedious after awhile, but is fun while it last. 
  
  Value  If you can get 
 this game used for a cheap price, I would recommend this game to you. 
  
  My final thought for Animal Crossing Wild World is that the game is Animal Crossing in smaller 
 form. Its portable and easier to play, because you can take it with you. This is a must play for 
 Animal Crossing lovers or if you want to try it out for the first time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sushi432
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 10, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  The gamecube game was definitely not as good as the ds one because when you look at the gamecube 
 one, you just see a queer nintendo cutesy game, whereas WW is all about finding friends, inviting 
 them to your town, designing your town and getting the best items. This caught my attention mainly 
 because i like talking to people online and i love customizing **** won't let me say **** The only 
 flaw in this game, much like Metroid Prime: Hunters , is the FC (Friend Code) system, which makes 
 it very hard to actually meet up with new people. So if your friends don't have DSes and spend 
 their free time bashing it instead then you won't enjoy spending hours online finding four people 
 to play AC: WW with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  This game just isn't the same as the Gamecube version. Sure, it's fun, and a little addicting, 
 but it doesn't have all the excitement. There's no celebrating Christmas, Halloween, meteor showers, 
 etc. Now there's just boring holidays. Also, there are no more NES games. That really brings me 
 down. The touch screen really does add a nice touch though. It's much easier to sell items, design 
 clothes, etc. I don't think it's worth more than $30. If you've played the Gamecube version, you 
 probably won't find this as addicting. It's a good try at porting a exellent game but it's just 
 not the same on a handheld. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryptofreak120
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game follows the format of the original Animal Crossing game, only on the DS. You've pretty 
 much got everything here still, with a few new additions. There are more neighbors, more personalities, 
 more fish, more bugs, and more tools. Of course, you're expected to make a living in the world, 
 and the game allows you to do so. It's actually a bit harder than the other game, but it has a 
 new feature that doesn't use acres but instead has you constantly seeing ahead. Hard to explain, 
 but you'll figure it out. There's also a few new places in town, like the Observatory, the Cafe 
 (where you can listen to KK Slider, a nice new effect) , and the Town Hall (where you mail crap 
 and do other various things) . You've still got the shovel, fishing rod, and net, but there's also 
 a slingshot to shoot things out of the sky, a timer to keep track of fishing and bug catching amounts, 
 and watering cans to keep flowers healthy (an actually irritating new feature) .
  
  Taking the game online, you can get a lot of value out of the game, conversing with friends and 
 making challenges. There are plenty of things to do (sort of) when you're online with NWFC.
  
  The bad things have to include the fact that the online features are quite limited, the confusing 
 online features in the town (like how you can't see some fish, and the town owner can) , and the 
 absence of some of the best holidays in the original game. Sure, you've got new furniture, new 
 townsfolk conversations, the fact that they can come into your house, and more, but the absence 
 of Christmas (otherwise known as "Jingle Comes to Town", Thanksgiving, Halloween, and other things 
 are a bit overwhelming, even though the game is pretty much packed. Look, I know, it'd cause conflict 
 in the other nations the game goes to (since come don't celebrate the American holidays) , but the 
 fact that they're missing, and the fact that they don't at least give you the option for American 
 holidays when you start up, just plain sucks.
  
  It's still a memorable game for the DS, and one that deserves attention and is worth getting, but 
 Nintendo actually made the game a bit worse than the original, not really improving much other 
 than stocking the game full of new features, like flower hybridization, and more of everything. 
 It's quality, not quantity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unicorn81
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  It's the first time I play one of the Animal Crossing Games (just because I didn't feel like buying 
 a GC just for 1 game) .
  So as ACWW came out for the DS I had to buy it just to know what the whole fuss is about and voila: 
 I love it!
  
  First I didn't really like the game, I'm used to playing "Harvest Moon" and there you don't have 
 a "schedule" which is easier by times.
  I say schedule cuz as long as u don't cheat in this game (changing the time settings) the store 
 will be closed at 11pm and opens at 8am when u have to get ready for work (in real life I mean 
 ^^) .
  It takes some time getting used to it but after a while I learned to love that game and now I'm 
 totally hooked.
  
  Usually I play a game for 1-2 wks and then get bored. Not so w/ ACWW (and Harvest Moon, just so 
 U know) . There is always something new going on: Flea Market, Yay-Day, Fishing, visiting other 
 towns, new neighbors and so on.
  There is not much to do but u still want to do it so you can pay the mortgage, see what happens 
 when u donate money to Boondox.
  And there are so many interesting characters out there.
  
  If you are able to play this game at least once a day for 1/2-1 hr than you should be fine.
 
  If you like to do things over and over again just to figure out what happens next, than this is 
 a game for you.
  Yes, sometimes it's too cute but it's still not a game just for girls.
  
  Gameplay: nice, very easy and the stylus is of much use
  Graphics: well, I like them which 
 doesn't say much, but they are ok
  Sound: changing during the day, not only music but also sounds form the nearby surroundings 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkKefka
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Its been a while since the original Animal Crossing came out. At first glance the game was considered 
 to be only for kids [because of its looks] , but after giving it a try gamers could not get enough 
 of it. And it because of its charms, characters and never-ending life you can have on the game 
 that makes this game so much fun. All that has been transferred to the NintendoDS in Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World.
  
  When you begging the game you are in a cab heading to a certain town. You decide the name of the 
 town, its layout and of course your looks and gender throughout a series of questions from the 
 cab driver [who players of the original will recognize dearly] . After that you get to the town 
 where you will be presented to your house, and to Tom Nook who will tell you that you have to pay 
 up the house. And from there on the game really begins.
  
  To pay the mortgage of your house youll work for Tom Nook at the local store for a while; after 
 that you have to pay by any means necessary. Tough you will think that paying is the most important 
 thing at first; it isnt necessary  just if you want your house bigger, that is. The currency 
 of AC: WW is the bell; you can get money from trees, selling stuff at the local stores or by 
 running errands to the locals. The other citizens of your virtual town are all animals, every one 
 of them with the unique personalities and characteristics. Sometimes the personalities will be 
 repeated, but what they say isnt. 
  
  The real charm of the game is to customize your house with furniture and even fish or bugs, or 
 to customize the whole town planting or by the use of patterns. Again you can go to Able Sisters 
 to create patterns which you can use in your clothes, hats, umbrellas, as wallpapers, floors {the 
 last two only in your house} and as terrain modifiers. The process of making the patters is a lot 
 easier thanks to the NDS touch-screen as it has been seen in other games. 
  
  You may ask: So, whats new? Well, apart of more items and collectibles there are some new things 
 to the AC world. Like in the museum, theres a coffee shop where you can drink coffee and chat 
 with Brewster, and get a song each Saturday night from K. K. Slider. Also in the museum theres 
 a second floor  which is the observatory  where you can create and gaze at constellations [the 
 ones you create will be displayed on the outside in the top screen at night. The dump has been 
 replaced with a recycle bin at town hall. Right there at town hall now you can create the town 
 tune which will sound whenever you talk to an animal. These new things arent really that much, 
 but they sure make the whole experience more fun.
  
  As graphics go at first look you may say the game looks exactly as the original. Yet, the graphics 
 arent as sharp and the frame rate isnt as steady as the original. But you would expect that because 
 of the systems differences. Again the graphics are really close to the original and do a good 
 work of bringing your town to life  with bright colors and characters models. 
  
  The sound varies from some catchy tunes to the music you get from K. K. Slider. Depending on the 
 weather or the season you may get different tunes. The music isnt that important on the game, 
 but it adds a mood to the town.
  
  In the touch-department, AC: WW can be controlled by stylus complete. You can make your character 
 move by just dragging him/her slowly or make him/her run by dragging it faster. You can use the 
 touch-screen in menus which is very effective and fast, you just drag things and touch buttons 
 or options. Although the touch-screen options sound well you may want to use the D-Pad when fishing 
 or doing other things, because you may miss the target. The upper screen shows [when outside] the 
 sky  rainy, sunny or other weather effects, but when you enter a building the upper screen is 
 just blank.
  
  Another great aspect of the game is its multiplayer options. The original one had a similar system, 
 but without online play. You have the option of letting up to three more people play and create 
 their own character using just one game  theyll stay in your house and share the payments. You 
 can also connect via LAN with other players and exchange information, items and even NPCs. When 
 you buy a letter in a bottle and put it in the ocean you may close your NDS and wait for any other 
 player nearby with a copy of the game get your letter. As for online play, there are some restrictions. 
 First you cant just go into a random town; you and the other player must have each one registered 
 as friends via the friend-code system for visiting a town. Thats good in a way that you wont 
 be getting surprises as other players can do some harm your town [cut down trees, remove patters, 
 post messages, etc.] ; but bad because you must know the friend-code in order to use the online 
 option  so its a win/lose situation.
  
  The game has its flaws, but it is addictive because you will be going to the local shops to see 
 what they have or to catch bugs or fish. A better online system and some things here and there 
 could have made the game better. It may seem a little childish at first, give it a try and I can 
 assure you that the game will make you have another life inside your own virtual  full of animals 
 town.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainalpha1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is certainly as good as the original, though with a few added characters, 
 items, and anything else you can think of, it's even better.
  
  When you first play this game, you find yourself in a cab, with our old turtle friend at the wheel. 
 Of course, like the original, you find yourself yet again in debt to Nook. Though this time, instead 
 of having your friends in other houses, they're your roommates! Making paying off your house alot 
 easier.
  The expansions to the house are great as well, giving 4 different rooms.
  
  Tom Nook's is a little different as well. Though the store expands like the last, it also has a 
 barbershop. At this place, you can change your hairstyle, be careful though, you don't always know 
 what you'll get. Nook now has the Point System, giving you discounts after buying cartain ammounts 
 of items.
  
  The Post Office is now the town hall. Here, you can mail your neighbors, and keep an account, but 
 that's not all. Now, you can donate money to the Boondox, a poor town, see what the residents think 
 of the town, and change the town tune. There's also a trash bin as well.
  
  At the Museum, You have your fish,, fossil, painting, and bug exhibits. The new installments here 
 is the Cafff'e, and the space telescpope, where you can make constellations in the sky. At the 
 Caff'e, you can get a cup of Coffee, and listen to K. K. on Saturday nights.
  
  Also with the game, there are alot more items, fish, bugs, and so on, giving you plenty to do.
 
  
  So if that's not enough, Animal Crossing Wild World has Wi-fi, allowing you to connect and visit 
 your friends around the world.
  
  This game will definately keep you entertained for a long time. I'd perscribe this game for anybody 
 ready to try something new, or ready to go back to their town, with alot of new changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: car_maniac
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:20 am PT
Review:  now i dont usually like cute and fuzzy things but this game is just so addicting and fun. the thing 
 i like most about animal crossing wild world is the ability to just shake down trees for all they 
 got. the furniture looks awsome and the 'people' say some of the funniest things i have ever heard. 
 i just loved this game so i would suggest it to any one that likes real time games that simulate 
 real life without the pain or best of all NO SCHOOL!!!! so in the end this game just pli\ain ROCKS. 
 i think you'll like it. oh and send me mail if there is anything in this review that you don't 
 understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Squall_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 2, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  As I have said, it's really addictive!!! You start the game in a cab going to your town and the 
 driver asks you some questions then when you get to your town, the action starts straight away!!! 
 If there's an actual goal to this game, it's to have fun and to pay off your loan to Tom Nook, The 
 local shop owner.
  One of the cool features is the real time play amd the holidays!! Like today, it's the flea market 
 where you can go to peoples houses and buy their items!!!
  Another great feature is the townspeople, people come and leave your city!!
  You can design patterns 
 to go on clothes, create star constellations, fish and catch bugs!!! This games to cool to miss, get 
 it now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo_ds_06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  animal crossing wild world is a game that you have to love and own.
  
  the first two days are the worst because you have to work for nook but after that you are free 
 to go out and and make money or drink coffee or visit other people in your town but the best bit 
 is its portable so you can play animal crossing ON THE GO.
  
  also the multiplayer works like a charm, meet people all around the world, trade items, or just 
 chat to people.
  
  if you only buy one game this year ... buy this.
  
  i highly recommend it to anyone with a ds.
  
  i thank you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomd
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 31, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  Economy. Monopoly. Price-gouging. Crazed raccoons. All people need to encounter these irreplaceable 
 parts of life. In order to conquer these, you need experience, which brings us to Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World. The game parallels some aspects of adult life: you need to pay your mortgage. The rest 
 of the game is a simple, yet fun, life simulator. You have a variety of activities to do, from 
 fishing, to bugcatching, to chatting up with the neighbors. However, the first week or so of the 
 game has little to do, because of a lack of bells. After the mortgage is completely paid off, all 
 that is left seems somewhat emptier. Otherwise, this game is pure enjoyment. The multiplayer is 
 mostly well-tuned, using the WFC online feature. Aside from vandalism, it is good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viberooni
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This isn't an unbiased review. I was addicted to Animal Crossing, and the DS is the perfect system 
 for an Animal Crossing game just like it's the perfect system for a Starcraft game, a Civilization 
 game, wi-fi gameshows, rail shooters.. but I digress. I've played AC: WW longer and probably for 
 more hours than any other DS game I own, but I'll readily admit it doesn't fit everyone's tastes.
 
  
  Animal Crossing follows the date and time in your DS so it plays out in "real time." The game knows 
 when you're signing on in the middle of the night after not playing for a week or if you've been 
 bothering the same critter all day long. Animals sleep, have holidays, move, rare animals come 
 around from time to time and all sorts of other interesting things happen in your town so it keeps 
 you interested over and over again. There's tons of great writing and conversations to be had, 
 and while a few get stale (the museum caretaker owl comes to mind) , you'll still be hearing almost 
 all new things from your current villagers and the ones who simply pass through, giving you new 
 faces and personalities as time goes on.
  
  Even though there is a Mayor you're pretty much the sole benefactor for this town, so you end up 
 doing a host of banal activities that are fun in it's simplicity to borderline OCD's like me. Here's 
 a list of the kind of stuff you do in Animal Crossing:
  
  -dig pitfalls
  -water flowers
  -move flowers
  -pick weeds
  -fish
  -catch bugs
  -shake trees
  -stomp 
 cockroaches
  -collect fruit
  -plant fruit
  -check the recycle bin
  -cut down trees
  -dig holes
  -return objects
  -shoot a slingshot (in the sky only)
  -mail letters
  -pay 
 off your loans
  etc..
  
  So yeah, doesn't sound like a hoot but the design works great, just like The Sims makes the mundanes 
 of everyday life fun. Admittedly Animal Crossing isn't as smart or entertaining to simply observe 
 as that game and sometimes the repetitiveness gets taken to an extreme (shake tree, get fruit, 
 fill inventory, sell, repeat for an hour) . Still it's similarly addicting and has plenty of strengths 
 in it's own right. For instance, the touch screen makes managing tasks and simply running around 
 and interacting with the world more intuitive than ever before. It won't be your sole method of 
 control due to trampling through your gardens and picking up your furniture too often, but it compliments 
 the design nicely.
  
  You collect TONS of stuff in this game. Here's a list of some stuff you end up collecting:
  
 
  -furniture 
  -wallpaper
  -flooring
  -music for stereos
  -paintings
  -dinosaur fossils
  -money
  -hats
  -photos of neighbors
  -trophies
  -fish
  etc..
  
 
  There's no NES emulations this time around, but you won't miss it with everything else you're given. 
 You can create and name constellations for the night skies. There's wi-fi play so you can visit 
 and interact in a town with up to four players (when the host has their gate open and has them 
 on a friend's list) . The clothing store now also sells masks, helmets, glasses and other look-altering 
 materials. There's the pigeon barista who's cafe houses a guitar slinging dog on Saturday nights, 
 where you request songs to build a library of good original music. You can design and save your 
 own clothes, umbrellas, paintings, the town flag, the town theme.. etc..
  
  AC: WW won't hold everyone's attention and the presentation is gonna be too cutesy for some. For 
 all the things to do, the game is best played in short bursts because the changing environment 
 is what really pushes the game forward and you can only do so much at any one point. Graphically 
 the game is fairly impressive and one of the better DS games as far as looks, but after firing 
 up the Gamecube version I had forgotten how smooth and shiny everything was the first go round 
 and I can't help but wish the DS had a bit more power for rendering 3D graphics. 
  
  It's chock full of items and activities that range from tiring (watering flowers) to surprising 
 and fun (rolling up a thankful snowman who sends you a present and hangs around for a while) . It's 
 got addicting gameplay elements built into the design (earn more money, get more stuff, gotta catch 
 em all) and tons of personality built into it's large cast of characters. If the gameplay sounds 
 appealing and you're looking for a DS game you'll keep returning to, get Animal Crossing. It's 
 a rich experience with Nintendo's presentation hallmark all over it, it's just not software that 
 every gamer is bound to get a kick out of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divb
Rating: 10
Date: May 29, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  Are you tired of living with parents? Ready to strike out on an independent life? Well, in this 
 game, you can do just that -- with animals!!!
  
  I love this game so much. There are so many things to do and even though there's no point in the 
 game and no ending, it's excellent.
  
  It differs alot from the GameCube version (which I have, and which was the first GC game I ever 
 got) . First of all, in the GameCube version, having multiple real-life players in your town means 
 each person gets a different house. However, in the DS version, because of smaller memory space 
 on the DS card, you must share your house with the other real-life players.
  
  Another thing that differs (slightly) is the shop. It's run by some business tycoon named Tom Nook, 
 who is a racoon. The shop has four different forms (Nook's Cranny, then Nook 'n' Go, then Nookway, 
 then finally, the big hueg two-story Nookington's) . Each one is lager and better.
  
  But one of the best things about this game is what? It has Wi-Fi. For those of you who don't know, 
 Wi-Fi is internet which allows you to play with people across the world! All you need to set it 
 up is your DS (of course) an internet connection, and any Wi-Fi enabled game! Isn't it great!?
 
  
  When I'm not doing anything, I like to collect seashells, go fishing, or simply just chat wtih 
 the animals in my town. Just remember my review next time you go to Best Buy or wherever you go 
 and BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THStrackrunner
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  This game had all the potential in the world. When it first came out, it was so hard to find. I 
 finally got my hands on it, and was kinda bored of it after about 5 hours. I dont know anyone else 
 with this game, so i can't play online. Maybe that's why it is kinda boring. But nonetheless, this 
 game wasn't as big as all the hype. I would say borrow it from a friend before you spend $35. Or 
 go and buy Mario Kart DS. But, if your rich and can afford it, buy it and try it, because who knows, 
 this game seems to be a big hit with everyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: online
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best game ever for DS i just started the game at boxing day 2005.
  this game has all the things from the game cube version but this is the hand held version wide 
 world.
  like in this version you can get a money tree.
  this game is perfect in every way.
  there is an online network witch is called Wi-Fi so you can 
 visit other peoples towns first you need to set it up the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection instruction 
 book will help you.
  in the game you still need to pay your mortgage for your ACWW house.
  THIS GAME IS THE BEST 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashleigh1992
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Hey there. I've recently got ACWW.. and I have to say it's great! I started a new character called 
 Ash in my town Oakvale, and already have a beautifull town, but I can still make it better :P This 
 games got high graphics for nintendo DS systems, and has neverending gameplay. The sound is OK, 
 and mixs well with the DS's sorround sound. Things change ingame with out-of game real time, so 
 it's night when it's night, day when it's day. You can even design your own stars constellations!! 
 So, on my second day I decided to let my sister have a go, She made a new character and she is 
 loving the game (even though she has made my house a girly-girl house !: P) .
  
  I hope you all have as much fun with ACWW as I am having/had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 27, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is back once again only now it's portable. So now you can play your life anywhere 
 you go. This game is so fun because there is so much you can do. You can run around, catch bugs, 
 fish, dig up fossils, run errands, move the furniture in your house, clean your yard, or even go 
 to your friend's town. And now there are more new neighbors for you to interact with in your town 
 and so many can live there at a time. But finally when there is no more you can do, you have every 
 item, infanite money, filled the museum, caught everything, dug up every fossil, and your town 
 is perfectly clean l suggest theat you go to a new town. So have fun and don't waste a minute, 
 and watch out for floating packages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  First off you can play this game for months to come and still find something
  to do. There is always some fossils that could be dug up or some bugs 
  that need catching same 
 with fish. There are also plenty of events to enter
  such as fishing tourney, bug catching tourney, and plenty of others. The 
  graphics fit just 
 right on the DS. They are nice and crisp. The voice of the 
  little animals can get annoying at times but if it does you can turn it off by
  using a phone 
 in your upstairs. They're also songs you can play on your
  stereo. But as for what the animals are saying barely never repeats. 
  They're also plenty of 
 items toget that chnges each day that will keep you
  coming back for more wondering what's on the market today. This game
  is really interactive but 
 I gonna let you guys find out on your own. Thank you
  for spending your time reading my reveiw. There will be plenty more to come on other hit DS games. 
 Some are good some are bad you'll have to 
  decide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geek-God
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 24, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. Alot of people I have asked say they don't like it because there's "no 
 violence". I think thats on of the things that makes it so good that it shows you don't need violence 
 for a good game. I personally think they should make more games like this but they could of put 
 a bit more to it like being able to get a bike or something thats ride-able or doing a job and 
 getting payed like making a shop especially for wi-fi. Over all this game is amazing and i would 
 highly recommend it. This is a great way of bringing game-cube games to the ds and if anyone want 
 a game just to chill out on this is the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juno54
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 23, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is a life simulator game. The character you create is the person you 
 play as in the town that you named. Just like in the Gamecube version, you still have to pay off 
 your debts, work for Tom Nook for awhile and then you can talk with your neighbors. The game's 
 formula is still the same in Wild World, which is good. Anyway, there is a lot more furniture, 
 items, and clothing that you can get in this game. The DS version has a lot of new features for 
 the character you play as (hairstyle, wig, helmets, glasses, etc.) and the wi-fi mode is ok. The 
 stylus although isn't as useful as moving the character, it does help out when going through the 
 menus and writing letters. The game is the same game, but does has some new features that make 
 the game seem new. Although this one isn't a sequel, it is still a good Animal Crossing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 22, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  The original Animal Crossing is a great game that will always be rememberd. I cant say the same 
 thing about Animal Crossing WIld World. If you played the first Animal Crossing its basicly the 
 same but for those of you who havent heres the deal, you are a man/women/girl/boy who has set out 
 to live on your own. Only problem is, you're broke and cant afford to pay for your house. Luckily, 
 you can pay off your loan by working for Mr. Nook and Nooks Craney for a while, the rest of the 
 loan you must come up with yourself . And after you payed of your first loan, why not make you 
 house bigger? But than you must pay off another loan. You can run around, fish, catch bugs, dig, 
 and socailize. For those who have player Animal Crossing 1, you may think "it sounds excatly the 
 same." Well your wrong, Some things in AC: WW have been toned down. No more nes games, No more easy 
 acess to favor from fellow town members, and no more laziness because infact instead of waiting 
 a day for you fossils to come, you can just ask the ol owl to check it for you. But WIld World 
 does offer some new and uniqe things. Making shirts are a lot more easier now, using the touch 
 screen you can draw a design almost as if you were drawing it on paper, and say hello to star gazing, 
 where you can look and the stars and make concelations. The game also features a new world type 
 ground, which makes the game really feel like your on a planet, i guess. However, that also makes 
 the town seem a lot smaller. The game also adds some other new additions to the series, new hats, 
 items, accersories, townsfolk and much much more. But if you want to really enjoy this game, you 
 need friends that enjoy it as well, so you can travel to each others towns, and walk around with 
 each other. WiFi makes this even more possible. However many of the quirks and quarks that made 
 Animal Crossing 1 so fun have been taken out, making this new one seem like an unworthy port. Animal 
 Crossing Wild World is fun, but it just doesnt have the same vibe as the first one did.
  
  and guess what, my laziness continues to make me not spell check this so assume what the words 
 are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmotrev
Rating: 4.3
Date: May 21, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  When you play this game you get so addicted playing with your friends and trading items. Getting 
 rich and getting poor. Get a big house and meet animal friends then right when it hits you. You 
 think wow I beat the game in 1 month now there nothing else to do but get rich and give away stuff. 
 Yes this game gets incredibly boring after the 1st month so be careful try not playing it for hours 
 because it will get boring. After you've payed of to Tom Nook it comes to the fun part you donate 
 to Boondox to get feathers and you put your money in the bank for more items you sort your rooms 
 to get lots of HRA and then it is over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 21163556644918607567002035827911-gunkoi
Rating: 9
Date: May 21, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  With thousands of miles separating you from each other it is quite hard to believe such a thing 
 is possible with a clam-shell piece of plastic and a card the size of a 50 pence coin, hell, come 
 turn of the millennium you would have dismissed such a thing and deemed it witchcraft! Not anymore! 
 Nintendo DS and Animal Crossing: Wild World bring you and your friends even closer, more so than 
 ever before!
  
  Its hard to believe that you can be curled up in bed with your Nintendo DS and within minutes 
 your friend from another country has arrived to hang out with you. Everyone comes of the age to 
 which it is time to leave home and move on and the game starts out with this in mind. You find 
 yourself in a Taxi with driver, Kappn, and being the ol Taxi pirate he is, he asks you in true-pirate 
 style where you are venturing off too. At this moment you then name yourself and the town youre 
 heading to. Your appearance is based of the initial first questions Kappn asks you but dont worry 
 about the outcome if you dont like it, you have the chance to modify your appearance later on 
 in the game.
  
  You arrive at your chosen destination and you are greeted by a funny-looking Racoon, Tom Nook who 
 is quite the business head and tells you your home is ready for you to move in to. The house is 
 quaint but it soon gets too small for all the items and furniture you spend your hard earned cash 
 on, which is when you are faced with the inevitable; paying off your mortgage. Fear not, though, 
 as your first mortgage isnt that expensive to pay off but as time goes on, your house grows and 
 so does the mortgage that is repayable at anytime in any amounts to Mr. Nook.
  
  Catching fish is fun! So... show it off!
  
  Tom Nook doesnt leave you in the cold though. 
 Youll find yourself working for him when you first arrive to gain some sort of income and not 
 to mention the sea shells and fruit that are available for you to collect and sell at his little 
 shop. It is important for you to know who is who and what is what and Tom Nooks idea of getting 
 to know these things are inclusive in the first few jobs he has you do. I think its about time 
 to tell you that you are in fact human and your friendly townsfolk are that of different animals. 
 Hence the name... smart hunh?
  
  Dont expect your neighbours to chip in on the town construction work that youll eventually get 
 yourself in to. Yes... there is work to be done. As you explore the Wild World you will find various 
 methods of making Bells and in great quantity too. Before you get the wrong idea, Bell is the currency 
 in the Wild World (and any Animal Crossing game in fact) and also your best friend. Seriously, 
 youre going to need those Bells for big buys that Tom Nook will have available when he eventually 
 begins to expand his store. Not to mention bribing your friends for rare items.
  
  Friends the core ingredients for such a successful game and the Nintendo DS pulls it off like 
 nothing else. Forget your computer; if youre close to a wireless network or even have one set 
 up in your own home then connecting to Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection is a synch and you will be hanging 
 out with your friends in no time. There has never been a better time to start your gaming life 
 online than now and what way to do so with such a brilliant videogame that is Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World.
  
  Go on... talk to your friends!
  
  The in-game messenger is great to use and quite easy too. Having little or no experience in touch-screen 
 typing youll soon get the hang of it and find yourself in full-blown conversations about who is 
 dating who in the Wild World. Speaking of which what about your fellow neighbours? Well, what 
 about them? Youll find cool animals who love your style and hold all the same interests you do 
 but to balance things out there are a few oddballs in there that are always on your back if you 
 dont keep them happy. Hey... it may be a virtual life you have here but lets not get too carried 
 away. For the record, Animal Crossing is as close to real life as you can get. With a mortgage 
 to pay, jobs to do, friends to talk to, things to buy and, of course, a house to maintain, Animal 
 Crossing takes it all and wraps it up nicely in a solid, silver, clam-shaped package that is ready 
 to go when you are. The only thing stopping Animal Crossing rivalling real life is the fact you 
 can grow Money Trees... sigh... if only real life could take a leaf out of Wild Worlds book...
 
  
  Retailing at 29.99 for the Nintendo DS system, you would be seriously foolish to miss out. My 
 girlfriend is no gamer by a long shot, but she just cant resist the cute charms and real life 
 ventures that Animal Crossing: Wild World hold and thats a fact! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a fun game to play at first. You're in a taxi at first on your way to your new 
 city. The taxi driver asks you a series of questions, like what is the name of your town then you 
 have to make up one. Anyway you might of played it before so you have a rough idea of what goes 
 on. 
  Anyway the graphics on this game are rather good for a handheld game. Of course not many people 
 were expecting DS games to have good graphics, but i've played on many DS games but Animal Crossing 
 is quite impressive compared to other games. The sound, well some of the music is not that good. 
 The voices from the charaters can be annoying. But the one thing i don't understand is what is 
 the game all about? You paying off your mortgage..... boring. I've played on the game but then 
 i got bored, the tasks seem a bit dull. I suppose there are a few good points that its portable 
 so if you're bored you can play on it. But other that a new few features the game seems to be a 
 carbon copy of the old Animal Crossing. Why can't Nintendo invest in new future games not like 
 Zelda, Mario and Animal Crossing. Although this game is still very good. You'll either love it 
 or hate it. The game is very long and has a lot of unlockables thats why some people will still 
 be playing this game this time next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: traitor1
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 19, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the creation of the ds, there has been to many remakes or sequels to nintendo 64 games. 
 Some are great like super mario 64 ds, while others fall a little short, like metroid. Animal crossing 
 is right in between these. It starts out fantastic and very addictive, but after a while, it gets 
 so repetitive and so hard to progress with any goals, it just feels like work. If you are one of 
 those who replay games two or three times just to collect the hidden gems, then this game will 
 own your life, but for guys like me, it just got too repetitive. Great game but slow progressing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stellom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  I was thrilled to see this game on ds since I have been waiting for it for quite some time.
  
  I was a bit disappointed that basically all you do is earn money and pay of your debts but 
 you can also do a wide variety of fun things such as colect all the clothes, accesories and umbrellas 
 so you can wear a different outfit each day. Or you can try to complete all the bugs and fish at 
 the museum, or buy spend your time bargain hunting at flea markets for better buys and cheaper 
 furniture.
  
  My only complaint in this game is that it is a bit slow, every time you enter a shop, you are greeted. 
 Everytime you leave, you are greeted. Also the limited inventory makes it hard but this I dont 
 mind since your pockets can really only hold too much.
  
  Overall I would give this game a 85/100 scoring if I would have to. New sounds can be unlocked 
 letting you change the music to whatevfer you like.
  
  And I was a bit disappointed with the smll town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamjon858
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 18, 2006 4:40 pm PT
Review:  I loved Animal Crossing for gamecube. But it got boring. Now with a DS release I'm never bored. 
 I've been playing this game everyday. The best part about it is the wi-fi so I will discuss that 
 aspect.
  
  When I first got it. I played for about 3 hours... and then thought it was going to get boring like 
 the GC version. I considered returning it. But played long enough to discover the Wi-Fi part!
 
  
  WOW! I instantly had 20 people on my friend list. And it didn't stop there. I could go to others 
 towns, create patterns, and best of all chat and play games!
  
  If your looking for a great wi-fi game get this. If you don't have wi-fi get MarioKart DS (wifi 
 sucks for it though) .
  
  Links:
  ACC is a great place to get friend codes - 
  AC: WW Plaza is a 
 fun club for frequent players-
  www. galaxypcs. com/ac/
  AC: WW Plaza Olympics (very cool thing)
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonic_Jin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a unique, innovative and most importantly very fun game. Nintendo 
 has a reputation of substance over style, and Animal Crossing: Wild World is a perfect example 
 of this. Its not necessarily the flashiest hand held game on the market, but the gameplay experience 
 is a very unique one, you'd be hard-pressed to find a game that can give a similar kind of experience 
 to this one. You take the control of a human boy or girl that is going to a new town (which you 
 name) . But this isn't any normal old town, this is a special town. Why? Well how many towns that 
 you've been to are completely populated with animals? Yup. Every resident in the town in an animal, 
 hence the name of the game, Animal Crossing. All of the different animals all have different personalities 
 to boot.
  
  Tom Nook gives you his services throughout the game, at the beginning of the game he provides you 
 with a house (that you will have to pay off) , and after you pay that off he will allow you to add 
 extensions to your house. But hes also the shop keeper at the local store which is where you'll 
 be doing most of your buying, as well as selling. When you first arrive at the town, you'll have 
 to run some Errands for Nook before you can buy or sell anything at his store, but after that, 
 youre free and therefore you'll need to find a way to earn some cash.
  
  Bells act as the currency in this game, and there is a variety of ways that you can earn it. Primarily 
 though, you'll make money buy collecting, and then selling fruit, bugs, fish ect. Fruit can be 
 picked off of tree's, and then you can sell the fruit you've collected at Nook's store. This will 
 essentially be the quickest and easiest way to earn bells, but you can also collect and sell fish, 
 bugs, furniture ect. As previously mentioned, you'll be able to collect furniture to collect and 
 sell, the other obvious use for furniture is for use. You can put various different objects (that 
 normally wouldn't really be classified as furniture) in your house to decorate it, as well as different 
 mats and wallpapers. As well as a variety of items to sell and collect, there is also a lot of 
 different ways you can obtain these items. You can dig them up using a shovel, shoot them out of 
 the sky using a slingshot, shaking them out of trees, finding them in the rubbish bin (as odd as 
 it may seem, you can find some decent items in the town centers rubbish bin) , in the lost and 
 found and also from other members of your town. Most of the time, the best items you find are the 
 ones that you either bought from a shop, or the ones that were given to you by other members of 
 the town. Some of the time if you speak to the right member of your town they'll just give you 
 a free item, but most of the time you'll have to do something for them, but just something as simple 
 as answering a question (correctly) or taking a quiz. Possibly the most impressive thing about 
 Animal Crossing is its depth. For a handheld game, this is a very big game, and the depth of it 
 is very impressive. Just things like all the different things to collect, different characters 
 and all the features and detail overall are very impressive. You can only catch a certain fish 
 or bug at different times of the day and year, there are different holidays and ect. Just little 
 stuff like that makes a big difference.
  
  Graphically Wild World is quite an impressive game. Having never played the Gamecube version i 
 can't really compare the graphics between the two but for the most part, what the graphics work 
 well and compliment the laid back style of the game. The graphics style is obviously aimed at a 
 young audience, but it can still sort of appeal to an older audience. Either way the graphics won't 
 really get in the way of anything, though they aren't particularly good, there good enough. But 
 considering how big this game is, its very impressive how it can all fit onto a Nintendo DS. And 
 that is why Animal Crossing is so appealing. You can literally take your virtual city with you, 
 and that is very impressive.
  
  Sound in the game isn't anything special. Its the normal upbeat music that you'd expect from a 
 game like this. The dialogue sounds kind of get annoying, however if you turn the sound off you 
 won't be missing out on anything (obviously there will be subtitles) .
  
  The time that you spend playing this game varies. At random, an average player would play this 
 game from anywhere from 3 weeks to about 4 or 5 months or maybe even more, and after that its likely 
 that you'll come back every now and then to see how everything is going.
  
  Animal Crossing Wild Word is overall a genuinely fun game. It doesn't take itself to seriously, 
 and the humor in the game is a hit or miss depending on the kind of person you are but the presentation 
 of the game definitely has charm to it. Gameplay wise Wild World is quite unique and very fun. 
 Its weird really, because its hard to describe how fun this game is, seeing that catching bugs 
 and collecting furniture ect. doesnt sound all that exciting. Overall though if youre looking 
 for a solid DS game that doesn't take itself too seriously, Animal Crossing is a great solution. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_WIG
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 16, 2006 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game where their are many animals that live and do their daily routines in the town 
 like us humans do every day. There are many tasks and unlockable activaties and accesories in the 
 game, and you learn how to handle money, design a house, collect furniture for a house, get collectibles 
 for the local museum, shop at Tom Nook's store and a Tailors shop, and visit other friends towns 
 either wirelessly or over Nintendo WI-Fi Connection with their Friend Code (this game requires a 
 friend code to visit other towns because chatting is involved.) You have to buy lots of basic stuff 
 to succeed, and their is no stress like a usual video game would have on you. This was my first 
 version of the game, I had never played the Gamecube version, and it was very simple to pick up. 
 It is fun sending and receving bottle mail from distant towns. All the accesories are very cool 
 too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Innocent_J
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 14, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I never fell short of things to do in this game... even though i just got it.. lol
  I've had such a hard time putting it down and letting my ds rest. It's dangerously addictive. It 
 completely stole my life from me..... now all i wanna do is play AC: WW. And because time goes whether 
 you're there or not, you never know what you're missing, that's what makes me always want to play. 
 It's so addictive!.... I can't get over that. I completely put down Mario Kart and mp: h, but i know 
 i'll play it again soon lol.
  
  The graphics in AC: WW are charming enough, Gameplay is simply Amazing.... you could do EVERYTHING 
 with the d-pad OR the touch screen. Sound is Good enough for me. I LOVE THIS GAME!!!
  
  GIVE ME BACK MY LIFE NINTENDO!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolZaim
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 14, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing first appeared on the Gamecube, shocking everyone with the number of activities 
 you could do, the amount of characters to meet and the realism. It was revolutionary. 
  So now Animal Crossing is back, but with a snappy new title: Animal Crossing: Wild World. The snappy 
 title is just one of the great improvments.
  
  The one thing everyone's talking about in this game is the Wi-Fi feature. You can do Wi-Fi! On 
 the DS!! You can visit people around the world, choose roommates and loads more. I mean, ain't 
 that cool. Sweet, sweet, sweet Wi-Fi...
  
  The amount of stuff you can do is amazing. You may not notice it at first, but soon you'll see! 
 Fishing, catching bugs, shaking treees, doing jobs, talking to people, buying stuff, walking, loads 
 of stuff. 
  
  The realism is just to good! So, so realistic. You can plant flowers, water them, so many stuff. 
 You can dig for fossils! Woo-hoo! You can make 
  constellations in the stars! Neat-o!
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World does have it's bad points. *Sigh*. I hate this part. one thing is that 
 the day to day tasks can get extremly dull and boring. Very boring indeed. Second, you have to 
 be very patient if you want to enjoy this, waiting a day or two. 
  
  Phew. Got that over with. Well, this game is worth playing, as it's good for many reasons. ( I 
 mentioned them above.) Also bad. 
  This game is amazing and should be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsalltheway712
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 14, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild world is a great game that provides an unlimited amount of fun, and there's 
 always something to do, but it's not for everyone. The various tasks that you do can seem tedious 
 to some, but downright fun to others. I'm one of those people who like these kinds of things, and 
 I think it is one of the top ten games for the ds. It is the only kind of game that allows you 
 to open up the ds and just play, sitting there for hours just walking around town.
  With animal crossing wild world, you can fish, dig, plant, water, shoot and do a variety of other 
 things that allow AC: WW to be realistic. Of course, animals don't talk, but it makes the game alot 
 more fun that fish, bugs, and flowers will only pop up during certain months or seasons.
  AC: WW is a must buy game at this time, but with all the new games coming out, there might be some 
 better ones.
  
  Town: Hesokin Name: Alex Friend Code: 4338-5474-6606
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan606
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 14, 2006 1:51 am PT
Review:  So this is the first Animal Crossing game I've ever owned but while I was doing Nook's Tasks at 
 the beginning of the game, I had a feeling I was probably going to really enjoy playing. 
  
  Your town has neighbors that walk around outside that you can talk to. They sometimes request 
 you to deliver things to other neighbors or want to have a small fishing contest. I've heard that 
 this game's neighbors don't give requests as often as in the ones in the GCN but I really don't 
 mind. There's also the Town Hall where you can customize your town tune, mail letters to neighbors 
 or roomates, and donate to the nearby town and check up on your town's environment. There's also 
 the museum to which you can donate things from fossils you find in holes to paintings sold to you 
 by Redd to the fish you recently caught and back to the bug you just happened to catch as you were 
 walking by. You can also create constellations that you can see on the top screen at night. Of 
 course every town has to have a shop and your town does too. Nook's Cranny is the first shop level 
 you start off with. As you buy more items from there, Nook begins to upgrade his store, making 
 it bigger and with more items available for you to buy. Next to your town's store is the Able Sister's 
 Store where you can buy or make your own designs and wear them on your shirt, hat, or umbrella. 
 You can also buy hats, helmets, and other funny things to place on your face like mustaches.
  
  Controlling the game is pretty easy. You can touch the direction in which you want to go or 
 simply use the control pad. Touch your character to use items you are holding or just push A. To 
 interact with an item/object/person nearby, simply touch it/them or push A infront of it/them. 
 You can also use the Touch Screen to create designs at the Able Sister's and to select options 
 when talking to other people.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for a game on the DS. Not perfect but could have been a bit worked 
 on some more. The music in game is also pretty nice.
  
  Some downsides about this game though are having to play everyday for certain things. You have 
 to occasionally play to reduce the amounts of weeds growing in your town or to prevent roaches 
 from controlling your house. You also need to keep in touch with your neighbors unless you want 
 them to move away. Flowers can also die if not watered when dieng and you can miss certain events 
 if you don't play on certain days.
  
  Despite those downsides, this is still a great game to own. Having your own portable town wherever 
 you go is good enough for me :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zodiac_attack
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 12, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  I really like this game alot I enjoyed the fact of being able to go to my friends houses in it. 
 I had a great time playing online lol. But i enjoyed the fact that i could go around and visit 
 peoples towns then i would have them take there stuff out of there house. Just so i could see it 
 if it was a leaf or what not Then i would dig a hole around them and make it so they cant move 
 then i would pick up the item and leave. All i have to say dont trust someone in a black ski mask 
 lol. Other words the game was awesome and it doesnt really ever get old 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 11, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  in 5 points, graphics, gameplay, sound, storyline, and overall. i will sum it up
  
  Graphics: nice lush scenery and backround add quite a nice effect to the game, but character design, 
 wasent all too great, but then again it is the ds graphics we are talkin about, but to be honest 
 they were a bit edgey. nevertheless, something quite lovely to see on the ds. 8/10
  
  Gameplay: gameplay is good enough, if you have a lot of things to do in it but when those jobs 
 are over you may find yourself just wandering, or visiting other towns with wi-fi, sometimes i 
 had to resort to skipping on days to do something fun so overall the gameplay aint too great to 
 be honest 7/10
  
  Sound: forget metroids music and come in with nice calm country music to get you in the mood of 
 the game for a while, but my only quip about this games music is that there aint enough different 
 music to listen to, so they do get repetitive, but if you like repetitiveness, like i do id give 
 the music 9/10
  
  Storyline: there aint one, you just live day- to - day at your own pace and sit back and relax 
 now and then, i think the ds needed this and is a very clever idea which would last long 10/10
 
  
  Overall: you know you might get bored every now and then but overall its ok, all games of this 
 type do sometimes, but everything here is worth playing for, and is a ds game not to miss, especially 
 for wi-fi users. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadBunny
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 10, 2006 4:20 pm PT
Review:  If you have played the original Animal Crossing games for the Gamecube you probebly know whats 
 in store in this game!
  
  This game starts out when your getting driven in a taxi to a town you have named! When you arrive 
 in the town you have too pay of money for the house that got made for you! You will do countless 
 jobs for a little bit! The jobs varie from planting flowers to delivering gifts! After you have 
 complet this part you wil lnow be able to do the main things in the game! Fishing, search for treasure, 
 catch bugs, plant loads of fruit trees and flowers even donate dinosaur bones to fish at the museum!
 
  
  This game will get boring after a couple of days but always playing 5 minutes a day can still be 
 interesting... If you dont have Wi-fi this game may not be for you... I recommened this game too 
 all Animal Crossing players and Too people that need a new game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 10, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  The first thing most people say when they see this is 'oh the graphics are crap aren't they?', 
 BUT the fact is they're not. The graphics, although the sort of thing that would appeal to younger 
 gamers rather than older nintendo veterans, are extremely good, and the whole game runs smoothly 
 together as you explore your miniature world. 
  The town tune, changing as regualr as clockwork, can get repetetive, but you'll have to learn to 
 live with it because you can't change it. The tune you can change is the one that is played when 
 you speak to someone. Anyone who comes through town can do this, so it never says the same very 
 long. 
  Yes, the game could be called quite basic, but it's not really. There's so much to do, whether 
 it's digging up fossils, weeding the garden, getting money and buying those expensive things that 
 only come once every month or something, and so on, you realise how clever the game is. From the 
 random comments of the townsfolk to the befriending of sabel and brewster, there's a lot to this 
 game than rubbish 'kiddies' graphics, repetitive tinny tunes and digging up the bones of some ancient 
 creature that looks as though it could eat you there and then.
  There are a few odd things though. Like how the PEGI rating is 3 plus and has bad language written 
 on it. How many three year olds can read, and what bad language is there in Animal crossing? Also, 
 no matter how many times you allow a certain character to visit your house, they still continue 
 to insist that they've never been in it!
  The highlight of the game is definately the WI FI. Linking up and visiting players around the world, 
 or even in your own neighbourhood is great if you find the game boring at first. Although the game 
 can crash, it's only if the system gets overloaded (I don't get that but...) , but you can still 
 have fun on this surprisingly cool game.
  One of the best on DS and makes good use of the wi fi and link up options. A game that really deserves 
 to be in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colton_blue
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 7, 2006 11:37 am PT
Review:  When I began playing AC: WW, already an avid fan of Animal Crossing for GameCube, I was skeptical 
 as to if it would be able to match or surpass the quality of its predecessor, but after playing 
 only a few minutes I was assured I would be in for an equally, if not subtly improved, gaming experience.
 
  
  Wild World is practically identical to the previous edition, but this is not necessarily a bad 
 thing. It retains the same addictive gameplay and adds a few nice touches, such as one's ability 
 to create constellations viewable in the night sky. The fact that Wild World is an enriched and 
 bettered version is nice. I, for one, don't want my AC experience to be TOO different.
  
  The one main flaw is the graphics, which can at times look a bit off. However, given the DS's capabilities 
 I'm impressed. The water was particularly well done, as well as the animals and their expressions. 
 For one accustomed to the acre system, it was a bit of a shock to see the world scale in such a 
 way, but I got used to it quickly, and enjoy it now.
  
  Overall, it's a great and worthy "sequel"! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlepat117
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 6, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is really worth the wait the main idea of acww (Animal Crossing Wild World) is that youre 
 a little animal that starts small but is trying to become a bigshot. In your town is a few people 
 a shop and a clothes shop. As you go along and get more stuff and a bigger house you town will 
 expand the shop will get larger and the amount of people will grow larger. Probably the coolest 
 feature on this game is its real-time action meaning and hour on the game is an hour on Earth, 
 so that makes it even more real. Now on to the Wifi and wireless part of this game, With possession 
 of a friend code you can visit your friends town through Wifi or wirelessly with close by friends. 
 All and all this game has the ultimate gameplay features because everything is always changing 
 this game needs to be picked up by all. I give it a five out of five. The review is short because 
 there is too many features in the game to talk about them all so pick it up and try it for yourself 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: interpolred
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Probably one of the most addictive games on the market, 'Animal Crossin: Wild World' brings a lot 
 to the table, despite its rather strange appearance. In this game, you take a human child, and 
 put him in a town where the inhabitants are walking, talking animals. There are various tasks in 
 the town, and you have many things to do right away. You need to pay off your house, work for a 
 while, etc. There are also many little extras: digging up fossils and taking them to the museum; 
 fishing tournaments; planting flowers; designing clothes; writing letters; talking to the interesting 
 inhabitants of the town. The list goes on and on....
  
  The graphics are actually very close to the Gamecube's original version of 'Animal Crossing,' so 
 that's a plus. The characters all have a cutesy look that really grows on you for a while. The 
 animal voices are a bit odd, but after a while you get used to them. A big plus is the fact that 
 the music changes every hour, so you don't get annoyed hearing the same thing everytime you play 
 (unless you play at the same time everyday) .
  
  After a few months of playing, it may seem that the game gets a bit repetitive, but what game doesn't? 
 Bottomline, it's fun taking a portable town with you wherever you go. And if you don't really go 
 places, it's still a lot of fun to be able to manage a town in the palm of your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jubo07
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is a great game but can become a little repetative. The online feature 
 is basically useless if you have no friends who own the game. I give the game an 8.5 stil because 
 I still feel it is a great game for the younger DS players. I rank this game as the number 3 game 
 fo the DS behind Mario Kart and Metroid Prime Hunters. I recommend that if your going to buy the 
 game that you get a friend to also purchase it so you can enjoy the Nintendo Wifi feature. I was 
 very impressed with the games graphics, they are very smooth and very well done. The sound and 
 voices of the characters is funny at the beginning but can get to be quite annoying. Overall i 
 rate it 8.5 / 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevenscott14
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 3, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Let me tell you one thing before I begin: Animal Crossing: Wild World, and Im being somewhat harsh 
 here, always has a nagging sense of pointlessness lurking around its colourful depths. Im not 
 sure what it is  its just a lurking feeling that youre wasting your time playing a potentially 
 life-ruining game. I mean, its close to feeling like a flimsy novelty act where you simply run 
 around, talk to people but never actually do anything interesting. There are never any moments 
 that make you pinch yourself in amazement, or anything to compel you to play further, fully immersed 
 in the game. 
  
  But, anyway, despite this novelty-type feel, Animal Crossing: Wild World is a rather good game. 
 Its nowhere near a must-have  this title belongs to other, more deserved games, such as Metroid 
 Prime Hunters and Advance Wars Dual Strike  but nevertheless, if youre looking for a game that 
 will undoubtedly sap your time away, whether Wi-Fi enabled or not, then Animal Crossing should 
 really be one of your first ports of call. 
  
  Animal Crossing puts you in the shoes of a springy young fellow, whether male or female, who has 
 impulsively decided to move to a new town. And there, youre free to live out your own life. So, 
 obviously, Animal Crossing has more than a dab of RPG flavouring, but its more like some weird 
 and wonderful version of The Sims. With a stylus. Are you confused yet? 
  
  Well, if so, thats basically because Animal Crossing is a confusing game. Even the residents of 
 your town are crazy  theyre always talking about random stuff and going about their own business. 
 They even go out at 2am and go around catching bugs like some sort of nocturnal psychopath. But, 
 hey, this is a Wild World, not the world of a businessman in a tweed suit. 
  
  Normally, Animal Crossing has a good sense of humour, yet sometimes it can go too far. If you accidentally 
 forget to save your game, or turn your DS immediately off due to boredom, or even unexpectedly 
 run out of charge, then, guess what? The next time you start Animal Crossing, there will be an 
 extremely annoyed mole waiting outside your doorstep waiting to shout himself absolutely silly 
 at you for forgetting to save. And he doesnt half persist either  each time he seems to get progressively 
 angrier, forcing you, the player, to get progressively angrier, which results in a fifteen-minute 
 string of infuriation requiring you to repeatedly tap A until this demented creature of the underground 
 shuts up. I mean, come on?!?
  
  But thats enough of rambling on about that idiotic mole. Lets start right at the beginning again, 
 and fully review Animal Crossing in about the same time it does for you to scroll through the meaningless 
 and disgruntled drivel that that stupid mole forces you through. 
  
  Ok so right at the beginning of the game, you pull up in a cab. Outside your house and youre 
 renting this house out from a guy called Tom Nook. Hes the guy who runs the local shop, Nooks 
 Cranny, which is redeveloped and revamped constantly throughout the game. And from here, youll 
 be required to pay the mortgage in the currency of Bells, work in part-time jobs, buy your own 
 furniture with hard-earned money, sell items you find simply lying about, talk to locals, form 
 friendships, uncover secrets, get in on the latest rumours, participate in competitions the list 
 goes on and on, but Animal Crossing is a surprisingly basic game in both its controls and execution. 
 
  
  First off, though, you might as well forget about the stylus. Walking about using the touch screen 
 is infinitely less helpful than using the conventional D-Pad because youll find yourself wandering 
 in the complete wrong direction, in the wrong place, in the wrong time. It just feels so loose 
 and imprecise. 
  
  So, yeah, forget about that. Animal Crossing, at least, makes use of the two screens, with the 
 bottom screen depicting you and the surrounding environment in decent cartoon graphics, and the 
 top screen showing the brilliant blue skies, or the night canopy and any constellations you might 
 have founded. 
  
  The microphone is not used, though, but Wi-Fi is, allowing you to hook up with a friend via the 
 WFC and wander around their towns. You can chat with them by sending messages to each other, which 
 is annoyingly slow, visit all the locals living in their town, and even nick their fruit blossoming 
 on the trees. And then, if you wish, you can sell them in your native shop for about five times 
 the amount youd get usually, which is quite a bargain. And if youre feeling generous, leave 99,000 
 bells on their doorstep if theyre having a bit of trouble attempting to pay off that damn mortgage. 
 Just hope that stupid mole doesnt swipe it, though. 
  
  Wi-Fi is, admittedly, the best part of this game. I didnt have very high expectations of the Wi-Fi, 
 at first, or the game itself, in fact, but running around a town seems so much more fun when you 
 have a friend accompanying you, especially if theyre showing you around their superior house. 
 Or mansion, if thats the case, filled with random space-themed furniture and countless candy machines. 
 
  
  On the technical side of things, Animal Crossing also succeeds, especially in the visual area. 
 Animal Crossings graphics are a little rough around the edges, but I love the animation and the 
 way that the town slides behind you when youre running  almost like its meant to feel like youre 
 some kind of interplanetary marathon runner dashing down the side of the world. The character models 
 are weird and wacky, ranging from pigs to rabbits to dogs and all the way back again, carrying 
 a beaver along the way. The environment isnt half bad either, with trees that you just love to 
 shake fruit out of and buildings that look fantastic on the DS (two) small screens. 
  
  And the sound is also impressive. The voice-overs, in the Animalese dialect, sound immensely irritating, 
 and the traditional word scrolling across screen noise sounds much better. The music is where 
 its at, ranging wildly depending on time of day  hummable funky beats in the day, brilliant pieces 
 at sunset and some decent night tunes to stroll around to. 
  
  But, yeah, all in all  Animal Crossing does have a feeling of pointlessness lurking around somewhere 
 in your town but, if this can be classed as a novelty, or a waste of time, its definitely recommendable, 
 even if its not a must-have, like some of its fellow games. If youre looking for a Wild World 
 to spend your time in, then I dare you to find a wackier one than this. Because you wont  either 
 as a way to kill long plane flights or simply to hang around with your mates, then this is definitely 
 a worthy purchase 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blkdragz
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  ok all i can say is prepare yourself. i thought id get bored quick and regret buying it. yes i no 
 sounds terrible. but good news i didnt.
  
  i never played the original and i like most games, although my taste does edge over 2 shooters and 
 survival horrors and rpgs. i switched it on was greeted by a cute colorful screen.
  
  which leads me onto graphics. they are nice colorful and 3d. theres no slow down and the graphics 
 run smooth. if your anything like me i like 2 see the little things in games like the charater drinkin 
 and the bartender cleaning the used cup. little things like that youll find them in animal crossing.
 
  
  gameplay now. well its not exactly gameplay. theres no routes to follow u can go were ever in ur 
 town. do what you want speak to who you want. theres no time limit on paying your mortage. only thing 
 with a time limit is doing deliveries for your animal friends but theres still ot much of a rush 
 then. i suppose an aim could be to collect everything but that will take you ages or you might want 
 to uprade your house to the max.
  
  money is relatively easy 2 get. fruit is a main source of income but u can sell other things like 
 fish and shells.
  
  on of the best features is wifi. this is realy clever as you actually play your friends game and 
 can get some more money for fruit (5 times as much) you can also check out your mates house or make 
 some new friends u might even get some of your mates residents moving to your town.
  
  well if youve read all this i thank you and have to say im addicted to it .trust me if its a very 
 pretty and addictive game and soon you will want only your animal friends. o yeah and look out for 
 k. k. slider hes amazing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hells_zargon
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 3, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is definately not for people with a short attention span. Although it has a unique 
 sense of detail and a massive number of items, extensions and local widlife to collect be prepared 
 to do the same thing again and again each day.
  
  Personally, I think a game which actually requires you to play every day can soon become a chore, 
 no matter how much content it contains. This is very true for AC: WW. After a few weeks the tasks 
 become repetitive, dull and very time consuming. For people who have a life in the real world, 
 this is definately a very bad thing. However it's charms will still make you play when you have 
 time and maybe after a few weeks away from the game you will begin playing it again. 
  
  The sheer volume of items and even townsfolk loaded into the game means that no two towns can be 
 alike and makes Wi-Fi a great feature, even if it could have been slightly better tuned with annoying 
 friend lists and sometimes laggy or poor connections. Put this aside though and AC: WW really comes 
 alive through Wi-Fi, purging the loniness seen in the first venture on the GC. 
  
  Again on improvements on the GC version, the touch screen exterminates the lengthy and complicated 
 menu system of before, replacing it with simple buttons to touch on-screen and much better presented 
 storage spaces in your home. Even this is however not perfected, the touch screen becoming annoying 
 for moving around your town and doing jobs like fishing, catching bugs etc. This means that although 
 the touch screen adds a great simplifying element, the D-pad and buttons are still the main user 
 interface for the game.
  
  Even if Animal Crossing games may require a specific taste, can become annoying and are often very 
 repetitive, the very spirit of the game will keep you playing, even if it is with a few long breaks 
 in-between gaming sessions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Martin5O1st
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 2, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing DS is a good game to a point. It's great for it to be on a hand held but they could 
 have done better on the online play. Otherwise the game is just a remake of the first one with 
 a few inprovements. So if your a Animal Crossing fan you should get this game, but if you tried 
 the first one and didn't like it dont buy this one. There a bunch of games out there for a bunch 
 of console's but this is my opinon it's a good hand held but people sometimes want more thing's 
 to do online besides have your friend hang out with out that much to do. This game gets what it 
 does not desurve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassoonrules27
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 2, 2006 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing : Wild World is easily the weirdest, most addicting, and, well, unique game I have 
 ever played. I didn't have the "priviledge" to play the GC version, but I am guessing it was very 
 similar to this. Animal Crossing takes the most boring aspects of life, like fishing (it's fun, 
 but I never catch ****) , weeding (I always pray to God it rains when I'm supposed to weed outside) 
 and talking to your neighbors (I hate my neighbors... a lot) and makes them, dare I say, fun...
 
  Animal Crossing really has no story, no objectives, nothing. It is literally a real-life, real-time 
 sim. The only thing hanging over your head is that you need to pay off your mortgage on your house... whever 
 you want. That's probably the best feature of Animal Crossing. You can do whatever you want, when 
 you want. Most games give you 3-5 objectives and tell you "Go!", where Animal Crossing gives you 
 about 10 different daily tasks and says "Do whatever the hell you feel like, but remember, don't 
 be lazy or your town will be screwed".
  The town I mentioned above is the place where your character and the animals (hence ANIMAL Crossing, 
 not PEOPLE Crossing or Pedestrian Crossing, etc.) live. Being the only human in the town and probably 
 the only one with opposable thumbs, you must plant flowers, pick weeds, plant trees, and keep the 
 town looking "nice". The better your town looks, the more animals who will live there. The town 
 has an ocean and a river for fishing, fruit trees for grabbing the fruit and selling it, a clothing 
 store, a random accessory store, a museum / observatory / coffee shop / concert hall, a post office 
 / mayor's office / environment stand / waste management office, and a town gate (for visiting other 
 friends with the game) .
  Keeping every animal in your town happy can be tedious, because you have to talk to all of them 
 every day at least 1-3 times to keep them from leaving. The conversations are usually nonsense 
 and end with you (the game player) scratching your head and saying "WTF?!?" However, getting the 
 animals to be your friends nets you a picture of them and sometimes special furniture items for 
 your house.
  Like I said above, you have a house that you can fill with furniture that you find. Woot...
  
 The daily tasks that earn you money are fishing, bug catching, shooting things out of the sky with 
 a slingshot, collecting sea shells, and digging for fossils. You can donate fish, bugs, fossils, 
 and paintings (acquired from a store called Crazy Redd's) to the museum.
  Overall, Animal Crossing is a great game to pass the time. You can do whatever you want, whenever 
 you want, for as long as you want. It is great for casual gamers and hardcore gamers. I love the 
 game, despite it's childish appeal (and I'm 15) and play it daily. I recommend it for anyone who 
 has a DS and it's even better if you have a Wi-Fi connection / friend with the game, because you 
 can link up and share stuff between towns (and earn a hella lot of money) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGerlach
Rating: 9
Date: May 20, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Have you ever played the Sims? If you have, have you ever tried the Sims with Animals??? Well now 
 you can. Animal Crossing: Wild World is the newest version of Animal Crossing for the Nintendo 
 DS hand held system.
  
  In Animal Xing Wild World you start off the game in a taxicab. The cab driver asks you a series 
 of questions. These questions will determine the general look of your character (hair, face, etc) . 
 
  
  Once you get out of your cab u go directly to town hall. She will tell you about your mortgage 
 and the environment and some other useless stuff. Ok and now the point of this game. All you really 
 have to do is make money and Get a big house.
  
  Now to Nintendo Wifi. Nintendo Wifi is just like Xbox live in a way. You go on to play with people 
 from all over the world. Almost every country has Wifi. In animal crossing this is one of the best 
 parts of the whole game. You can invite people into your own town or you can go to others. You 
 can write bulletins on theirs and they can write on yours. You may have up to 4 people in your 
 town at a time and you can play games, sell stuff, buy stuff, fish together, or jus talk and have 
 a good time.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World can bring hours and hours of fun to your DS. Your not always using 
 the pad and buttons but u can move with the stylus. This is yet another game by Nintendo that makes 
 the Stylus worth the money.
  
  So thanks for reading and feel free to post comments.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: orangetrucks
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  I love this game because you never have times when you are bored. Unless of course you spent hours 
 picking fruit, planting flowers, and all the other stuff you can do in this game! You can spend 
 all day playing this game because to most people, it's just plain fun! One of the cool additions 
 from the GC version is the ability to move on to a different game card, making constellations, 
 the new barber shop, and all of the new visitors! My brother had starting a person on my card and 
 he was just able to move onto a new one he bought. Moving barely took 5 minutes! Celeste, the owl 
 in charge of constellations, is nice and you can take a look through the telescope whenever the 
 idea pops up in your mind! 
  The new multiplayer is great! You can chat with local friends, or with someone over the internet.
 
  Overall, this game is just worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kierad560
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 30, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  The Good : Brilliant 3D world in the palm of your hands, Everyday is different with different objectives 
 to do, the fact that you can play this for 2 minutes or 2 hours, building up a house has never 
 been so much fun, totally original.
  The Bad : Crazy animal neighbours, Its a lazy rehash of the gamecube original, Wi- Fi multiplayer 
 is not really that much fun, Mr Ressetti.
  
  As the PSP is struggling to make games that are not just straight ports from the consoles, The 
 DS has really got a selection of brilliant unique games such as Mario Kart, Nintendogs, metroid 
 prime hunters and advance wars: dual strike are just some of them. But they have made yet another 
 Nintendo classic and shrunk it down to pocket size with a whole load of new features, welcome to 
 the wonderfully weird world of animal crossing.
  
  From the name of the game you might think this just another kiddies game with easy tasks and not 
 much depth, well it maybe quite easy but the amount of fun and depth this game has is unbelievable.
 
  The game starts of with your character moving to a faraway town to start a new life. When you 
 arrive you are greeted by your landlord tom Nook .
  It seems you have to pay off the mortgage to your house. To pay off this mortgage you need to work 
 in his shop for a while and then find another to make money such as collecting or finding items. 
 Once you pay off the mortgage your house will get bigger so that you can have more room for stuff 
 to fill up your house (your house will upgraded several times but will take a very long time.) . 
 
  The thing that makes this game so great is that there are new things to do each day whether it 
 is catching butterflies, fishing, digging up fossils, meeting a new resident to the town, buying 
 insurance off a salesman or just collecting money towards your next mortgage as it is all fun.
 
  
  The longer you play the game the town will develop as more residents move in, Tom Nooks shop turns 
 from a little hut to a giant supermarket or during different seasons (If it is winter it will be 
 snowing.) .
  There are some annoying things about this game such as the occasional resident going crazy or whether 
 ther is nothing else to in a day as you have dug all the fun out of it.
  
  Guaranteed if you like a nice and stressless game to play the look no further but i would not recommend 
 to anyone who is look for a shooting or adventurous game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroDemo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2006 3:12 am PT
Review:  This game is just very fun. Plain fun. Why? The whole setting, gameplay, and humor is just amazingly 
 well done. You feel like you always want to check your little village, just to water the plants, 
 talk to somebody, or whatever. 
  I keep comming back to this game, just to do something simple and play another game after, or play 
 for some hours. It's your choice, and both play methods are rewarding.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of this game is just controlling your character and live. It's is rewarding, fun to 
 do, and fun!!!
  
  Graphics:
  Full 3d-world, detailed textures (only not so sharp from up close) . The graphical setting is very 
 cartoon/sweet, but don't think it's just kiddie game graphics. You really have to play for yourself 
 to see what I mean.
  
  Controls:
  Very good controls! The DS buttons can be used, but the stylus can be used for almost everything 
 aswell. I personnaly control my character with the D-pad, and everything else with the stylus. 
 Relaxed and well responding!
  
  Story:
  From the beginning in a cab, wich gets you to your town, you know you are making your story for 
 the most part.... Ain't that great?
  
  Sound: 
  Proper music and soundeffects, music can get dull if you play more then a few hours, but you can 
 make your own music theme for some parts!
  
  Multiplayer:
  There aren't that much multiplayer options, but the things you can do give a whole extra dimension 
 to the game. Trading items, having party's in your new house, chatting a bit, it's all there and 
 very fun to do so.
  
  Conclusion, this game is very fun and addictive if you like a game that is a bit of a sims game, 
 humor filled and rewarding over time.
  
  You can only go wrong with this game if you don't like the fact that there aren't much goals you 
 NEED to do.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jadewizard
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 27, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Great for the DS. there are some Weeds that dont touch the ground on the horizon sometimes, 
 but still, great graphics.
  
  Sound: Sometimes sounds like NES type music, sometimes its more like GC. The great thing that brings 
 this score up is K. K. Slider. His songs are great and have some catchy tunes.
  
  Gameplay: Really fun first time out. after a week, youll get tired of doing the same things. another 
 week, doesent get better. now imagine playing for a year... yeah, REALLY REPETITIVE. so yeah, its 
 addicting, but only for about a week
  
  Overall: Great game, but the repetitiveness of the gameplay kills it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKRool01
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 25, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  To tell you the truth, I dont feel like Animal Crossing: Wild World is a video game. To me, its 
 more of a hangout. Its a fantasy world you can go to, to escape from realityespecially if you 
 enjoy collecting furniture and planting pear trees. Wild World takes you away from your dull and 
 boring life, to an alternate world full of cute animal characters with massive heads. While you 
 have your own situations in life, so does Animal Crossing.
  
  Having not played the original Animal Crossing game for the Gamecube, I decided to pick this game 
 up for the Nintendo DS and enjoy it anywhere. When I first started the game, I found myself in 
 a car with some pirate speaking animal named Kappn. I had to go through a series of questions 
 so the game could determine what kind of person I was and what kind of town I wanted to live in. 
 Once I was finished with the questions, I arrived in my town to meet a raccoon named Tom Nook, 
 who owned a shop called Nooks Cranny. Tom Nook gives you a home as well as a job. The job that 
 Tom Nook gives you serves as a way of learning about the Animal Crossing universe. Eventually, 
 you will gain enough money from selling items, to pay Tom Nook back for buying you a home.
  
  Once you pay off your house, you are free from work and Tom Nooks shop. After I paid off my 
 house, I had no idea what to do. In fact, I didnt think there was anything else to do. Wild Word 
 doesnt give you certain tasks, so its up to you to decide what you must do. What is there to 
 do?
  
  Well, one thing you can do is customize your home. You can buy wallpaper, flooring, and furniture 
 to customize your house. Objects you can buy for your home can be as basic as a sofa, bookshelf, 
 or chair, but you can also buy some unusual objects to decorate your home such as a space station, 
 merry-go-round, or ship cannon. Each furniture item has its own series or theme that all match 
 with each other. For instance, the classic furniture series you can collect and decorate your home 
 with will include a classic chair, classic bookshelf, classic sofa, classic table, and etc. A theme 
 is something that brings a certain style to your room, such as the boxing theme. You can collect 
 the boxing mat, red corner, blue corner, sandbag, speed bag, and judges bell to bring a boxers 
 theme to your house. You can even get your house rated by an in-game organization call the Happy 
 Room Academy. The HRA will come into your home and rate your sense of style. Each piece of furniture 
 you have will be a certain amount of points that add on to each other. Points can be deducted if 
 you have some items that dont match together.
  
  Another thing you can do is fill up your local museum. By purchasing items such as the shovel, 
 fishing rod, or net, you can go on a hunt for some objects to put inside of your museum. When you 
 have a shovel equipped, you can find cracked spots in the earth to dig into to find a fossil. Present 
 this fossil to the museum owl and he will examine it. After examined, if you dont already have 
 this fossil inside your museum, you have the option to donate it. Eventually, you will find all 
 of the pieces to a fossil set, and youll have an entire extinct being set up in your fossils exhibit. 
 You can also use your fishing rods and net to capture insects and fish to place into your museum.
 
  
  While youre out of your house and browsing around the town, you can talk to all of your neighbors. 
 You can send letters to neighbors, as well as give and receive gifts from others, do errands for 
 others, and socialize in each others homes. You will find that people are constantly moving in 
 and out of your town everyday, so make sure you dont miss out on anything a neighbor has to offer.
 
  
  Since Animal Crossing recognizes your handhelds clock, it uses it. The game changes from night 
 and day, and even has its own events when time changes. The game knows what exactly what day and 
 time it is. On Christmas day or on Halloween, you can receive special items and gifts from people. 
 Since events like this happen only on holidays, its wise to play on those dates. Over time, your 
 town will go through changes. Over time, Nooks Cranny will change from a tiny hut of a shop, into 
 a large department store. Such things as fishing tournaments and flea markets will take place weekly, 
 so you will have new tasks to do. The seasons in the game also change. When its winter for your, 
 the game will have snow all over the town.
  
  This being a DS game, the touch screen can be used in game, although its rather useless while 
 moving. You can tap the touch screen on a certain area on the bottom screen to move to it, but 
 it may feel very slower than using your D-Pad. The only real use the touch screen could be used 
 for is to drag objects to certain places in the menu.
  
  The audio in this game is nothing special. The DS stereo twin speakers are very for playing Animal 
 Crossing with, and are especially useful for hearing birds in the sky or bees buzzing around. Each 
 character has its own babbling sound to match their fast flapping lips. This cute babbling may 
 be annoying at times, but it does fit the feeling of the game.
  
  Although this game is not a sequel to the Gamecube original, I do think that players of the original 
 will have a blast with this. Animal Crossing: Wild World is a fine example of a time consuming 
 game. This massive game can be very addicting at times and is a great way to escape reality. Freedom 
 is the keyword to define Wild Word, for there are no main objectives or tasks to do. Basically, 
 you will have fun the way Nintendo wants you to.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zolloz89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 24, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  The make your own town theme in most games has pretty much been declining after the Sims games. 
 Animal Crossing: Wild World is one of the exceptions. The game for the Nintendo DS is a fairly 
 decent port from the GCN version. The graphics are worse, as can be expected from a downgrade. 
 The sound and music are a bit improved.
  
  The gameplay of AC: WW is amazing. It's Animal Crossing on the go! The touch screen makes managing 
 your items much easier than using the GCN controller. It also takes advantage of the touch screen 
 when you design patterns. Yes you can use the d-pad and buttons if that is what floats your boat 
 but whats the point. The best part of the DS version of AC is that the game is WiFi compatable. 
 You can go online with up to three friends and run around in one of their towns. The only bad part 
 about the whole WiFi thing is that you can only visit the people that are on your friends list 
 and vice-versa.
  
  Overall, AC: WW is a great game that will please AC fans and casual gamers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooperthefool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  This is a great all around game. Im more addicted to this game then i ever was to the gamecube 
 version. It is much eaisier to sell things and there is just an all new gameplay perspective. But 
 don't be fooled by my before mentioned opinion this game still holds the major aspects of the gamecube 
 game, and has great graphics considering your playing it on the ds. Overall i would prefer tom 
 play a game like this over a first person shooter any day. This game may seem dum but give it a 
 try it will satisfy you... and steal you social life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChiefSUB0
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  Once only on the Gamecube, Animal Crossing has now evolved onto the Nintendo DS, allowing ultimate 
 portability of a truely great gaming world. The game plays similarly to the one on the Gamecube 
 for those of you familiar to the game and makes it even better. Wild World includes most of the 
 great features from the Gamecube game such as upgrading Nook's Store as well as fossil hunting. 
 No longer do you have to send the fossils in the mail either to identify them, just go a visit 
 Blathers at the museum. There is tons of furniture to meet any homeowner's needs as well as even 
 more upgradeable housing than the Gamecube version. Now your house can expand larger to as much 
 as 6 rooms! The characters from the Gamecube version have also returned which brings back great 
 memorys (Bob) . You can go fishing as well as bug hunting and planting fruit trees for money. Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World brings a once great Gamecube game to the palm of your hands and features immersive 
 gameplay that seems virtually limitless. The graphics as well as the sound is suprisingly good 
 for a Nintendo DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkShadow-X75
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game. i love to play this game. theres so mmuch to do adn the wifi makes it 
 even better.
  
  im just gonna give you people a few tips who have the game to get some. u can thank the strategy 
 guide for this.
  
  if you want some cash fish and sell the fis to tom nook 
  here are some good ocean fish to catch if u need money (theese are all ones that i have caught there 
 more but ill let u find out by buying the guide and giving nintendo wut it deserves)
  
  red snapper- worth 3000 bells
  seahorse-worth 1100 bells
  clownfish- worth 650 bells
  Berred 
 knifejaw-worth-5000 bells
  
  then threre are some good river fish like koi, chars, rainbow trout, and many others but ill let 
 u find out for yourself or you can buy the guide.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1stHokage
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo had made Animal Crossing for the DS. It is not a sequel but reenvisioning of the previous 
 game. You can use the DS's Wi-Fi feature to play with other people around the world! Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World has improved from the last game. You basicly do the same things as Animal Crossing for 
 the GameCube.
  
  When you start the game it is dark and rainy outside and you are in a cab (instead of being inside 
 a train) . The driver of the cab is Kapp'n, and is going to ask your name, gender and what town 
 you are going to. Depending on your answers you will get different looks for your character and 
 town. When you arrive to your town it will stop raining and you are dropped off outside Town Hall. 
 You also have no money. Kapp'n will drive away and you'll enter Town Hall, once inside you will 
 meet up with Pelly (the post office manager) and will ask you some questions. After returning outside 
 you will meet up with Tom Nook (still the local store manager) will get you a house. You will owe 
 him a lot of money so you will have to work for him (like delivering furnitures and mailing letters) . 
 After doing several task for him you are on your own on paying your debt. The game doesn't push 
 you on finihing paying the debt, you can take all the time you want. After paying each debt he 
 will upgrade your house bigger. Upgrading isn't free so you have to pay for the upgrade, don't 
 worry you can take all the time you want on paying it. On the last upgrade your house will look 
 like a mansion (inside and outside) . The controls are sometimes confusing switching from the control 
 pads to the touch screen. But when you get use to it it won't bother you much.
  
  On Animal Crossing: Wild World, you can collect furniture and clothing. There are over 400 furniture 
 and clothing to collect (more then 200 are new furniture and clothing) ! You can get furniture and 
 clothing at Tom Nook's store (first the stock is low) , recieve them as gift form your neighbors, 
 or simply find then on the floor. You can arrange your furniture around your house any way you 
 want (this time there is a limit) . You can also design your own pattern at the Able Sister's store 
 and purchase clothing. You can also buy hats for your character. You can design patterns to put 
 around your town too. 
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is about communicating with your neighbors. You can write them a letter 
 (sometimes they don't have a clue what you're saying) and they'll sometimes reply back. You can 
 walk to your neighbor and talk. Sometimes they'll talk about random things, they'll insult you 
 or another animal in the town are just some examples. When you are talking with your neighbor another 
 neighbor can walk up to you guys and join the conversation. Sometimes while walking around two 
 of your neighbors might be talking with each other and you can over hear what they are saying. 
 Your neighbors can also go inside your home and purchase your furniture for a good price and have 
 a talk with you.
  
  Like in real life the time and seasons changes. Animal Crossing: Wild World uses the DS's internal 
 clock to tell what day and time it is. Holidays are also in the game. There are also different 
 kinds of holidays like fishing tournaments and Fire Work Day are some examples. Each season the 
 environment changes. The day can be sunny, rainy, or snowy day. It depends on the the season what 
 the weather condition is. The game also lets you make your own constilation at the museum. Depending 
 where you put the constilation, you get too see it on different times of the year.
  
  There is completly no challenge in this game. Only fishing requires focus and patient. In the game 
 you can capture bugs, fish. and grow plants. There are almost 50 new kinds of bugs and fish to 
 capture. You can find bugs flying around the sky, under rocks or plants. When fishing you can find 
 fish at lakes, rivers, and oceans. When you are planting plants (exept flowers) it will take days 
 before they are mature. When you plant a flower you have to water them everyday to keep them a 
 live. The neat thing is you can cross breed flowers when you plant different kinds of flowers next 
 to each other. The next day you will find new kinds of flowers around your town. You can donate 
 the bugs and fish you capture to the museum and display them on your house. You can also sell the 
 bugs and fish you caught for an easy bell.
  
  A new feature that Nintendo used and was a total success was the Nintendo Wi-Fi. This allows players 
 from around the world to visit each other's town. You'll need a Wireless Router or a Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 Adaptor (if you don't have a Wireless Router) . You'll also need a friend code also (so no mindless 
 jerks can mess up your town) . Other players must open their town's gate first. After all that you 
 are all set. You can take some fruit that isn't in your town, interact with the other player and 
 neighbors and much more.
  
  The graphics in the game really improved from the previous game. The characters and furnitures 
 doesn't look fuzzy anymore. The bugs and fishes doesn't look flat and plain like in the GameCube 
 verion. The game doesn't use the acre system anymore. Instead of acres its like a free roam kind. 
 When your walking around town you can see whats comming ahead of you. You can put pattern's around 
 your town's floor like streets and sidewalks are some examples you can do.
  
  The music in animal crossing fits better on a portable system then on a console. The background 
 music sometimes gets repetative sometimes. You can put all sorts of radios in your home. You can 
 put music in the radio to fit your rooms theme. You can also change the town's theme song (It is 
 limited though) . The theme song plays every hour or anytime you talk to someone. When your outside 
 you can hear all sorts of things like crickets at night or a river when your close to one.
  
  This is indeed a good game to have when you have a DS. It is family friendly and sometimes 
 addictive. It will keep you preocupied for a long time. Especially with the new Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 feature you'll want to play this game month after month. If you want to make your town perfect, 
 you have to play it. Remember the goal of Animal Crossing: Wild World is not to finish it but to 
 enjoy playing it.
  
  I have enjoyed playing this game. It entertained me for a good amount of my time. I really liked 
 playing this game. I am sure that you will like this game too. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noothername
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  I mocked the nature of this game when one of my friends boasted of his love for it. And yet, something 
 stuck in my mind when I thought about its innovative nature, the fact that it seemed more like 
 a life than a game, and thus when I bought my DS, I opted to buy this too. How surprised I was. 
 It contains an immense amount of depth, great WiFi capability, and numerous ingenious little pasttimes 
 like fishing, fossil collecting and stargazing. My sister and I decided to get rich by 'smuggling' 
 fruit to one another's village, which, whilst absurdly simple, kept my attention for a good couple 
 of hours. 
  
  Everytime I think I have grown tired of parts of this game, a new one emerges, more eccentric and 
 more absorbing than the last. Thus, I am sure it will keep me hooked for some time yet. A truly 
 innovative title for a truly innovative console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunmer_Lord
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  I had fun with this game. I bought it in February and played it A LOT! The game play is simple 
 enough, not hard controls or anything. The graphics look almost as good as the Gamecube version, 
 and in my opinion are the best on the DS. The sound is very basic. The backround music has a very 
 good quality thoough. From the start it is very addicting. I loved fishing and fishing to make 
 my money. As I went along i learned so much other things you can do. There is even a special event 
 on your birthday. The other festival like things are fun. I won the fishing and the flower fest. 
 You will play it a lot. There are plenty of items to make themed homes. Rare items are fun to get 
 and show off by haveing them in your house and inviting a friend. Tho, after a while, you may lose 
 interest. After 2 months I have slowed down emencly. I play maybe every other day now, but for 
 a long period of time. I recommend this game to fans of any life sim. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_i_j
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo speak about the Revolution as a console being to created so people who never play computer 
 games will start. Animal Crossing: Wild World on the Nintendo DS could have the same thing said 
 for it.
  
  It doesn't matter whether you are a hardcore gamer, or a gaming virgin, this game is for you. You 
 take control of your character and have to interact with the animals in your randomly generated 
 town. You can choose to befriend them, or completely ignore them. The latter is more likely to 
 result in them moving out of town. 
  
  I have had this game just under two weeks now, but quite a lot has happened in this short period 
 of time. Firstly I won the Flower Fest and have a trophy to prove it. I paid of the 19,000 bell 
 mortgage on my house, to receive an extension and another mortgage of 120,000 bells which I have 
 also paid off. I am awaiting another extension which be ready tomorrow. I have had 2 animals want 
 to move out of my town. One I managed to convince to stay (simply by talking to him before he left) 
 and one unfortunately left and refused to let me try and persuade him otherwise. I have dug up 
 around two dozen fossils, leaving me with two complete dinosaurs and several partly finished ones 
 in my museum, as well as many different types of fish and butterfly/bugs. You can choose not to 
 donate your bugs, fish and fossils to the museum, but to sell them if you wish, but personally, 
 I choose to donate the first of everything I get to the museum as I enjoy seeing it on show. I 
 have also encountered many characters just around for the one day. So far I have seen Redd and 
 his members only store, a fortune teller, a psychiatrist who taught me how to be shy (I can blush 
 by pressing an icon on screen) and promised to come again to teach me more emotions, a cat who 
 doesn't like her face and who asked me to draw another one for her, an insurance salesman otter 
 who wouldn't leave me alone until I bought insurance (at a cost of 3000 bells) AND a fashion guru 
 cow who rated my fashion sense very poorly. 
  
  Having started with only cherries in my town, I now have more valuable peaches and apples too that 
 I took from friends' towns and planted to grow after a few days into fruiting trees. This leads 
 me to another point. Multiplayer is surprisingly fun. I had my initial doubts about how good it 
 could possibly be just to visit someone else's town, but something about it is just enjoyable. 
 You can type to them using the keyboard, and have fishing contests and bug catching contests with 
 them over a 3, 5, 10 or 15 minute period if one of you has a stopwatch. 
  
  Granted, there is only so much fishing or catching bugs you could possibly want to do in one day, 
 but I suppose that's one of the things I really like about it. I can play for 10 minutes at a time 
 sometimes, or sometimes for a couple of hours non stop. With a fishing competition starting this 
 Sunday, the ability to play for however long I like each day, and the wonder of what new character 
 might pop in to say hello or try and sell me something each day, and interior design of my house 
 (growing in size as mentioned earlier) and design of my clothes amongst other things. Add to all 
 of this the fact that the game works of your DS's clock and calendar meaning your town will experience 
 different seasons of the year bringing different fish and bugs, I can't see myself getting bored 
 of this any time soon. 
  
  To summarise, Animal Crossing: Wild World is a superb game, easily approachable by anyone. You 
 can play for as long as you like, and all the features will keep you coming back for more for a 
 long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesitarist
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  There is often discussion about the best games for the Nintendo DS. One game that is always prominent 
 is Animal Crossing: Wild World.
  
  The game features great characters, fun, offbeat, family-friendly gaming that can be picked up 
 in any 5 minute gaps during your day.
  There's crazy things to collect and overall the game just keeps you playing for hours...!
  
 
  WiFi [online play] extends the longevity of the product furthermore, and allows any user to visit 
 their friends town within the game.
  
  When playing AC: WW, the game just seems so innovative - even seemingly mundane tasks such as fishing 
 and digging are brought to life with excellent animation and interactivity.
  
  Talking about graphics - they are top-notch. The cartoon/animated style fits the storyline perfectly 
 and it surpasses many other DS games in this field.
  
  Above all, Animal Crossing is just a fun, addictive game!
  
  A "Must Buy" For Your DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blitz54
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:49 pm PT
Review:  OH MY FREAKIN' GOD!!!!!! This is the most addicting game I have ever seen since Runescape (which 
 can swallow your life) . Me and my twin brother fought so much about it that we finally decided 
 that we each got our own DS. Everything is solid: the gameplay, the sound and the amount of depth 
 to it. Some people might think its too childish (look at the screenshots) but actually it isn't. 
 Ok, it has talking animals and everything is cute. But seriously I'm 13 and I play it like a madman. 
 Many people might hate it because of everything you have to do. Like, pay debts pick weeds and 
 ect, ect,. I call itthe sims game for people who hate The Sims." The fact that it times mirrors 
 real time, like minute by minute, hour by hour, can get annoying when you are trying to get new 
 furniture. But seriously it is so fun. If you liked the original GCN one you probaly wanna check 
 this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lettyjb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  This is a game I didn't know much what to expect when I got ir, but as soon as you start playing 
 it, you get addicted to it.
  This game hasn't got a defined objective, you just live your life and do what you can to improve 
 your way of living and your town.
  Animal Crossing Wild World is a game you want to play every day, to fish, to get more money, to 
 buy things, to look for fossils for the museum, to talk to your neighbours,... There are a lot 
 of things you can do in this game, a lot of items to collect (fossils, pictures, insects, fishes, 
 furniture,...) , what makes of Animal Crossing WW an almost endless game!
  Another aspect that makes it even better is the possibility to play online, visiting your friends' 
 town or having them over, which broadens the possibilities of the game.
  To sum up, Animal Crossing Wild World ia a game everybody should have for their DS, the fact that 
 it is one of the few games that you can play it online is almost enough to make it worth buying, 
 and the game itself completely pays the rest! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cormag
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game for anyone to play. It also has skills to teach you about the real world 
 and what it is going to be like when your older. You make friends and lose friends because of moving 
 but, it is all in the game of live. It is great that you can go wi-fi and go to other friends towns. 
 You can take friut and grow trees, fish, catch bugs, dig up fossils, grow flowers and win competitions 
 for fishing, bug catching, and garden growing. Therefore it is an excellent game for anyone who 
 needs a game to last you a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebson
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2006 1:52 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a really fun game, and its really good to waste time if you've got nothing else 
 to do. In this game you move into a town of talking animals and you get a house, and in this town 
 there are loads of stuff to do, like catch bugs and fish, collect furniture for your house, dig 
 up fossils and talk to the neighbours. You can even make your own designs to put on your clothes.
 
  While you're playing the game more animals will move into your town, and special events will happen 
 such as flea market day, fishing tournaments and the flower fest (who has the nicest garden award) . 
 And since its in real time even things like new year and easter.
  This is a game that will last you a very long time, since different things happen every day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eidens1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  When I used to have this game (yes I lost it) I was beyond addicted. I would play every day and 
 look forward to every holiday there was. I loved it until i lost it and I'm even considering buying 
 it again.
  
  Now that i got my personal experience out of way it's time to tell you how it plays. you start 
 off with the simplicities; making your name, boy/girl, ect. then you find yourself in a barren 
 house and a debt of more bells (money) that you think you will ever have to tom nook the local 
 shop keeper for it. pretty much from here on its paying off your debt making your house as cool 
 as possible and making friends with the locals. also throw in bug collecting, fishing, cutting 
 down trees, planting trees, growing flowers, designing your flag, shaking trees, digging holes, 
 filling holes, and 1,000 other things you can do for fun or for money.
  
  with all of those different activities it is hard to say there is nothing to do in the game. So 
 for the one big question "is it worth the money?" I say... YES!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsluss
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 16, 2006 9:42 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing on the GC was a great game, however I didn't personally play it much due to the 
 fact that my wife was playing it and I usually didn't have time to pick it up during the off times. 
 The DS is a great platform for this game however because I can play when she's not around now even 
 when I'm not at home and we can interact later by connecting through WiFi. This is one of the greatest 
 features of the game.
  
  Graphically this game looks exactly like the original Animal crossing with it's toony and light 
 hearted style. While it's not the best graphics you're going to see on the DS, it's fine for this 
 game.
  
  The sound is the same as the original, nice light hearted music and the funny "Animalese" voice 
 work. You do have the option to change this to the standard sounds you hear when text is displayed 
 if you find it annoying however. 
  
  The gameplay is great, there are tons of things to do, lots of customization options, and nice 
 expansion potential. Plus with WiFi for this game it adds a new level to the Animal Crossing franchise. 
 Plus the games controls are wonderful (they might take a little getting used to however for some) 
 because you can play the entire game with the stylus or with the control pad and buttons.
  
  While it's not the meat of the game, WiFi is one of the things that really makes Animal Crossing 
 shine. Not only do you visit others towns, but there are lots of things that can happen when you 
 do. Neighbors will move in and out of your town to and from others, you'll exchange constelations 
 in the sky, clothing patterns, and more. You can also go into tag mode (put your DS in a passive 
 mode where it basically sits idle waiting for other DS's in the same state to enter range) and 
 when someone else in tag mode passes by you'll exchange messages in bottles and events can even 
 happen at that point (i. e. people moving from one town to another) .
  
  The only thing I can say that I don't like abou the game is that there could have been slightly 
 better use of the controls in some aspects. For instance, at times a ballon with a package will 
 fly across the sky and you have to get yoru slingshot out to hit it. At times this is very cumbersome 
 becausee you have to open the menu, drag (or button select it) it onto your character, then close 
 the menu, and hope it's not gone by the time you get there. There could have been some hotkey setups 
 for tools since many of hte buttons do the same function (i. e. the shoulder buttons pretty much 
 just sever to let you run, as well as one of the regular buttons) . The shoulder buttons could have 
 been use to cycle through your tools for instance.
  
  All in all this game is well worth playing if you have a DS and is great reason to buy one if you've 
 been thinking about it. AC: WW is also a great game to play with friends or as a couple if you've 
 been looking to share a gaming experience. There is abundant replay value and lots of fun to be 
 had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicth901
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Although Animal crossing is a fun game you can easily run out of things to do. If you are a first 
 timer you might not be able to buy a net, fishing pole or a spade to go digging fishing or bug 
 catching. I have to admit I did cheat a little by forwarding time to get a shovel, fishing pole, 
 and a net. What I mean by running out of things to do is that you can kind of get bored doing those 
 things every day. Although some times little surprises pop up here and there like visitors and 
 stuff like that. It is a good game for the DS to It 's just missing something to me maybe it need 
 to be a bigger piece of land. Although it is a good game. 
  
  Also with the Wi Fi i hate the friend code thing and that the other person has to have their doors 
 open. Why can't thier be a setting just to let people in or out of your town, and you don't need 
 a friend code like Mario cart you can play with any one in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jediwannabeon
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing was definitly a unique game especially for the Nintendo DS. Although some may compare 
 it to Sims it differs on more then one or two issues. First: you live in a world with animals not 
 humans! And second: There is no final stage of the game. There is absolutly no goal to head for. 
 Unless you count getting every single item there is! But that really is the point of the game; 
 to get all the items there are (and believe me there are ALOT!) and to make your house bigger and 
 filled with more stuff! To do this you can dig, fish, shoot ballons , shake trees, talk to neighbors, 
 dig though the recyling, do odd jobs, plant turnips, etc, etc.... There is no shortage of stuff 
 to do in this game! It also doesn't have bad graphics for the DS, and I can say personally I have 
 found zero gliches in it's program. Another neat thing about this game is that it goes in real 
 time. Meaning that when it's night in your world it's night in theirs, and when it's a special 
 holiday in your world they usually have a similar holiday in theirs. You can also WIFI with your 
 freinds and explore completly differents towns! New residents move in and out of your town every 
 once and awhile so their is always new topics that you can talk about. Animal Crossing is a great 
 game and I truly recomend it for DS owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychopete011
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Awhile ago, a game that seemed to be a reason people went away from the Gamecube by the name of 
 Animal Crossing was released. What they did not know, those people who only look at graphics, was 
 that Animal Crossing was an incredibly addicting game, and even the least hardcore gamer enjoyed 
 it. When plans of a sequel arose, just imagine the addicts. But, now, the DS allows Animal Crossing 
 to go with you, and even online.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World does not stray far from the formula of the original Animal Crossing. 
 For those who do not know how to play, fear not, for Wild World is easily accessible. You move 
 to a town (which you name) , and get a home from Tom Nook, the owner of the local retail store. 
 But, you have to pay off your morgatge before you can expand your house, and do more crazy stuff. 
 The town, itself, is always unique, whether it'd be the layout or your own neighbors; it varies 
 on each file. But, back to the morgatge: how to pay it off? You have multiple methods in Animal 
 Crossing, from catching fish to trash picking. Yeah, TRASH PICKING. You can actually find useful 
 items in the lost & found and your town's recycling bin. The whole point of the game is to make 
 your town as close to your ideal one, make friends, and make your room awesome. It sounds stupid 
 on paper, but execution is FLAWLESS, and is made possible by the real-time engine built in the 
 game. You set the time at the beginning of the game, which is usually synchronized to your DS' 
 clock, and it follows the time. Even when you are not playing. If you don't play for awhile, people 
 will forget who you are and your town will be a wreck.
  
  Believe it or not, the control with the stylus is actually very fluid and responsive. It is an 
 alternative to classic controls, but it feels better. But, the game would've been better if the 
 top screen had a bigger function from outside the time you spend in your menu besides looking for 
 items to shoot down.
  
  The real draw of Animal Crossing: Wild World is the Wi-Fi access. It is executed flawlessly, but 
 you actually need to have a person's friend code to visit their towns. Other than that, it is incredible.
 
  
  The graphics remain untouched from the Gamecube version, although it might not draw in the casual 
 gamer due to the look of a child's game, It is still vibrant and colourful.
  
  In the end, Animal Crossing: Wild World is probably one of the greatest games out for the DS. It 
 is addicting and relaxing, and it is one game the hardcore gamer should not be without 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FullMetal1118
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  If you Enjoyed the original Animal Crossing for the Gamecube then you Will love this just as well! 
 
  
  I find this game is good to kill some time :) Even if it's just to turn it on for 5 minutes to 
 pull some weeds that may have sprouted in the past week or so. From Bug Catching, to Fossil digging 
 this game is constantly giving you something to work towards. Even if it's just paying off your 
 house, there is ALWAYS something to work towards. 
  
  With the Expansion of Tom Nook's store you get to do small things such as style your hair and classic 
 past times like creating your own patterns. You also get to create your own constellations on the 
 top floor of the museum. There are also secret objects that you can obtain when you do just the 
 right amount of hard work :) Sometimes really cool neighbors arrive in your town... other times... you 
 are happy to see them go.
  
  At times this game does tend to be alittle repeatative but put it down for a few weeks and when 
 you come back your friends will all still love you and will let you know that they are happy you 
 have returned. Isn't that nice to have those kind of relationships? haha
  
  
  
  I have found this game to be worthy of being owned in anyone's DS collection
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wi11Power
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 13, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is the sequel to the GCN installment, Animal Crossing. Wild World takes 
 everything good about the older version and improves upon it. All the collection items: insects, 
 fossils, art, and fish; have been elaborated on. There are now more pieces in each area of collection. 
 Furniture and clothing selection has also been dramatically increased, as well as your options 
 on how far to upgrade your house.
  
  One thing that always annoyed me with Animal Crossing for the Gamecube was missing an important 
 town event because I was busy or away in real life. This is one of the great things about a handheld; 
 no matter where you go, it will always be just a pocket away. Besides the portable advantage of 
 being on the DS, Animal Crossing: Wild World is also taken to a new level of online play. Now, 
 instead of searching around for friends who are man enough to admit they do play a game where you 
 are friends with a smiling pink gorilla, I can just go online and hang out with people who wont 
 question that aspect of the game. Visiting other towns is advantageous to many areas of your town 
 progression, including acquiring furniture unavailable in your town, getting fruit that doesnt 
 grow in your town, and several other beneficial elements.
  
  Unfortunately, Animal Crossing: Wild World does suffer from the same issue as its predecessor, 
 boredom. The game play gets extremely repetitive and tedious after a week to a month of playing, 
 (depending on your resilience) and youll find yourself putting the game on that back shelf while 
 you play something else for awhile. Wild World does have a sort of magnetic attraction that will 
 always pull you back after a time of rest from the game though, and youll forget why you thought 
 it was boring in the first place, losing yourself in the joy of becoming reacquainted with the 
 game for another week/month of time, and thus begins the cycle anew.
  
  All in all, Wild World is an incredibly fun and addicting game with high replay value that is well 
 worth the $35 you shell out to buy it. As long as you dont play this game in excess it will become 
 a cherished addition to your game rack.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Just to let it be known, I've never played Animal Crossing on the Gamecube, so I wasn't well accustomed 
 to the game as some gamers were.
  
  At first glance I suspected the game to be like Harvest Moon, where you grow and plant crops in 
 exchange for money. Animal Crossing does indeed bear similarities to the game, but they are very 
 different games on the whole.
  
  In AC: WW, everything is your own. Your name, your town, and how you choose to live.
  
  What I enjoy 
 about Animal Crossing is making the money, quite simply. There are a variety of ways in which you 
 can obtain money to pay a debt, or buy supplies-whatever. A few things you can do is pick apples, go 
 fishing, or my favorite, catch bugs. Yes, this does sound mundane, but you have to give it a try first.
 
  
  The only gripe I have is how you do live. I wish the game had more stores to purchase things from, because 
 it seems highly unrealistic to only buy things for your home or clothes for money, which is how 
 I see it.
  
  This game did have a good impression on me though. It's not what I expected it to be, but met my 
 "standards." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowjo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  I have had Animal Crossing for 13 Days and i am still enjoying it and i havent even left my town 
 to explore other peoples yet.
  
  when i arrived in my town i had arrived outside townhall i walked inside had a breif conversation 
 with pelly and she gave me a map of the town. She had been kind enough to put my house on the map 
 for me so i went of to explore the place i would be calling home for the rest of my virtual life 
 only to find 3 items a cardboard box, a candle and a boombox which i could use yet.
  
  I left the house feeling gloom about the house which was about 10 paces long and wide with a bed 
 and phone in the attic. loitering outside the house i found a raccon wearing and apron who seemed 
 extortionately happy who turned out to be Tom Nook he walked over to speak to me and asked what 
 i thought of the house i said it was cozy which is abit of an understatment. then he mentioned 
 a SMALL fee of 19800 bells for such a small house. i told him that i had no money so he told me 
 not to worry there was no rush to pay it off he also offered me a part time job to help with the 
 payment.
  
  so i went along to his shop and performed about 20 minutes work but it only earned me little over 
 a thousand bells which he took straight of the mortagage and let me keep the work uniform as a 
 gift. so with my empty pockets i felt poor then i noticed that some of the trees had some fruit 
 on them with a sign near by saying that Nook's store buy local fruit and foreign fruit which sells 
 for more than local but i had only local so i ran to the tree and found that if i shaked the tree 
 the fruit fell off so i collect all the fruit i could carry then went to nooks store and sold them 
 for 100 bells each then bought a bug net and a fishing rod for 500 each which left me with 500 
 bells left so i went to the bank and put the 500 in savings account.
  
  but this was an busy first day you can also do more things such as:
  
  make designs and patterns 
 put put on your clothes, hats, walls, floors, paintings and also the ground outside
  
  Catch Bugs, fish to donate or sell.
  
  find paintings and fossils to sell or donate
  
  
 donate Bugs, fossils, fish and paintings to make your museum a tourist attraction.
  
  manipualte your town and make it the way you like it.
  
  shoot items, UFO's out of the sky 
 with a slingshot.
  
  furish and expand your house and try to improve you score from the HRA to get boosts in luck and 
 special items.
  
  forage to become wealthy. 
  
  bang all rocks each day to find money.
  
  and lots more.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Graphics: 
 10
  
  Sound: 9
  
  Value: 9
  
  Tilt: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a very old game but was once Japan-exclusive on the N64. Then it came to GC 
 and now to DS. While the core of the game hasn't changed much this version adds enough new stuff 
 to make it even more appealing.
  
  "What follows is the diary of one Fire_Fly, who moved to the town and made these notes"
  
  
 Day 1
  I just moved in, the jouney here was a little weird. The taxi was driven by a turtle and he kept 
 asking intrusive questions. Still, beggers can't be choosers, and this cab journey turned out to 
 be the sanest part of the day.
  It turns out I have NO money. So some shmuck called "Tom Nook" slapped me with a hefty debt I have 
 to pay off for this house he gave me. Well, I call it a house, more like a prison. All I got is 
 a candle for light and a crumby bed in the LOFT.
  Maybe moving here was a mistake.
  
  Day 2
  I pushed the negativity aside for one day, I will give this place a shot. 
  That Nook 
 guy made me work for him, boy is he a slave driver. Running erands all day, and in the end all 
 I got was 1000 Bells (local currency) , which he didn't trust to give me so simply took it off my 
 debt.
  Anyways, I did get something good out of it. I met the neighbours, most are nice but they aren't 
 half odd. I got a loony mouse for a neighbour and a BLUE squirrel across the river.
  
  Day 3 
  I finnished doing Nook's dirty work yesterday, now I got today free to do what ever I 
 want. I rounded up all the fruit that had grown and made a tidy profit which I spent on an axe, 
 thing is I need a shovel to dig up all the stumps.................
  I also bought a fishing rod, sweet. I went fishing in the river and caught a ton of crap. I didn't 
 want to be selfish so donated some to the museum. While I was there I made some constellations, 
 nothing rude....
  
  Day 4
  Went to a mates town today using the "Internet". It was pretty easy (apart from those annoying 
 friends codes. Anyways, while I was there she gave me some fruit which I planted in my own town, 
 it sells for 5x the normal price. double sweet.
  
  This is just a taste of what Animal Crossing has to offer, I haven't mentioned:
  
  Fossil collecting
 
  Bug catching
  local tournaments
  designing your clothes etc
  buying hats and facce wear
  TONS of furniture
  using your slingshot
  going to the cafe
 
  helping the locals
  watching people leave your town and new ones move in
  maintaining the town
  
  This is the major stuff and there are also LOADS of other little things 
 that are really cool.
  
  By FAR the best thing about this version of the game is the fact that it is portable, the GC one 
 was ok but you had to sit down and set it all up to play. With the DS version you can play anytime 
 anywhere. Whether it's 4am and you can't get to sleep or a long bus ride Animal Crossing is waiting 
 for you at your finger tips
  
  Gameplay
  Stylus control is great but it can feel clunky at times
  Graphics
  Great, simply sublime (For 
 a DS)
  Sound
  Some wicked tunes but you wont find yourself singing them
  Value
  Really, the moe you put in the more you get out. There are no quick thrills 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dehearik_nova
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a game which any member of a family can pick up and play, it features over 6 
 month of gameplay and will never make the player bored because there is always something to do, 
 whether your a veteran to the game or not i suggest you pick up and play this game . At only 30 
 you cant go wrong, the game will take at least to month to complete your house and catch every 
 fish or dig up every fossil but the game doesnt stop there, there are a wide variety of neighbours 
 and the WiFi is an excellent feature, useing friend codes you can visit other peoples towns and 
 meet there neighbours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XavFach
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World... So you know its one of them real-life simulation games right? So its 
 gonna be quite obvious that its just gonna be another, well, get-money-and-work, games eh? But 
 come on!
  
  In ACWW its not that at all, infact, its got ALOT more.
  
  First you start off coming to your made up town, with a made up name.. with a beautiful house.. and 
 a beautiful wife. Well actually you have no wife.. and it isnt a beautiful house. (Yet)
  
  You will start off with a Candle, layed on top of a Cardboard Box, along with a Tape Deck which 
 you can add tunes to later. You wont be stuck with this crummy little place for long! Just simply 
 help people, make money to get some furniture, But you need more space. Ah, well Tom Nook wants 
 you to pay off a mortgage, do that, he makes your house bigger (along with a roof colour of your 
 choice, Ching Ching!) 
  
  Then if you want you house even BIGGER, you have to pay off a BIGGER mortgage. Then you can carry 
 on doing this until you get a Mansion! The Mansion is about as big as a normal house in real-life, 
 but a normal house in ACWW is like a small hut.
  
  Every town gets different neighbours (which have very interesting personalities) , for instance 
 in my town of Nirvana, is a guy called Lobo and has a very grumpy personality. Then i went to my 
 friends town and noticed that his town doesnt have a guy called Lobo at all!
  
  You will probably start off by fishing, bug-catching, woodcutting and digging.
  These are useful 
 since they can be used for special events in the game, and it can get you quite alot of money.
 
  
  The items in the game are very cool also (even thought i hate it when Nintendo has to feature another 
 one of there characters) Arwings, Triforce, Master Swords, But these are quite expensive so just 
 stick to your every-day furniture first, like Sofas, desks, wardrobers etc.
  
  The graphics in the game are absolutely GREAT for a DS. Theyve put down nearly every single detail 
 they can possibly fit in. I had this Mini-Dhurma once. I couldnt see it, so i zoomed in and i noticed 
 these wierd looking eyes and a mustache! 
  
  The sound well.. is.. good? Nothing you can say really, except when it features sound from other 
 Nintendo Games, like remember the first level on Starfox on the SNES? Well simply touch your Arwing 
 (if you have one) and it will play a small part of it, other than the Ninty sounds, the other sounds 
 are just plain average.
  
  Nintendo WFC is one of the best things about this game. A maximum of 4 players can fit into someones 
 town via. Wi-Fi, you can trade items, do competitions or just plain hang out. I highly recommend 
 you watch out for scammers though, and do NOT leave out any furniture. Theres always some beggar 
 who will just stand there.. wait a while... whistle... then steal it.
  If this happens (and youve saved your game before you go on Wi-Fi) turn off the power before they 
 reach the town gates!
  
  But Unfortunately unlike the GCN AC, theres no NES Games, so dont bother looking around for the 
 NES you were playing on the GCN.
  
  This is a VERY addictive game too. I was up until midnight to get a golden net! (No im not doing 
 this because im a sad nerd, i was getting the net so i could express my anger and hit one of my 
 really annoying neighbours on the back of the head with it.. they moved out of town after.. and i 
 just didnt like the normal nets..)
  
  What can i say now for the after-math.. play it! Trust me, if your not into these kind of games, 
 or not a fan of Nintendo. just rent it anyway! Believe me its quite hard to hate it, once youve 
 played it. And besides... its better then being stuck playing with some virtual dogs. Not that i 
 dont like the game, its just well... this is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawmanrevolutio
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 14, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game had so much potentiol i was so tempted to import it. But i decided to wait for its UK 
 release i got t & i am very impressed in all most everyway this is a lot better than the original 
 Especially online :)
  
  Graphics 8/10
  About the same as the originals. Could have been a little smoother. But it looks good for the DS's 
 quality but still could of been better.
  
  Sound 8/10
  The Animals all speak in animalese which is Jiberish to be honest but the Background music is pretty 
 enough & the music on the radio is catchy but i would prefur if kk. Played actuall Ninty tunes 
 like The Mario Theme etc.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  In the original AC the gameplay got repetitive fast now its a lot more interesting due to AC: WW's 
 onine play Which is great because you can trade items, Fish or just talk:) But AC: WW's Gameplay 
 is awsome even if you dont have online play as you can do all this with a friend in the same room 
 but it does get a kittle repetitive but just a little XD
  
  Lifespan 10/10
  Due to Animal Crossings addictive nature you'll be playing this in 2007 & beyond
  
  Summary
 
  This is great game but if your only impressed by Guns or Cars you proberly wont appreciet Animal 
 Crossing Wild world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-lukaz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  Its odd how a non-gaming game can be a superb one! you just cant go a day without playing this 
 other-wise you'd have missed something good, you can play this in your own pace, no need to rush. 
 There an almost certain possibility that its the best title on the Nintendo DS so far. the sound/music 
 is just right but a bit quiet i find, the touch control works pretty good i thought, but the D-pads 
 easier. With most games I find they are short and lose interest within a month, with this.... theres 
 something to do EVERY MONTH! For every DS owner its a Massive MUST HAVE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 2, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  But if you hated the Gamecube version, then there is really not much new to be seen here hated 
 it, or not hated it. But then, How could you hate such a cute game? Well anyway, I got this game 
 today and I've been playing for five hours straight. It is rare that I play as game that long, 
 except the other day I played Kingdom Hearts II for four hours. Anyway, now on to my review for 
 the DS hit-Animal Crossing: Wild World.
  
  First, I'll go through the differences. AC: WW looks, and plays just like the Gamecube version but 
 there is also a handful of additions. Only a few things have been left behind, and the most noticeable 
 is the loss of NES games. If you have the original, I suggest you keep it because Wild World does 
 not have NES games. Wild World has new characters, along with new places. There is a town hall 
 along with a hair salon which must be unlocked, a cafe and a town gate. There is no train station. 
 It has been replaced with the town gate.
  
  Also, there is a new camera angle. In the original the map, and the game went by acres. Individual 
 squares held 1-2 houses, trees, plants, etc. but now in Wild World there are none of these acres. 
 As you move forward and backward the world just shows up and you keep walking without switching 
 acres. This is cool and it makes everything seem round like you are walking on the globe. The D-pad 
 controls actually work a lot better than I thought they were. In fact, even though the analog on 
 the Gamecube pad is easier to use, I didn't really miss it a lot. You can also use the stylus to 
 move your character to places, just like a point and click game. It makes it similar to the Sims 
 but it is also not too helpful.
  
  Speaking of touch screen, Animal Crossing: Wild World has less usage of it which is especially 
 surprising for a Nintendo game because they are the ones who made this whole Touch Screen video 
 game concept. Oh well, not all games need innovation to succeed, besides Wild World has tons including 
 it's neat...
  
  ... Wi-Fi matches! A point for Nintendo! While the options are rather limited and not near the capability 
 of PS2 online or Xbox live, it is a very good addition and the best part is that it is 100 percent 
 free! Yep free, but you do need a wireless router or a $35 broadband Nintendo DS USB port to connect 
 it to your PC. Hoping you already have a wireless router, you will not need to go buy this $35 
 broadband USB. It's more of a last resort for Nintendo Wi-Fi users. In Wi-Fi you can get a friend's 
 list by registering your friend's friend codes onto your system, or just do matches with people 
 all over the globe. It is fun to check out people's towns and houses.
  
  The graphics were not impressive on Gamecube because the graphics of the original Animal Crossing 
 were Nintendo 64 quality. Nintendo 64 games look great on DS, so in other words, the DS version 
 of Animal Crossing looks great. The graphics are exactly the same as the Gamecube version.
  
  The sound is all pretty good. The animals chit-chat noises can get annoying but you can switch 
 there voices with the handy telephone placed in your AC house. The music all fits the time era 
 your in so in the night it will be more peaceful and calm but during the day it has a beat to it. 
 It also varies on what season it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggon1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  It is sad because i plyed animal crossing til evreything was done I did everything but this is 
 sad to find ill be doing everything over again. If only I would of passed up the gc version then 
 this would be great. The thing is the only way you will truely enjoy this game is if you didnt 
 play the gc version. It holds up well with more clothes new animals The special events are plentiful 
 but i cant play it every day and since you have to play it every couple of days it feels done. 
 Chances are if you are still playing the gc version you will feel refreshed at first but in the 
 long run it doent work. On the day of writing this review its beed 3monthes 2 weeks and a few hours 
 since I lasted played ac: ww. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconhalo2playa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I love this idea for DS and just a new Animal Crossing. I love all the new items, fish, bugs, and 
 townfolks. Also you can have 3 people live in one house which is awesome and everyone can contribute 
 into getting your house the top best. I also love how you can buy glasses, and other hats. Also 
 in the final upgrade of Tom Nook's there is a hair salon. The Point System in Tom Nook's store 
 was another great change in this game and the Spotlight product. Finally too, they joined a bug 
 off and gardening competition with the Fishing Tourney! One bad thing though is you should keep 
 your town clean because there is no ghost this time. Also you can shoot down the presents with 
 a slingshot unlike the GC version. One last thing that is bad about this game is there is no basement 
 in your house and there is only one story not two story towns. Last, another great thing is you 
 know how your townfolks feel about your town by going to the post office and you can also donate 
 to the poor and GO ONLINE!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swensonwalker
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  WARNING: This game wants to take over your life. 
  
  At first, I thought that a game played in real-time might be a novel experience. And at first, 
 it was. I would dutifully visit my little town and plant flowers, catch fish, visit with friends, 
 and see what new clothing items might be available to pimp my sprite. My house grew larger as did 
 my assortment of tools. I would visit friends via WiFi and chop down their trees with glee as they 
 promised to get back at me. Life was good in the town of Og. . . 
  
  Soon however I felt as if I were taking care of a puppy I did not want. I didn't want to water 
 my fake flowers, or rearrange my fake furniture, or keep in touch with my fake friends or catch 
 fake fish. I wanted everything to just stop for awhile, until I could get to it. But life does 
 not stop in Animal Crossing. Seasons pass in real time. So winter really does last three months. 
 So does spring and on and on. Like real life, the world of Animal Crossing presses forward with 
 or without you. Days went by and weeds grew tall. Flowers wilted. Friends moved. I lost all motivation 
 to play. Animal Crossing was removed from my DS and replaced with the much more patient Mario kart. 
 
  
  Then, a thought crossed my mind, "what if i time traveled? Could I erase my neglect?!" I tried 
 it. It did not work. But I did find a way to time travel and make lots of money! I visited every 
 season and caught a multitude of exotic fish. Suddenly the game was fun again ... for about an 
 hour. Now, my town is covered in weeds as I manipulated the game into thinking I had abandoned 
 it for years, rather than weeks. Time Travel left me rich and unsatisfied with a broken run down 
 town. 
  
  I have not touched this game in months. Unlike animal crossing, Metroid will wait until I am darn 
 good and ready to play. (My kind of girl) The shrubs in Mario Kart do not grow while I am away. 
 The monsters in Castlevania will not write me nasty letters if I don't visit them for awhile. 
 
  
  Like a puppy, Animal Crossing is cute, fun and engaging. . . for a few weeks. Then it becomes a 
 chore and a bother. Sure, there is a sense of pride in a pimped out house and spiffy duds, but 
 soon your friends have seen all the furniture, all the wallpaper, all the neat helemts hats and 
 masks, and you are left with a very needy game that never stops demanding your time. 
  
  So rent it. Let it run its course. Then return it. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cewlness
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 7, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  It was an amasing text game. Rock on AC: WW! It was a fun game. i played it almost everyday, until 
 hackers ruined the game. and won a contest and i got all i needded to end the game. so sad. * starts 
 crying* Why do thee good games row bad?! Curse you hackers!!! Y did you ruin the game with your 
 hack and your ing?! OH. AND GO Aurora! Um...... that's all. I'm just writing random words until i 
 cn submit this. wel..... um....... i like the matrix....... enter the matrix  
 about  going to go check if i cn 
 submit  why?!!?!?!? curses!!! Here are my top ten favorite games
 
  1. AC: WW
  2. Enter the matrix
  3. Mario Kart DS
  4. Niintendogs
  5. UM.......... Ratchet And Clank: Upin Your Aresenal
  6. Zoo Tycoon
  7. Roller Coaster Tycoon 2
 
  8. Rachet and clank: going cammando
  9. Super Mario 64 DS
  1O. UM......... Super Smash Pros Melee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimsey
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 6, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Before actually reviewing it, I gave it a 9, I think.
  At that point I had only actually played it a week, so a lot of things were new still. But not 
 long after, it goes down hill when you realize the whole games repetitive.
  You play and you fish and sell them, or put them in the museum.
  You dig for fossels and put 
 them in the museum. 
  You catch butterflys and stuff.. and put them in the mueseum.
  
  It goes on and on forever.
  Occasionally theres a festival that gives some purpose to your bug 
 catching or flower growing or whatever.
  But one can only catch so many fish before on grows tired of it.
  I still whole heartedly recommend 
 this game, if you're bored and theres nothing else to do, this game'll while away a little time.
 
  
  But it's not particularly deep or immersive, it's incredibly simple - and repetitive. There just 
 isn't enough to do, regardless as to what you might think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArfenZard15
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Well, I must admit I was sceptical of the concept of this game... I had seen the original Animal 
 Crossing on the gamecube and was far from impressed, but something about this game just makes it 
 so darn addictive!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of this game (by DS standards) are superb. There isn't really a single identifiable 
 fault with graphics in this game. (The only extremely tiny thing I picked up on was the fact flowers 
 twitch if you make the slightest movement, but who cares?)
  
  Gameplay:
  At first seemingly dull and repetitive, what with Tom Nook's tedious delivery tasks, but as your 
 town progresses, as does your enjoyment of the game. New people move in, new furniture is bought, 
 all change, every day! This truly is a game with one of the dullest of thought behind it, yto live 
 a life in a small town. But oh no! Things change every day, and with this, so does the game. Overall, 
 excellent gameplay has had me hooked for the 4 days (I know.. not long) with me playing in my town 
 almost 24/7!
  
  Sound:
  This game has THE sweetest BGM I have ever heard! With delightful tunes you get stuck in your head, 
 and even a little customisable "Town Tune" keeps things fresh if things wear a little thin.
  
  Controls:
  Whether using touch screen or the buttons, the controls of this game are quite 
 good. The one problem I seem to have (probably because I'm a dumbass ^^;) is picking up furniture 
 instead of grabbing it to rotate it which gets annoying having to keep putting it down again, only 
 to accidentally pick it up again!
  
  Overall:
  A great addition to anybodies game selection, whether a previous player on the 'cube, or a first 
 timer like me, with it's constantly changing gameplay this game WILL keep anybody happy. 
  
  Summed up in 4 words:
  Great value for money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTZ2k3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  I have a painful confession to make... I have been a fan of Animal Crossing since it was released 
 on the Gamecube in 2002. There's something about starting your own quaint little town, socializing 
 with a cast of quirky and colorful animals, and performing mundane tasks that grabbed me and pulled 
 me in. Unforunately, someone who falls in the college age male bracket is not always at liberty 
 to discuss such guilty pleasures as the "childish" *sic* Animal Crossing.
  
  However, with my addiction now out of the closet, it's time to look at the latest in the Animal 
 Forest/Animal Crossing series, Animal Crossing: Wild World for the Nintendo DS. 
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Let's get one thing straight: Animal Crossing's gameplay is not for everyone. 
 If you hated the original, then you're probably going to hate this handheld iteration. The core 
 mechanics still involve creating an avatar, purchasing a house, meeting the unique townsfolk, and 
 then working like a fiend to pay off that loan shark (raccoon?) known as Nook. You'll spend lots 
 of time reading text, running errands, fishing, digging, gardening, digging through the trash, 
 and redecorating. The game is rated "E" for a reason. The game world occurs in real time, meaning 
 that special holidays happen only on certain days, stores open and close at certain times, and 
 townsfolk adopt daily schedules. You may find yourself basing your real life around the game.
 
  
  That said, however, Animal Crossing: WW manages to turn such a dull sounding ordeal into something 
 almost sublimely simple. The game has a wonderful sense of humor (some of the conversations are 
 priceless) , and the whole thing gives off an air of tranquility. Ever better is the fact that this 
 new handheld version lends itself to the shorter gaming sessions that make up this game. Are you 
 going to play AC for multi-hour sessions? I doubt. Are you going to boot it up for maybe 15 minutes 
 a day or so just to see how things are going in town? Probably, which is why the DS version is 
 far superior to the console one in that regard.
  
  For those that remember the game, a few other gameplay tweaks have been made. You no longer have 
 to send off fossils to be appraised (Blathers can finally do it himself, thank goodness) . Everyone 
 lives in the same house, which means you all chip in towards paying off Nook, but that you also 
 all share the same living space (roommate conflict, anyone?) . The whole system just seems smoother 
 than before. One noticabele omission, however, is the removal of NES games. While it doesn't hurt 
 the game in the long run, it is one less incentive to keep going.
  
  And of course, there's wireless and WiFi multiplayer. Honestly, while it makes trading items and 
 getting rare fruits easier, its not all that big of a deal. Only two people can be in a building 
 at once. No one is outside when friends are over. The interaction between players is fairly limited. 
 Still though, it lets you barter for goods the world over (provided you have Friend Codes at least) 
 or let your friends envy at your decorating sense.
  
  Overall, if you loved the original or are into games like The Sims, Animal Crossing: WW is well 
 worth your hard earned bells... er, dollars.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  The game looks a lot like the GC version, which is a huge compliment. The art style is clean and 
 bright, with lots of colors, especially in the warmer seasons. Characters animate well and textures 
 are all high enough res as not to distract. Add in a huge amount of clothes, hair styles, and furniture, 
 and the overall presentation is very nice indeed. There's not all that much detail, though, and 
 while the 3D is nice, it's really not all that impressive. Still, the fact that its Animal Crossing 
 on a handheld is a beautiful thing.
  
  Sound: 7
  
  The sound is also a near exact copy of its Gamecube older brother. A lot of the tunes bring to 
 mind the glory days of the SNES and NES. Several are catchy enough that you'll find yourself humming 
 them well after the system has powered down. On top of that, you can compose your own (simple) 
 town tune. It's no Beethoven, but it's a nice touch. The sound effects are workable. There's rain 
 sounds for rain, water sounds for water, door sounds for the doors... you get the point. It's nothing 
 above and beyond the call of duty. The animal speech can be cute at first, and varies for each 
 character's personality, but you may find it to be annoying after a while. Thankfully, you can 
 shut it off.
  
  Value: 10
  
  If you like this game, you'll be playing for months to come, if not a whole year or more. There's 
 so much to collect, so many animals to meet, so many holidays, fish, bugs, fossils... Even if you 
 never get on WiFi, this game will give you your money's worth and then some. WiFi adds a whole 
 other dimension of community to this already community-based game. Expect to see this one in your 
 DS cartridge slot often.
  
  Verdict:
  
  I am not going to lie to you. Animal Crossing: Wild World is not for everyone. It has no plot, 
 no extended action sequences, no licensed tracks, and no superstars on the cover. That said, if 
 you are an open-minded gamer (and if you bought a DS and still enjoy yours, I'm guessing you are) 
 and can take a little ribbing for owning such a "kiddie" game, Animal Crossing may prove to be 
 one of your new best friends on road trips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NDS419
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  this game owns. it is a lot better than the gamecube version because you can actually walk without 
 the screen moving. you can also change your hair and hat. you can also choose to not have a hat 
 unlike the gamecube version. the museum also identifies fossils in maybe 15 seconds there, versus 
 sending fossils in the mail and having them identified the next day. You can also get golden tools. 
 golden shovel: lets u plant money trees (90,000 bells) Golden fishing rod: fish hangs on to bobber 
 longer golden net: bigger golden watering can: brings back dead flowers and can make a golden rose 
 golden axe: never breaks. This game is a lot better than the gamecube version, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rocks29
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 4, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great game that has ublelievavly good replay value, but, the game 
 wasn't made for everyone. The game is a life simulator game, so, if you do not like games without 
 action, this is not the game for you.
  
  Animal Crossing is excellent, the game becomes your second life. The game is simply about living 
 a life in a small town. You can do many things in the town, such as from picking fruit off trees, 
 speaking to the residents, exploring, fishing, looking for treasure and earning money.
  
  At first, the game will rotate around you paying off your home loan. An animal named Tom Nook buils 
 a house for you, then he expects you to pay off all your loan. So you need to earn money to pay 
 off your loan. Eventually, when you pay it off, he will offer to make your house bigger, if you 
 accept, you will have to pay off another loan.
  
  The game also has great W-Fi capabilities. You are able to actually visit other peoples towns from 
 around the world and they can visit yours. You can go to other peoples towns and speak to them 
 face to face, meet their residents, collect their fruit from trees and much more.
  
  All up, I think Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great game if it was designed for you.
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Originally intended to be released as a Nintendo 64 game, the video game Animal Crossing was 
 instead delayed and released on the Nintendo Gamecube in 2002. Its dated graphics and childish 
 presentation made it a tough sell to gamers. Once the word got out about how new and innovative 
 Animal Crossing really was, the floodgates opened and the game couldnt be purchased fast enough.
 
  
  Three years later Nintendo releases Animal Crossing: Wild World for use with their portable system 
 the Nintendo DS, but is it the similar experience of fun and innovation that the original console 
 version inspired or merely a second helping of the same game?
  
  For gamers that are unfamiliar with the original game, Animal Crossing is best described as a 
 life simulation that relies heavily on collecting and communication. Upon starting the game, players 
 are introduced to a randomly generated town that they can name and live in. After being loaned 
 a house to live in by the town store owner, gamers are set free to do whatever they want in their 
 very own town.
  
  Some of these activities include fishing, bug-catching, digging for fossils, collecting furnishings 
 for the house interior, designing patterns for clothes or other materials, or running errands for 
 your animal neighbors for items. 
  
  Thats right, animals for neighbors.
  
  As the title of the game implies, there are many animals running around about town. Like previously 
 mentioned, Animal Crossing is all about communicating with the inhabitants of the town, and by 
 doing so gamers will be asked personal questions, asked to run errands, or even mocked for an action 
 or fashion mistake.
  
  Each animal neighbor has his or her own personality, and soon players will be able to decide for 
 themselves which animals will give you the time of day and which will probably end up murdered 
 and buried behind their virtual houses.
  
  One of the neater aspects of Animal Crossing is the real-time clock that the game runs on. This 
 means that if a player wakes up in the morning to check on their town, then it will also be morning 
 in their town. If they come home from a night class to play, then the towns moon will also be 
 on the rise. 
  
  This even applies for the day gamers are playing on. For example if a gamer visited the town on 
 his or her birthday, then all the animals would say something about the birthday and the gamer 
 may even receive a present.
  
  A bit of bad news about this version of Animal Crossing is the obvious absence of major holidays 
 from the calendar. Gamers can think political correctness for that.
  
  Overall, Animal Crossing: Wild World is such a simple game to pick up and get started with. Newbies 
 to the series will find themselves completely engrossed with this game for months to come, but 
 fans of the original Gamecube version will find themselves more frustrated with the final outcome 
 of this game than pleased.
  
  With over three years of development time, it is extremely hard to believe that Nintendo hasnt 
 added a lot more content and options to this game. Sure the game is now playable with the Nintendo 
 DS touch-screen and can be played on Nintendos new Wi-Fi connection, but the core of the game 
 looks and plays exactly like its predecessor. 
  
  Besides a few new items and the previously mentioned additions, Animal Crossing: Wild World is 
 precisely reminiscent of the Gamecube game released in 2002. This isnt necessarily a bad thing; 
 it just means that fans of the original will find themselves bored with this game quicker than 
 others.
  
  Despite these minor flaws, Animal Crossing: Wild World is still a must-have for fans of the Nintendo 
 DS. If gamers can look past its family friendly presentation and atmosphere, than this game can 
 keep anyone occupied for a very long time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DurhamNC
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 3, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing, the first time I sat down with it, I sat for three hours. It's immersive and addictive. 
 Initially, it feels like there's a lot to learn -- people, names, places; but the learning curve 
 really isn't that steep. And After those first three hours, play quickly becomes repetitive. Digging, 
 fishing, shooting the sling shot -- they're all variations on the same theme. This becomes a great 
 game, though, when you accept that it's not one you sit and play for ages. At least not if you 
 want it to keep your interest. 10 minutes here, 20 minutes there are what you need and this kind 
 of time investment, short but regular, keeps the game fun. And, of course, the environment's always 
 changing, new people come and go, and then there's the WiFi. AC: WW is, in the end, a great game, 
 and a fresh twist on the virtual life of the Sims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Being a complete DS fanatic i like to have a chance to play every single DS game there is, so i 
 can officially say, this is one of the most genius and addictive games i have ever played. Animal 
 Crossing starts as an irratating chore fest for a silly racoon, but don't threat, as soon as the 
 lingering jobs end, you can really sink your teeth into this wide world. You'll meet many animal 
 critter friends and absolutely love them, and when they move on out of the world, you may find 
 yourself shedding a tear. Yes, shedding a tear. You get close to these little bastards unfortunately 
 and can't keep yourself from wishing they wouldn't go. With fishing, digging fossils and writing 
 the most hilarious mail that the people your sending them to are completely oblivious of the words 
 your scribbling down. Playing this game is clever, fun and well, lots and lots of fun. Buy this 
 game, i assure you, it'll look good in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eminem550
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  My parents just bought me this game on my birthday, and WOW I can't believe it , its not what I 
 suspected it ,How can someone say that this game is not good ,maybe because I haven't played the 
 original.
  
  I think and others thinks
  Now here is what I think about it its AMAZING , AND ADDICTIVE game, but people who like action 
 game will say its boring.
  
  Gameplay
  what I like about the gameplay is that there are events that comes up, without you even know ,like 
 mails, new stuff to buy, and have all 4 kinds season, and plantey of good stuff, and make your house. There 
 is also fish tournament and bug tournament, and other stuff, all of these stuff which keeps the 
 game on , not like other games, when you play these other games , you get bored with it .
  
  Graphic
  yes, thats one of the nicest graphic on the DS, I like it very much, I don't have anything 
 else to say about it.
  
  Sound
  sure there is no voice , but in this game , you can have a radio and listen to it at your house. I 
 liked the music in this game it changes every time when its morning or night.
  
  BUY IT IF YOU LIKE A REAL LIFE GAME ,its like real life , its not like other game you go shoot 
 someone in the head, or with the knife, no, its like go to your house and other stuff like walk to 
 the village, if like action games , this game will be boring for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing offers repetitive gameplay that is both not challenging nor rewarding. Consisting 
 mostly of collecting and ... well that's it. In reviewing the game experience in such terms it 
 is therefore a surprise that I logged over 200 hours in Animal Crossing.
  
  I cannot imagine that I am alone in my experience with Animal Crossing. If you were to play the 
 game for less than an hour you would not see the attraction in the tedious process of endlessly 
 picking fruit, digging for fossils or collecting and arranging furniture. But I defy anyone to 
 play the game for longer than that and not end up losing at least the next 3-4 weeks of their gaming 
 life to the simple satisfactions found in Animal Crossing.
  
  The portability and stylus features of the DS far improve on the game over the Gamecube original 
 though I did find the localization effort to be sadly less quirky this time around.
  
  I enjoyed every minute I played AC but in retrospect I probably could have stopped playing after 
 60 hours and have gotten as much out of the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorax73
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 1, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is fun for both people new to the series of fans of the GC animal crossing. 
 However it takes only a month or 2 to realise the game doesn't offer too much and can get really 
 old fast. When you first start the game it can be quite addicting paying off your home and making 
 tom nook expand his shop. Im not sure if this will happen to you but after tom nooks store can't 
 get bigger and i got a second story on my house i soon thought what's the point and completly lost 
 intrest in the game. I have bought and tried all the items and the household items aren't intresting 
 enough to want to see them all. most of them either sit there or just make a sound when you touch 
 them which is pretty boring. While online may sound very fun it isnt implemented too well but its 
 not the games fault. The use of friend codes limits whos town you can go to but if there were no 
 friend codes anybody would eb able to come and destroy your town. So when you actually go through 
 the trouble to get a friend code there isnt much to do in others towns its pretty much the same 
 as being in your own town. So if you played the GC to death this game does not have much too offer 
 except no NES games which was one of my favorite things about the GC version. So all in all its 
 a fun game but will get old fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradistheman711
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  I love Animal Crossing : Wild World! It's so fun to play and there is always something to do! The 
 more you play the funner it gets! People come by to visit and leave every time is at least SOMEWHAT 
 different! The only thing I hate is no one is rarely on wi-fi. And that drops the fun somewhat! 
 You have to be at home to get THE MOST out of wi-fi! The graphics are ok, but the sound kinda gets 
 repeated over and over! But I like how you can create your own town tune! Please play this GREAT 
 NINTENDO GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tk-42121
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  this game is 1 of those games with no real endin so thats whats fun bout it and 1 thin is i can 
 hardly get any money so realy but with the dog gutar player in the roost and i can get a coffie 
 is good this game is as go if not better the the original u can finely meet with friends clse by 
 or around the world with the nintendo wi-fi connection and u have 2 share a house with your friends 
 and they pay off the mortgae with u is truly phnaominal but my quseton is will there be a animal 
 crossing on the revolution i hope so 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshiasuperstar
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is an amazing game that is a suitable and enjoyable sequel to the original 
 Animal Crossing for the Nintendo Game Cube. Possibly one of the best DS games to date, Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World revives classic experiences and characters from the first Animal Crossing and presents 
 them in an unique manner to create a new sensation in the gaming world. This game makes performing 
 tasks such as landscaping and interior designing fun. In addition to previous Animal Crossing concepts, 
 numerous innovative activities have been included to further enhance the overall Animal Crossing 
 experience; the most evident addition is on-line play.
  
  The game-play of Animal Crossing: Wild World closely parallels to that of the first Animal Crossing. 
 Talking to your animal neighbors, shopping for new pieces of furniture to furnish your house with, 
 mailing letters to all your friends, picking fruit from trees, fishing at the ocean, chopping at 
 your trees with an axe, and various other activities create and sustain the Animal Crossing experience. 
 Although enjoyable during the first few weeks, these game-play concepts can become tedious and 
 repetitive after numerous replays. This game-play however, is aided by the use of wireless and 
 on-line functions. On-line play grants users the options of visiting other towns or permitting 
 others to enter their own town, which opens gateways of possibilities such as large-scale money 
 making techniques (not real money, but rather Animal Crossing bells) or clans to enhance the use 
 of Wi-Fi play. Unfortunately, on-line mode can feel very limited; therefore to enjoy it to the 
 maximum youll need to develop your own methods of enjoyment
  
  The game features a plethora of beautifully designed accessory items and designs to customize your 
 own personal player with unique graphic styles. It is possible to create town themes such as an 
 Animal Crossing Water World or a The Legend of Zelda theme using various deign patterns to invent 
 accessories and images to wear and use in the town. The possibilities are limited however, so patterns 
 cannot always properly display the illustration that is intended. There still remains a sufficient 
 amount of graphics to use though, so there are other possibilities available. Along with visuals, 
 the sound is decent though is rather quiet. The sounds do not match the standards set by the original 
 Animal Crossing, which contained more energetic themes and better qualities in its audios.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is not a game for everyone, so before buying it is best to rent 
 it at least once. For numerous persons, Animal Crossing: Wild World will be an incredibly new gaming 
 experience that invokes a completely different sensation unlike any other game genre. I'll conclude 
 with this: If you loved the original, you will love this iteration as well.
  
  Pros:
  -Follows the original Animal Crossing formula for the most part.
  -Expands game-play with face-to-face 
 multi-player interaction.
  -New items can be obtained via the Nintendo WFC.
  -Makes better use of customization and design patterns.
  -Larger house and more items to collect 
 that are both old and new.
  
  Cons:
  -Serious concepts taken out such as actual holidays.
  -Wi-Fi play can feel limited, defeating 
 the purpose of its existence.
  -Difficult to guard your town during wireless and Wi-Fi play.
  -NES games not present.
  -Resident 
 players unable to be active at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Look at the amount! UK fans get this game for the first time, and boy it is cool. It has been proven 
 to 'fly off the shelves'. Animal Crossing in Japan has sold about a million copies. Bonza yeah. 
 US just loves what it is given: animals, animals and animals. What more do you want? This game 
 is, basicly, a sequel to the amazing-but-not-essetinal Gamecube version. Now it's made to the DS, 
 and the bad parts is that it is the same just with 'Why?'-Fi. Also, the character design is smudgy 
 with beautiful backgrounds, and the sound is decent with such a tone.
  
  The value is great but not perfect - there is a lot to go through, but does not feel addictive. 
 The tilt is brilliant with Wi-Fi, and with additions to Mario Kart DS, Tony Hawk, Tetris and Metroid 
 Prime Hunters, is huge and superb. The uses of customization is great, with making and purchasing 
 objects. You can also make things in the sky (no women's private parts, please) and it feels decent. 
 The animation is like all DS's go: good, but not great.
  
  Animal Crossing Wild World isn't the best of the DS games, but worldwide it's a smash hit. Look 
 at the UK ad about the Nintendo DS!!! Brilliant. Wild World makes you in control of your little 
 animal plus more, and with a brilliant Wi-Fi to boot, you might never stop playing. Looking great, 
 sounds cool, plays like a dream. Animal mayhem!
  
  It's Better than: Animal Crossing
  It's worse than: The Sims 2
  Gameplay:
  + Sublime and full of control with superb, massivly-multiplayer 
 Wi-Fi.
  - Even though it is, it doesn't 'feel' too addictive.
  Graphics:
  + Beautiful, educational backgrounds. Just look at those trees.
  - Dodgy character design, plus 
 no difference to the last one.
  Sound:
  + Great sounds and music. It works well.
  - We have seen it a few times before.
  
  Animal crossing Wild World is brilliant. Just buy 
 it if you liked the original, or liked The Sims, or just like Nintendo, or just like the sound 
 of it. Great, if not the best the DS has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fulham89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  I don't really care how childish and pathetic this game makes me look. Animal Crossing is, by a 
 small margin, the best game on the DS (yes, better than Mario Kart!) . The main reason for this 
 is that it is a game that you can pick up at any given time and play. It's also a good advert for 
 what games should be; Animal Crossing is totally void of violence, swearing and sex, so if anyone 
 looking for bestialistic activities in amongst GTA-style gun-toting elephants is going to be more 
 than a little disappointed.
  
  All you do in this game is live life. You buy stuff for your house, you pay off your mortgage, 
 meet new people etc. New townsfolk move in and out frequently, and not all of the items are available 
 to buy at once, so this game has incredible replayability. Add to that the very fun multiplayer 
 that can be used in conjunction with the WFC and you have a winning formula on your hands.
  
  The game is just so damn addictive, it draws you in right from the opening sequence. The game 
 can never be completed, as there's always new townspeople, new items and no specific goals to complete 
 to "win" the game. 
  
  If you own a DS, buy this game. In this case, living two lives is certainly better than one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotvic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  I loved the last Animal Crossing. It was full of imagination and wonderful characters. Three years 
 later, Nintendo makes a great improvement. By adding Wi-Fi.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  I must say, every element form the previous game has improved. But Nintendo has kept most of the 
 charm of the original, which is a good thing. From your animal neighbors, to the buildings, and 
 the special visitors. Everything is as good as the first one. The online play is also a great addition 
 to this game. Visiting your friends from afar is awesome.
  
  Graphics - 9
  These Graphics really show off the DS's power. Everything looks organic, and colorful. The environment, 
 the animals, and yes, the buildings. The textures look a little blurry, but you get used to it.
 
  
  Sound - 9
  Another winner. I just love the Sound in this game. The music, the... animals, and the environment. 
 I espessialy love K. K. Slider's music. Those "Me"s and "Mo"s really take me away... *Ahem* Getting 
 back to the Review... One little thing bothered me though... You'll notice that the animal's voices 
 sound alike. But... You get used to it...
  
  Value - 9
  This will tide you over for many months to come... But once you start reaching the one millionth 
 Bell mark, got all the Furniture, and have a perfect town, etc. You might get bored of this game.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 10
  All-and-all, if you loved the last AC, then you'll love this instalment. There are some minor flaws, 
 but soon you'll look past them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 27, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  One of the games brought from the Gamecube certainly does a good job at becoming one of the best 
 games on DS to date. As it has some flaws and some glitches but the game still maintains it's moral 
 standards. As standards I mean the gameplay and outstandment of it. This game does maintain a lot 
 and a lot of value... It may take you two years or so to get every item and finish installing your 
 house! I might play this game for a couple more years just like I did with the Animal Crossing 
 on Gamecube. I reccommend this for anyone who has a DS and play online if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: WW is just as addictive and fun as the original, with all the same charm and amusement 
 tied around pure addiction that the original had for making that perfect house has never been so 
 fun as it is now thanks to the DS capabilities and now that it is handheld the original will probably 
 be played a lot less thanks to this near perfect port. The only real problem with this Animal Crossing 
 is the fact that the beginning of the game is practically identical to the beginning of the original, 
 but an hour of the same is not any real type of problem considering how addicting this game will 
 become just after the first few hours of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogogoman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Wow, great game, theres always more to do in this game. It is great to take places and is good 
 for occasional playing.
  
  Graphics are not spectacular but are perfect and it can be enjoyable for many hours.
  The gameplay 
 is easy to pick up and play at any time and it is simple and addictive.
  all the tunes are catchy and easy to listen to and it is great collecting K. K. sliders music for 
 your pad.
  It is not only worth the money I paid for it but probably even more, can pay for a long time without 
 getting bored.
  
  I think it is a must for any bored DS owner and i have been enjoying it for months now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  There is just so much to do in this game. Before purchasing, I wondered how a game that took place 
 in a fictional world would be fun. I soon fell in love with playing the game and it is very addicting. 
 I found myself playing this game in sits of about one hour. It is very engaging as well as addicting. 
 The AI characters are emotional and feel almost like real people, which add to the detail to the 
 game. You begin to care for your town especially becuase you can go online and see other people's 
 towns as well as they can see yours. The online is not the bulk of the game, which is a positive, 
 but gives you a reason to play single player and make your town look great.
  
  Graphics:
  The game has decent graphics for the DS, but they are not the greatest. 
  
  Sound:
  The goofy 
 sound can get really annoying especially when you play it for long periods of time.
  
  Value:
  The game lasted me a couple months and I played for an average of 45 minutes a day. 
 
  
  Tilt:
  This is my favorite DS game and is the most fun simulation game I have played. This game is definitely 
 worth getting if you have a DS.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NooBPwNaGe
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is a 3-D graphic RPG in where you get to be a human character and explore 
 the world of animals. Once you created a human character you get to move to one of these animal 
 towns and you get to name it. Of course, you also get to name your character. You start the game 
 in a cab and this ducky guy asks you information. Your character look may vary (depending on how 
 you answer the ducky's questions) . When you reach your town, your look will appear on screen. You 
 talk to this goose girl inside a building. She asks you are you new and bla bla. You will be directed 
 to your house, as shown on a map. Then you get to explore your town a bit more. This game also 
 has Nintendo Wi-Fi connection which you can visit other peoples' towns via the internet. This game 
 was also on the gamecube, but it wasn't as good as this version for the DS. If you like animals 
 and cute stuff, this is the game for you. You can design your clothes and buy stuff for your house. 
 Most of your neighbors are friendly to you, and love having you around. The basic thing about the 
 touch screen is that you can use it to move your character. It doesnt exactly add much element 
 to the gameplay. I would say this game never ends because all you do is live a life like you are 
 now. This game is good for on the go. You should pick this one up if you never played animal crossing 
 before. Or if you liked the first one, this one is a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: element3435
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is really really good. its extremly extremly EXTEMLY addicting. ive killed my battery 
 8 times in 8 days ive had it. really addicting game. not for 2 yr olds like the gamecube one, more 
 relastic and much better. gcn one sucks compared to this one. more everything in wild world. u 
 can go to other peoples towns on nintendo wifi and there is free txt chat with stylus or in my 
 case pencil because im to lazy to find my stylus. u can buy all diffrent stuff. u can buy things 
 from the triforce and master sword, to a arwing from starfox. when u press a next to it, it even 
 does stuff. (triforce does revilitiounary swing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cddog109
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  this is like the best game i have ever played. if u get a chance to buy BUY IT!! this game is just 
 like the game cube version if not better than it. i love this game so much that i even take it 
 to where ever i go and i also have it on, on a recharger. many people do not like it do to it being 
 kind of easy it play but for me it is a game i play though the hours of the day. one of the best 
 things about this game is it does not matter about your age it will also be a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STArmadillo
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  The original Animal Crossing for the Gamecube was nothing short of a masterpiece. The game combined 
 a relaxing theme with quirky characters and hundreds of stuff to do into something totally new 
 and original.
  
  Animal Crossing DS was announced back when the DS was first showing off its future titles. It looked 
 amazing, and the good news just kept rolling in. Online play. New animal residents. Tons of new 
 items. Although, none of these managed to make the game any more fun than the original was.
  
  Sure, they're the same game, but Wild World is nowhere near as fun or innovative as the original 
 was. It truly feels like a repeat of the previous game, but added on was a few issues with the 
 clunky and unresponsive controls. Not to mention that the game requires a very high level of commitment 
 to get anywhere with your town.
  
  If you have never played the original Animal Crossing, I have no problems recommending this to 
 you. If you played the hell out of the original and are looking for more Animal Crossing... I wouldn't 
 rrecommend picking this up as much. It's so similar to the Gamecube one that you'll get bored much 
 faster since nothing seems all that new.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tagger04
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  I just got Animal Crossing: Wild World a few days ago along with my DS and I can't put it down. 
 I'm lucky I put it down long enough to write a review for it. Well, it starts out with some taxi 
 driver interrogating you while on the way to your town. Then you get there and get a home and pay 
 off your debt to Tom Nook. (The town store keeper/land lord) It is so much more fun than the Game 
 Cube version because of the loads of new features. Such as, WiFi so you can travel to friends towns 
 and even become roomates with them! The fishing is a bit harder on here than on GC version. There 
 is down side, there are no Holidays like Christmas but the games features and graphics make up 
 for it. I can't resist not playing any longer so I'm going to play it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stranger1124
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. There is always things to do and overall it is fun to play. Also the WIFI 
 adds a lot to the game. You can actually have more than one person in a town at a time! The only, 
 and ONLY thing i dont like about this game is that you share a house with up to four other people. 
 Well i guess you have to sacrifice some things to turn a game to a handheld version. The graphics 
 are great for a handheld, though not the best weve scene but I'm not complaining. This is a great 
 game for people of any age and I highly recommend this game. Buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unigoono
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  This game is fun from the get go. It is alot like the game cube version which is why I give it 
 such a low score. How ever alot alike or not it is fun. They have adding a few new things. Alot 
 more items. But best of yet they have a sky in this game.
  
  The first few days I had this I couldn't put it down. I still can't but I have noticed I lowered 
 my play time from 12 hours a day to 4-5. It is a great game. Any one who is looking for a layed 
 back game with fun I would say get this.
  
  I also like to say that I think the nintendo tocuh feature is great as well. They have made things 
 so much easier to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebecca_Girl_1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Well it's way better than the gc one but this one had some minor monor tweaks like it could use 
 some better items like I collect the modern set but I never get it you know it's really weird in 
 a way but the game wasnt that bad but it was way better graphics than the first one but this one 
 wasnt that but it still wasnt that good but it was a great nintendo game but I loved it pretty 
 much but it could have been a better game if you know waht I mean anyway I'm done with this review.
 
  
  Please Reccomend My Reviews!
  
  Rebecca_Girl_1
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_Freak2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Well first of all this is a very good game with good online play and TONS OF TONS OF TONS OF TONS 
 TONS OF TONS OF TONS OF TONS TONS OF TONS OF TONS TONS OF TONS OF TONS OF TONSitems. From furniture 
 for your house to beds and music to hats to clothes. the only thing wrong about online play is 
 you need your friends friend code to go into their town. you cant go into a random persons town. 
 There are upgrades that you can get in your house by paying off your debt to make your house bigger 
 You also can have 3 other players living in your house. They can decorate the house or help you 
 pay off your debt to nook. I was dissapointed to not see NES games. There are also tons of fish 
 and bugs to catch which will keep you fishing and searching for bugs for forever. :) Also i forgot 
 to put in Wi-Fi online is that you can talk to the person or people your playing with by typing. 
 There are tons of events but no events like christmas or anything like that. : ( The animals are 
 great too. if you be nice to them and be a really good nieghbor the'll give you there pic. which 
 is good. all of the charecters form Animal Crossing For the gamecube are back like Tom Nook, Blathers, 
 Able Sisters, Tortimer, Pelly and Phillis, Redd, Gulliver (apperes in UFO) . also a new hairstyler 
 which you can change the color of your hair and the style. and some new charecters too. Some of 
 your fav. animals are back too. 2 new tools. Slingshot and Watering Can. Great game!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshman940
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I thought it looks like its for little kids but then I heard all of 
 the reveiws and the people who had it said this is the best game ever so I thought I do have $50 
 so I went to go buy it but the stores said it was out of stock so I aited and waited AND WAITED! 
 Finally I went to EB games and they had it! I bought it and I also bought nintendogs skin and I 
 went home and started playing it and I said wow this game is the best so I recemend that you buy 
 it. The only thing I dont like about this game is Tom Nook the owner of the nook stores but that 
 does not give you an excuse not to buy it so go out and buy it it is probebly in stores and not 
 out of stock. Another good thing about this game is that you can connect on WIFI or DS to DS with 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamezRlife21
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World for the Nintendo DS is the first game i have gotten for the DS. I was 
 amazed at how well this game was out together. Everything from the environments to the characters 
 are perfect. 
  
  The graphics are as good as they can get. You can tell what everything is, and everything does 
 not look like blocks. The environments is amazing, everything from the houses and oceans, to the 
 Leaves on the tree's. The levels (different maps) are so big and well done, there is always something 
 to do.
  
  In this game you can dig up fossils, buy and trade, link with friends to visit one anothers town, 
 Catch fish and bugs, buy a GIANT array of furniture and gadgets, sell anything, and much much much 
 more....
  
  The sound is awesome, loud and upright, and you can hear everything from you walking on the ground, 
 to the ocean hitting the shores. 
  
  This game never gets boring, and there is never a dull moment. There are different holidays built 
 into the game, so when you least expect it, you get a message saying there is either a flea market, 
 fishing tournament, etc. Also, people may move in and leave your town whenever they feel like it, 
 and sometimes, strange people will come into your town and try to sell you a rare item, move in, 
 give you good luck, etc. 
  
  This game is to hard to describe, there is so much to do and see in this game, you will have to 
 play it for yourself...... ANIMAL CROSSING RULES!!!!!!
  
  Also..... on a better note, this game was better than the game cube  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinoxi
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 20, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  I think that animal crossing ww is a excellent game of WI-FI... very excellent. the game is excellent 
 is excellent i was once of the first playing this game is very excellent very good.... i need to 
 play this game on WI-FI with my brother is an excellent game. i need a cheat to the bells is very 
 difficult grab bells very difficult . this game is the most wanted in my country Venezuela the 
 most wanted in all the malls, the shops of games, etc. and dont cost much money thats is good the 
 game have very cheats much cheats than the nintendo gamecube this game is better than the nintendo 
 gamecube
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 20, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the Gamecube version, you will know what to expect from this game. If you are 
 really looking forward to the wifi capabilities however, I would encourage you to read the rest 
 of this review, as you may be a little disappointed.
  
  Animal Crossing Wild World is pretty fun. Basically you are a boy or girl who arrives in a new 
 town, is given some new digs (and some debt to pay it off) . There are lots of ways to earn money, 
 including planting fruit trees, fishing, bug collecting, trading in the turnip stock market...
 
  
  In addition to amassing wealth, you can get bigger houses, help the museum collect fish, bugs, 
 fossils and other artsy type stuff. You can participate in fishing tournaments, do tasks for other 
 townsfolk and a number of other rather tame activities.
  
  As a result of the "no pressure" type play, the game is rather relaxing, and I've had a good amount 
 of fun figuring out the best ways to rake in the bells, the unit of currency in Wild World.
  
  A big addition to the game in this version is the wifi capabilities. You can allegedly connect 
 with other people out on the net, and visit their towns or invite them to yours. I say allegedly 
 because I have yet to be able to do so, in about 2 weeks time of playing.
  
  The problem with the wifi is that you need to share friend codes in order to visit towns. In addition 
 you are not on the net by default. If you want to invite guests, you have to visit a guard every 
 time you play. Also, if you want to go out to another town, you have to visit the same guard and 
 tell him "I want to go out". This is to prohibit roving packs of people you don't know from coming 
 in to your town and chopping down all your fruit trees. While a good security measure, it limits 
 access to those people whom:
  
  A) You share friend codes with.
  
  B) Are playing Animal Crossing at that moment.
  
  C) Who decide to go to the top of the map 
 and talk to the guard to either "Let you out", or "Invite guests".
  
  I have gone on to a website called DSmeet to attempt to connect with other users playing Animal 
 Crossing. Lots of people share friend codes there, but noone is ever online. If you could somehow 
 leave your wifi on and looking for people to connect to, this would be a much better system. A 
 wifi process that seriously gimps your connectivity is no good for anyone.
  
  Aside from this the game is rather fun, but once you have picked all your fruit trees, done any 
 planting you need to do, talked to some towns folk, dug up some fossils and stuff you are pretty 
 much done for the day. So you typically tend to spend time in the game in short spurts every day, 
 which is a good or bad thing depending on how you look at it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AryaSvitkona
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  You start out as a poor person, with not a Bell (the game's currency) to your name. A raccoon that 
 owns the local store (Tom Nook) takes mercy on you and gives you a house, as long as you pay off 
 a debt. This is the main focus of the game: Make money, friends, and upgrade your house.
  
  Sounds easy, right? Wrong. Between the fact that money is extremely hard to come by, furnishing 
 your house is difficult. Most furniture runs over two THOUSAND Bells apiece, and the amount for 
 a single native fruit is one HUNDRED Bells. Besides that, if you're playing in winter, fruit is 
 about the only way to make income. Once spring arrives, buy a fishing pole and get out there. Hit 
 the lakes and streams fast and hard, and you may hit it rich, pay off your debts, and STILL have 
 cash for furniture!
  
  I haven't played too far into the game yet, but the part that I have played is amazing. The characters 
 are just right for the type of game this is, and the colors are bright and they POP out at you. 
 All in all, this game is one that deserves a spot on your game shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slapshakle
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  I have finally kicked my Animal Crossing: Wild World habit, so I'll write a little review.
  
  At first I couldn't see what all the hype about the game was, after an hour or two of gameplay 
 I was completely hooked. Im not exactly sure what makes this game so much fun to play, whatever 
 it is, I like it. 
  
  You start out the game as a blow-in moving into a new town, the town is called whatever you decide 
 to call it ( my town name is McFiscut ) . You move into you're nice little house without even having 
 payed for it yet.. How cool is that !? Although you eventually have to pay for it, you can take 
 as much time as you like doing so. Almost as soon as you start playing the game you are introduced 
 to the local shop keeper Tom Nook, hes the nice fellow that built your house, so you start to do 
 a few odd jobs for him, planting tress, delivery mail etc... once these first few jobs are done, 
 you are set free to do as you please in your town.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are nice and clean, it really shows that the NintendoDS can pull off great 
 3D visuals. As you walk around your town, you'll notice how the world seems to revolve as you walk, 
 this is a super cool affect. It gives the impression that your town IS the whole planet.
  
  Sound: The music is very catchy, the game features lots of nice sound affects. The animals in your 
 town all have a different way of speaking, although some of them are highly annoying, so you might 
 want to turn the animal voices off.
  
  Gameplay: What can I say ? I have never been more addicted to a game in my life, I would wake up 
 in the morning, the first thing I would do is turn on ACWW just to see what items Nook had in his 
 store. The game is very open ended, as in you have to find your own enjoyment, collecting fish/ 
 bugs/ hunting for fossils are just some of the things you can do in your town. Also the game features 
 a great multiplayer aspect, you can invite up to three friends to come over to your town. The games 
 only real downfall is that after a while it starts to feel like a chore to play rather than a game.
 
  
  Heres a good tip, If you have the game before your friends, make sure you rip them off with things 
 like 'golden shovels'. I made 20,000 bells by selling 2 golden shovels, you have do pay for you're 
 house somehow right ?
  
  Thankfully I have fully quit playing Animal Crossing, After 300+ hours of playing I have given 
 it up for good. It was the most fun I have had in a videogame for years. Anyone who owns a DS is 
 stupid not to buy this game. Don't be put off by the screenshots, this is not a game just for kids.
 
  
  Happy Gaming Everyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seekanddemolish
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 18, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  It explains itself..... bascically o. k........... O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. 
 O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. 
 O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. 
 O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. 
 O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. 
 O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. O. K. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtizio
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  The on-line sense of community is great; simple, yet wildly addictive game-play; hilarious dialogue.
 
  
  Nintendo's popular low-key simulation hits the road and adds on-line game-play to the mix -- invite 
 friends to visit your town over the Internet.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is truly a unique gaming experience, which unfolds entirely in real 
 time. So when you boot up the DS after stumbling home from a party at three in the morning, then 
 it will be three oclock in the morning in the game.
  
  Okay, Ill admit it- one of the biggest reasons I was excited about buying a DS was because of 
 the Animal Crossing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EviliPodMan99
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is a wierd game. You just go through life as a boy or girl in an animal where they................. TALK. 
 You can give donations, work, fish, steal from the garbage and the lost and found, catch bugs, 
 change the city around, send letters to friends, play multiplayer and have your own house. You 
 can grow flowers, then sell them. Grab a shell, sell it. It's your own life. I think it's more 
 of a kid game........... If you like the Sims, you might not like this. You can design your own 
 clothes, buy clothes and buy things for your own home. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dunte86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  In my opinion Wild World is better then the Cube version. Don't get me wrong they area about the 
 same game. but with minot tweaks. I like how the animals interact withother and you can listen 
 in to their conversation. I also enjoy how an animal can come visit your house. The thing i like 
 the most is the WiFi. The reason i didn't like the cube version is because i had no one to play 
 with so... it got a little boreing. On this version I have been online to other peoples towns. Seeing 
 other peoples towns and homes makes me want to make my town better so i can show it off. Just like 
 the gamecube version there is plenty to do do make money and loads of things to collect. This is 
 a game that will keep you coming back to it every day even if only for 15 minutes.
  
  I will admit that this game is not for everyone but just give it a try you may like it.
  
  
 Great Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nandito3555
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is enjoyable at all ages. My little bro wanted to buy it, but I said to him that was 
 a waste of time and money. I WAS WRONG!!
  
  GAMEPLAY- The gamplay is good, it isn't a great innovation, but it is good.
  
  GRAPHICS- The 
 graphics are just great. I don't know how thy put the Game Cube version of Animal Crossing in the 
 DS. You see the enviroment, the characters, the buildings. It's awesome.
  
  SOUND- It's good considerating the power of the DS.
  
  VALUE- This is the best thing of this 
 game, the fun never ends!
  You can go to fish, search fossils, catch bugs, buy clothes, see new neighbors buy stuff for you 
 house, send letters and more.
  
  I think this game is one of the best to come out on the DS so everyone who has one buy this game, 
 youy will certanly enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanthrus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 16, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  This game is good when ever you first pick it up, and you begin to play and think WOW! But after 
 a while the game begins to get a little bit boring, as you do the same thing nearly every day, 
 sure you can buy cool furniture, but the majority of your money goes into paying of the increasingly 
 large debts.
  
  It has a wide range of furniture, but not enough thing to do for money, it would be much better 
 if it include some mingames. It can doesn't really need to be replayed, but requires a constant 
 input, which if you don't put in you town will just detriorate slowly.
  
  It is also very addictive like making you want to play that hour every day to try and upgrade you 
 house and then there also the massive amount of furniture which comes in sets that you'll almost 
 always want to finish.
  
  All together its good but slowly gets worse as you go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satoshi44
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 15, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  The premise of the game seems fairly simple; expand your house as much as possible, acquire some 
 nice items (be it buying from the store, trading with friends, or finding them at random in the 
 most unexpected of places) for said house, and keeping your town as social and pretty as possible. 
 A couple days into it you realize there's certainly alot to do, and the game can be hard to put 
 down. You shouldn't be suprised to find yourself putting something else off so you can just deliver 
 this package to the villager across town, or to pluck that one weed that has been bothering you 
 that's growing next to your house.
  
  There are a multitude of things you can do as "side quests", as the game follows an extremely nonlinear 
 path. You can manage your town's appearance by planting flowers and trees, catch fish and bugs, 
 do errands for villagers (which are given to you at random) , dig up fossils to give to the museum, 
 develop 'friendships' with villagers, compete in tournaments, and of course, quite a few other 
 things to name.
  
  Then there's the multiplayer. Both over Nintendo WFC and Wireless LAN, there's not much lag to 
 be seen; you usually have a lossless and fun experience. In fact, that's where Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World shines at times. There's nothing more satisfying than whacking your friend in the head 
 with a bug net, or digging a pit around him and trapping them at their current location. 
  
  Of course, all of these things, as diverse as they are, slowly get more and more repetitive 
 like a bad minigame. It's a big bonus to have lots of friends to play multiplayer with, because 
 you're sure to feel dull by yourself after a week or two.
  
  In conclusion, AC: WW is a great game, provided you're into the concept, just don't expect it to 
 last you too terribly long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smasterwoo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 14, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing. What can you say about this game. It first came out on the Gamecube and was one 
 of the top games on the system. This game sucks you in on one basic concept, gameplay.
  There is so much that you can do during the course of one day on Animal Crossing and all can be 
 done by a six year old.
  The game starts off with you naming your town and character then it drops you off in front of the 
 town hall. Here you will meet my good friend Tom Nook who offers you a house and charges you some 
 bells (money) . 
  You'll spend the rest of your time doing odd jobs for people, growing and selling fruit, fishing, 
 bug catching, and playing the turnup market all as means to make some bells so you can pay off 
 your morgage and expand your house.
  During all this you'll try to find wall paper and flooring that matches along with furniture that 
 goes with everything. This game is kind of like a Sims but done better. I would much rather spend 
 my time playing around in Anima Crossing than telling my guy to go use the bathroom in Sims.
  The Word: If you have a DS and don't have this game go buy it now, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zimxz1
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  When a game series as different and as interesting as animal crossing comes out you kind of hope 
 it might actually have more to offer. Sadly this game is just to similar to the GC counterpart. 
 Other than a few small differences and added multiplayer these changes dont establish much of 
 anything different. So Even with added features there is not much. Instead of adding a lot of new 
 aspects to the game new content is sprinkled around areas that should have been altered more. The 
 biggest problem with ACWW is that it doesnt have the same charm as the of the GC one which makes 
 you care about playing it less. (oh so sad) So if you have never played animal crossing before buy 
 it and if you are a die-hard fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wormtail
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Easy to use controls. Intuituve to a degree. Nothing too complex. Touch screen control 
 is allright and it is useful for managing things in the menu and creating designs.
  
  Graphics: Wow. That is what i have to say. It really shows what the DS can do. Plus you can design 
 stuff!
  
  Sound: Nothing too fancy but you can make your own town theme!
  
  Value: All in all this is a great game because it keeps you coming back for more and the level 
 of customization in this game is unbelievable. Also for those of you who gave ACWW a bad review 
 make sure you are into sim games to begin with.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullmage550
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is one of the best games there is! You make money to upgrade your house, 
 you catch bugs and fish (if you catch then all you get a golden fishing rod and a golden bug net) , 
 sell items to the store, buy items from the store (if you buy enough the store gets bigger and 
 holds more items) , and dig up fossils. You pay more and more each time you upgrade your hose but 
 it is worth it because you can hold more items and that means the HRA (Happy Room Academy) will 
 give you a higher rating. If you get a high enough rating you get a model of a house. To get a 
 high rating it is best to have a full set. Some sets are Robo, Lovely, Regal, Cabana, Blue, and 
 Green. That isn't all there is many more. The bugs, fish, and fossils you get you can sell to Nook 
 or donate to the museum. If you donate all the fish, bugs, fossils and paintings you get a model 
 of the museum. If you buy enough items from the store it becomes bigger and holds more items. There 
 is random people that come to you town and if you find one it is really good. K. K. is a dog and 
 you request one of his songs like K. K. Love Song he will give you a copy to play in your house. 
 Or Joan will sell you turnips. Redd will sell you items from his tent but sometimes if you buy 
 a painting it is fake. Lyle sells you insurance and he will give you money for your fake paintings. 
 And there is many many more random people that come to your town. You can plant apple, peach, pear, 
 coconut, orange, and cherry trees. Nook will buy them for 500 bells each except for the one that 
 started off in your town. You can travel to other people's towns over Wi-Fi or when someone is 
 close to you (DS to DS) . There is so many items for your house it will take you forever to get 
 then all. You can also buy a Hat and a Shirt for your person in the clothes store. There is some 
 sets like Golden Armour and Roman Helmet or the Jester Hat and Jester Shirt. Overall Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World is a awesome game! If you don't have the game you should get it and if you have it congratulations 
 on your great purchase! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew_ds
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing wild world, is the most fun i have ever had on my DS.
  Weather you are fishing, harvesting fruits, making friends, collecting Sea shells, or doing one 
 of the many other things in the game, it will be none stop fun!
  
  First oh all The graphics on this game are incredibly good looking with no noticeable problems. 
 The graphics are almost as good as the ones on the Game cube.
  
  Also the huge amount of customization in this game make it an amazing game. You can customize your 
 house with over one thousand different items, including musical instruments, furniture, electronics, 
 and more. Also you can design patterns on almost everything. You can put your favourite designs 
 on your cloths, on the walls of your house, out side and many more places.
  
  Animal crossing wild world is the best ds game there is and if you haven't already got it I suggest 
 you go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videogames45678
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  When people say, "Animal Crossing: Wild World is a must buy," they are absolutely, 100% right. 
 I've never played a better game. And why? Let me see here..
  
  Gameplay is a 10. (of course, if I give it a 10, everything is a 10) It's just plain fun. If you 
 want a desolate wasteland for a town, come here. If you want a perfect town, with lush green trees, 
 come here. Do what you want.
  
  The graphics are awesome, so it's a 10. Sure, the screenshots look bad, but it's hard to take a 
 picture and make it look good. The graphics are 3x better (or even better) then any screen shot.
 
  
  The sound... it rivals OoT, at times. I might be exaggerating a bit, but it's really good. It's 
 made even better by the return of... K. K. Slider! K. K. Slider's music is available to you as much 
 as you want, after you obtain the song.
  
  Value? Well... I can't say.. NO! Absolutely worth the money you paid for it. AC: WW is never ending, 
 so don't tell me, "Oh, I beat Animal Crossing already." Listen, it's so addicting, I've had it 
 for a week and I've clocked 17 hours already. It's THAT addicting.
  
  Tilt. 10
  
  So, you know this is a great game. So get yourself over to that video game store, and get Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punisher65
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 11, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me just say that I am a huge Animal Crossing fan. I played the gamecube version 
 for at least 50 hours. But because I played the Gamecube version for so long, this new Animal Crossing 
 just seemed like the same thing just on 2 screens. Don't get me wrong, if you never played the 
 Gamecube version this is a must buy. But if you played the gamecube version like I did than you 
 might want to consider another game. This game is one of the best Nintendo DS games avalible, it 
 just isn't as fun as it would be if I didn't already play almost the exact same game on the Gamecube 
 for so long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 11, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  This is just sooo cool , its just so simple but brilliant ! So many things to do you cant get board 
 ! Its a different thing everyday ive never played a game like this before . It takes time getting 
 used to buy 1nce youve got the hang of it ur rolling !
  
  The gameplay is just amazing !!! Theres no storyline to it so it like maing your own storyline 
 up ! There no other gameplay like this in a game.
  
  The graphics i gave a 6 coz there ok , not the best ive seen ( Mario Kart) but there still good 
 enough for me!
  
  The sound is good because you can make your own sond for your town !!! Brilliant !!!
  
  It 
 is definatly worth the money , every penny . Mabe not the best ds game in the world but definatly 
 very very close.
  
  Thats why i gave it 8.4
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lothis
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 8, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Animal Crossing Wild World cause I heard good things about the GameCube one. I took 
 it home and I fell in love with it. 
  
  The graphics aren't the best I've seen on the DS, but they're decent, not bad at all. A little 
 blocky by that's about it.
  
  The sound effects are fitting. The animalese chatter is a nice difference from standard games but 
 if you don't like it you can turn it off or switch it to the sound you'd hear in standard games. 
 The music, while not all that great, does avoid tedium by switching the tune periodically.
  
  This game has some amazing gameplay. The initial purpose is to earn money to pay off your loan 
 on your house from Tom Nook, but after you do that, you play more to expand your home and pimp 
 out the furniture til you have a rocking pad. You also build up relationships with the neighbors, 
 all of which are animals. You can send them letters and run errands for them and such. If you want 
 you can try collecting every item in the game or you can try to fill out the Museum's galleries. 
 You can spend all your time shooting things out of the sky, catching bugs, or my personal favorite, 
 fishing. Fishing is a great way to earn bells (money in this game) as fish tend to fetch a high 
 price and you can catch them easily at any time of day. You can also spruce up your town. Plant 
 trees and flowers and pull up weeds. Harvest fruits from your trees and either sell them, eat them, 
 or use them to plant more trees. There's so much you can do and its up to you what you do. Your 
 neighbors can move out and in from time to time, but if they really like you, you can possibly 
 convince them to stay. Probably my favorite thing about this game (with as many games as I play 
 at one time) is that you really don't need to play it more than probably 30 min to an hour a day, 
 but on the flip side, you can play it longer if you want. Also there's no pressure to play every 
 day so you can take as long a break from it as you might need and pick it up again and it not be 
 ruined by your abscence.
  
  I would suggest buying this if you like the virtual life type games, such as Harvest Moon. If you 
 don't like Harvest Moon, you may want to pass on this one, but then again, perhaps not. Its at 
 least worth borrowing from a friend, or renting if you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bradiusmaximus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has hit gold with the release of Animal Crossing: Wild World for the Nintendo DS. Anyone 
 who played the original Animal Crossing for the Gamecube will immediately feel right at home with 
 the newest version. To be honest this game is really not too much different than the Gamecube version. 
 The biggest differences are the graphics are toned down a bit and that the grid based map system 
 is now gone. It is also worth noting that the old-school Nintendo games that were present in the 
 Gamecube version are also missing. What you get from the DS version is pretty much a portable version 
 of the original game. The best part of the new version is the Nintendo Wi-Fi options. It is now 
 possible to visit other peoples towns without dealing with swapping memory cards, which is a nice 
 new feature that really makes this game worth getting. Even though the Friend Code system is annoying, 
 at least it is free. You can control all your characters actions with the stylus, but most people 
 will prefer just using the d-pad and buttons. The use of the touch screen in this game is not great 
 by any means, but it does make selling items a much faster process. Be warned  this game is crack. 
 I got it about 3 months ago and I still play it every single day. I seriously have not missed one 
 day yet. The game is even more fun if you know others who are playing it as well. It is easy to 
 recommend this game to anyone who has a Nintendo DS. Fans of the original Animal Crossing will 
 not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: outdoorbob52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is extremely well done! The graphics are very high quality, the basic storyline is wonderfully 
 creative, and the little people are very cute! I give this game a 10/10! I would suggest this game 
 for 4th graders to adults because there are lots little things you have to remember. And I have 
 heard that even people in there 30's are hooked on this game, so I guess that adults like it too! 
 I would tell all of my friends to get it. Oh, this game is a little bit more for girls, but only 
 just a tiny, little smidgen. I know plenty of guys that would play this, including my dad and brother. 
 Overall: BUY THIS GAME!!! Oh yeah, one more thing. When I rented the Game Cube Animal Crossing, 
 I really didn't like it. But this is WAY different! So even if it doesn't seem like your kind of 
 thing, or if you didn't like the first game, buy it anyway. I guaranty you will be pleasantly surprised! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keyboard_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 7, 2006 3:43 am PT
Review:  Its addictive , its about animals , Its animal crossing! Yay.. free cheers..
  Before i start my "awesome" review , i have something to say ...
  This game pwnz! - Chuck .
 
  
  Review starts here .-
  
  Another Animal crossing , yay. 
  Think , GC Version with extra stuff and something taken out .
  
  Talking Animals? - Check.
 
  Tube World ? - Check.
  A bunch of things to collect?-Check. 
  
  There , a animal crossing game. 
  But wait ! Its on a DS .
  With Nintendo Wi-Fi , You , yes 
 you , can play this game with your friends .
  via Ingame Friend-Code . 
  
  More items to collect , No more NES games . 
  But still , its great! Addictive !.
  Get this 
 - Chuck .
  Me agrees ...
  
  Another great game on the go!
  It's Animal Crossing , on the go !
  
  -End of Review-
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canuuk
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Wow, what can't be said about this game?
  
  The game is absolutely perfect! Loads better than the GameCube version, AC: Wild World delivers 
 your own virtual life. You own a house, expand it, buy and win items to furnish it anyway you like 
 it. You can also do tons of activities such as fishing, bug catching, run errands for your neighbors, 
 shopping, gardening, attend to festivities... truly amazing laidback game. 
  
  One of the best feature is the Wi-Fi connection. You actually connect to the internet to either 
 visit a friend's town, or invite some friends to yours! From there you can trade and chat as much 
 as you like!
  
  Overall, the best game for the DS at the moment and possibly one of the best for any console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astroteen
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is very impressive! It is unique (in its own way) , and fun. The original Animal Crossing, was 
 addicting, but this game is a bit better. In the GCN version, I did not right lots of letters, since 
 it was soooo frustrating. This one, it is a breeze, and well, not frustrating (at all, unless you use 
 tha D-Pad) . The thing about Animal Crossing Wild World, is that it does not have Toy Day, Halloween, and 
 all those cool holidays that was in the original. Now, Nintendo crammed in these weird holidays, that 
 really, is sorta dumb. This game has lots of potential (more fish, insects, K. K. Musics, Letters, etc) and 
 is Online. Do I recomend this game? Yes i do. But most will be dissapointed with its new features, and 
 seems to be missing some stuff. Anyway, great game, and go Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazimman
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I have never played Animal Crossing for the Gamecube, or any game like Animal Crossing for that 
 matter... but when I first bought Animal Crossing: Wild Word and started to play and I was on that 
 Taxi ride to my town I was impressed on the way the started the game (but that was nothing compared 
 to what was coming up) . When I first was walking around in my town I was impressed by the graphics, 
 the sound AND the controls. Very soon I was 100% addicted to this game; I was actually looking 
 forward to come home after school to play it! If you have WFC on it, then this game is pretty much 
 TWICE as fun! Well I can say is Get This Game Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario-Man
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 4, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World was a game that I thought was worth waiting for. When I played it , 
 it was pretty sweet. I hade nothin else to do so I played it like most of my time. But you may 
 want to savor it. Once you do the same thing everyday you know you played to much. It would have 
 been better. It should have had more capabilitys. Like you should have been able to egg Tom Nook's. 
 That would have been fun. They Wifi stuff was pretty pointless. Its like theres another guy in 
 my town great. I never really did Wifi, but what they said it was like, i thought it was just crap. 
 So take your time and dont rush on Animal Crossing WW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bambitheking
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 2, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Now this game is totally cool and an awsome idea that came from nintendo. But I do have my own 
 thoughts about it. Their are good parts, and their are bad parts, more good parts, but still bad 
 part, like three or four. Lets start with the bad parts. One is that their aren't enough things 
 to do in the town. Their could have been like minigames or something to spice up the gameplay. 
 Another thing is that you have to know the people who you go to in wifi. Now that probalby was 
 because nintendo didn't want little kids to get mixed up with old men, but if you don't know anyone 
 with ACWW then wifi is totally pointless. Now some good things. It is totally cool that this game 
 has all the creative stuff you can do. Make towntunes, clothes, house decoration. It is totally 
 cool. Also the people are cool. Other things are the fishing and bug catching. Just every thing 
 in this game are cool, except the limeted town, and wifi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninten_fan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 1, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is so addicting and fun that almost anyone can pick it up but some things disapoint me 
 like the loss of all the Nes games and no Major Holidays.. but Animal crossing deserves to be on 
 a Portable and the DS is the system its best for.. You will never stop playing this game. It takes 
 atleast 4-8 years to find everything about this awsome game... now just add WI-FI to the Whole experience 
 and you have a game that will last ages..
  
  Graphics - Nothing really amazing but graphics isnt really part of animal crossing.. is it?
  
 
  sound - Nice sound and there is alot to see here...
  
  gameplay - This were the game really shines. The gameplay is fun and lasts a long time..
  
 
  Value - The best part of this game is its value.. Its like a never ending game.. theres bugs and 
 fish to catch... Lots of Items to collect.... Wi-fi is also fun aswell and there neigbors to talk 
 to each..
  
  This is a must have game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crapyourheadoff
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  this game would have to be my third favrit game i hav my second is halo my favrit game is star 
 wars battle front 2 for xbox but i rely like animal crossing wild world halo was a pretty hard 
 game i have still not beaten halo star wars battle front 2 wasnt vary hard at all it was easy to 
 beat the game i only have payed off my frist det on anamle crossing wild world i think when i beat 
 the game of anamle crossing i will play anemle crossing gamecube of cours i would have to buy the 
 game to even play it 4 gamecube. the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taegukki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about Animal Crossing for the Gamecube, I never really gave it the light of 
 day. Let me say now that that was a huge mistake. I came across the DS version and though, ah what 
 the hell, i'll give it a shot. As soon as I started playing, I was instantly addicted. 
  
  When you first start the game, you are in the back seat of a taxi. The pseudo-pirate driver then 
 begins to ask you questions about who you are, what town you are going to, what attribute of the 
 town you are most looking forward to etc. When you arrive, you exit the taxi, and enter into an 
 amazing little town (the town and all the residents are random each time you start a new game) 
 full of wonderful scenery, a wealth of entertaining activities to keep you occupied, and a vibrant 
 and cutesy community (all of which are different animals, hence the name Animal Crossing) . You 
 are taken to your new home, complete with mortgage. After paying off your mortgage to the local 
 store owner Tom Nook, you can then expand it and decorate it to your own taste. This is only the 
 beginning. This game is full of so many different things to do, that its replay value is virtually 
 endless. The wifi feature is also an added bonus, used to view other peoples towns (now all I need 
 is a wifi adapter for my DS) ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h8uthemost
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  I never played the gamecube version, so I cant really compare the two. But I think this version 
 is great.
  I'm new to it, so I cant tell you a whole lot. The graphics really are pretty good. You travel 
 up or down the world, meaning: the world is kinda concaved. Its very interesting, and you get use 
 to it very quickly. You can customize your character with all kinds of clothes and hats. Thats 
 a nice touch.
  I just actually got my WIFI working. So I just ventured out for my first time to someone else's 
 town. It was pretty fun. You can trade, fish together, or do whatever. It was cool.
  Theres not too much that I can say about this game. You just have to get it and experience it for 
 yourself. I"ve never played a game like this, and I never thought I would. But I'm very glad I 
 gave it a chance. I'll be playing this game for a long time to come. Its definetely one of my favorites. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  In Animal Crossing: Wild World, you play as a guy (You!) that just moved in a town filled with 
 animals that can talk, move, and do other activities (just like humans) . Here's my review:
  
  Gameplay: Here's the positive elements. First of all, and mainly, it's Animal Crossing. It's 
 addictive fun all the way through. The population of animals grows even when you're not playing 
 it! Whenever you have enough bells (the currency) to create your own stuff, that's when your creativity 
 goes wild. You can have your own pattern or style for your house, clothes, and even your outdoor 
 surroundings! But wait, there's more! This game also has tons of stuff to collect, for either use 
 or just pretty-looking, almost every day. Another positive element as well is the fact that it 
 is on Wi-Fi, which is just no more than 3 people visiting your town, and even you can visit other 
 people's town. Now, for the negative elements. Despite it being addictive, the game still feels 
 like a chore at times (After all, though, that is how you get bells. Through chores.) . Another 
 problem is that Wi-Fi, even though it is pretty good, could still have been better. And mainly, 
 there really are no puzzles or challenges in this game. All of these "chores" are quite on the 
 easy side. But honestly, this game should definately not dissapoint Animal Crossing fans and might 
 even bring new fans to this game.
  
  Graphics: The game looks sharp and clear on the DS and all, it's just the fact that the drawings 
 are little cute doodle-like animals and a cute doodle-like human (s)
  
  Sound: This game has tons of personality, all thanks to wity dialogue with fun characters. Even 
 though they sound like chipmunks, and can get a little annoying at times, it is still quite humorous 
 and is just lovable.
  
  Value: The game, like I said, is quite addictive and you should be playing it alot if you are a 
 fan of this game. But, for some people, They won't find it as addictive. The game on Wi-Fi, however, 
 can be addicting, I just wish it was a little better.
  
  Tilt: Fans of Animal Crossing or people that wanted to try it should not be disappointed and should 
 and will anyways buy. Otherwise, it is still worth renting or checking out somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsgban64pcgc
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  There is not a single negative word a person can call this game and be truthful about it. This 
 game is awesome in every way. If you would really like to drag your GameCube and Animal Crossing 
 into the car for a road trip but can't, then I highly suggest you look into this game. It took 
 me 2 months to find this game in stock. This game is so good, that when I went shopping to go buy 
 it, I could not find it in stock ANYWHERE. I finally went online and ordered it on there, even 
 though that it took that site a month to get one and ship it to me! Animal Crossing: Wild World 
 is a spectacular game and I give it two-thumbs up! Nintendo is taking small steps in consoles but 
 GIANT steps in gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 10outof10
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  yes tons of people thought the first one was addictive and putting it in portable form was a suprisingly 
 good idea. But its horrible that it doesn't have the NES games in it like the gamecube one did. 
 The graphics look just like those of the gamecube's but thats not saying much considering the original 
 graphics look like those of an N64 game's. If you have seen the gamecube game and are looking for 
 something new then you won't find much new hear because its pretty much the same thing. If you 
 loved the gamecube one you should pick this up and play it in the car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bededog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  [Presentation 9/10]
  
  It really does not come out and tell you about all the things in the game. For example its bad when 
 you have to look in the guide to figure out where to go to go online, which I did. Besides that 
 the presentation is good.
  
  [Graphics 10/10]
  
  The graphics are on par with mario kart ds the best looking ds to date (thats out that is) .
  
 
  [Sound 8/10]
  
  The sounds in acww are not bad but they are not great either. The sound you can just ignore similar 
 to what I do. And it sucks that Im almost never free on saturday nights and it took me forever to 
 get a song from K. K.
  
  [Controls 10/10]
  
  The controls rule especially with styli touch talking. I only wish they used the touch screen more 
 like you could have fished using the touch screen.
  
  [Single Player 9/10]
  
  Well every day you do the same thing:1. Talk to people 2. Go to nooks 3. Fish 4. Bug catching 5. Make 
 clothes 6. Improve house. Evening with this it is very addicting. Its similar to life every day 
 is unique.
  
  [Multiplayer 10/10]
  
  This is the highlight of the game. LAN and online are the same unlike mario kart ds, except that 
 you need a friend code to visit on online. Multiplayer is just like the single player but you can 
 talk to people real people.
  
  [Overall 9.4/10]
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MurkyFrog
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 25, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game, though I haven't played very long (only like three days  _ ) . I found it really 
 addicting, but it does seem like you're doing the exact same thing you did yesterday sometimes. 
 But I loved selling stuff to make money, talking with my neighbors, and just walking around.. It's 
 definitely not for everyone, as you'll need some patience for this game. The music and sound fits 
 with the cheery feel of the game. I haven't played it on Wi-Fi yet, but that would definitely make 
 the game much better, since you can visit other people's towns, which have lots of different things, 
 like a different native fruit, different neighbors, etc. I recommend this game to anyone who likes 
 Life Simulators. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemckjoe2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  i can't beleiv this game it was rely grate well you get the pitcher right?
  well anyway i played this game for at least 120 hours the hole time i had it!
  i thik the grafics 
 were allsom . don't you think they were. well anyway i think they were . the sound was good i guss 
 i mostly liked the grafics more then the sound. the value was pretty good i even liked the souned 
 better then the valu wich i still think the graficsbetter then the valu and the sound the grafics 
 were still allsom. i think the gameplay was better then the sound the grafics and the valu all 
 put together .
  
  
  
  and that is my revew.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultttimaa
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  This game has got to be the best game out on the DS. So, here, im gonna split it up. 
  
  Gameplay: Sure, its boring at first because you can't do much. But once you get farther into the 
 game and pay off that first house, you just can't stop playing! You get to play on wi-fi, collect 
 rare items, and lots of other stuff! What could be more fun?
  
  Sound: The sound is great. Its clear, and perfect. Not to mention, the wonderful K. K. slider tracks 
 you can get from him every saturday. There are a ton of different tracks.
  
  Graphics: Perfect. They aren't blurry, or horrible. They are just... Perfect.
  
  Controls: 
 They are very simple. Up, down, left, right, A, B, X, Y. The controls are very easy to get used 
 to, and, you can even play everything with the stylus!!!
  
  Final score: 10/10
  
  Rent? Or buy?: BUY! If you rent, you will just end up renting this game a few hundred times. Its 
 just better to buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmen21
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 24, 2006 11:00 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing was originally an ordinary sim game for the Gamecube, except replace humans with 
 animals. A lot of people like the idea of fishing, planting trees and flowers, and doing almost 
 everything you could do in real life......... with animals. The only problem with the GC version 
 is that you couldn't really take it on the go and play whenever you wanted. Well, Nintendo has 
 fixed that problem with Animal Crossing: Wild World for the DS. And while it may cause some gamers 
 to hesitate about purchasing this game, they should consider borrowing a friends copy first.
  
  What you do in AC: WW is exactly what you did before in the GC version: You move into a town 
 filled with animal people, pay your mortgage, expand your house, talk to the townsfolk, go fishing, 
 etc. It is pretty fun to chat with others and do favors for them, like trying to see who can catch 
 a bluegill in the least amout of times or finding a fossil for the local museum. You can also plant 
 saplings that'll grow overtime everyday, and not to mention that you can chop trees down as well. 
 In short, you're just doing whatever you wanna do in this town.
  
  One of the neat aspects of AC: WW is that there are holidays that if you set the clock on your DS 
 right, it'll be Christmas in that town as it is in real life. Weather also obviously affect the 
 look of the town. If it's January in real life, it'll snow in that town, likewise for othe seasons 
 in the year. All of this gives you an overly creepy sense of realism that can actually be quite 
 comical at times throughout the game.
  
  But the biggest problem with Wild World is that it gets pretty old and boring 7-8 hours in. Why? 
 Mainly because some of the daily tasks are dull and not really fun to do, not to mention that you'l 
 probably be doing the same thing everyday: Go fishing, talk to other townsfolk, plant some trees 
 and flowers, buy stuff for your house, and all of that stuff. What's worse is the fact that the 
 only thing that breaks the boredom is the occasional vistitor or new neighbors, which happens every 
 couple of days, maybe even more if you're patient enough.
  
  Graphics-wise, it doesn't look that great. some of the environments look completely bland, the 
 charcters look ugly, and everything is low-res. The only redeeming quality here is when your walking 
 in a certain direction, the world tunrs as if you were walking in a globe. Other than that, it's 
 not really the best part about the game.
  
  The sound is one of the best parts, though. Every animal person you meet has their own "introduction 
 tune" at the beginning of every sentence, and not to mention that they speak in their own language 
 (Animalese) . Then there is the town song that plays when you go outside for a walk or when you 
 enter a building. Aside from that, it sounds pretty decent.
  
  Overall, if you're looking for a fresh new game for your DS, AW :WW would be a great choice if 
 it had more variety in it. If you're still certain you want this game, at least borow it from a 
 friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf418
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  I don't want to write a whole story about this game so i'm gonna split this up in to groups/sections:
 
  
  Gameplay: Ok, for one thing, there is loads to do in this game, whether it be fishing, catching bugs, digging 
 up fossils, talking to neighbors, getting furniture, or paying off the loan on your house!
  
  Graphics: Ahem, the graphics for this game are just perfect no matter what people say!
  
  Sound: The 
 sound is just perfect for this kind of game and it also includes K. K. Slider (Totakeke) songs, from 
 a range of 55 songs, you'll be rockin' it out loud!
  
  Value: Oh my god, for one thing, there are like over 1000 items to collect (I think...) which will keep 
 you sittin' there for hours! You can also ask a friend to bring a memory card with their file and 
 you can go to eachother's towns!
  
  If you do not get this game heed my warnings: TOM NOOK IS COMING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koray22
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  Imagine this,
  Your walking through a small town full of trees, fruits, and bugs. You walked past an old rickedy 
 shop called Nook's Cranny, and you stop short in front of a store called, The Able Sisters. Just 
 when you are about to walk in, you are startled to see a cow walking on two legs up to you. When 
 it begins to talk to you, you almost faint!
  
  Animal Crossings is a world where the game never ends, and a world in which fosslils are buried 
 often in the ground. You could watch the sun rise and set, or watch the dark clouds at midnight. 
 Go ahead and visit a neighbor or annoy Tom Nook, the "trusty" shop owner. You can make a cool design 
 for a shirt, or depending on the season make a snowman!! 
  
  In Animal Crossings: Wild World for the Nintendo DS, players will explore a world where other humans 
 simply just don't exist. Instead of humans, friendly (most of the time) animals are your new friends. 
 For a Nintendo Ds owner who just cant find a game to play, all hope has returned. 
  BE WARNED!! For MAIN STREAM gamers who are easily entertained with Madden and Grand Theft Auto, 
 this probably isnt the game for you. This is not a game with many challenges, its a game to simply 
 chill in. Collect items, connect with friends through WiFi, and do much more. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  How could anyone have a problem with the graphics in this game? They are solid. No 
 problems whatsover. The game is colorful, bright, and full of life. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Its a game where you run around your own little town and hang out. There arent any crazy glitches 
 and its not a game your gonna get stressed over. You can run using the D-PAD or the touchpad. Controlling 
 your character is hard at all. 
  
  SOUND:
  The music in this game is really kickback and kind of soothing. Depending on the hour it is (because 
 this game runs on real time) there will be a different song playing. 
  
  OVERALL:
  A fun game for people of all ages. For people that want a creative and innovative game. Unless 
 you want a real challenge, Animal Crossings: WIld World is a must buy for ALL DS owners. 
  
  BTW: ANIMAL CROSSINGS WiFi INFO (just in case u wanna play with me)
  Friend Code: 090255006901
 
  Town Name: Dinnzura
  Char. Name: Koray
  
  PS. Be sure to send me your guys info too!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazasul
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This game has been known to be very hit or miss, However the majority of people who I know that 
 have played it have loved it. 
  
  Firstly im sure your aware that this is the second version of animal crossing, The first being 
 on the gamecube. If you have played the gamecube version I regret to say you will not enjoy this 
 game as much as if you hadnt, However there are many new features that have been added to keep 
 you entertained:
  
  - Hundereds of new items
  - Hats =)
  - Hair =P
  - New visitors
  - Entirely different special events
  .... to name but a few.
  
  This game shares the same 
 flaw as its gamecube counterpart, After a week or two this game gets ridiculously repetitive, Im 
 sure many of the people who have played this disagree but I guess it depends how much you can cope 
 with it. 
  
  If you can play this game through wi fi and know at least 2 people who can do the same then this 
 game is definetly worth checking out.
  
  All in all im sure there is a large chance you will enjoy this game regardless of whether you played 
 the original.
  
  
  + Absolutely tons of items
  + So much to do!
  + Wi fi mode, w00t!
  
  
 
  - Repetitive
  - Needs to be less restrictions E. g. When Tom Nooks shop is being upgraded it shuts for a whole 
 day, Therefore its impossible to sell anything on that day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remmbermytitans
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  For everyone who loved the first Animal Crossing, this game is for you. This game is an improvement 
 over the first game, and not only can you go online this time around. But it's portable, so you 
 can take this game with you just about anywhere. The game takes the DS' capabilities to the max, 
 the graphics are great (for the DS) , you have the option of using either the touch-screen or you 
 can just you the buttons. If you're like me, you can either pick up this game and play for 2 hours 
 at a time, or play a little save, and come back to it later. Also, this game allows you to have 
 up to a total of 4 people living in a house at one time, and everyone works together to fill up 
 the museum, pay off your debt, or fix up the house. There are plenty of items in this game, and 
 there's always that one thing that'll make you house perfect. The multiplayer and the use of Nintendo's 
 Wi-Fi connection will also keep you playing for a long time, there's barely any lag, and when it 
 does, it doesn't slow gameplay down that much. Though there have been a few times where it loses 
 the connection and you're forced to restart from your last save, but Nintendo did give us an option 
 where we can save in the middle of the game, while on local or Nintendo Wi-Fi. There are a few 
 negatives, for example, a total of only eight animals can be in a town at once (or at least that's 
 all I've gotten) , but other than this there aren't that many other negatives in this game. Overall, 
 if you loved the first game and you have a DS, you must get this game, it's better, it's portable, 
 and you have a multiplayer option, everything you wanted from the last version, is here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hershey07
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is an amazing game for the DS. It has wi-fi capability so you can go 
 visit other people's towns. This game is sort of similar to The Sims, where you just take care 
 of your town, you dress up your character. But one thing is everyone might not like this game. 
 There are a lot of things to do in Animal Crossing: Wild World but it can get very repetitive once 
 you have done everything. But wi-fi with your friends make it more exciting and fun. If you have 
 or dont have w-fi the game will still be fun offline. Overall I wouldn't really recommend this 
 game to everyone but if you have previously played the other Animal Crossing games for the Gamecube, 
 you should definitely go pick this up. If not it might depend on how you may like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baseballboy6595
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  First off. This is a good add-on to a good seies. When I bought it I played it forever. Here are 
 a few reasons that I rate it what I do.
  
  Gameplay- very good gameplay that will keep you addicted. Once you do one thing you always have 
 something else to do. Fish, catch bugs, collect shells and fossils ect. 10!!!
  
  Graphics- The graphics aren't amazing but they are decent enough to play and have fun but not the 
 best. 8.
  
  Sound- It seems that he sound is good but sound is amazingly used alot in this game. Mostly used 
 in fishing. 9.
  
  Value- very very good value mostly because you can't beat this game. There is no objective so just 
 play. 10!!!
  
  Tilt- ?
  
  Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FeelGoodGamer
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 23, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing reminds me of a certain game called the Sims. No, not because of the gameplay, 
 but because something both games share in common. That is, that there is no proper goal. No objective, 
 so to speak. Almost like a game, where there is a begining, but no end.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  The gameplay in Animal Crossing is quite varied, but def not for everyone. 
 It is a game where you go fishing, dig for fossils, buy furniture and talk to the locals. However, 
 you will not see any credits so to speak. The simple fact is, Animal Crossing is a game you could 
 play for an hour, or for a year, and it wouldn't really make to much of a difference. In fact, 
 you can see everything the game has to offer in a mere few hours. Is this bad or good? That depends 
 on your point of view. 
  
  Ok, so I lied. There is a goal, and that is to pay off your house. But thats almost like saying 
 the goal of the Sims is make sure they get good jobs etc. It's not a goal that hinders what you 
 can do in the game. With AC, you don't even need to complete this goal. Of course, you may want 
 to, but it dosen't make a significant difference, nor does it push you into paying off the house.
 
  
  The gameplay in Animal Crossing is very simple, but has a huge variety. It has tasks that you would 
 perform in real life, and then some that are more fantasy. However, providing you like these kind 
 of tasks, there is alot of fun to be had in AC. 
  
  The Wi-Fi is pretty cool, but also annoying at the same time. The is no central hub to go to, and 
 you can't visit peoples towns unless you exchange friend codes with each other. Although this makes 
 sense, it would have been nice if the Wi-Fi was more fleshed out.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Graphics are good for a DS game, and are nice and vibrant. However, they also look incredibly kiddy, 
 something that will hurt it's casual appeal. 
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  Sound is alright, but the animal talking sounds can sometimes get annoying. In general, the sound 
 is fine.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  There is a huge amount of stuff to do in AC, and providing you like the game you could spend alot 
 of time playing it.
  
  Overall:
  For some people, this will be a game they will play for years. For others, it's a great little 
 time waster, that will keep them busy for a little while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foondeman1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever had the great fortune to own. It is so good, all you 
 will ever think about is this game. The sheer depth of things you can do while playing this game 
 is almost overwhelming. Every action that you do in the game has some sort of impact, no matter 
 how insignificant it may seem. There is always sometging to do in the game at any given time, be 
 it dig for fossils, go fishing, talk to people, or even design clothing. The only complaint that 
 I can find with this game is the fact that the graphics and sound could be better. Overall, this 
 a nearly flawless game that I would reccomend to almost everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qupidxoxo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  This is one of the few games in the line up of nintendos littlebundle of joy to keep me and otheirs 
 happy, So what can i say about this game that is bad...... um nothing its almost perfect beside the 
 fact people can destroy your stuff... money wise this is not a waste go and get it!
  
  I mean when i baught this, I my self was gonna give it to my dirl friend but hey, I decided to pop 
 it in my sexy electric blue ds and give it a try, my mouth was hanging to china, lol, the gameplay 
 is smooth and a cool feature of letting outsider in your town is aswome the only thing is to me 
 thats a little dumb is the touch screen text,
  
  COme on nintendo ou shoulda put the keys were i can use my thumbs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boboboj
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is fun addicting and fun to play. It may sound boring on paper fishing, caching 
 bugs, digging up fossiles. Also you get forein fruit from other towns and the wifi is great the best 
 wifi better than Mario Kart DS. And trhere is so much to do in the game you'll come back ever day 
 (like me) . But it is so hard to explane it yet we all love it its Animal Crossing that wat makes 
 it the one Best. So get this game no matter wat even if you don't have a DS you need to get this 
 game just rent it and you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSsk8er08
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This would have to be one of the best games ever on the ds.
  If anybody played this on the gamecube then this should be a snap for u learning how to play it. 
 This game iz difficult when u get to the point where u have to make alot of money. You can make 
 alot of money bi planting tree's and not the ones u start out with. Whats more different about 
 the ds version iz that u can get many hair styles. U can also get lots of kool stuff at www. Nookway. com
 
  
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
  blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
  blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
  blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wordtoyomama
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is the 2nd funnest DS game i have ever played (Second only to Mario Kart) . It is worth 
 the money BUT requires much playtime and commitment. It's like getting married except for instead 
 of spending money you have to spend every waking moment with the game. Lack of playing results 
 in your town being a dump with tons of weeds. The multiplayer is great but lack of an easier way 
 to communicate ( hard to get specific letters with touch screen, takes forever with the gamepad) 
 makes it worse. I recommend to someone who has a lot of time on their hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spudmaster28
Rating: 10
Date: May 19, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  When I opened this game on christmas morning, i could not be more excited, since i was a huge fan 
 of the gamecube version. When i popped it into my DS for the first time, i was pleasantly surprised 
 by better controls, amazing graphics, and i was soon to discover that this is a game that will 
 keep you coming back for more. 
  In the beginning, you are bombarded with the menial labor of the shop owner, Tom Nook. The tasks 
 are boring, tedious, and annoying, but DO NOT let this discourage you from contiuing to play. These 
 tasks take about 15 minutes to a half an hour (for the slackers) to complete, so it is not long 
 until you are freed from work to do whatever you want, whenever you want.
  The game is set at a real time clock, so it adds a signifigant amount of "personal depth". The 
 graphics and gameplay, although hard to believe, are both better than its console predecessor. 
 The graphics, though very farmiliar with the original, maintain the exact same look as the gamecube, 
 with an added bonus: you can actually see in front of you. The gamecube one was broken up into 
 seperate acres, which got VERY annoying, but worry no more, they are gone! All of the control problems 
 with the gamecube version have been fixed, such as the INCREDIBLY TEDIOUS selling of items. Instead 
 of selling things one by one, you are given two areas: your items, and the items you are selling. 
 Also, for example, if you have a broken hand/arm, do not despair, if you want you can control the 
 entire game with the touch screen, which highly utilizes the DS's capabilities.
  This game, though, is not for everyone. If you are a fan of action games, first person shooters, 
 and fighting games, don't touch this game with a 20 foot pole. The "action" is limited to delivering 
 letters, fishing, bug catching, letter writing, house decorating, clothes designing, well, you 
 get the idea. In no way is having a game that actually relaxes you a bad thing, but every once 
 in a while, you want to blow a demons head off with a shotgun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coylenintendo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  It is basically the same thing as Animal Crossing for GC but portable and WiFi. But if you liked 
 the first AC, want a portable one, or want a good DS game then this game might be for you. You 
 still move to town and pay off your house, and pay Nook. You cant have four houses for four players 
 but four people can share a house. The new things are new items, fish, bugs, fossils, and you can 
 wear new things besides shirts like hats, mustaches, glasses, etc. The Museum still accepts donations, 
 and there is now a place in there where you make constellations and a place to buy coffee for 200 
 bells. Some things are made easier like Blathers checks the fossil so you wont have to send a letter 
 and wait for the fossil. You can just press start to save instead of walking back to your house 
 to save. Dressers and wardrobes hold like 15 items instead of three now. The post office is now 
 that water fountain thing and has a recycle bin to hold 15 items. The only hard thing I can think 
 of is fish move around alot in the water and can be very confusing. Most of the other things are 
 the same. But I would recommend this game to people who want a portable version of AC or want a 
 good DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordcarbo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a very hyped up game. People go crazy saying how awsome it is, yada 
 yada yada. Two of my friends kept urging me to get it, saying how awesome it is. So I got it.
 
  
  First things first -- I've never played Animal Crossing for Gamecube. This is my first Animal Crossing 
 game. For some background information, Animal Crossing: Wild World is pretty much like The Sims 
 with animals, and instead of taking the role of "god", it's an RPG. The game starts out with you 
 giving information to a taxi driver about who you are and where you're going. You get to the town, 
 and a raccoon named Tom Nook gives you a house, and your goal is to pay back the mortgage. As time 
 goes on, he rebuilds your house many times, making it bigger and bigger, as your mortgage bill 
 gets bigger as well.
  
  In your town, there are a whole bunch of animal neighbors. You can chat to them or you can ignore 
 them, it's really your choice. There are some pretty cool neighbors, though, and even if you get 
 a few more boring neighbors or ones you don't like, they all have their own personality.
  
  So that's all you do? Talk to neighbors and pay mortgage? No, it's not that boring. For one, this 
 game is a sandbox game, so there's always something to customize. You can design your own shirt, 
 rearrange your furniture, put constellations into the night sky, catch bugs and fish, you name 
 it.
  
  But of course, you need money. Look no further. In Animal Crossing: Wild World, there are plenty 
 of ways to get money. You can fish and sell the fish you catch, or perhaps you're more of a casual 
 player who'd rather just sell fruits off trees or make a profit selling turnips to Nook. It's really 
 hard to list every single thing you can do in this game, though. There's a lot, though, trust me.
 
  
  All these things, though, they just don't seem to last. Sure, fishing is fun for awhile, and it's 
 always a joy catching a bug, but sometimes these things feel more like chores than anything else. 
 The multi-player experience can make these things fun, but while with single-player, the more enjoyable 
 moments are at the times when you fiddle around with things you can control.
  
  The graphics are the cute little things you'd expect from Nintendo (not to be stereotypical, of 
 course) . They're pretty good all around, there aren't many 2D sprites used although most of the 
 game takes place with a fixed camera (and the small parts where the camera isn't fixed are those)
 
  
  Most of the background music is only fairly decent. It fits into the game nicely, but, it's just 
 missing that extra something that it needs. The shining beacon of light for the music in that town 
 is a guitar playing dog named K. K. Slider, and his tunes really add some variety to the town. You 
 get to listen to a performance by him where he only plays the guitar, sings with his odd voice, 
 whistles, and howls. After you hear the performance, you get a bootleg of his song where the song 
 uses different instruments and has all the components of a good song (sometimes better than the 
 performance, sometimes worse, depends on your taste) you can play in a room in your house, and 
 there are a lot of songs by him, over sixty, to be exact. Unfortunately, there is no way to play 
 his tracks while on the go, exploring your town. That's a shame too because those bootlegs make 
 up the best part of the background music anywhere in the game, and you can only hear it inside 
 your house.
  
  The best times of the single-player experience come after you've payed off your mortgage. At this 
 point, you'll have nothing to truely strive for. so that's when you can experiment with your town. 
 Some people decide to create themed towns using plenty of pattern designs. Maybe you could put 
 your money to work and refurnish your house. It's really all up to you, and if it's fun or not 
 is really your choice.
  
  This game doesn't last if you only live off single player, unfortunately. In the Gamecube version, 
 there were plenty of NES games to keep you occupied, but unfortunately, the DS version doesn't 
 have those games (and probably couldn't handle having enough so the NES game collection would be 
 enjoyable) . Instead, the lasting value comes from the Nintendo WiFi service, and if you can't access 
 it, I wouldn't reccomend this game to you. If you can access WiFi, and if you're willing to make 
 the effort to go onto Animal Crossing communities over the internet to fill up your friend list, 
 you're set.
  
  This game CAN be a blast, you just need to make it one. Single-player isn't all that enjoyable, 
 unfortunately, and seems to become more a burden than it's worth, but with Nintendo WiFi, the saving 
 grace of this game, the game really feels perfect. If you're a social freak or just a casual gamer, 
 this is definately a good game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cowboycawley
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing wild world is a great game that any ds owner should think about adding to their 
 library of games. The graphics are solid, but there are a lot of jaggies. In other words sometimes 
 trees seem to be moveing the slightest bit. The sound isnt to great, but it doesn't ever get annoying (which 
 is good) . The main thing that got me attached to this game was the value. You are always going 
 to want to come back and play for a bit. Also I strongly reccomend to get wifi with the game. WiFi 
 adds a replay value to the game. It is also the key to getting some of the more rare items. With 
 that said, animal crossing wild world is a great and fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickythenewt21
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is the best DS game that we've seen so far. It is a game that is worth 
 far more than $34.99. It is worth about $1,000,000,000 because it isn't just a game, it's another 
 life. You'll be addicted to it till the day you die (or, until the next Animal Crossing) . I'm playing 
 it right now, actually, because I am THAT ADDICTED TO IT. Now, I'll talk about each little category, 
 and why I gave Animal Crossing: Wild World a 10/10.
  
  Gameplay: You can do almost anything in Animal Crossing: Wild World. If you want to make your house 
 look like a School, go ahead. A bar: sure. You can even make it into a Nude Bar, for Pete's sake!
 
  
  Graphics: What makes the graphics so good is that the characters actually move things! Take Brewster, 
 for example. He's a pigeon who owns the local cafe. When you get a cup of joe, he actually move 
 over to the coffee pot, pick it up, and poor coffee in your mug. It's awesome.
  
  Sound: When the Fireworks Show comes around, you'll actually here fireworks. When a present is 
 in the sky, you'll here wind. When Brewster poors your coffee, it sounds like he's actually pooring 
 some right next to you.
  
  Value: It's another life. If that isn't valuable, then I don't know what the word value means.
 
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is the best DS game so far. It also just happens to be my favorite 
 game of all time. You'll never get bored of it, it's cheap, and it's awesome. Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World is a MUST for every DS owner out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ty1erQuagmire
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I thought that the Gamecube version of this was the best game I have ever played. And when I got 
 this game last month (every store in town was sold out from December 5th until January, if that 
 doesn't tell you how much this game was anticipated) I was enthralled.
  
  The game isn't really the same game, but there's enough for players to come back for. My parents 
 were divorced, and I only had a Gamecube at one house, so I missed a lot when it came to special 
 events. But now that it's portable... Heck, Animal Crossing was MADE for a portable! Just get it, 
 you won't regret not doing so (if you can find it, anyway) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holyman2
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is sooo good and i love it soooo much i play it all day and i never get tired of it. 
 I would highly recamend this game to first time DS players because the controls are easy and everything.
 
  
  now lets get on with it! what do you say!
  
  SOUND: The music is great you chose what music you want which is so much cooler! you can get CDs 
 from KK SLIDER* he is soo cool he has the best music! but the sound is great!
  
  CONTROLS: The controls are great you just use the control pad to move B to run A to talk Y to get 
 map and last but not least (because you need this button bad) X to get to your inventory (see i 
 told you you needed this button) and its just sooo easy
  
  WIFI: WI-FI is ok here you just get to go to peoples towns via the internet no big deal!
  
 
  STORY LINE: You are a human who moves from home to a town full of ANIMALS YES ANIMALS THATS WHY 
 THEY CALL IT ANIMAL CROSSING! but you have to work for the very, and i mean very, greety raccoon 
 TOM NOOKS* so after your done working you pay off your house and all that stuff in real life.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics do not appeal to me but to some they may. i dont really like them but hey 
 its better then no graphics at all... can there be a game with no graphics???
  
  PEOPLE:
  
  TOM NOOKS: Owns the only store in town he runs it and for a very little time in the game you 
 work for him. He is very greety and will do anything for money something like Mr. Krabs off of 
 Sponegbob... you will find out more about him in the game!
  
  KK SLIDER: He preforms music at the coffie shop on Saterdays. after he plays you a song he gives 
 you the CD of the song so you can lisson to it over and over again in your house... you will find 
 out more about him in the game!
  
  BREWSTER: He is a bird who runs a coffie shop in town he is not very talkitive but if you get to 
 know him he will start talking to you and even give you his pic.... you will find out more about 
 him in the game!
  
  TOMMY AND TIMMY: Tom nooks kids, when you get the final upgrade on nookingtons you can go upstairs 
 and you will see TOMMY AND TIMMY... find out more about them in the game!
  
  BLELICA: A cat who has no face!!!! well she does but she hates it so she asks you to draw here 
 a face. she comes everyones in a while so dont count on her being there most of the time... find 
 out more about her in the game!
  
  LYLE: The inserints agant, he will sell you safty inseringts for one payment of 3000 bells.... 
 find out more about him in the game!
  
  LINKS:
  
  http://www. nintendo. com/gamemini? gameid=cd055a64-9a87-421e-8a00-cf13feb0569a
  
  (nintendo offecal 
 web sites ANIMAL CROSSING WILD WORLD REVIEW!)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bgeneral81
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a good game, but not great. There is lots to do, but after you do the things 
 you're supposed to do everyday, there's not much left to do for the rest of the day. After you 
 eventually get everything I can't see you picking this game up anymore. Unless you're greedy and 
 want all the bells! The good things are building up your house (I'm not there yet I still have 
 725,000 bells to go) but how many more upgrades do they have left? I have lots of fish and bugs 
 to catch yet, all that though should be done within the year. I find that I get up and sometimes 
 start playing just to grab the fossils and the money rocks, and the money from the trees, then 
 after that there doesn't seem to be much more for me to do. Like I said before it's a good game 
 you just need to dedicate yourself a year to it. Have Fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  Wild World is the kind of game where it is enjoyable online. You can show off and sell rare items. 
 Make money (bells) faster and it get to be very addicting. Online gameplay is the major thing going 
 for this game. If it wasn't the case, you would probably get bored withing a week because you don't 
 obtain items, bells, and fruits faster.
  The graphics are okay. They are pretty much similar too the orginal game but they aren't ugly.
 
  The tunes in the game can get pretty annoying after a while so I am not much a fan of the music.
 
  One thing that really irritates me in the game is that sometimes, the game seems too slow down 
 and glitch like a computer, even if you aren't online.
  Overall, Wild World is a fun little game that is much better online so I highly recommend you get 
 it IF you have online gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suzurin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  Most of you remember the Gamecube version of Animal Crossing. If you didn't like the first one, 
 give the second one a try. The past frustrations and disappointments are remedied somewhat in this 
 new version, Animal Crossing: Wild World. Animal Crossing: Wild world gives you what it's previous 
 version did plus more. You now have more customization over your character, the villagers are more 
 interactive and have more personality, and the multi-player is now world-wide (online play. Woo!) . 
 If you're new to Animal Crossing, let me break it down for you.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is basically a cute and quirky everyday-life simulator. The graphics 
 are charming, but personally, I was more impressed with the music. Every hour, it changes and suits 
 the time of day almost perfectly. Everything is in real-time, meaning that time goes by just like 
 time in real life does. To hear the best of AC: WW's music, turn the game on at 10pm and trying 
 staying up until 2am if you have some free time. Like in real life, you wake up, do your chores, 
 socialize with your community, play around with a hobby (digging for fossils, fishing, gardening, 
 bug catching, or designing clothes) , collect items for yourself and make money. You also have holidays 
 and special town events that happen happen on certain days and at certain times. You can also send 
 and receive mail from your neighbors and even neighbors from other towns. Nintendo will even send 
 you mail on special occasions. Also, just to make the game feel even more realistic, you will have 
 a mortgage to pay. All in all, this game is pretty well-thought out and has a lot to offer it's 
 players.
  
  However, even though this game has a lot of content, experiencing it all will litterally take no 
 less than an entire year. During that year, you will get bored. The daily tasks given to you will 
 begin to feel like less than gameplay and more like work. After a while of conversating with your 
 neighbors, you'll be reminded of their A. I. and you'll realize that this game is not meant to be 
 played for long periods of time throughout the day even though a lot of your time will go into 
 it. The game pretty much demands your free time. As the days go by, you'll see your hard work paying 
 off even though it's not as much fun as the first few weeks by then.
  
  Online play, one of the biggest additions in the game, is strict. It has a lot of limitations that 
 feel awkward. Even so, it's still very entertaining. Being able to strut your stuff is always fun. 
 But like anything over the net, you have to be wise about who you decide to trust and what you 
 take from them. There IS something going around that is tampering with other peoples save file, 
 so make sure you know what you're getting into before-hand.
  
  Conclusion:
  Animal Crossing: Wild World IS indeed very addictive and enjoyable, but because of how the game 
 is setup, it does not give you enough to do for everyday gameplay. This is where it falls short. 
 Even though it seems like there's a lot to keep you occupied, the hobbies and daily tasks get old 
 if you play the game too often. I, personally, found myself wanting to do more and/or something 
 else with the game and feeling a bit unsatisfied. I suggest that people who are interested go ahead 
 and buy the game instead of renting it. Your town will eventually grow on you (quite literally) 
 and you'll have a hard time getting it back to the store on time if you rent it. So to avoid late 
 fees and save some money, just buy it. There's my opinion. The end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComicalGamer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  I must say, this has got to be my favourite game ever to be released by Nintendo on to a handheld 
 platform considering that it also has the Wi Fi connection enabling players to play the game worldwide, 
 also for its selection of furniture, its entertaining, and comical texture and gameplay is the 
 first thing that came to ym mind when i bought this game.
  
  My favourite part is when i create my person, and my house, this game is so good that it even lets 
 you design your clothes, wallpaper, and much much more!
  
  Some people will get bored after playing 6 months of this, achieving all the fishes and fossils, 
 etc...
  
  But doesent everyone? still this game is a great game in my opinion, and i recommend ou buy this! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  Drugs are a very fun thing... anyhow lets get on with the review.
  
  No no hehe... i'm not insinuating the creators of this game took drugs to make this sort of concept (or 
 am I? *evil laughter*) . 
  
  In anycase that sort of pre-misconception can happen with this game... its mad to say the least, 
 but..."Fun Mad" if you know what i mean!
  
  Anyhow this is... basically a *looks at genre* "Real Life Simulation" game... to say the least anyhow. 
 It puts you in the role of a little human dude or duddette who basically packs up and moves into 
 this new town (which you name) .
  
  What ensues is an on-slaught of conversations with "human sized" racoons, dogs, bears (who are blue!?) 
 and cats with rainbow's for a face. They all talk in this super fast "Anamalese" language which 
 is basically a individual pronounciation of each letter of the English language!
  
  ... yes.. i DID say "cats with rainbow's for a face"... its true!
  
  Anyhow game mechanics.... controlled 
 by the stylus (or d-pad) , you move your guy/girl about this 3-D kind of... spherical moving landscape 
 prospective doing tasks like... well fishing, digging for fossils... sending your animal friends 
 letters.. paying off your house's mortgage... ya know, the usual you would do in a town populated 
 by man sized animals.
  
  Whatever your gameplay style you could choose to make use of the game's wi-fi connection to interract 
 or invite players to your town! OR you can be a scrooge and fish all the way from 12am to 8am getting 
 money for yourselve!
  
  Graphically this game is so cute, the charchters you meet are actually so well designed... many 
 of them leave your town or "Move on" and get replaced by new ones, so theres a ton of animals that 
 will visit or live in your town throughout the year.
  
  The game is real time... and there is a slight problem with this. Since its using real time... and 
 you can CHANGE time... well.... you could go back in time or foward and make lots of money... a very 
 bad glitch, but go foward in the future about... hmm 20 years? - And you'll mess up your town BIG 
 TIME (no pun intended) ... weeds will grow from every corner of the place... and all you animal friends 
 will be angry at you (for some unknown reason) .
  
  The best feature of this game is the sound. Yet again very cute but the sounds which go with the 
 animal's expressions is SO cute its just unbelievable! :) I love it when they yawn or frown... i 
 feel so sorry for them when they do that! haha
  
  Another cool feature is how you can design your house... you pay your mortgage off to get a bigger 
 house and subsequently you can buy new furniture which can be "graded" by this Academy called the 
 HRA (Happy Room Academy) . 
  
  Then theres quite a few "events" throughout the year too, like 4th of july, christmas, new year's 
 day and some other ones like "Bright Nights", "Porno Night (joking) ".
  
  The final "con" to this game is that it can be repetitive.... i want to pay my mortgage off, so 
 i need to make money and how i do that is by either fishing, looking for fossils, catching insects, 
 or abusing the clock time, and if i want to sell stuff, the shop you sell stuff to closes at 11pm 
 everyday so... you can KIND of see how this gets repetitive afterwhile!
  
  Other than this, this game is just plain fun and very original. If it had more options or less 
 of a repetitive aspect to it, my score would of been much higher, but I'm regardless proud to have 
 this part of my games collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dualscreenmasta
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I must start off this review by saying that the folks at Nintendo have outdone themselves once 
 again. I am thoroughly impressed with their ingenuity by defying the cookie-cutter sequel image 
 that most of us have imprinted in our minds from playing Madden or Splinter-Cell. This game is 
 not a sequel per-say, but rather a hand-held port of the original. As uninviting as that sounds, 
 this is Animal Crossing Im talking about, so it obviously hasnt been watered down too much.
 
  A few daily tasks like watering flowers and the new red turnips can become a bit monotonous, but 
 the benefits far outweigh the pitfalls. If you dont get that joke, you shouldnt be reading 
 this review. More clothing, fish, bugs, dinosaurs, and items for your houses add even more collecting 
 insanity to the Animal Crossing formula.
  Nooks shop will still grow from the lowly hole-in-the-wall Nooks Cranny to the bustling, professional 
 Nookingtons, and the lovable nephews are still manning the second floor. However, in his final 
 store, the lowly shop-keep has a barbershop in the back where the lovable hair-cutting poodle, 
 Harriet, will ask you a series of questions that you can answer to get the hairstyle of your dreams.
 
  Your house is one of the biggest differences between the original and this version. The biggest 
 change is that you and the three others in your town all live together in the same house, albeit 
 you cant play at the same time because your roomies will be asleep whilst you play. There are 
 also more room expansions that will leave you out 3559800 bells. Ouch. But it is all worth it when 
 you see your final mansion with a second usable story, and, on the ground floor, a room to the 
 left, right, and rear. Itll also look like a sprawling mansion from the outside.
  There are also many game play innovations that make it easier to play. These include the new rolling 
 log world system, the introduction of the slingshot, and most importantly: ONLINE PLAY FROM NINTENDO! 
 The rolling log system replaces the traditional, acre-based system of the old game, with a free-flowing 
 environment that seems more welcoming to new players. This allows the environment critics (the 
 townsfolks comments at the post office) to be more open and generalized, which makes the game 
 seem more realistic. The slingshot and floating presents offer a small but fun diversion from the 
 main objective. Wait Sorry Forgot for a moment there was no main objective. Online gaming makes 
 a world of difference as to the popularity of this game. I have little doubt this game wouldnt 
 have been nearly as successful if there wasnt any online play. The mere pleasure of going to a 
 friends town, seeing their house, and stealing their fruit is unbeatable.
  All around this game is a must buy!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetsethi
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World for the DS is a great game, there is no doubt about it. The simple tasks 
 are what make this game great. Interact with the creatures in your town and soon you'll find some 
 interesting, and some boring characters as well. Although some of the best features of the GC version 
 are missing, the addition of online play make up for part of it. One great thing about this game 
 is that it continues ,even if you're not playing. So it's more like living an alternate life, rather 
 than playing a video game. Although at times the game may become a little boring and repeatative, it 
 more than makes up for it with the results that the boring, tedious tasks give you. All of this mkaes 
 Animal Crossing: Wild World for the Nintendo Ds , an instant Classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3v0luti0n
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 16, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  I first played Animal Crossing on my gamecube a few years ago... oh, how much joy it brought to 
 my gamecube and the memories playing with my sister .. even after 3 years I still find myself running 
 to my Grandma's house just to play this addicting game. Well now Animal Crossing WW has come out. 
 On New Years day I tore through the carefully secure gift wrapping and finally got my copy which 
 I have waited years for. So was it better then the game that I called "my favorite"? Yes, yes it 
 is. 
  
  The Beginning- Within minutes, I put my new PSP aside, I put down my new copy of Ratchet and Clank 
 and ran to my room to find my DS. I took out my Castlevania out and popped in my Animal Crossing 
 WW. Within minutes I was taken to the opening screen, hearing the blissful theme song. I knew the 
 audio wont disappoint, especially after the gamecube versions superb sound. As I drove along, answering 
 questions for Kappn, I started to see all the little details that make this game so wonderful. 
 The sound of rain of hitting the car, the light flashes of thunder. It was like falling in love 
 all over again. I stepped out of the car to be greeted by a large building known as the town hall. 
 Where I met Pelly who basically gave me the map and directed me to my house location. Conveniently 
 placed above the ocean and under Nooks store. I wasnt disappointed. Ok ok... I wont bore you anymore. 
 Lets skip ahead to the more important matters. 
  
  Gameplay- As addicting as the first! To be honest everything I ever wished to be in Animal Crossing 
 appeared in this game! A caf, animals that CHANGE furniture, Hats, Hair, Glasses! I wasnt disappointed 
 one bit.
  
  Graphics- We all know that the gamecube version featured updated N64 graphics. So did this one 
 take it far over the top and tackled the gamecube version? Not really. But they are Beautiful, 
 colorful and unique. Sometimes I put the game above my head to admire one of the most excellent 
 additions to Animal Crossing. A sky.
  
  Sound- Superb! On par with the gamecube versions excellent sound. As every hour came passing by 
 I found myself tunning up the volume to hear the wonderful beats as I run chores for my villagers. 
 My only complaint is that a glitch tends to occur when talking to nook sometimes. The sound appears 
 Inverted.
  
  Replay Value- It depends on what kind of gamer you are. Maybe you want to finish paying off your 
 dept, or complete your catalog. Or if you have a strong interest in the online play or having a 
 perfect town. You will keep coming back, weather youll be interested for months, or for just a 
 few week thats all up to the way you play.. There is always something to come back too.
  
  In the end. This game is great. It surpasses the gamecube version and provides you with a gaming 
 experience so rarely found. As long as you let the game, and remember to take your time.. You will 
 love this game to death. 
  
  P. S- Arent you glad this review isnt one giant paragraph of text, but 7! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikill4fun_7
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 15, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Animal crossing wild world is a great reason for owning a nintendo ds. It's one of those games 
 you can play for hours, when is started playing i couldent put it down tell i could barely stay 
 awake! The game has some of the better graphics i have seen on the nintendo ds and unlike the game 
 cube animal crossing for ds has a more roundish word unlike how the world that is completely flat 
 for game cube so thats pretty cool. As for the game play... Its very addicting one of those games 
 that are hard to put down i think it's a game that most DS users out there will enjoy. The sound 
 is good to but the jibber jabber that the little characters make can get pretty annoying after 
 a while. Another cool thing about this game is that you can use the game controls to use every 
 thing or you can just use the touch screen, or both if you want to. Overall this is a pretty good 
 game for all ages and i would highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wrokmyds
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 6:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is like the Sims in a way, but super easy. You live in a town with animals (you are a 
 human) , and they all speak English and also make animal noises.
  
  You basically live your life out, fishing, digging, picking fruit, walking, talking. You can make 
 friends, send letters, give gifts, and have all these things done to you. You can donate to the 
 museum, customize your house, buy tons of crap that you don't have room for that will magically 
 fit into a small drawer. It really is magical.
  
  You can also customize the theme song for your town, design a flag, or design clothes and wallpaper. 
 And if you have friends you aren't embarassed to play this with, you can do just that. There is 
 NO MEAT in the multiplayer though.
  
  This game has your typical cartooney graphics and zany sound often found in Nintendo-mades. It's 
 not bad at all though. It gives the game a fun, care-free feel. 
  
  This game is by all means not perfect. It's better than crappy old Nintendogs, but it is really 
 fun too. This game isn't for everyone, but if your social life is kind of slow and you have lots 
 of free time, you should buy Animal Crossing: Wild World. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdogg06
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  it is fun but without nintendo wi-fi, its kinda dull, but it turns out ok. the good thing is that 
 the sound is great. But the 1 thing i hate is this game follows your DS's time, which means the time 
 passes  to earn bells (money) , you 
 need to collect things and sell to tom nook (You sell things to him, he will pay you bells) , sometimes 
 , the things only appear like every 20 minutes, so you have to wait for another 20 real minutes. Or 
 you can catch fish or bugs or dig up fossils. (which sells quite well,4500 Bells)
  If you have money , buy Sims 2, its better . (i am saying without wi-fi) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bass7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Wow I wasn't gonna get this game but I saw my sis play it and she let me play it and man I rushed 
 to the store and bought it. Well this time around you go into a new town with different animals, 
 although some are still the same, and you pretty much do what you did in the GC version. For those 
 of you who haven't played the GC version it was pretty much you living an everyday life in a town 
 full of animals and such. You get a house that you live in, but the catch is you have to pay a 
 big amount of money for it since Tom Nook (the raccoon at the store) is "Loaning it to you". Well 
 this time around Animal Crossing Wild World is pretty much the same thing except it has little 
 things here and there that are different than AC for the GC. For instance before in the GC version 
 if you ran far enough you'd have to wait a second before the next part would load (which were acres) . 
 Now in AC: WW that's gone and instead it just looks like one big sphere so when you run it looks 
 like the world is spinning underneath you. There are a lot of other new features such as you can 
 buy different kinds of hats such as the Mario hat and even an Army Helmet. The graphics are far 
 better than what I thought they would be for such a little machine. Another little good feature 
 too is that you can play over wi-fi which is over the internet and you can go to you're friend's 
 towns. The trouble is you need a long complicated number code to add friends instead of just adding 
 there names and you can never tell if a friend is online or not and if there gates are open. This 
 game overall is spectacular. I'm not gonna tell you anymore so you're just gonna have to go buy 
 it yourself huh???? Well you should anways 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimateblader
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  this game is not good if your looking 4 action if u want all the upgrades just put money in the 
 bank and change the date 100 yrs or so and u get $99,999 intrest. all u do is fish bug hunt dig 
 whole shake trees make a house, not tht great but pretty good when you first get it i only found 
 the cheat after like 3 upgrades.* * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * ** * * * * * * * * * * * 
 * * * * * * * * ** * * * * * * * * * * ** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyber360
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a game that kind of game where if you want to take a break from the usually 
 kill the bad guy routine, you can do so and have a game that is something different from the usual.
 
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World starts you off by giving you some questions to answer, and based on 
 those it will give your character a appearance and randomly selects you a town out of many that 
 you will spend a next good while in.
  
  Tom Nook a seemingly greedy raccoon is who gets you started in the game and sets you off in the 
 beginning with a debt he decides to lay on you. So what is someone suppose to do when you need 
 to pay something off? Sell things, do work for people and so on. But you first are able to get 
 yourself set in the first bit of the game doing errands for Nook so you can get your first bit 
 of cash to help you get started on paying off you first debt of many he will hand you throughout 
 the game ( The others happen after you pay off each expansion to gain another until you have a mansion) . 
 After he is done with you are off to find your own way to make money (selling fruits fish and other 
 count less items to pay off your home) .
  
  Now paying off your home is not the only fun part of the game. You get interact with a variety 
 of characters in the game, by talking to them. Giving gifts, mailing letters. They will actually 
 respond back in their own ways and personality styles and sometimes with gifts if you gave them 
 a gift originally. Occasionally animals will give you jobs to earn you gifts, like furniture for 
 the home or money to for debt or spending pleasure. Shooting down balloons takes advantage of the 
 top screen with the sky view, you get gifts from this if you manage to successfully get one with 
 a slingshot.
  
  The way the game is set up is nice, from weather effects each day, to seasons (set on real time) . 
 You can go from a completely clear day and a few hours later to overcast of even snow, or rain. 
 All of these can have a effect on bugs and fish that you see in the game.
  
  A Museum is waiting for tending as well, you donate fossils you dig up, fishes you fish up and 
 bugs you catch. Even portraits you buy from Redd (Visits you weekly, selling stuff (even fake) to 
 you at most of the time high prices) . You add all this to your collection so that you have something 
 to show off when your ready for visitors in our town.
  
  That leads me to Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection (Online Service) or Local Multi-player. Almost everything 
 in the game is available for use that is in the single player on Multi-player except for roaming 
 characters and certain events like Non-Playable visitors and balloons in the sky. But that is the 
 small limitation, you can chat with your friends. Fish with each other and many other things. You 
 can only get online though if you have a friend code and available Wi-Fi to use.
  
  The game play really holds you in the game for long periods of time for a long time, and that is 
 a great plus it is worth the money.
  
  Graphics are debatable depending on the person. This game was made to be more cartoon style (or 
 as it seems) . So it isn't made to be the most realistic game ever on the face of the earth, but 
 a rather fun style art.
  
  Sound in the game is a nice addition, but usually not a major mark in the game exception for K. K. 
 Slider songs which have unique tunes that are fun to listen too.
  
  Closing comments on the game, is this game is great to anyone wanting to live another life besides 
 their current one for a while. It is a game to keep almost anyone sucked into the game playing 
 for many months. This has the best Online feature of the other Nintendo game Mario Kart DS as it 
 was put into more detail. Animal Crossing: Wild World is worth a pickup to people into this genre 
 or even wanting to start a new one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ConfuseRay
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  IT's a town in your pocket... ANimal crossing to go what more could you want??? IT is so fun with 
 wifi going to other people's houses and it's like living a computerized life. THis game is so fun 
 it's way better then Mario Kart DS. I don't know why this got a lower score then it should have. 
 What's fun about this is that it's like the sims you can't really beat the game you just keep on 
 going. I like that about some games. Keeps me busy. This is definitely one of the best games ever 
 made for the NINTENDO DS. Get your butt off the computer now and get it. I'm not playin' with you 
 go get it!!! YOU STILL HERE??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghog2293
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Animal crossing: wild world is a game that anyone who plays the DS should have! This fun game is 
 one of those games that never ends pretty much. It'll probably won't be as fun if you complete 
 the long objective, paying off your debt and expanding your house as much as you can. Wi-fi will 
 definetly make this game more enjoyable, so if you can do wi-fi, do it. There are a few bad things 
 though with the multiplayer that have odd restrictions. The worst one is probably where you can't 
 have more than 2 people in a building no matter how big it is. If you like the first animal crossing 
 for the gamecube, you'll love this one. There's lots of improvements like a cafe, no "acre system", 
 new tools, choosing your clothes and accessories, and more! So if you're a DS player, Animal crossing: 
 wild world is a big recommendation. rating: 9.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigidey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  There is more ways you can have fun in this game than the original version. You can connect with 
 your friends to trade, talk, or even just hangout with them. Your house can even grow bigger than 
 your old one which is another plus to be added. There are even more bugs and fish for you to collect. 
 Some of these include sharks and octopi! You can also get tons of hairstiles to even further cutomize 
 your looks. Hats and shirts will assist you on making your character uniqe to you. The only bad 
 part of the game is the fist 5 minutes when you're moving in, but other than that there aren't 
 many negitive sides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chocoholic_Jedi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  The new Animal Crossing: Wild World for the Nintendo DS is the exact same game, as far as the game 
 itself, with the addition of some extra features. This game is basically an open town... you go 
 out to other people's houses, collect items, etc, etc... The game is good for a few weeks, then 
 gets repetitive and boring... It is a good game as far as it's graphics and other things, but that 
 doesn't cover up its repitition. It's a fairly good buy, and definately worth playing, but for 
 how long? Any one game can only last for so long, and this game just doesn't hold its water for 
 a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGgamer19
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I would say what makes this game so great is the multiplayer. Multiplayer is something that is 
 a first to Animal Crossing, at least to where more that one person can play in the same town at 
 the same time. It is easy to throw a party, have fishing/bug contests, or just push each other 
 in pitfalls. And with WiFi there is no limits to who you hang out with. It is so amazing giving 
 a friend, ( that lives on the other side of the country, or wherever) a tour of your town. I have 
 personally enjoyed this feature. I am still able to hang out with my best friend who is going to 
 college across the country. Besides the multiplayer, this game still has the same real time play. 
 The game has its own events and holidays you are always wanting to play everyday, just to make 
 sure you don't miss anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stewiegriffin78
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 12, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing was a classic on the Gamecube. I never have liked sim-games, but Animal Crossing 
 was one of the few I would play. The fun, simple gameplay was great, and the ability to control 
 my own town was definately worth the fifty dollars I paid for the original. The sequel, Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World, does all that the original does and more. It combines the troubles of real 
 life with things that could never happen. It is a must play, no matter how you look at it.
  
  The gameplay in Animal Crossing: Wild World is not like most games. You don't go around shooting 
 up aliens or rescuing princesses. No, in this game, you live. It is that simple. You move into 
 a town with few belongings, no money, and a giant debt hanging over your head. If you haven't played 
 the original, you will be suprised to find out that the residents of (your town name here) are 
 all animals, except for you. You interact with these animals just like you would with human beings: you 
 sned mail, you chat, you trade stuff, etc. You can do whatever you want in your town. You can choose 
 to make it look nice by planting flowers and trees and by pulling up weeds. You ca design your 
 own clothes and make constalations in the sky using the touch screen. You can visit other towns 
 using the WiFi connection. The possibilities are endless. There is always something t do, be it 
 fishing, planting, or just chatting with firends, you will never get bored unless you are some 
 crazy person who can't have fun. I give the Gameplay a nine.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty good. The DS is an amazing piece of hardware, and the vibrant 
 colors of the game show up perfectly on the screen. Though the graphics may not be the best the 
 DS has to offer, they still look good. I give the Graphics an eight.
  
  The sound in this game is top notch. Whether you are listening to your gyroids play an odd cacophony 
 of sound or hearing the awesome K. K. Slider play, you can hear the sounds crisply and clearly. 
 I give the Sound a nine.
  
  The value in this game is seemingly endless. There is always new furniture to buy, or new friends 
 to meet. I will be playing this game for a long while, I can tell you that. I give the Value a 
 nine.
  
  I loved the first one, and I love this one. That is all I can say. Sure, there may be a few drawbacks, 
 but I can overlook those easily. I am putting an eight on the Reviewer's Tilt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mwww9834
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  I recieved this game for Christmas from a relitive. I had been one of the big fan of the gamecube 
 game. But the put together of the DS version is diffrent so lets walk through it.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are impressive although not as good as the gamecube version. The animals 
 seem to be bulky fat in a 3d way. Its very creepy. But the graphics on all the main screens are 
 pretty good. The furniture graphics are about average but all the nature and flat effects are about 
 the same as the last game.
  
  Sound: The music is slow in winter and cheerfull in summer as in the other game. The music is all 
 the same and I found it very good. Although sometimes the music can be tiring mostly you don't 
 even notice it.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game is what really brought this game down. The old version was 
 a bundle of fun, always something to do. This game is slightly less entertaining. In the old game 
 you could do numerous chores and tasks for the neighbors to gain money. In this game you can't 
 ask but have to wait for the neighbor to bring up the task and ask if you would like to do it. 
 Bugs and fish were abundant in the gamecube version. In Wild World, you can go a whole day seeing 
 not a single bug, or a day catching only one type of fish. So paying off your first debt alone 
 is a challenge that may last awhile.
  
  I'm not saying this game doesn't have its good points. For one, its a portable game that somewhat 
 resembles the gamecube version. Like the gamecube game, you get to see the seasons change as time 
 passes as you make yourself and your city sucessful. You can still visit the towns of your friends 
 and try to make your town and theirs a better place. They still have real holidays to celebrate 
 and recieve items from.
  
  But all in all, If you don't have the gamecube version, you should consider investing your money 
 in the orginal game. I wouldn't recommend this game to anyone but instead another DS game with 
 real potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basketballpg2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  First off, i REALLY hate the SIMS... just not my kinda game... yet so many people compare Animal 
 Crossing to it.... it is similar, but it just has so many more features than the sims.
  
  Second, i just love the customization of the characters, homes, and the town ... i got this game 
 knowing that if i were to love this game... it would just be because of the thrill of collecting 
 stuff , making stuff, and putting it up for everyone to see. 
  
  Third, i needed a game that would last me, a long long time... and Animal Crossing is the answer 
 to my troubles... with sooo many things to find, and soo many ways one can make the town... ill 
 be at this game for a long while 
  
  Fourth, the WIFI connection is awesome... not only because you get to see and chat with a human 
 player, but also because you get to LOOK AT A TOTALLY DIFFERENT TOWN... WOW! the time is different, 
 the characters are different, the items are different, and the whole land layout is different! 
 
  
  Finally fifth, i know Animal Crossing isn't perfect because of somethings nintendo did not move 
 over from the GC version, and the fact that the graphics might be a little choppy, but DAMN i never 
 been so addicted to such a simple game in my life!! Plus, all the features and everything will 
 make you wonder why you didn't get this game earlier!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Totema1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  I cannot begin to say how wonderful this game is. The gameplay can occupy you for years, the controls 
 are realtively easy to learn, the sound is pretty clean and crisp, the graphics are superb, and 
 the multiplayer value is immense. 
  There is so much to do in this game go fishing, catch insects, scheme ways to get rich quick, do 
 some gardening, and so much more! What's even better is the fact that these tasks become much easier 
 and more fun when visiting a friend, either at your town, or at theirs. If you own a DS and have 
 a wifi connection, this game is practically mandatory. What more do I have to say? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 11, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World, I waited and saved, and waited for this one game. I was not disapointed 
 nor surprised. I am still not bored of this game, it virtualy never gets boring. I was dissapointed 
 with the wi fi that you are only able to go to a friends town but i guess thats neccesary. I have 
 made many friends. There is tons of differnt clothes and hats and acessories and hats you can wear 
 wich is very cool. Also if you are able to upgrade all the way to nookingtons you can even get 
 differnt hair cuts. I would highly reccomend this game if u havent played the gamecube version 
 or even if you have played the gamecube one. There is some new things in this but who needs new 
 things!? its animal crossing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HexrapperII
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Forget the massive, sprawling lands of the forest, beautiful with richly coloured grass shining 
 green in the light that the trees have allowed to seep through. Forget the bark scraping against 
 your limbs as you joyfully run amok the wilderness, passing peaceful creatures as you dart from 
 place to place, the squirrels scuttling across the branches and the bird fluttering from the area. 
 Forget the balloons barely visible in the sky, flying into the distance from the house just outside 
 the forest which holds a special someones birthday, loud and gleeful. Forget it, because you can 
 bring it all and then some with you inside your own home, through the door to your bedroom and 
 into your slick DS. Welcome to Animal Crossing, population: growing.
  
  Youre in the back seat of a car with an animal at the wheel, steering through unforgiving rain 
 traveling down an unknown road. Youre moving from your old life - no more large city, no more 
 packed streets, no more long job times, no more long distances between destinations, no more humans. 
 Thats bleh, not appealing, not interesting. No, youd rather live in the relaxed town of where? 
 You decide. You name where you want to go. Spiral? Sizzler? Karbador? Gootown? Doesnt matter. 
 Thats where youre going, where this unknown road leads to. Thats where youll arrive upon the 
 halting of the vehicle.
  
  Exit the car, and welcome to Spiral (as I named my town, and as Ill refer to the town you get 
 to name upon playing the game) . Spiral has everything you had back in the city; a supermarket, 
 a museum, a town hall, a clothing shop and even an observatory. However, rather than having to 
 make long trips to get to any of them, everything in Spiral isnt even a minute away in distance, 
 as youre now living in a small, comfy forest, rich with trees and life. The life to speak of isnt 
 wild life, either; the animals that live in this forest are civilized. They live in houses and 
 speak a language. Theyre your neighbors for the rest of your days here.
  
  The first thing youll want to do in Spiral is find a place to stay. Thankfully, supermarket owner 
 Tom Nook has a house hes willing to sell to you, the problem being you dont have a bell (the 
 currency) to spare! Not a problem though, Tom Nook has an idea! You get to work off the pay in 
 his store! Brilliant! And so begins your never-ending adventure in Spiral, a road that will most 
 certainly ultimately lead to boredom.
  
  At least you wont be bored immediately; theres plenty to do. Youre forced at first to do the 
 dirty work for Tom Nook. Attract customers by planting flowers in front of his shop, a task thatll 
 allow you to get acquainted with the interface of Animal Crossing, including the introduction of 
 your inventory and other such things (which are easy to sort through thanks to the touch screen) . 
 Mail a letter to one of Tom Nooks loyal customers, a simple job thanks once again to the touch 
 screen. Deliver ordered product to the animal that requested it. Advertise the supermarket by posting 
 information on the billboard in front of the town hall. It sounds dull, but it allows you get a 
 feel for the game. However, if you were fortunate enough to experience Animal Crossing on the Gamecube, 
 youll have a serious case of deja-vu. Youve done this already. Youve probably done it plenty.
 
  
  Upon completing several tasks Tom Nook gives you, youll find that good old Nook doesnt need you 
 (or possibly want you?) anymore! Youre free from his grasp to do as you please! But whats this, 
 you havent worked off enough cash to pay for your house? Not a problem; collecting cash elsewhere 
 on your own time will make up the difference, and all you have to do with it is submit it at the 
 town hall.
  
  The normal gamer will do either one of two things, most likely: A) get right to work on paying 
 off that house or B) explore. Gamers choosing the former will discover how to get the job done, 
 and really its rather simple. You can collect things from the ground, such as shells, to sell 
 to Tom Nook (who buys nearly anything you offer to him. What a guy!) . You can do jobs for your 
 neighbors; deliver a letter, return an object, etc. You can fish, and sell the fish you receive. 
 You can go hunting for fossils and sell them for big coin.
  
  The gamer that chooses the latter has an equal amount of opportunities. Do jobs for the villagers 
 and hope to receive furniture to fill your home with. Write letters to the animals and have conversations 
 with them. Fish, dig up fossils, catch bugs and buy paintings to submit to Spirals museum. Pick 
 fruit from the trees and grab a bite to eat. Or sell it and buy a slingshot so you can shoot balloons 
 that carry gifts out of the sky.
  
  The appeal of Animal Crossing is that there are no ultimate goals; you can eventually pay for your 
 house. Youll find that after you pay for your house, you can upgrade it, then pay for that and 
 so on. Eventually, when you have a mansion, youll be able to upgrade no longer. From then on, 
 you can do anything. All the activities I mentioned above. Donating money to the poor. Collecting 
 shirts you can keep in your drawer. Keeping Spiral looking nice by picking weeds that pop up and 
 planting trees where there are too many empty spaces.
  
  Thats also unfortunately Animal Crossings downfall; at times, there feels like theres nothing 
 to do. These periods can pop up at any time. Maybe you dont want to pay off your house as you 
 like it the way it is. The villagers dont seem to have anything that needs to be delivered, and 
 youve already dug up all the fossils for that day. Fishings gotten dull for now, and it isnt 
 bug season. Whats there to do? Drink coffee at the museums cafe; you get nothing out of it, though. 
 Gaze into the stars at the observatory after youve already made out some constellations; you get 
 nothing out of it, though. Sit down in your house and look around at all the furniture youve managed 
 to collect; you get nothing out of it, though.
  
  Some things dont reap benefits and those things are the most common in Animal Crossing. That isnt 
 to say this will come very soon into your purchase of the game, heavens no. Itll be a while before 
 you find yourself in this slump, but dont forget about it; it will happen. It can last weeks. 
 Months. Possibly forever. However, there is one very clever thing that Wild World has that the 
 original Animal Crossing doesnt. The ability to travel to others towns across the globe via Nintendos 
 Wi-Fi Internet thing that its hyping up so much.
  
  Lets talk about traveling to others towns. In the original Animal Crossing, in order to do this, 
 you needed your friends memory card. This had to take place in one Gamecube on one screen. You 
 would go to the train station in Spiral (absent in Wild World, mind you, and replaced with town 
 gates) and talk to the porter. He would check to make sure there was a memory card in slot b of 
 the Gamecube, and then (if there was) allow you to visit your friends town. Alternatively, you 
 could save traveling data onto a blank memory card and then from your friends memory card choose 
 to arrive from that memory card. Its rather complicated and Im sure you get that idea. But the 
 benefit for doing this was awesome. You could pick the fruit of your friends town; you hadnt 
 ever seen this kind of fruit before. Take it home and it sells for five times as much as your native 
 fruit at the supermarket. Shop at your friends supermarket; there are different items for sale 
 here. Visit your friends museum; see what it has to offer thats different from your own. Make 
 friends with the animals of your friends town, write letters to them and do jobs for them.
  
  Suddenly, theres something to do. This was the gateway to ultimate freedom; the thing that 
 kept many coming back to Animal Crossing if they felt like there was no longer anything to do in 
 their own town. This was another town to move around in, to dig things up in. It was fresh. But 
 it lacked one thing. Your friend couldnt be there with you. Because this had to take place in 
 one Gamecube on one TV, your friend couldnt have control over his character while youre in his 
 town. It was still a solo effort.
  
  Your friends can control their characters when you visit their town in Wild World.
  
  Suddenly, 
 the amount of things you can do doubles. With a handy timer that can be bought from the supermarket 
 you can hold tournaments against each other; see who can catch the most fish, or the most bugs, 
 in the allotted time limit. Play tag with one another on your own rules. Sell each other furniture 
 and other such items. Go hunting for fossils together. Have some coffee and talk to each other, 
 an ability made easy thanks once again to the touch screen. Exchange fruits. Have fun.
  
  But have the complications of the Gamecube left? Sadly, no. Youll still have a fair bit of work 
 to do to make this work. You have a friend list in-game, a list which keeps track of people you 
 meet that you can trust to come into your town. To add a friend to your friend list, you have to 
 get their friend code and enter that into your game. Theyll be added, and all will be well, 
 except for one catch - only those with friend codes are allowed into your town.
  
  What that means is that no one can get into your town in the beginning. Youll have to make friends 
 over the Internet on your home computer and exchange friend codes there. Is it somewhat ridiculous? 
 Not extremely, though it is a huge pain in the butt if youre not one to use message boards and 
 the like. But you can always just exchange codes with your friends in person; however you do the 
 exchanging doesnt matter. After all the dirty work is done, given youre all set up with Nintendos 
 Wi-Fi connection, you can move about from town to town, having that fun I mentioned previously.
 
  
  But really, is that all you can do in Animal Crossing? Nope. Theres still quite a bit more you 
 can squeeze out of the game. Are you an aspiring artist? The game offers the ability to design 
 your own clothing, or paint/draw your own masterpieces. Plenty of colours are offered, but theyre 
 divided into several pallets; you don't have the full colour spectrum to select from at any time, 
 but rather are stuck with the colours of whichever pallet you choose. This means that your designs/paintings/drawings 
 cant be very detailed, but rather semi-detailed, in the same way that a sketch doesnt convey 
 the ultimate potential that an image could. The sketch can, however, be fantastic; the same applies 
 with your designs.
  
  You can also get music for your radio (which you can upgrade by buying new stereos and the like) . 
 A musical dog by the name of K. K. comes by every certain day and offers a tune. Its just another 
 thing to collect, and there are plenty of things to collect. Furniture, shirts, songs, paper, umbrellas, 
 fossils, gyroids (weird, musical objects that have facial features) tools and individual sets among 
 these selections to boot. You can try to complete your museum. You can donate so much to the poor 
 that youre awarded with a feather; a token of the town halls appreciation.
  
  Theres more, too. Animal Crossings wide open with things to do, and thats the appeal. Itll 
 take a while to actually do everything, and when you do actually do everything, you can do it again, 
 and then some. You can do it in your friends towns. You can play with your friend, online. Youll 
 eventually want to close the gates to Spiral and end your adventure in the comfy forest, no doubt; 
 it gets old in the same way that The Sims would if it didnt have any expansions, and these two 
 games work on nearly the exact same principle. And that right there is the glaring flaw of Animal 
 Crossing - because its a Nintendo DS game, and not a PC game, you cant expand it. Everything 
 Animal Crossing has to offer is offered from the get go; from then on, thats what you have to 
 work with, and only that. Because of this, Animal Crossing will hit your shelf sooner than you 
 might imagine a game like this would. Because of that, its natural to be weary about picking the 
 title up. After all, you can get similar thrills with actual goals in mind that can last potentially 
 as long and make you feel better. But nothing compares to the experience Animal Crossing offers 
 because its just so strange, twisted, and fresh. Itll be deja-vu if you played the Gamecube version 
 already, meaning Animal Crossing can be recommended to two sets of people: newcomers to the world 
 of Animal Crossing and the die-hards that still play the Gamecube iteration of Animal Crossing 
 today. You know who you are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brightshadow525
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  If you've played Animal Crossing for the GC, you know what to expect from this wild game. You start 
 off, choose your name, town name, and whatnot, and then you get into your town. You do some stuff 
 for good old Tom Nook, then your free to screw around in the wild world. You can fish, collect 
 fruit, plant fruits and trees, decorate your house, decorate the world around you, talk to your 
 neighbors, do errands for them, shop for stuff, shop for clothes, design clothes, write letters, 
 extend your house, pay off your mortgage, enjoy the different festivals in the town, etc. Ok. That 
 was a lot of stuff. Now take all that stuff, and imagine that in another person's town, using Wi-Fi. 
 This game is fun by yourself, but with another person, this game goes far out there on the fun 
 scale. This game is very underrated because people think, Oh another animal crossing, stupid animals, 
 what are you supposed to do, and all this crap that just makes me sick. I bet if they played they 
 would get hooked on it like crack, just like I did. But seriously, if you don't have this game, 
 don't be a retard and be like no it's too kiddy. Just get it. If you want you can play in the dark, 
 in the corner of your room without your friends, and show off your "cool" psp to your friends, 
 but this game is too good to pass off. I'm not trying to start anything, just recommending this 
 game. But anyway, the graphics for this game could be much better, because the graphics are "ehh". 
 But this game definitely deserves a high score. I just hope you people buy it, and let the series 
 live forever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarmanx
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:28 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game i didn't really know much about it. Well, i got it as a surprise for 
 Christmas. I tried it out and it was really good. It's pretty cool, like a portable town.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay on this is amazing. I mean, there's so many things to do, it 
 never really get old, whether your just having a friendly chat with a neighbor, or hanging out 
 in a town of somebody really far away with wi-fi play. This game starts you off with nothing but 
 a really small house, a box, cassette player, and a candle. You have a job for a little while to 
 earn some money but you soon get laid off. But don't worry there are tons of ways to make money, 
 or bells as their currency is called in here. You can sell fruit, fish, sell fossils, but i find 
 the best way to get bells is to get a fruit that is not native to your town. The different fruits 
 are, apples, peaches, cherries, oranges, pears and coconuts. You can only get coconuts however 
 if they appear on the shore at the beach. These fruits can be sold for 500 bells apiece as long 
 as it's not native to you, or better yet, plant one of them to start and orchard of different fruit, 
 the ultimate way to rake in the bells. There are several other things you can do such as organize 
 your house, buy or design clothes, or just hangout with one of your neighbors.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are really good in this game. It uses a globe type map, where your 
 sort of like walking on a log, it's hard to describe.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is really good. There's different town tunes that you can change up if you want to. Also 
 if you go to the bar at Saturday night around 8 you can request a song to K. K. slider, a singing 
 dog, i guess. If your request was valid he'll play it and give you a copy of the CD to play in 
 your house.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  OMG, don't even get me started on this, the replay value is so amazing, there's always something 
 to do. I don't see how you can go 5 minutes in this game without taking on some sort of task.
 
  
  Overall, this game is one of those games that can be eternally played and enjoyed, with so many 
 awesome features, no DS owner should be without it. Lunar out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_LL
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing was a game I loved for the gamecube. It had a great charm and personality to it, 
 and quite frankley, wasn't a clone of a popular game. From decorating your house, to fishing with 
 friends, this DS port isnt that different, which can be a good, or bad thing. 
  
  The graphics are the same, slightly crude and primitive, but are a distinct style for AC. The voices 
 are still the same, repetitive squeaking based on who you are talking to. But what makes this shine 
 is the gameplay and addictiveness of the whole experience. 
  
  Everyday something changes, whether it be a travelling salesman, or a seasonal character. The weather 
 follows the calendar , bringing in snow in the winter months, flowers in the spring, dryness in 
 the summer, and brown-red hues for the fall. 
  
  But what is really great, is the way you can do multiple things, fishing, lumberjacking, or selling 
 to gain AS currency (Bells) . And sometimes you could be surprised at sharks in the water, notes 
 in bottles, and residents flying on balloons. So if you are looking for an addictive and portable 
 game, you'll come no closer to Animal Crossing DS 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: r1chard1
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 9, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  I bought this game from the States as I couldn't wait to get my hands on it. At first I found the 
 game quite charming but after a couple of days I got really bored.
  This is a shame as the game is advertised as having so many things to do but in reality that is 
 not the case. For example pick oranges on day 1 and then you have to wait 3 real days to pick them 
 again. Fishing is just a chore to be frank. It's real touch and go if you can get the fish on the 
 line and if you are a second out then hard luck.
  You can collect fossils each day but there are only 3 of those normally. I think that the game 
 may be fine if you like just playing something for a few minutes each day but if you like to spend 
 longer on a game you will get bored believe me. I ended up writing abusive messages on the town 
 notice board just to see my name up in lights.
  To sum up it is a rather repetitive but slow game that just didn't have enough appeal to keep me 
 going with it. The idea of a neverending game is great but more thought needs to be put into the 
 content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stargirl_tasha
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 3:38 am PT
Review:  ACWW, I loved the first version, absolutly LOVED it, now what do we have here? Ah, a handheld version 
 of it!
  The sound is better,
  the Charecters are more intelligent,
  There's a handy stylus to make patterns and constilations, and go through menu choices, there's 
 even a chance to go through WiFi, I don't have it yet, but I might get it someday!
  Lets see...
  Mr. Resetti is still there, Along with some of your faveorate NPCs... And there's 
 new ones! Like a Hair-stylist, more custimazation of your charecter! YAY! 
  And new villagers too,
  If you liked the GC AC, this is for you!
  trust me, totaly worth it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the411monkey
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  One thing you can say about Nintendo, is that when they make a game, THEY REALLY MAKE A GAME. Animal 
 Crossing isn't more of a game than the Sims are. Basically you are a character and you just moved 
 out of your house, and now you must fend for yourself and make a living. Sounds very simple, and 
 it is... at times.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great "unofficial" sequel to the addictive Gamecube version, however, 
 there is a lot more to do, see, and collect. It's the same formula brought over into a travel size 
 compartment (I call it addiction on the go.) 
  
  Main goal is to spruce up your town by planting trees, flowers, and making a brighter community 
 for you and the A. I. players. You have to option of purchasing items like an axe, fishing rod, 
 shovel, water pale, and more to help you achieve this goal. Sounds simple? Yet try keeping up with 
 the up keep of flowers and newly planted trees!
  
  You will also meet a wide variety of characters each with their own distinct personality and charm 
 towards you. Some will come up and ask you questions, want you to take quizzes, Help them with 
 their catch phrases, or just give you stuff to keep or deliver. 
  
  You also have your own little pad to. Throughout the game you will pay off your first loan and 
 take out another expansion of your home to eventually have 2 massive floors to keep all of your 
 cool knick knacks and furniture. This will be a greasly task seeing how every loan after another 
 becomes increasingly higher in amount!
  
  One of the greatest functions is the WiFi connection. Literally allowing you to visit a friends 
 town across the globe. Very fun, yet limited. A lot of the usual functions are not available during 
 WiFi play like getting a cup of coffee, or even talking to your friends while sitting or fishing. 
 Other than that, its great for those late night hankerings. Sure you can say it's also limited 
 because you just can't go into anyones town, only if you both share each others friend code. But 
 if you are in the right online community (like myspace. com) you won't have a problem adding friend 
 codes and worrying about no open town gates!
  
  Overall, no game has ever got me addicted, I will be at work saying "OMG I didn't water my plants 
 today!." The game is a great addition to the Nintendo family and shows just how much they have 
 their act together when creating such innovative and fun gameplay. If you are looking for a break 
 from casual games and just want to lay back and have fun with great activities than Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobophobic12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 7, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is just what a portable game should be, infact , when the game was released 
 onto the gamecube i couldn't help but think of how much better the game would be if it were portable. 
 Fortunaley it has happened, and it was executed greatly. It has all the elements from the gamecube 
 version which made it a fun game to begin with, and has some more added features. Though these 
 new features arent huge changes, they are still welcomed. The game has great graphics, everything 
 is vivid and clear. The sound doesnt play a huge part, which is the way it should be. It is also 
 customiseable so if your town tune is lame, then its your own fault. The gameplay is extremely 
 addictive and will keep you coming back day after day to check on how your town is doing. The animals 
 who live in you're town are always full of personallity and are one of the main reasons why i enjoy 
 the game so much, everyone is different. Decorating your home is also another fun feature in the 
 game. I found myself obsesed with making my house looks as nice as possible while trying to find 
 the best furniture i could. The game is full of things to do such as fishing, catching bugs, and 
 performing chores for neighbors. The game is full of special characters and items which realy add 
 to the fun. If youre looking for a game that will keep you occupied for about as long as any game 
 i cand think of, you must get Animal Crossing Wild World. It is a quality Nintendo game and a great 
 addition to the Nintendo DS game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heartagram_03
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 7, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is just so awsome! Just got it today and very happy, it's kinda the same as the Gamecube 
 version and it has it's different moments but I'm still going to give this game two thumbs up. 
 There are two new items the "slingshot" and the "water pail", the shovel, axe, fishing rod and 
 bug catcher net is still around too so don't worry. You can actually see the sky on this one, that's 
 another thing I liked about the game. It's pretty much the same thing, you furnish your house, 
 do stuff like fish, catch some bugs and make money to pay your dept so your house will become larger 
 to place more furniture. So if you liked Animal Crossing for Gamecube and you have a DS or thinking 
 of getting a DS make sure you pick up a copy of this game because this is a must have with a Wi-Fi 
 connection. It's still same old Animal Crossing just that you can carry it in your pocket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmantera10
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  I'm not to sure how so many people think this is a great game. Running around talking to people 
 all day. It's the perfect game for every loser with no social skills to make themselves feel some 
 what important. I'd rather shot myself in the foot then to read another one of the games crappy 
 babyiesh dialogue. Then they tried moving the world so it looked as if you were getting somewhere. 
 But in reality a couple steps here and there and thats all there is to the "world". There was no 
 way i'd even waste my time trying to find all the little hidden things within the game. In short............. its 
 CRAP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bildo2020
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 6, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  For some, Animal Crossing: Wild World is nothing but a 'kiddie romp around a static enviroment 
 where you collect barbies, clothes and funiture to strew about your house.' Some think this is 
 like a girls fantasy game come true! While there are no barbies in the game (thank god, id hate 
 for my sister to play this and become annorexic due to barbies slim figure) there is a substantial 
 amount of collecting, listening and fun to be found in this enjoyable little package of a sequil.
 
  
  If your a packrat then this is the game to play! collecting in this game is the most profound aspect 
 of AC: WW. There are more pieces of furniture, clothes, fruits, fish, fossils, bugs and even paintings 
 to spend hours trying to aquire. Some items you can only get on certian day or events, others are 
 as common as your house fly! Worry not though, those of you who hate clutter can sell useless objects 
 for bells (the currency in AC: WW) to Tom Nook, the towns only enigmatic sales man!
  
  The game is packed full of things to do also when you are not on the hunt for rare items. All the 
 major holidays have been somewhat tinkered with to fit the games character, along with many more 
 events like fishing tourneys, yay day, birthday parties you name it, this game probably has it. 
 Also traveling animals may come to your town, such as Savhanna the Giraffe to give you clothing, 
 Katrina the fortune teller, Crazy Red to sell rare or common items (prices are mixed up so you 
 dont know what rare or common. He's tricky.) .
  
  The graphics are not half bad for a DS title. Nintendo has made your town seem like it is on a 
 part of a very tiny earth, but adding a horizon line. When you travel far enough away from an object, 
 that object will dissapear beyond the horizon, a nice touch.
  
  The sound in the game is also very well done. Music is never dull and boring and changes on the 
 hour. The sound effects nicely accent the enviroment of the game as well. When you are in the coffee 
 house (The Roost as its called in game) , the sounds come at you with a very gripping result. Something 
 I have not yet found in a DS game.
  
  If you like the collect and sell type games, AC: WW is the game for you! If you dont own a DS you 
 need to get one. This game will have you playing for hours on end all throughout the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaoMan75
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is the must own DS game for everyone. If I had to describe this game 
 in a few words it would be "sims with animals." The graphics I think are better than the original 
 one for the gamecube. Each Animal has different emotions than are shown through the games great 
 graphics. The gameplay takes advantage of the touch screen well. You can still use the pad and 
 all of the but the touch screen is WAY better. You get items some of which were in the original 
 Animal Crossing are carring over to this game. They also added new ones like the watering can. 
 The game also takes full advantage of the fact that the DS has a built in clock. It changes from 
 day to night and from season to season. When it come to the size of your town the original wins. 
 For a handheld game though the town size is pretty damn good. Your neighbors will move from you 
 town to other towns. But others will take there place. Even though this is a haldheld version they 
 did not skip on the holidays during the year. For example in my town right this very moment there 
 is the bright night fest were you nieghbors put lights on their houses. The value of this game 
 is just awsome. If you ever you ever run out of things to do just talk to neighbor and they will 
 give you a quest etc. But were this game hits a grand slam is Wi-Fi. You can connect with up to 
 4 different people online and have a party in your town. I just had a super bowl one in my town. 
 If you get some ones friend code they can come to to yours and vis versa. The sound if good and 
 the music if very good. If you can turn of the Animal voices you are set to go. Just one word of 
 warning is that this game is very hard to find in any store so i recomend getting it of of amazon. com. 
 This is a must own for anyone with a DS. Even if you do not have Wi-Fi there is still much fun 
 to be had.
  
  10.0
  Perfect 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nilihist
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 6, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  animal crossing wild world for the ds is not a sequel to the first one, it just tweaked up a bit. You 
 still have tom nook and the able sisters. The wifi connection is awesome ,you can visit your friends 
 town with ds to ds or wifi. That is big improvement in this game. I dont like the button controls 
 on this game, its better if you use the touch screen, you can control how you move a little better 
 than the buttons. Its awesome that the game plays without you thats totally 4 dimensional, and the 
 holiday specials are cool too. This game is definitely a buy for any ds owner who has friends with 
 ds's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEpixies
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  animal crossing ds is the gamecube gamecube game that was perfected by the innovative nintendo 
 ds. the game on the gamecube was good and had some things that you could play around with forever 
 but the ds seems limitless when it comes to new things to try. the game is easy to pick up and 
 play and its easy to know your primary objective (get a bigger home) . the best game play is online 
 with some friends you can help your friends with there debt and if you want just hang around and 
 fish.
  There is 10 reasons to own a ds this is 7 of them!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supreme-smiter
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 7:39 pm PT
Review:  I wish that we could create our own scores.
  
  Why? Because Animal Crossing is better than the sum of it's parts, and the score gamespot gave 
 it from my review.. well.. it IS the sum of it's parts. Animal Crossing is a very hard game to 
 describe. It sounds mind numbing on paper. You run errands for animals, talk to animals, weed the 
 town, plant flowers, go fishing, and bug catching, give presents to animals, so that you can make 
 yourslef look cool, make your house bigger, make it cooler, and all that jazz.
  
  So, why do you want to do all this? Because you do. There's no particular reason. Usually you'd 
 go out and battle monsters to retrieve items. In this you talk to animals. But when you think about 
 it, this is like every other game's motivation. Who doesn't want to buy new clothes to make yourself 
 look coler? You could do that in GTA. Don't you wish you could've designed your own clothing in 
 that game? You can here, with ease using the touch screen. Who doesn't want to make their pad look 
 cooler? To get all the rarest items? What about in games like Fire Emblem where you get a gallery 
 of pictures? It's to show off. And you pay the mortgage off so that you can make youur pad bigger, 
 so that you can put in better items so that it looks cooler, untill you run out of places to put 
 your items (and you will, because you'll have been Stowing a buncha cool furniture for your next 
 upgrade) .
  
  Althouh it has been described as a non game, for the reasons listed above it is in fact at the 
 core of gaming, in a funny way. You talk to NPCs, you weed out the fiendish invaders (Get it? WEED 
 out? BA-BOOM TISH!) , you unlock items and you run errands for people. But don't get me wrong; it 
 is incredibly fresh.
  
  There's also the Happy Room Academy, which rates your room to tell you if it's a peice of junk 
 or not. I won't go too in depth about that, I'm just putting it out there as a motivation to make 
 your room cool. The NPCs (animals) are very well done and often while talking to them (Especially 
 if you're listening to them talking to another animal) they are hilarious as well. However, there 
 is a bit of repitition in characters, but for the most part it's a great feature. NPCs move in 
 and out of your town too, and if you communitcate with someone else (you know, a REAL person) Then 
 you can swap animals, and you can see your friends letters that they sent the animals (which is 
 pretty funny, especially if it was a repeated character and they hurled abuse at them. Ok, maybe 
 I only do that. But it's SO ANNOYING! (you know, the animals.)
  
  Fishing and bug Catching is a fun past time, and it's somewhat time consuming. I won't explain 
 it, the joy of this game is simplicity, and that sounds really bad on paper. See my tag.
  
  The graphics are nice. Not Amazing, but damn near perfect for this type of game. The musics the 
 same type too. It's just lovely to listen too. All in all, the game has a very laid back feeling.
 
  
  Another fantastic tag for this game would've been Highly addictive. You could play this game for 
 months. I'm not kidding. They have people visist the town daily and an event on sunday, and they 
 celebrate holidays and birthdays. Even if it's for 20 iminutes a day, you won't stop playing this 
 any time soon.
  
  Heh, I just dropped a slice of tomato onto myself. And the key board. It still tasted good.
  
 
  Multiplayer can be pretty fun, but there are smoe apparrent problems with the Wifi. I havn't used 
 it because of these problems. For some stupid reason, there isn't a friends mode and a worldwide 
 mode. To play online, you must have their friend code and they must have yours. Which basically 
 means that tyou have to plan a visit with someone on the forums, and it's a total piece of excreetment. 
 You could also plan it with a friend, but it's better if you're in the same room anyway.
  
  So, Animal Crossing: If you've already played Mario Kart and Advance Wars, or don't like Advance 
 Wars (you will like Mario Kart, or you just don't like games) then get Animal Crossing. But definately 
 get Mario Kart first. If you don't, then I will not be very happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryle_Boy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 5, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  There arnt many RPGs out there which are quite like Animal Crossing. In fact, none. I heard the 
 orignal had over 4 TIMES more text than the average RPG. Animal Crossing WW is perhaps one of the 
 best games ive played in a long time. Its a vast improvement on a masterpiece that was on the GCN. 
 More stuff to do, more items, more animals, more fish and insects to catch, a bigger museum, an 
 observatory and best of all - Wi-Fi!!! Being able to play Animal Crossing simultaneously has always 
 been a dream of mine, now its possible, and you dont even have to know the people you're playing 
 with. 
  The gameplay, once again, is absolutely AMAZING. The freedom to do whatever the hell you please, 
 and work at your own pace is a great aspect that should be included in most games. Theres nothing 
 challenging about this game, and that is what makes it so enjoyable. Getting up early, picking 
 up your rod and going down to the beach is great fun when its in the palm of your hand. Theres 
 so much to do in Animal Crossing, its kinda weird, cause such an easy going game wouldnt have much 
 to do, right? Well, your wrong. The many, many many different items, clothes etc are all hard to 
 find , and takes you a while just to find a complete set of furniture. theres also all th gyroids, 
 all the fossils, all the paintings and everything else to find. Theres just so much to do, and 
 thats why it never, ever gets boring. 
  
  The graphics, while not as good as the console version, expectadely, are still great to look at 
 and marvel. They're not the best graphics, but it isnt needed, some things are easily noticable 
 2D objects, like the trees, flowers and fish. But who cares? The world is lovely and colourful, 
 and cool to look at. The people in the game are vibrant, such as tom nook and the villagers. Being 
 able to design your own clothes, and have people in the village wearing them is a great little 
 thing. And being able to make your own flag brightens up the place. The graphics arnt the best, 
 as stated before, but they arnt needed, cause the graphics look good and suit the game well. I 
 couldnt imaging playing an animal crossing with the graphics such as FEAR or Oblivion, it would 
 just take away the charm.
  
  The sounds are quirky and nice to listen to. The voices are hilarious at first, but you eventually 
 get used to it, and love it. The town tune is cool, as well, being able to make your own song or 
 have the Zelda intro every hour is awesome. The sound effects are nice, as well, and suit the game. 
 The sound is cool, and without it, would subtract from the great experience.
  
  So, overall, theres no hesitating in grabbing a copy of this game. Theres just an outstanding amount 
 to do, and you can do it all at your own pace. If you fancy being a tycoon in the stalk market, 
 go for it, or if you choose to live it simple and just lay back and enjoy your days fishing, thats 
 up to you. The beauty of this game is that, what you do, is what you WANT to do. No arguments, 
 no exceptions, it really is that damn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monsoon56
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  i really enjoy this game!! its fun, cute and there was non stop things to do!!! i love fishing!!!!!!! 
 like i had AC for GC but because of the WiFi and DS to DS feature, it makes this game a whole lot 
 better!!!, my favorate thing about this game is that i can bring an axe to antoher persons town 
 and!! CHOP CHOP CHOP!!! all there trees down lol!!!!!! thats funny, dont worry if i ever go to 
 ur town i wont do that!! (OR WILL I??) ya n e ways whoever reads this and has a ds, get this game!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7Red7Raven7
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect! No game gets better than this! You disagree? I recommend that you jump out 
 a window. No game gets better because you never are forced to stop playing. There is no stress 
 unlike Mario Kart DS. We don't want to get into what I did to that thing! I almost snapped it thats 
 how stressful it was. You can go fishing, bug catching, digging, tree shaking, shopping, furnish, 
 hangout with the animals in town, even hang out with your friends on Nintendo WiFi. Express ourself 
 and talk. Get free stuff from the recycle or lost and found. get coffee, make constaltions, and 
 more. You can also celebrate holidays or your own holidays. There is no rush. Play when you choose. 
 Unlike Nintendogs which made you play every day untill you give up. So there is NO RUSH!!! I highly 
 recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toughdog678910
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  If you liked the first one, you'll love this one, but there are some drawbacks. there are no Nintendo 
 games, and for you time travelers, there's no wisp to help with your weed problems. The game is 
 very, VERY addicting, and on top of that, it's portable! one good feature is that if your battery 
 starts running low, the game warns you and tells you that you should save so that you don't lose 
 your progress and have to deal with Mr. Ressetti! There are a lot of characters in this game and 
 there are a lot of bugs and fish and fossils. there are also a lot of pieces of furniture to collects. 
 the special random characters appear sill also in this version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fbrisevac
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World has so much to do, you will sit down to play it, and a couple of hours 
 will have passed without you realising. It may not be all that challenging, but seeings as there 
 are so many things to do, you dont really care how hard it is.
  
  The game not only has heaps to do, but it has a great feature, HUMOUR. This game really had me 
 laughing at some stages. There is one mole inparticular, that comes to see you and lecture you 
 if you dont save before turning your DS off. It's just great fun all round.
  
  The graphics aren't exactly jaw-dropping, but they are all you need. Town tunes are catchy, and 
 animal language is, errr, different. The game seems to be completely original. (though ive heard 
 its of the same formula as the GC version, which I havent played) 
  
  Some activities include digging up fossils, (I wont give away too much about what you can do with 
 these) you can catch bugs, catch fishes which is fun once you get the hang of it. You can cut down 
 trees, shoot things out of the skies with a slingshot and you can run errands for the townsfolk.
 
  
  Animal Crossing is a fabulous game, that just go's on and on, and on. There are also special events 
 like flea markets where you can go around to neighbours houses and buy anything you like.
  
  Animal Crossing just makes the DS grow even more popular, many people will have bought a DS 
 just to play it. Im pretty sure people are still wanting to get a DS to play it. Mario Kart and 
 Animal Crossing combined, they are unbeatable! 
  
  There is simply the best, (Mario Kart DS) there is the classic, (Super Mario 64 DS) there is the 
 unique, (Kirby Canvas Curse) and the one that never ends! (Animal Crossing Wild World) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gundam470
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 3, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Amazingly addictive, I didn't know what expect from this game but i can't seem to put it down. 
 I can't believe I find myself watering flowers for an hour everyday, but it just goes to show the 
 addictive power of the game. Not only that but not having the furniture I want and the constatnt 
 struggle to pay off Nook (w/o TTing) is slowly driving me crazy. The graphics are extremely impresive, 
 even more so than in Mario 64 DS and all the different varieties of sound and music make sure all 
 the daily tasks never get dull. I highly recommend this game to ANYONE with a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 3, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  The nintendo DS's versoin of Animal Crossing in my opinion is also just as well as the normal versoin 
 that I had originally started the series with. Although the graphics aren't as good as the original's 
 I wouldn't really say too much as it is a portable system which obviously cannot have the same 
 performance capabilities as its portable gameply counter part. However the game itself is still 
 quite a fun game in my opinion as it still brings in all the RPG elements with the younger cutsy 
 designs in the characters that make a great overall gameplay feel. This is a game that is recommended 
 for people of all ages, it doesn't matter if you are someone who is very old, this game can still 
 work for you. Not all games have to be based on violence or hard core racing in order to be fun, 
 kiddy concept games such as this can also be a very fun and powerful game just as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: htmlmike
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  If you ever played a real addicting game. I dont mean some one hour strait game. I mean a put out 
 of bedroom at two am so Im not tempted game. You start as some bum and you need a place to crash. 
 You get a loan from nook and you need to work for him. The first few jobs you get squat! Then you 
 get furniture, then your done. Nook owns a shop where you can buy and sell goods. You make money 
 by cathching and selling fish, selling objects, and selling fruit. Each town has a native fruit. 
 use wi-fi or multi player to trade for other fruits. I traded oranges, and my fruit is pear. I 
 can sell pears for 100bells and oranges for 500bells. How do I get a shovel to plant trees, a net 
 to catch bugs, or a rod to catch fish. sell already grown trees. Buy equitment.
  Even though you are given the house, you need to pay morgage at the post office. Your house then 
 will be upgraded for another morgage and another...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsmaniacman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 3, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are good, great characters and witty dialogues.
  
  Where it really shines is that theres always something new each day. Every day someone move into 
 your town, and even if your not there things still happen. If your a fan of harvest moon, neopets, 
 or possibly even runescape this is a great game.
  blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
 blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  ACWW is one of the best DS games EVER! 
  ACWW has great gameplay with the opprunity to fish, find fossils, and just have fun. ACWW has some 
 of the best graphics ever. It looks like the GCN. K. K. is back and means great music. K. K. Slider 
 will be a common sight on Saturday nights for many ACWW fans. ACWW has great value of Nintendo games. ACWW 
 will be sold out at some areas I'm sure. Nintendo should have made this a bundle. I love ACWW and 
 AC. I would like to see a sequel soon. 
  GREAT GAME IT IS PERFECT!! 
  10.0
  This is first game I've reviewed that is really fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andygod
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 2, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Combines everything great from the GCN version into one tiny, portable, addicting game. If you 
 only had fourty bucks left for the rest of your life then you should go get this game. Yes, you 
 heard it here first, THIS GAME IS BETTER THEN EATING FOOD TO SURVIVE. First point, you can take 
 it anywhere, your ds is a portable device so that means that you can play it wherever you are, 
 which means if there is an event going on but you dont have access to a tv and gamecube then you 
 can still get that one item from tortimer. Second point, it is huge, this game manages to put in 
 everything from the first one plus some, all the items are there plus some, all the fish and bugs 
 are there plus some, all the fossils and paintings are there plus some. There are accessories for 
 you to put on so that everyone doesnt look the same all the time, the house can get bigger then 
 ever before, you can get your hair cut, and you can get coffee. Third and final point because if 
 you dont get it after this point then you are a cold hearted young person, MULTIPLAYER!!! at the 
 same time you and up to three other people can be in one town.... together.... you can even play 
 over the internet via wi-fi connection, it is the most amazing thing to happen since the begining 
 of time. You can share items with eachother, steal fruit from other towns, hit your friends with 
 your net, talk with them, have fishing tournies, or just run around and look at eachothers eyes.... 
 SO, final verdict, if you dont have this game yet then get into a car, any car, and drive to your 
 local v-game store and ask them very politly if you can have a copy of Animal Crossing: Wild World, 
 oh yeah then you have to pay them so dont forget that part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarsier888
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2006 9:45 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, the variety is great. 
  
  Everyone's town I've been to has been different, different fruit trees, different characters, different 
 everything!! It is awesome! There are so many items you can get and so many ways to customize your 
 house.
  
  One problem I have with this game is that there isn't very much to do. There are a lot of special 
 things like visitors, holidays, items etc. but there aren't many actions you can do.
  
  You can go fishing, plant trees, dig holes, customize your house, make the town tune, do star constellations 
 etc. but there isn't much else. There should be some neat daily activities you can take part in.
 
  
  Anyways, I really like this game, but they could have added more stuff. I say you should go buy 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l337gamer99
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so the game was intended for a younger audience, but who cares? This game's so fun that you'll 
 forget how old you are and enjoy this for what it is: a good game. Animal Crossing: Wild World 
 brings another great adventure in the Animal Crossing franchise. If you've played the original, 
 you'll immediately find many similarities to the original Animal Crossing. Like the characters, 
 some are new, some are the same. Either way, you'll be having fun with this game for months and 
 months. Unless you time travel. Which then your fun time will be reduced greatly.
  
  This isn't one of those games where you play for 6 hours straight, at least for me. Like the original, 
 this game runs on real time using your DS' internal clock. If someone says he'll meet you tomorrow 
 at 5:00, they really mean tomorrow. Unless you time travel, once again. Once you start your game, 
 you'll be asked some question that'll determine your appearance and whatnot. After that, you'll 
 be set off in your newly created town that, hopefully, you came up with a good name. Because if 
 you decide to be smart and name yur town a crappy name, you'll have to rebuild a new town to change 
 the name, thus erasing your current (and only) file. What a shame. 
  
  You'll eventually meet Tom Nook, which fan will recognize as the bell-hungry raccoon that give 
 you your first and later houses. You'll do some chores for him and then you'll set off to make 
 some money! You can do numerous things in this game, like fossil digging, growing trees and flowers, 
 fishing, catch some bugs, make constellations, expand your house, and much more! You can even go 
 Martha Stewart on your self and decorate your house. What, 'decorate' not good enough? Fine, 'customize' 
 your house. In Wild World, the holidays are now all made up, 'Yay Day', where you say nice comments 
 to your residents. However, know how the majority of people act, your 'nice' comments will most 
 likely turn out being offensive. But hey, if your townsfolk don't mind, so what? You can even use 
 the top screen to shoot down UFOs, birds, and presents. You can even see your constellation at 
 night and if you're lucky, you might see a shooting star. So make a wish... with A.
  
  Speaking of townsfolk, you can have up to 8 residents. Each character you get is random and he/she 
 has his/hers own personality and annoying catch phrases. One nice thing is that your residents 
 can move out of your town. So if you ever find yourself getting stuck with Mitzi or another annoying 
 resident, hit them with a net, ignore them when they call you, and never visit them! They'll be 
 packing their bags in no time... Many special characters will pop in here and there, usually giving 
 you something in return for doing a task for them. 
  
  If all that gameplay wasn't enough, it was.... Wi-Fi! Yes, now you too, can chop your friend's and/or 
 foe's trees down! You can also leave trash, plant pitfall seeds, or just plain talk to your friends. 
 What you say to your friends, is limited in curse words, as some are censored from the game. However, 
 here is where some of the flaws come in: The Wi-Fi isn't as fun as it sounds. Sure you can trade 
 items, chat, sell/buy items, but its not much different from the single player mode. There aren't 
 many things to do in 
  Wi-Fi that'll keep you at a McDonalds for a long time. One thing that was really nice was that 
 your residents can move to your friend's town and vice versa. Wi-Fi is a good addition to Animal 
 Crossing, but it can be better.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for the DS, running in full 3D and real-time. Like most (or all) DS 
 games, this one has no frame rate issues and the only long load time will be loading your profile. 
 Animation flows smoothly as you get to see the wonderful, vibrant colors of the seasons and characters. 
 The sound is pretty good too, good vibrant tunes that changes depending on what the weather is 
 like or the time of the day/night. You can even customize your own town tune so you can put your 
 music at work. Of course, if you stink at that, you can always leave the default one or choose 
 a resident's one when the holiday, 'La-Di-Day' comes. 
  
  Overall, this is one of those must-own DS titles out there. You won't be disappointed with this 
 game, and as soon as you think you're done with it, you'll be tempted at least to check on your 
 fellow town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankeyser
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  I thought that i was animal crossinged out after playing the gamecube version for a good two years. 
 But my sister picked me up a copy for the DS after visiting my house numerous times adn seeing 
 me play it during those two years. i tossed it to the side and did not think i would play it much. 
 but as soon as i turned it on it was like visiting an old freind and learning about all his adventures 
 i had missed out on. 
  with all the new iteams and different ways to customize your character i cant help but to pick 
 it up for an hour or so a day and visit my little town. and now being able to visit my freinds 
 towns near and far using its wifi capability i just cant help but to think nintendo has not lost 
 its magic at creating fun, enjoyable and highly addictive games.
  If you liked the original animal crossing you will love Wild World. and if you never played the 
 original then you should take them time to check this game out.
  **i have now found a glitch to make easy bells. once you have good feng shei and can grow money 
 trees bury 30,000 bells let the tree grow but do not shake the tree. instead hit the tree with 
 your ax and the bells will fall off. walk into a house or the store ect and come out the bells 
 will be on the ground and bells will be back on the tree. this will work until you cut down the 
 tree completely on the 3rd swing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamegaman
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I will honestly say right off the bat that Animal Crossing as a series is not for everyone. If 
 you dont like Sim games or games where you spend most of the time doing the same thing over and 
 over again, you wont want to play this game. Overall, just like the Gamecube big brother, Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World takes on a new look for the DS by enabling players to travel between each 
 others towns worldwide using the WFC connection as well as the DS's built in DS to DS network connection. 
 The graphics are fairly good, they could use some polishing but the game is targeted more at a 
 younger audience but even older people enjoy this game. Im 19 and I enjoy AC: WW more than games 
 like The Sims. There is little learning curve, anyone from the age of 5 to 65 can pick up this 
 game and learn the controls and get started in a matter of a few minutes. There is a lot to do 
 in the game, tons of hidden items and features for everyone to find. All in all its a great game, 
 has good graphics and is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiruru
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 1, 2006 5:20 am PT
Review:  The touchy controls will drive you crazy sometimes, but once you get over that you can build your 
 house, adjust your feng-shui, fish, collect fossils, and catch bugs until your little digital heart 
 explodes. Picking things up off the ground and putting things or digging holes right where you 
 want can be a little hit or miss, but there's no real punishment. You find yourself loving and 
 hating certain characters (often times wishing you could throw a virtual rock at a virtual jerk's 
 head... hard) . You'll spend hours frantically hoping for that Japanese Tea Table or Kiddie Carpet 
 to be in the store so you can complete your set or digging holes like a mad man so that you can 
 get that last piece of a stego.
  
  Great game, addictive, and maddeningly simple. Nintendo showing off its brillance in quirky games 
 with simple concepts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSmanlevi
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  awesome. even more awesome with freinds and wifi
  just like the sims but better. i reccomend this for any kid under the age of 16.
  its not that 
 easy but semi. fun to fis and hunt for bugs. also awesome to shoot ufo out of sky. great way to 
 make freinds. get it or get a ****
  
  awesome. even more awesome with freinds and wifi
  just like the sims but better. i reccomend this for any kid under the age of 16.
  its not that 
 easy but semi. fun to fis and hunt for bugs. also awesome to shoot ufo out of sky. great way to 
 make freinds. get it or get a **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I had nevered played the first animal crossing game but man the people weren't kidding it was addicting. 
 This game is great. I mean you living your own life in the game like buying a new house, making 
 your own clothes, making money and making friends. This game is awesome with wi-fi. I mean visiting 
 other people's towns and stealing and vandalising!!!! I'm just kidding. But I do like visiting 
 other towns because every town is different and interesting. Like I have every type of fruit in 
 my town. My house is in it's third stage and I'm collecting snowman stuff and robo stuff. Everyone 
 that plays this game seems to show the charactistics and that's what makes the game fun. I mean 
 I met people that have the whole robo collection, having all the golden utilities, someone having 
 over 5 million bells :o, and so on. This game lets you communicate with other gamers around the 
 world. So much fun. I hope I'm willing to meet you online someday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroWil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  When people look at ports. They tend to think, I already have the console version. While should 
 I get some watered down handheld version? That's when you're wrong. This is not just some port 
 with everything intact. Some may not even consider it a port. It's a fresh new game with a whole 
 new meaning. With over 600 new items to collect. Brand new characters, and even more places to 
 visit. This game is everything you ever wanted from a 'port'. The biggest factor is the addition 
 of Online Play. Not only can you visit distant friends. You can receive exclusive items, and buy 
 stuff from others. Of course, there are some downsides. The biggest (to some) is the exclusion 
 of NES Games. I don't find this a problem but others might. Other than that, everything is perfect. 
 No longer must you use the D-Pad to write letters. Writing letters is almost as easy as typing 
 on a keyboard. Port? Maybe. Spectacular game? Of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h2887
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 31, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Animal crossing wild world is one of those games where in sometimes it is so stupid but you can't 
 put it down. This particular version of Animal crossing is alot of fun because you don't have to 
 wait to go home and sit by your game cube to play it being that its in real time. In this version 
 you can play whenever you want because its on the go. The DS uses its features well with this game. 
 The touch screen is pretty much fully utilized. You are able to do everything you can do with the 
 d pad but with the touch screen. Making designs is also fun because of the use of the touch screen. 
 Another DS feature is that you are able to do online or DS to DS play which allows you to hang 
 out with friends and be able to get items not availbile in your town such as different fruit and 
 tools. Another add on in the game is the coffee shop which you can get a cup of coffeee at and 
 listen to kk slider on saturday nights. so in the end this game is very fun i recomend it for anyone 
 who either has a lot of time on there hands or just wants a fun game in which they can just pick 
 up with a bunch of friends and have fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  If you played this on the cube you might find your self getting board to easy. Every thing that 
 was good seems dull now. Like fishing, bug catching, and digging for things. You cant go on fetch 
 missions for others any more. The game starts out the same come to town nook gives you a home and 
 you have to give him every bell you got. You can make your home how you like it theres lots of 
 things to put in your house and geting them is fun. Yet you run out of things to do to soon. I was 
 almost board to tears looking for some thing to do. If you played this on the GC you might get 
 board to soon. Online play is nice you and a bud can go around town fishing and hanging out at the 
 coffie shop like one show. Yet if you want to play wi if your gonna have to meet some one over the 
 internet or get luckey and meet some one some where else. In the end this game is good but if you 
 played it on the Game cube I would save your money if you have not then go out and buy it. It is 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak2k5
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crosing: DS may look like the gamecube version but theres a ton of things that are diffrent. 
 The world your in is a little diffrent since theres more house. Your house is in a diffrent location. 
 Theres also a online portion of the game where friends can visit your town and you can go to there 
 towns to and trade and buy items. 
  
  One thing tight about Animal Crossing DS is you can now have hats, glasses, etc. You can customize 
 your character even more then you did in the first game. They did get rid of the gyroid that was 
 in the front of the house instead you can save the game by press start orgoing up stairs where 
 your bed is. However there is still gyroids in the game that you can put in your house.
  
  Personally I think this game is a great buy for around $30 you can get what the gamecube version 
 had and even more. I recommend it to anyone who likes simulators. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoGen85
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  Nintendo's Animal Crossing: Wild World includes much of the features from the original GameCube 
 version. It also attempts to build upon that with what the Nintendo DS has to offer. Basically 
 more items, and the ability to visit other towns via a wi-fi connection. It also simplifies some 
 things to create a more handheld experience.
  
  You're basically this young person who moves into this town overwhelmed with walking and talking 
 animals dressed up in clothes. Not to mention it appears you're the only person in town who's apart 
 of the human race (don't forget, we're still at the top of the food chain) . Now your job is to find 
 a place to stay at, and a racoon named Tom Nook offers you a home. But for some reason you have 
 no money (in this case Bells) to purchase it. Mr. Nook does not mind you being short on cash, but 
 he'll make you work in his shop to pay off some of the debt. Once you complete all the jobs that 
 he gives you in the beginning of the game, you'll be able to experience Wild World.
  
  Still, you have more debt to pay off. It is your job to make Bells in any possible way. Whether 
 it's selling fish you caught or fossils you've found. Maybe even finding some Bells you've shaken 
 out of a tree. You're animal friends might even help you out a bit by handing over items to sell 
 or Bells directly.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is simple yet oddly addicting. Your Nintendo Time Clock Settings will 
 be used in the game for the time of day. This allows you to play the game in real-time. If it's 
 8:00PM in real life, and you've set your Nintendo Clock right; the in-game time will exactly be 
 8:00PM. With this mechanic, certain things happen at certain times. You might have a fishing tournament 
 which requires you to turn in the biggest fish you caught by 6:00PM or you might have to deliver 
 a letter to a friend within a given time when receiving it. The time also effects your surroundings. 
 From day to night, or Winter to Spring. This can also effect other things like what type of fish 
 and insects are present.
  
  One of the major aspects of Wild World is collecting things. Museum helps your organize the paintings, 
 fossils, fish, and insects that you have acquired if you decided to donate them [instead of selling 
 the items to Nook] . Also, there are a ton of items to wear; you can even design your own patterns. 
 But I think the biggest thing players will continue to love is the ability to do some interior 
 designing. Tom Nook sells different types of items that can be displayed within your home. You 
 can collect furniture, rugs, wallpaper, and other essentials to create a mis-matched theme or something 
 more coordinated.
  
  But if you don't have a broadband connection that's using a wireless feature you won't be able 
 to experience 100% of this game. With Nintendo Wi-Fi you can have 3 other players visit your town, 
 or even live within it (roommates) . Through a wi-fi connection you have a chance to obtain some 
 of the items you would like to have through much easier means by visiting your friend's shops within 
 their town. Also if people visit your own and buy at Nook's it easier to upgrade his shop into 
 something bigger and better - meaning new features and more rare items for sale.
  
  Every town has a native fruit that grows on trees. For instance, my town's native fruit is cherries. 
 They are worth 100 Bells if I sell them to Tom Nook. But if I visit someone else online they could 
 possibly have a different fruit, perhaps oranges. I can pick some oranges head back home and sell 
 them for 500 Bells each since they aren't native in my surroundings. So Nintendo Wi-Fi can definitely 
 help you out during your game time.
  
  The graphics are what you would expect from Animal Crossing and the Nintendo DS. There are only 
 a few 3-D games out for the system, but Wild World is one of the better looking games with its 
 cartoon flavor (especially since much of the gameplay is on the touch screen - better rendering) . 
 Speaking of the touch screen Wild World does a fairly decent job of utilizing it. But in a sense, 
 there isn't anything out of the ordinary that uses the touch screen to it's full advantage. But 
 it's easier to micro-mange with the stylist.
  
  Again, the music and sound effects are no different from the graphics. There nothing spectacular 
 in the music, yet it doesn't have to be. The childish music and sounds fits well with theme.
  
  But the only major changes that seems to have effected the game is the online mode, more items, 
 and a streamlined system. Even though I enjoy Animal Crossing: Wild World I wish there was more 
 to due in 24 hours without having to go online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buddy90909
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 29, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  This game has great sound for a DS game as well as graphics. It does get boring after awhile but 
 its one of those games where you always come back to it. The gameplay is still the same as Animal 
 Crossing for GC but it was fun back then its funner now. This is probaly the best game out there 
 for DS untill resident evil DS comes out but with the online abilitites of this game this one might 
 even be better. The online gameplay is a little more confusing than it seems with all the friend 
 codes and all but it is still preety easy to pick up on. So overall this game is a must own for 
 DS owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: way2funny
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Ok, let me explain each point first...
  
  Gameplay- For the most part its really well, the touch screen controls are alright. Sometimes its 
 difficult to throw the fishing rod in the right spot, or most importantly catch bugs especially 
 without the 'GCN' Slowdown. Nothing very big thats wrong, its just those few little things can 
 get frusterating.
  
  Graphics- Very nice, I dont have much to say other than they are very nice. The only problem is 
 walking around in the town can get quite dizzy if your not use to it. Other than that, enjoy the 
 colorful, yet creatice graphics.
  
  Sound- The sound keeps you going, which is why sound is in a game in the first place. 
  
  Value- 
 This game can keep you going for months, if not years. 
  
  Its a cool game, i love the fact that there are so many accesories. I do think there should be 
 more creativity as in making your own music, maybe having your own 'shop' type thing, or even making 
 your own products (as in choosing from an array of models and then adding textures) . I do frown 
 upon the absent of NES games; though I fully understand why they couldnt incorporate it. Anyway, 
 this is still VERY impressive for a DS game, considering ALL that stuff packed into a very small 
 and compact DS game. Great for on the go, plant some apples, talk to a neighbor, check out nooks 
 shop and turn it off. This is a great sim game for the DS. There are many itty bitty faults that 
 add up, which prevent it from being a greater game. This is still a must have if you have a DS. 
 The multiplayer also adds much replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceBowser
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  This is one of my favorite games. Its so fun because you can go to other ppls towns over wifi and 
 talk to them. I also like customizing my character and house. The graphics are great all in 3D. 
 The Gameplay is simple yet fun: basically you do whatever you feel like. It has great music and 
 sound effects, i especially like to see K. K. slider and get tunes from him. The tilt is good but 
 sometimes there are trees in the way so when you walk behind them you cant see yourself. its not 
 good when theres a bunch of trees and you shake one and something falls and you cant see where 
 it is. If you buy this game, it'll be hard to put down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariobro999
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  A simple formula: Buy furniture, fish, repeat. But they add hidden secrets. Like, the animal crossing 
 island, or mr. resetti's house. (For the record. resetti is SOOOOOOOOOO annoying!) But its all good 
 and fun. buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it. Oh yeah, graphics arent all great. 
 But sound..... K. K slider, creating tunes, make sound FABULOUS. (oh, by the by, there should be a 
 mortal kombat DS) oh yeah.... buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buyit buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy it buy 
 t 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad2409
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  In Animal Crossing: Wild World you take control of someone who wants to go out and live on your 
 own. It is very similar to the Gamecube version released a few years ago. There is still Tom Nooks 
 shop, Able Sisters shop and most of the old residents a back such as Joey, Portia and Dora.
  
  To name a few differences, there is a Town Hall which has the post office, Community Outlet 
 (something like that) and a Recycle Bin. Copper and Booker are back in a cave at the top of the 
 town in which there is Bookers "Lost and Found", Whats new ( Which he says whos come into your 
 town) and the rest is pretty useless. Copper plays a more important role if you wish to leave your 
 town via DS to DS or Wi-fi. All clothes are bought at the Able Sisters.
  
  Overall it is a great game for the non-gamers and regular gamers but if your more of a hardcore 
 player... STAY AWAY! You'll just waste precious copies of the game for nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzypickles87
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing - two words that will always be near and dear to my heart. When the original game 
 was released on the GameCube I was more than hooked. I was obsessed. I was thrown into a world 
 so similar to my own, yet at the same time, so unique and different, I didn't even know where to 
 begin.
  
  In Animal Crossing: Wild World, you, the character, are pitted into the same virtual reality of 
 that of its GameCube predecessor - this time, not only is it handheld, it's online. That in itself 
 is worth the $30+ price tag.
  
  Not to mention the unlimited amount of goodies that can be added to your character's "avatar" such 
 as hats, facial accessories, and a watering can to make sure your lovely flowers that have been 
 planted throughout the village are kept up. However, for as much as AC: WW has added to its rather 
 commendable amounts of special features, the gameplay itself is very much "more of the same." Wake 
 up, talk to all the villagers, plant a tree or two, go fishing, earn some bells, save, go to bed. 
 Lather, rinse, repeat. If you own the GameCube version, you won't see too many gameplay additions, 
 but the online play gives it quite a boost.
  
  Animal Crossing isn't so much a game that has you hooked for hours on end than so much hooked for 
 a little over a half an hour for many, many days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NineInchNails13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Well.... All I can say is this is the greatest game on the DS. I know it has no goal or concept 
 in it, and I can't explain it, but I have played this one and the one on Game Cube a lot. It's 
 fun paying off your house (who knew paying off a debt could be fun?) and after you pay off your 
 house there is still more things you have to do to make your town perfect (museum and stuff like 
 that.) I've already recommended this game to a lot of people, and I would recommend it to anyone 
 that wants to play a great game for a long period of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBMFighter
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing on the Gamecube was and is till one of my favorite games that I still play daily. 
 The items and errands kept me busy for 100s of hours. I haven't played this to its full potienal (collecting 
 all the items and such) yet I have already put more than 20 hours into this great game to date. 
 Animal Crossing Wild World is now also one of my favorite games and I will be playing this game 
 for a while. The gameplay is still highly addictive plus the addition of the top screen allows 
 for new gameplay like start gazing and many other events. The new items are cool and new characters 
 are great. Even the addition of a few new tools are great. The abilite to use things like headgear 
 and different things are great. The graphics look perfect. This was the only real problem I had 
 with Animal Crossing for the GC. The NPCs look great and the items look great. The sound is still 
 fun and will help about anyone calm down. This is a great game for kids and adults alike. The only 
 problem with this game is like I said with the GC version the gamplay may not be for everyone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  This game is not out in the UK yet so I had to import a copy just to be able to play. I have been 
 a huge fan of the AC series and loved the GC version.
  
  This version is great, everything about it screams quality and I could not wait to jump right in 
 and get playing.
  
  You start out in the back of a taxi on your way to town, after a quick chat with the cabbie you 
 arrive in town and can start to explore.
  
  Everything looks really good and you can tell that a lot of time has been spent designing the environment. 
 You get pointed in the direction of the local shop keeper who gives you a nice little starter house.
 
  
  From here it is just a case of getting to grips with how everything works in the world. You do 
 some jobs for the shop keeper, a delivery or two, write a letter, post a notice on the notice board 
 etc and once you have finished you get paid and are left to your own devices.
  
  Earning money (the whole point of the game I guess) is fairly easy. You can go fishing, dig up 
 fossils, catch bugs, collect flowers, beach combing etc which all involve you a small amount of 
 skill to a greater or lesser degree.
  
  Fishing for example requires you to watch the rivers and sea for little fish shaped shadows and 
 then cast your line in as close as you can get. Once the float disappears under the water (hint 
 - listen for the splashing sound and then hit the 'A' button as quick as you can) then mostof the 
 time you catch something.
  
  The stuff that you collect can be either displayed in your house, sold back for money or donated 
 to the museum. The museum is another great idea, as you collect stuff (fish and fossils etc) you 
 can give it to the museum who will then put it on display. You can then wander around the museum 
 and look at your exhibits.
  
  So far I have only really discussed the single player (and there is an awful lot more that I have 
 not even touched on yet) but there is also a very cool multiplayer level as well.
  
  Connect your DS up to the Internet and you can invite other players to your town to look around 
 and interact with you. Plus you can also visit other friends towns as well.
  
  This is a great way to get hold of things that are not available in your town yet as you will find 
 a lot of stuff is seasonal (things like bugs only really appear in the Summer and some fish only 
 appear in the Winter etc) .
  
  All in all this is a great game and something you can just pick up and play when the fancy takes 
 you. Everything about it makes you want to come back for more, it is just superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerman1495
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and will hook you write away it has 3D graphics that you might enjoy. It is also 
 wi-fi playable if you have wireless internet. You can play with your buddys from a long distance 
 and visit each others town. You can play from DS to DS as well to remind you. Something is happening 
 if your playing or not.
  You will move to a town where animals will be your neighbors. You can catch bugs, discover fossills, 
 donate paintings to the musume, and catch fish. Make your own house and put furniture that you like 
 in it. You can make designs and patterns. That might be something to get you started so hope you 
 enjoy the game of Animal Crossing: Wild World.
  By: oscar1410 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSageCola
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 25, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  It is hard to judge this game for an overall audiance. Personally this was the whole reason I bought 
 the DS knowing that this game would be out, sure it took nearly a year but the wait was worth it. 
 I personally like the game better than the gamecube game but some features, like holidays and the 
 basement, are missing. Where some of these features were lost the game makes up for it, like in 
 more house expansions, more characters and multplayer options. The orginal game allowed you to 
 visit other towns, but no one was there. In this game you can interact with other people, live 
 and across the globe. Now not much needs to be said about this game bottom line is that it is addictive, 
 somewhat repetitive, but most of all fun. The game isnt for every one, but meant for most and it 
 makes the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allpowerful_det
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  What most reviewers will say is that this is exactly like the Gamecube one. And that can be considered 
 a good thing if you had a blast in the first one. But this one is way different. With an abundance 
 of new items and old ones, the collections won't end. Also, now when you get Nookington's, it comes 
 with a hair salon to get new do's. The critters in your town will now talk to each other right 
 in front of your face. And you can listen in! But, the main attraction here is the wireless play. 
 When you went to another town in the GC one, you couldn't meet the other people. Now not only can 
 talk to them, you can trade items or sell them. Plus, this game is online. So you can get together 
 across the world. The bottom line is, that if you didn't enjoy the last one, then don't get this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sapphirechao
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  just awsome for all ages! a lot of stuff to do, not too difficult no too easy. lots of easy ways 
 to make money! (or bells to be exact) i haven't played the game cube version but i still think 
 it's cool. the only down side is they should be showing more stuff on the maps other just buildings, 
 because you relly want to know where to find any residents to deliver them stuff, a great selection 
 of items and types of furnichure too. i just love the wi-fi play it's so fun. just trding items 
 with each other, playing net tag or just fishing together, just so much to do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nightmas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing for the DS is a whole new Animal Crossing yet it feels like the classic Gamecube 
 game. It is portibal now so you can open your DS and play it at school, at work, on the bus, and 
 many other places. One thing I wished for was the ability to use the microphone during online play. 
 And if you play this and the Gamecube version you will notice colors arnt as brite in this one, 
 and you feel the screen is just to small. But thats all there is to comlain about it, it is a real 
 fun game.
  
  GAMEPLAY-You have two options. One is the D-Pad and the A, B, X, Y, L and R buttons. Or you can Use 
 the touch screen to move around.
  
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND-The sound is good and high quality for the DS, use headphones. And the graphics 
 are also high quality.
  
  OVERALL-Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: southparkmike44
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing wild wold is awesome, in the beginning you anwser questions from a man takeing 
 you to the place you told him you were going, you get ther and like the one for game cube you have 
 to pay tom nook money then he will expand onto yor house. This game never gets boring. exept when 
 its night and the stores or closed , but in general there is a lot to do. There are many items 
 not found in the orignal, but of course the items for the first one are there. Another thing is 
 there is more to do like at the museum you can create a constilation or go to the resurant down 
 stars were KK slider the dog playes songs. So that is why I rate Animal Crossing DS a 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicymongoose
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty much the best Nintendo DS game ever. Its fricken awesome. A bunch of cute little 
 characters with debts to pay and you fish and all kinds of inventive ways to get money. You get 
 to decorate everything to your way and make everything look likes its on MTV Cribs. Pretty much 
 what my point is, is that this game is definately a must buy if you have a DS. And it is incentive 
 just to buy a DS for this game. Apparently this is noy 100 words, so hopefully it is now. I guess 
 not yet, so I will try again now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: packymaster
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent game. I find it to be very original. The gamecube game was good and I was 
 also addicted to that one. This game also has the same effect on me. It's cool that you can visit 
 other people's towns from the wireless connection. It's too bad that you have to know the person, 
 which you want to visit, instead of going to someone's town randomly. I can't stand that, but it 
 makes sense because I'm sure some people out there would trash other people's towns when they were 
 not looking. Over all I like this game very much and I'm happy it made the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarvelGreenDay
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing DS is good, but it could have been better. Its as addicting as it was on the Gamecube, 
 but it feels like the same thing. Fishing is too hard (the fish usually swim the other way) and 
 the contorls take some getting used to. The touch pad is useful for walking around, your inventory, 
 and drawing but not much else. Dont get me wrong though, Animal Crossing is addicting and fun, 
 but it could have been a bit better. If youve played the original one, then you know this game 
 is all about collecting stuff and living your life as an animal. I guess that's why it's so addicting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Link142
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This is one the most addicting games out, not only for DS, but it can match and beat many other 
 games out there. With a whole load of stuff to do, it's hard to get bored of this game. Welcome 
 to Animal Crossing: Wild World.
  
  Gameplay is all about fishing, bug catching, finding dinosaur fossils, furnishing your house, expanding 
 your house, making loads of money, going online and hanging it with your friends, making friends 
 with the neighbors, designing your own clothes, flags, umbrellas, your house's flooring and wallpaper 
 and even decorating the town with your own designs. There's always something to do here and its 
 all easy to control. Stylus control is as easy as tapping on things. You tap the ground to move. 
 You tap yourself to use whatever item your carrying, tap villagers to talk to them, and so on. 
 You can also just use the d-pad to move around and the buttons to do everything else.
  There are special events that come from time to time such as the fishing tourney and yay day. 
 There are also many different people that come that need your help, sell you something (such as 
 insurance) and people who want something to eat. Wild World keeps you coming back with lots of 
 new activities everyday and new people to meet. It can get repetitive after a while (a long while) 
 but it still somehow wants you to come back and see what's new. Wild World has an undeniable charm.
 
  
  The graphics are well done. They are quite fitting for the DS. It shows some of the power the DS 
 can do although nothing to spectacular. It's fairly simplistic and has a humurous art style. Some 
 things are 2D and most 3D and it mixes quite well. Character models are nice. Again nothing mind 
 blowing but the art style is where it shines.
  The music and sound is also quite fitting. Get music from K. K. Slider or Totokeke (whichever one 
 you call him) and play it at your own house to listen to anytime free of charge. His songs aren't 
 exactly the greatest but it's a lot better than having a large house with no sound except your 
 awkward footsteps. The animals talk in their Animalese language which is quite a load of gibberish 
 and can get a bit annoying at times. If you listen close enough, they are saying the letters of 
 each word really fast making it sound like the actual word but it's rather odd. You can change 
 how they talk to you so it's pretty customizable. The music is nice and changes every hour. Simplistic 
 as they are they are still nice to listen to.
  
  All in all, it's a very fun game with lots to do and lots to see. The Wi-Fi component can feel 
 limited at times but it's nothing big and it's one of the stronger points of the game. Online trading 
 is quite fun and you can really get some cool stuff. There are lots of websites that allow you 
 to share friend codes and go to each others town to trade and socialize. There are very few people 
 that enjoy ruining other towns. I have not encountered one yet and even if you don't like what 
 someone did to your town, you can power off while the other person is still there, kicking the 
 person out, not saving any changes and best of all, that darn mole, Resetti, won't show up to lecture 
 you. But people do indeed hack. Many have insane amount of money lying around, several town gates, 
 and so on.
  I recommend this game to anyone looking for some non-violent fun thats packed with things to do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: path_of_hope
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2006 1:05 am PT
Review:  I thought what better way to talk about a game such as Animal crossing than describe what gose 
 on in the first few hours of playing
  
  I got this awesome new game called Animal Crossing!
  Its a real time RPG, and it is so cool! 
 You arrive I a village, I called my village 'home', when you get there your skint, but you had 
 arranged for Tom Nook, a local shop owner, to build a house befor you get there, but little do 
 you know that this house actualy costs a small fortune ( 19800 bells, bells are the local currency, 
 I would say they equat to pounds, so thats around 45000 NZ dollars! Whats more you could fit the 
 house in your pocket!
  Anyway as things work out it didn't take me to long to sort the house out and pay off the morgage, 
 once I did this Tom Nook ( if you change some of the letters in his name its spells 
  "I am crook!" ) offers to remodle your house, you know make it bigger, more room for furinture, 
 which you can get some pretty sweet furniture for ( I am going to get a Black Katana! ( as soon 
 as I have paid Tom Nook that is!) ) But this new house has a mortage of 120000! Greedy! So anyway 
 its an awesome game!
  Some of you will probably ask this at some point, so I chose the girl caracter, its notihng weird 
 I have nearly always chosen a girl caracter, mainly because it afters the scripts so people a nicer 
 to me! But whatever you are thinking I also chose a guy caracter to play as (their room mates in 
 the game so the shear the mortage from Tom Nook, so far the girl carater, who I have called Catnip 
 (everyone has weird names in Animal Crossing!) , has so far raised 75000 for the new mortage and 
 the guy, Monty, has raised well nothing! Does it have any bearing on real life, well as a guy I'll 
 say NO! no seriously I hored money, its to special to waste! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioFan28
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  The first time I ever played this was easier than the GC virsion.
  At the begining of this game I got to start out with the Map, which made this game easier to go 
 about. But now they got rid of the acres way of going around which means that you won't be able 
 to go on to a next area
  (Which made it easier for me to plant things correctly) .
  Now that people can share the same house paying off the loan together would be great! Me and my 
 bro payed off the place easily.
  Well what a short reveiw! That's all for tonight!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liquify
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is very much like it's Gamecube prequel, and while this is a good thing 
 it is also a bad thing. Some players who have basically played-out the GC version and done everything 
 there is to do, may be disapointed, as you are going to be doing pretty much the same thing. 
 
  However the game being both portable & online plus the new features of the game will keep even 
 Veterans of the 1st game coming back for more.
  
  Gameplay: Not much has changed, but that which has changed is mainly for the better.
  
  Graphics: 
 Great graphics for the DS and comes close to even the GC's Crossing Graphics.
  
  Sound: Catchy up-beat tunes surround your world and with the ability once again to collect songs 
 and play them on your own virtual sound player, gives this game excellent sound value.
  
  Value: You are definitely getting some value here, there are so many things to do and now, while 
 your own village has been toned down in size you can now use the Wi-Fi connection to visit anyone's 
 village globally! Once again I must warn Old Crossing players, that having all the same features 
 will limit time spent playing.
  
  Overall, Animal Crossing: Wild World is recommended for players new to the franchise, however Old 
 players should probably pick it up too, its still good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavren
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I just bought the game the other day after searching for it high and low for a couple weeks straight. 
 Thankgod I found it in a little town at a Toys R Us and was able to buy one of the suprisingly 
 20+ copies there. Regardless of that, I was very happy to see all my little woodland creatures 
 make their way onto the DS finally, and since I had just got a DS for X-mas, this was a top pick 
 buy for me. 
  I love the original and addictive sense I get from playing AC and I'm a bit scared now I can play 
 it wherever I go *coughworkcough*. Also I do enjoy to fact that I could play with other people 
 online. I personally find the Tag option a bit dry especially since I go to a school of only 3000 
 kids (at best) and I doubt anyone here has it. I have been looking into forums though and I'm trying 
 to makes friends online to trade with and visit other towns via the Wifi. If I was lazy and had 
 no friends, I'd absolutly hate this game. But since I'm not that lazy, I like it. So in short, 
 WiFi needs a boost but since it's already released, I don't see that happeneing so to the forums 
 I go.
  The first thing I notcied when I hopped on the DS was the fact that my little world spun much similar 
 to a disproportioned globe. Yay for no more lag between screens and a grid like town. Also, I'm 
 happy with the amount of collectibles now availble. Very pleasing to a collector of any sorts. 
 Also, the random Cat with a neat face painted on each time is just entertaining. Also, the stylus 
 is useful in this game EXCEPT for moving furniture, just use the buttons, you'll be happier and 
 it's only while in a house you'll need the buttons. Maybe for walk when fishing, but after a while, 
 the stylus becomes second nature and well, it's easy.
  I'm happy with the graphics that the DS is able to accomplish and ACWW is I think the best use 
 of that little game chip yet. ALso, the sound is alright, plug in a headset and listen to it, or 
 just ignore the music like most AC people do. Except for K. K... The hardware doesn't really fail 
 on the game, it's jsut the game went a little too far for the hardware and so the graphics may 
 click a little bit when running, but overall, are great for an fan or anyone familar to the AC 
 series. I highly suggest this game and to anyone who buys it and doesn't like it, I'm sure it'll 
 have a high resale value. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  I never owned GC, so I'd never seen Animal Crossing before. I really wasn't exactly sure what I 
 was getting into when I bought it... but the word of mouth this game was getting and the warm reviews 
 the Gamecube version got made me give it a try. Let me tell you... Animal Crossing is good.
  
  The best part about this game is it's premise... the game's entire point is to merely waste 
 time in a cute world full of talking animals. This is more fun than it sounds, because the game 
 is downright hilarious. Everything that each character says is cute and humorous, from silly puns 
 to purely off-the-wall randomness. I burst out laughing about once a day playing this. Each animal 
 pal has a different personality, and they are constantly running about and moving in an out of 
 town, so the game is always fresh. Other than that, you'll be spending your time collecting fruit, 
 catching bugs, digging up stuff and otherwise probing every inch of landsacpe for prizes. Why? 
 Not only can you keep the cool stuff you find to decorate your character and the house you live 
 in, but you can sell the stuff you don't need, and cash is good for getting the stuff you DO want 
 as well as getting additions built on your house. The sheer number of cute furnitures, clothings 
 and accessories is astounding... there's new stuff every day. There's always little somethings 
 that you can play with, to describe them all would take forever. The game runs off the internal 
 DS game clock, so new things will be happening each day... this is the sort of game where you'll 
 want to play for about 30-60 minutes every day, just to collect all the new stuff and see what's 
 happening with the locals.
  
  Now, this sort of game is definently not for everyone. The game is very cute. Not as cute as Puyo 
 Pop Fever, but it's up there. The graphics are simple and the music consists mostly of non-invasive, 
 minimalistic tunes... they won't awe you or anything. Get a good look at the box art and you'll 
 see what I mean. This game also has no challenge whatsoever. No combat, no puzzles, no races against 
 the clock (well... none that are too tough) and only a handful of minigames. Everything you do 
 in the town is fairly easy, even if it does cost you some time, and very few mistakes yield significantly 
 damaging or irreversible consequences. You'll also not want to play this game for more than a few 
 hours each day, as you simply run out of stuff to do once everything is collected up and the store 
 is sold out... you'll have to wait until the next day and the stores restock. If you have an hour 
 or so to kill each day and are looking for something light and cuddly, Animal Crossing is your 
 game. If you like to play marathon sessions, or don't have time to play a little bit each day, 
 you will probably miss some of what Animal Crossing has to offer. Like virtual pet games, some 
 aspects of the game require routine maintainence.
  
  When all is said and done... Animal Crossing can get very addictive. I love to check up on what's 
 for sale each day, make a new friend, pay off my morgage and donate fossils to the museum. If you're 
 into virtual-life games and just simply enjoy collecting an array of funny, cute virtual stuff, 
 than this game is totally for you. If you're looking for thrills, glory, swearing, hordcore sex 
 or bloody dismemberment, I can't believe you've made it this far in my review before giving up 
 on this game. To life-sim gamers, role-playing gamers, and anyone looking for a relaxing game to 
 fill those akward half-hour breaks in your day, this game is as good as it gets... go ahead and 
 buy it. If you're unsure, you could rent it first, but if you decide to keep it you should buy 
 the game while you still have the rental and migrate your character (yes characters can go between 
 carts) so you don't lose any progress. Avoid this game if you simply cannot be compelled by cute 
 humor and excessive greed simultaneously. I need more pears! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volumesoxxs
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this better than the GC one for reasons such as easier controls and such the touch screen 
 helped alot and it was easy to donate fossils although i kept finding myself bored on this game 
 i still enjoyed it as far as gameplay etc. I dont know why but a game about nothing is kinda fun 
 so i recommend this to all DS users for the best they can get out of their DS. I hope you enjoy 
 this game cuz i did as far as characters, cartoony graphics and all the things you could do on 
 it. THe music and characters were cool and i loved the WiFi connection stuff on it cuz its fun 
 to play against your friends and go to eachothers towns and trade items and such. Go buy this game 
 or else you are not cool j/k but seriously go get this game cuz i need to finish my over 100 words 
 thing so yeah go buy it k? ok bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsmen118
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:21 pm PT
Review:  A game with no violence at all... A huge hit.
  A game with no point at all... An amazingly great game
  
  This is a highly addictive game and 
 it's fun too! Wi-Fi is great, so many items and the detail into the AI there's almost no way you 
 can resist! Alot of you might think that this game is pah, and stupid and looks kiddy but it isn't. 
 It's so much like real life, paying off a morgage to neighbours moving to a celebrety clothes designer 
 coming to your town in her flashy convertable!
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who's actually willing to play a great game!
  
  Great 
 job Nintendo! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericcartman3722
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing was the first DS game I purchased, and at first it was very good. Later on, It 
 seemed like I ran out of fun things to do. I mean, sure there's a lot of things to do in the game. 
 Like fishing or catching bugs. But... How is fishing or catching bugs fun? So pretty much, 10 hours 
 into the game, you realize that there aren't that many things to do in the game that appeal. Aside 
 from the one player, I loved the Wi-FI connection even more. It's a great way to meat people, as 
 well as earn money and other things just by visiting someone elses town. What seemed a little funny 
 to me was, the graphics did not seem any different from the Game cube version! I guess that's a 
 good thing for the DS version. Overall, I was impressed with most of the single player part, and 
 was very impressed with the Wi-FI part of the game. The thing I HATED in the game were the "voice 
 overs" Which they had added annoying little squeeks whenever I word was spoken. Once again, if 
 you liked the old Animal Crossing you'll love this similar style game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zegjita
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 16, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  Okay, heres a nice indepth review of animal crossing. Since theres going to be quite a few things 
 here, just try to keep up please.
  
  Graphics - Starting with the graphics, I would like to say, that even though they are VERY bad... 
 it fits the game. The polygonic shapes and such, really fit this game. They hurt the eyes a bit, 
 if you stare at it too long, but it still fits, so you let it slide.
  
  Sound - the sound is nice, even though there isn't very much, unless you're either outside, or 
 get some music from K. K. Slider. Though certain things (like the arcade machine) , if placed in 
 the wrong place, WILL drive you to the point where you just throw it away to stop the noise. That 
 and the sound of your own foot steps gets on your nerves after about the first month. Animalese 
 can get on your nerves also, but luckly you can change it to either off or that RPG chirp sound. 
 The sound is decent, but can get annoying at times.
  
  Game play - Too be honest.. there really isn't any.... If you don't want to be, you can just watch 
 your character stand there for hours on end, doing nothing. You don't have to eat, you don't have 
 to sleep, you don't have to do anything you don't want to. And its actually kind of nice. Want 
 to go fishing? Go ahead! Want to catch some bugs? SURE, why not?! Want to fill your town with tons 
 of holes and pit fall seeds and watch your neighbors fall into them? Fun for all! (except your 
 neighbors) You can pretty much do anything you want, for the most part. Though you will have to 
 sell your soul to a raccoon. You pretty much owe him bells (money) until the end of your animal 
 crossing life.
  
  Connectivity - The WiFi is great! The one thing that the original Animal crossing had a problem 
 with, was the fact that you got all this stuff for your museum and your house, but you couldn't 
 share it with anyone! Unless they lived close to you, or were part of your family. With the WiFi 
 compatibility though, that makes getting things for your museum alot more rewarding. You now have 
 bragging rights to your friends, when they come to your town!
  
  A. I. - The A. I. for the animals IS better.. but not alot. They still don't understand a word you 
 say in your letters to them, or even letters they recieve from the computer itself, for that matter. 
 But now they will react to you, and actually come up to you to talk. They even come over to your 
 house and judge it (though don't expect them to go further than the first room) . They also get 
 sick, where you have to buy them medicine and such, so they do have a bit more personality to them 
 than they did last time. They'll also time you when you do errands for them. So the A. I. IS better.
 
  
  Anyway, over all, I say this is a good game for people who just like games that have no real objective 
 and just want to toy around. Though you might get annoyed when you miss a day or two, and your 
 towns people have moved away. But it is an overall great game. I suggest looking into it, and seeing 
 if its your thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2006 11:29 pm PT
Review:  The GC version of Animal Crossing was addicting and just alot of fun in a unique (addicting) way. 
 It wasn't addicting in that you sat down for a day straight and just plowed through it, cause this 
 isn't that type of game. Its also worth noting there isn't really any difficulty to this game, 
 its just doing (fun) chores and making money for them.
  
  In the world of Animal Crossing there's a bunch of fossils you gotta collect for a museum, but 
 you only get a couple a day (if your lucky) . Here it becomes virtually useless playing after 11 
 P. M. 'cause that's when Tom Nook and the Able Sister's close their shops. 
  
  In this game you will:
  -Donate Fossils, bugs, and Fish to a museum that your catch/dicover
 
  -Create constellations (in the sky) so you can see them on the top screen.
  -Pay off your mortage on your constantly growing house.
  -Plant trees and flowers, build snowmen, 
 Shake trees for apples (sell for$)
  -Buy furniture and decorate for your house.
  -Buy clothing patterns and make your own.
  -Make town tunes, take recylables and lost and found 
 items (sell for $)
  -Dig for stuff (at marked spots) , go fishing, shoot shooting stars and the like
  -On Saturday 
 Nights you'll go to the Cafe for some music and get records.
  -Many similar situations to the one mentioned above.
  Largely its composed of those, you'll still 
 find a good suprise once in a while though.
  
  It's also a place where you used to write explicit language in your letters to neighbors you don't 
 really know, only to find them appreciate the thought. However in the latest installment your character 
 loses his sense of humor to a certain degree because the main character is much more of a gentleman 
 or woman. (there's no swearing.)
  
  Outside of that the old grid system where everthing on screeen represented an acre then going to 
 the next one made the screen shift. You've heard it before but it now feels like a rolling log, 
 the screen just goes along with your player more typical to modern 3rd person games.
  
  (This accounts for online or offline multiplayer)
  Multiplayer is kinda cool but its what you 
 make of it really. I mean to just have a friend be in your town is sorta cool but stupid... a friend 
 cme into my town and I never saw him once during the visit. I've heard talk of people setting up 
 soccer games (with snow balls) and governments and stuff. In the end its just a faster way to trade 
 stuff with your friends because your doing it directly.
  
  Multiplayer is one advantage over GC the other is that its portable on a DS. Now it really could 
 have maed better use of the screens. In all honesty here it would have been great to have your 
 menu contantly open on the bottom screen (as a time saver) but instead your on the topscreen and 
 the shy is on the top one. 
  They could have (by option) let you do some cool touch screen moves as it is though you can work 
 it like a point and click adventure only with a stylus. Everything is functional this way. Click 
 on a character to talk to them, click on a weed to pick it, etc..
  The A button activates conversations, the B button cancels/pick up stuff/sprint, the other face 
 buttons are to open up various inventory menus and maps. (except for start which saves the game 
 at any point another nice plus) L and R are sprint buttons.
  
  Visually its a little grainy but really it doesn't matter at all. It looks more thern good enough 
 to make everything feel convincing. It's also got some cool things like a TV that plays differnt 
 shows depending on the time of day. some character expression etc.
  Sound is also cool on the menu's as you scroll from left to right so does the sound goes left speaker 
 to right speaker. Some nice ambience effects too. Plus the music is different depending on time 
 and other factors. Impressive.
  
  The very meaning of value is this game you could play and have fun for months.
  
  In the end 
 you lose those NES games... but you gain multiplayer, portability, a second screen, a coffee shop 
 expansion in the museum, and a gate area. (thats where the music is at on Saturdays) That's alot 
 of additions but they don't quite add p to feel like anything more then a, worthwhile, yet small 
 expansion. Sorry lenghty review but its tough to explain this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysticalWolfess
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: WW is no different from the gamecube version but has much more variety. You can 
 customize your character with many different shirts, hats, and accessories.
  Also visiting your friend's town can never be easier! You could go DS to DS or use the special 
 WiFi connection to visit players towns any time any place. When someone visits your town, you can 
 play games with them and chat or if the visitor is annoying you can kick them out.
  There are also many animal residents and visitors, some are old and some are new.
  There is so 
 much to do in the game, the possibilities are endless! You can dig for fossils, fish, catch bugs, 
 chat with and help out your neighbors, mail letters, plant gardens, complete museum exhibits, and 
 so much more! 
  The downsides to this game is that the SNES games are taken out and the regional holidays are no 
 longer there. But still, the game is highly recommended to fans of the old series and people that 
 have never heard of AC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaTeFaTChIcKs
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  when i first heard about AA on the cube i though wow wat a dumb s**t game..... Then i played wild 
 world it is one of the most addictive games i have ever played with such fun simple gameplay always 
 stuff to do and everything. although the online could be MUCH MUCH better the single player is 
 also fun as well. this game is not for everyone though it is a weird game but fun game all around. 
 i got it for xmas and i love this game sooo much. if u don't like this game u r a hippy with no 
 idea of wat fun is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamehead000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game i spent hours and hours playing this this games visuals is great ) and there 
 is good presentation showing i played this game for the gamecube and i used to be pissed to have 
 to be going places but now i dont have to worry about that this is animal crossing to go. sometime 
 while im in the bus going to school people look and me and this childish game but this game is 
 just guiltly pleasure . this game does have its fair share of issues thought like no replay value 
 and i never thought i would say this needs to use the top screen more 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildWorlds
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is an experience that is not to be missed. It is completely different than all 
 of the other games out there. You don't need to do anything, just relax, go fishing, rearange your 
 house, and talk to your fellow villagers. The point is that there is no point, it is a game with 
 no boundaries, where you can do whatever you want, whenever you want. 
  
  Not much has changed since the original Animal Crossing, but considering the enormous leap down 
 in machine power from the GameCube to DS, this isn't bad at all. There's more furniture, and clothing 
 for you to play with including hats, glasses, and fun items like the slingshot. 
  
  The game has abandoned the top down view which I had becom so accustomed to, but whether this is 
 a good or bad thing is up to you. It allows you to see the sky, which changes regularly and includes 
 any constellations you draw. It also allows you to see more of the screen, and has ditched the 
 acre system. the camera keeps you steadily in the middle, and doesn't jump around like in the GameCube's 
 Animal Crossing. 
  
  Alot of the old games buildings are gone too. The post office has merged with the dump, the museum 
 has a cafe in the basement and a telescope on it's roof, and the police station is just gone. I 
 guess the game creators realized that in a town where the worst crimes were liotering and hitting 
 your fellow villagers with nets, police officers were unnecisarry. 
  
  The amount of things that villagers can do has increased as well. They still ask you to run errands 
 for them, or give Rocco back his hankerchief, but now they will also make nicknames for you, throw 
 paries at their house, or come over to your house to hang out. This adds another level of fun to 
 the game, because it increases the amount of things you can do considerably. 
  
  The sound is great, it features a wide variety of mellow, catchy tunes that hum along in the backround. 
 It fits the slow pace of the Animal Crossing lifestyle well. The villagers still speak in Animalese, 
 which I find amusing, but if you don't like it, you can change the way they talk to something less 
 shrill. 
  
  The control is great, but not without a few flaws. The touch screen works beautifully for running 
 around and navigating menus, but when you want to fish, it's hard to walk slowly without tapping 
 yourself and casting your fishing line. fortunately, Nintendo thought of this and also lets you 
 control your character with the D-pad and buttons. This also works very well, but you can't get 
 the same control as you can with the touch screen, considering you can only go in 8 directions. 
 
  
  Online play adds alot to the game. The only downside is, you need friends to go online. Again, 
 whether this is a good or bad thing is up to you. This prevents you from randomly going to a strangers 
 town to get their fruit, shop, chat, and play, but it also blocks out the possibility of some rif-raf 
 entering your town, harassing the citizens, and digging holes everywhere. 
  
  A great item which adds to the online play is the timer. It can count down from 1, 5, 10, or 15 
 minutes. It also counts the number of fish and bugs you have caught in that time. Everyone in the 
 town can see the timer, so this makes games like hide and seek, or Fish or Bug catching tournaments 
 a breeze. 
  
  The portableness of the game is a great thing too. Never again will I miss the fourth of July because 
 I'm on vacation. Another helpful feature in the game is that when the battery is getting low, a 
 bubble will pop up and say so. This helps you save in time and get off, so that you won't lose 
 all those valuble Bells you've earned, or that rare furniture the snowman gave you. 
  
  The lasting appeal is outstanding. With so much to do, so many villagers to talk to, so many fish 
 to catch, so much furniture to collect, so many bugs to catch, so much EVERYTHING, there is no 
 question that this game will keep me playing for at least a year. Even after I pay off all my debts, 
 fill the museum, and retire in my wooded paradise, I'm sure that I'll pick it up and play every 
 once in a while just to see how the towns getting on without me. And that's what makes the game 
 so great: There's so much to do, but you have no obligation to do any of it. And in my eyes, that 
 is the perfect world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamanomega
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 14, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  prepare not to have a real life this game is a great game for anyone whether your 20 or 5 you will 
 love this game the only setbacks to this game are starting the game working for tom nook is time 
 consoming and very anoying, you can't tern of the power with out saving or elts this stuped mole 
 that never shuts up will start bugging you, making you house bigger is not all that easy it will 
 take time and last of all gets really boring this game dosn't last all that long just play alittle 
 every day, I would say get this game its very very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 9:58 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing for the Gamecube was just one of those games that people either hated or loved. 
 A lot of people just thought that it was going to be a kiddy game that was for kids no older than 
 eight years old, and anyone over that age who had that game was considered a loser. But oh were 
 they wrong. Not only was that the most addictive and fun game on the Gamecube, but now it's on 
 the go for the DS with the same game plus a buttload of new features, one of which is WiFi connectivity. 
 For those of you who didn't care for the first one, or don't know about it, I'm talking to you, 
 and I'm trying to convince you that this game isn't just for kids, and even though it has no concrete 
 point to it, it's the most fun you'll have on the DS for a long time. So here's how it goes, you 
 decide to move out on your own and try and live a good life and support yourself. You end up taking 
 a taxi (the first change players of the original will notice) to (Insert town name here) . While 
 you're in the taxi, you strike a conversation with the cab driver in which you will be able to 
 give your character a personality. You will first give him your name, and from there, based on 
 how you answer his questions, the game will generate a look for your person. This will vary from 
 how his/her face looks to what clothes he/she is wearing. Anyway, once you get dropped off in (Town 
 name) , you will immediately go into the town hall, and learn that the local merchant, Tom Nook, 
 has a house set up for you. When you see your house, you'll notice that it's well... pretty crappy 
 looking. Nook only provides you with a wooden box, a candle for light, and a radio for playing 
 music. And what's even worse is, you don't have enough money (or how we like to call Bells) to 
 cover the cost of the house. So Tom Nook, being the greedy person he is, decides to let you pay 
 off the house little by little. He also "helps" you by giving you a couple of jobs in which your 
 payment goes directly towards the house. Unfortunately for you though, he runs out of ideas for 
 jobs to give you, and you're on your own from then on to find a way to pay off the house. Luckily 
 for you, the inhabitants of the town have a lot of stuff (although not so much as the original) 
 for you to do for them for compensation. You can also fish, hunt bugs, and search for various treasures 
 found throughout your entire town, and sell them for cash. Once you do pay it off, however, the 
 game doesn't end. Nook offers you a new upgrade for your house that'll make it bigger, and as you 
 go on, better. As you upgrade, you'll see that the cost of the house rises, and the amount you 
 must pay increases, this means it's back to finding sources of cash in order to pay the house off. 
 The second big thing about Animal Crossing is that it's real time, and because of that, it's always 
 changing. Tom Nook is always carrying new items in his store everyday, people are constantly moving 
 in and out, there are a variety of holidays, competitions, and events, and the seasons change as 
 you move from season to season in real life. This does mean however that there isn't a lot to play 
 in the game for long periods of time. You'll probably play in 45 min-to 1 hour segments, but you'll 
 come back and see what else is going on. But for those of you who played the original, I'm now 
 going to talk about what's new for you to do in Animal Crossing Wild World. First off, there's 
 the ever so popular addition of WiFi connectivity. This makes Animal Crossing the first of it's 
 kind -- a handheld MMORPG. One thing that sort of makes and breaks the game's WiFi connectivity is 
 that you need a friend code of the person in which you wish to visit. You can easily get this code 
 and give it out to your friends, but it just adds a lot of unnecissary formalities just to hook 
 up and play with a friend. I also have a couple of other problems with the WiFi in that 1. typing 
 things up to talk to people is really tedious instead of being able to use the microphone, and 
 2. when someone is visiting, you cannot do a lot of things you usually do otherwise (like donate 
 objects to the museum, make patterns at the tailor, order objects from the catalog, etc.) and it 
 really takes away a lot of fun from the game when you're playing together. Nonetheless, playing 
 together over miles and miles of distance is very fun despite its shortcomings. A couple of other 
 things new worth mentioning are: a cafe in the lower level of the museum, an observatory in which 
 you can draw your own constellations, new characters, a ton of new objects and clothing (including 
 the addition of hats and glasses) , and my personal favorite, the loss of the acre system which 
 completely elimates load times and allows you to explore the world constantly without worry. Overall, 
 Animal Crossing Wild World plays just like the original, but with a few changes, but it manages 
 to keep the fun and addictiveness the game has been known for. The graphics on the game are the 
 same on the Gamecube version, only that it's on the DS -- which is a HUGE accomplishment. The game 
 is known for its cutesy, cartoony look and feel to it, and it's exactly mimicked on the DS version. 
 The fact that you do have Gamecube quality graphics on a handheld, despite the fact that the graphics 
 aren't that wonderful, is an amazing accomplishment for the developers of the game. Not only that, 
 but they even managed to include a dynamic weather system on the top screen. So you will always 
 be able to look up and see if it's raining, snowing, cloudy, or if it's a beautiful day. Overall, 
 the grahpics on the DS version of Animal Crossing are the same as that of its Gamecube counterpart, 
 which is a great accomplishment on the DS. Another thing that hasn't been tampered with is the 
 sound of the game. The game still includes its light tracks playing in the background to accompany 
 you as you move around, and it still includes the cutesy, high pitched sounds of the animals talking 
 to you. If you listen very closely and pay attention to the text bubble that shows up accompanying 
 the talking, you'll notice that it's just a sped up version of English, and it makes it really 
 fun and enjoyable to be hearing the animals talk to you in that manner. Overall though, there isn't 
 much more sound to that. You can still pick up tracks to play in your house from the ever talented, 
 travelling K. K Slider, and still pick up the many "oids" (buzzoids, dingoids, etc.) to make various 
 noices in your home. There's also a few furniture items that are musical instruments that you play, 
 so pretty much, you've got little pieces of sound here and there, but not too much, which is still 
 somewhat of a good thing. Overall, Animal Crossing Wild World should keep you busy for at least 
 an entire year -- no joke. The in game world is constantly changing, and there's always somthing 
 to do. So what are you waiting for, there's and adventure to be had, one way or another, and it'll 
 keep you coming back for more everyday wondering what you'll do next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supernova96
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  When playing this game you will feel like your in the game and the game is a little hard when paying 
 for the house. If you like the Sims, you'll really like Animal Crossing: Wild World. This game 
 is a little more different than the Sims because you can walk outside and talk to other people (well 
 there animals) . If you liked the one for Gamecube then you'll really like this one because theres 
 over 600 new items and new people, new items and new events. The only bad thing in the game for 
 me was that the old events in the Gamecube version like Halloween aren't in these version no more. 
 Also Mr. Resetti is in the game and if you reset the game he'll be there in front of your house 
 waiting for you. You can also add hats to your character and glasses, beards, and other kinds of 
 things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hollaback_Girl
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 8:17 pm PT
Review:  It's the sequel to Animal Crossing for the Nintendo Gamecube but with more and portable!
  Being one of the most popular DS game's to date, 'AC: WW' has taken the Nintendo world by storm 
 once again. AC had a range of items, clothes and more, just like a mini fantasy sim. AC: WW not 
 only has online play, but it also has more then the first chapter, and better gameplay. 
  
  A great game for one of the best portable console. The DS has also said on the 'Gamefaqs' site 
 it was the 2nd most popular gaming console this year. PSP has come last in the poll. Just another 
 reason to get this game and the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YearoftheSnake5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World comes to the DS boasting new features and some improved gameplay. The 
 graphics are nicely done and simulate the Gamecube version's graphics very well. There are only 
 a few bad spots that can be pointed out, but they're not going to interfere with the overall look 
 of the game very much. The game runs at a good framerate. It seems a bit slow at first, but you'll 
 get used to it. The world has a kind of rotating visual effect to it, giving a kind of around the 
 world look.
  The story is pretty much the same as the first Animal Crossing. You arrive in town, get a house, 
 pay it off as you progress, gather furnature, fossils, ect. However, if you wish to have someone 
 else playing off the same game card, you'll have to share your home with them. The other player 
 does not have his/her own home. So you'll have to alternate between styles, or have one that you 
 both like in terms of furnishings depending on what everyone likes.
  When it comes to item collecting, you'll have a big challenge in finding everything. There are 
 now tons more bones to collect, fish to catch, and furnishings to buy.
  Of course, once you've upgraded your house to it's potential, collected most of the fossils, fish, 
 bugs, and bought most of the furnature, there isn't much to go back to in Animal Crossing. However, 
 you'll find it to be quite a challenge to get everything, so you won't get done in any hurry.
 
  The Online multiplayer is alright. You require a friend code, and both DS systems must be on at 
 the same time. Kind of kills the MMO aspect, but is still a major step for the series.
  The sound is a bit fuzzy in some areas, but it's good overall.
  All in all, Wild World is indeed 
 better than the original Animal Crossing, but lags behind in a few small areas. There is always 
 something to go back to in this game, and it'll keep you occupied well after the original experience 
 is done. I recommend this to all DS users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMECAMILLER
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 12:25 am PT
Review:  Solid game for the DS, but by no means a fantastic game. Defiantly worth playing if you have never 
 played AC before. 
  Ok, it's time for the Game to give his review and views.
  
  I've tried the game before, and I do own the original. As people who know me know, I've worked 
 (and still work at times) as a professional game reviewer. I've talked to peeps in the field about 
 this game and they have told me their views and such about this game.
  
  My view is: AC: WW is a good game, but not a great game.
  
  And I'm Going to tell you why.
 
  
  First of all, if you own both, refresh yourself with the old one. The DS one doesn't entirely bring 
 that much new to the table outside of the original, excluding the Wi Fi for the moment.
  From all who Ive talked too, they expected more of a difference. Something New to the single 
 player experience. The Formula works, but why not add stuff to it? I expected... better. More possibly.
 
  
  It needed more to the single player experience. Try play AC: WW for a week, without wi fi.
  
 
  What do you got? Certainly Feels a bit missing doesn't it? You can tell the game was made with 
 wi fi in mind. That's both good and bad.
  
  Why you ask? Well ponder this fact for a moment. Only 5% of video games users (pc users included) 
 go online with their systems. Only 5.
  
  See my point? When a company makes a console or handheld game, the Single player experience MUST 
 be good. Because the mass audience it hits. Not everyone can go online, or will want too.
  
  The thing is, when I was playing it, it felt... like I w as just doing the same stuff over again. 
 Been there, done that; it's been done before. not only by Nintendo, but by others. Especially the 
 online part in the PC world. There are Hundreds of games like AC: WW for the PC, and better then 
 it too. The Online experience felt limited to me. especially since in games, I know what can be 
 done. Perhaps, AC: WW was rushed? Some of my circle of reviews agree with that statement.
  
  I can't based on my experience in the gaming world, and playing this game, recommend it if 
 you plan to play without the wi fi and have played the original. And That's sad. This game is ok 
 now, but it'll be topped. 
  
  But don't think I'm slamming it peeps, it's a good game for the online users. I see it. it's just 
 for the online users seem to get half a game. The Single Player experience needs to be good as 
 well as the multiplayer. Mario Kart DS is the prime example of doing this right.
  
  And, to hit some points.
  
  If you got the original AC just to get the NES games then , for 
 shame. you missed out on a pretty good experience. Its a shame that they didn't include 
 it, but a good alternative would be new games that you can play with the town people. there's an 
 Idea Nintendo ;)
  
  It has been done before with this style of gaming. I say if Nintendo makes a sequel to this, the 
 single player experience and multiplayer needs a tune up.
  
  My grade; Animal Crossing: Wild world gets a B minus. And that's the Game's verdict. I'll post 
 a more detailed review soon.
  
  Good points:
  Portable version of the GCN classic
  Stylus certainly makes things easier
  Online Multiplayer
  fun if you never played the first 
 one before
  
  Bad points:
  Nothing new to the formula
  Game lacks without multiplayer experience
  Single player events are limited
  been done before, 
 and better when compared to games especially in the PC universe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fooltheroyalbos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing isn't like some Role-playing games i've played. I actually come home everyday turn 
 it on and play, and if i don't really want to play i still go on to make sure i won't miss items 
 in Nook's Shop or Able Sisters or in the Recycling. With all you can do and with the WiFi i find 
 it's a MUST HAVE. I can go sit out on the couch watch T. V. and play online with my freinds. Mind 
 you the freinds roster is kind of crummy. Without GameSpot i'd have no people other than people 
 i hang out with on my freinds roster. Because you and the other person need each other on their 
 list to goto each other's town hard, but if their someone who always has their gates open, then 
 you're in luck. I think if you're going to choose any DS game i think you should get this and WiFi 
 Adapter!
  
  And i say, it's fun, something to do when you're bored, and if you missed a certain date you can 
 goto your DS clock and calander and change it and "Bam!" you're at that date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xtressbro
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that if you were stupid enough to buy this game, you are probably one of 
 those nintendo loving, mario kissing, mushroom sniffing, turtle maidens. 
  I however, cannot feel the love you fruits have for this latest installment of the regrettable 
 Animal Crossing series. I'd rather shove my head up an elepants butt than watch a bunch of pug 
 faced, pixelated, snowmen prance around for 20 hours straight and only gain a measly 1 experience 
 point. As for the graphics.... well.... lets just say they made the air around my DS vomit with 
 disgust back onto the screen and then have the screen reject the vomit by spewing bright flashes 
 of thick snot directly into your eyes. The pink and purple and purple-brown and brown-pink is a 
 constant assault on ones unsuspecting stomach. 
  The sound is outrageous... Outrageously knife-like. Imagine a crazy guy constantly slashing your 
 ears with a blade that made high pitched noises and unvarying squeeling.
  
  IN A WORD, crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgg
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  When playing this game you will feel like your in the game and the game is a little hard when paying 
 for the house. If you like the Sims, you'll really like Animal Crossing: Wild World. This game 
 is a little more different than the Sims because you can walk outside and talk to other people (well 
 there animals) . If you liked the one for Gamecube then you'll really like this one because theres 
 over 600 new items and new people, new items and new events. The only bad thing in the game for 
 me was that the old events in the Gamecube version like Halloween aren't in these version no more. 
 Also Mr. Resetti is in the game and if you reset the game he'll be there in front of your house 
 waiting for you. You can also add hats to your character and glasses, beards, and other kinds of 
 things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grodus5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game!!! I would love to give it a ten, but no such luck. The sound and graphics 
 are its only downfall, but not by much. I was a big fan of the first Animal Crossing, so when I 
 had dream (yes I do think that dreams tell the future) that told my about this game, I checked 
 the next day to see if this game was going to come out, and it was! I didn't have a DS then, but 
 this game is the only reason I got one! So there you have it, this is one of the best games for 
 the DS, and if you don't have a DS, go buy one! Stay happy and don't time travel. Fin... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blacktwister
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing for the Game Cube was in many ways revolutionary. It introduced a game that could 
 be played in any number of different ways, with a multitude of mini-games and nearly endless fun. 
 Animal Crossing: Wild World for the DS takes the original concept of 'Zing and brings it to a whole 
 new level, opening it up to multiplayer support and allowing you to share your town with the world. 
 
  
  From the moment you start 'Zing up on the DS, you will get the same familiar feel of the original 
 game. Cap'n, the lustful sailor from the original, will bring you to your town hall where you'll 
 meet the likes of Pelly, Tortimer, and the slave driver himself, Tom Nook. The gameplay has changes 
 slightly. For example, the world is no longer flat; as you move, so does the horizon. However, 
 almost everything that made the original so fun is still here. You can play the game in any number 
 of ways, from diligently doing chores for the townsfolk to redesigning the landscape in your own 
 image. Some added features include the ability to slingshot things out of the sky and even design 
 your own constellations, as well. 
  
  There are a few things left out from the original. As you can't connect to a Game Boy Advance, 
 the island is not in this version. Personally, I don't see that as a huge loss. What gets under 
 my skin a bit more is that you can no longer purchase old NES games. That takes away one small 
 aspect of the game, as I used to spend hours playing Donkey Kong. However, it doesn't effect the 
 game overall. You play Animal Crossing for Animal Crossing, not for games made in the 80s. At any 
 rate, the new features easily make up for the removal of these minor bits. 
  
  For newcomers, 'Zing is a rather unique experience. Imagine the Sims, only with chibi-style anime 
 and talking animals. That probably sounds like a strange combination, but that is 'Zing in a nutshell. 
 Animal Crossing allows you to play a human character in a community of talking animals. You define 
 your own goals. You can strive to have the biggest house or the perfect collection of objects, 
 you can dig up artifacts for the local museum, you can plant trees and redesign the landscape, 
 or you can just socialize with the animals in the area. The game seems initially like a quick distraction 
 that won't reel you in, but you'll be surprised at how addictive the game becomes. 
  
  The best feature that Wild World adds is the ability to travel into other people's towns. In the 
 Game Cube version, you could travel to other towns saved on other memory cards but you couldn't 
 interact with other players. In this version, you can visit your friends and play games with them 
 in their own town. You can also play with friends and strangers alike from long distances thanks 
 to the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. Overall, Animal Crossing is and has always been a social game, 
 and Wild World expands upon it, bringing the fun to friends both near and far. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rictorlmc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing on the Ds woohoo go out and buy it now this game is way worth the dollars. Like 
 all the new features they added with the 2 screens with the slingshot and shooting presents outta 
 the sky and a bank to store all that extra money u get is nice also. Ive been playing this for 
 hours on end and im working my way up to buy a bigger house. I think there is only 2 downfalls 
 to this game in general is when u create a new character u both live in the same house with no 
 room at all for all the items u get and the other downfall would have to be is the online gameplay 
 its really hard hooking up with someone unless you have there friend code, i would love to just 
 go for a stroll and check out other people without having to know there code or look it up. Overall 
 a wonderful game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reload44
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 10, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first got animal crossing I didn't think I would like it, I sooner play Mario and Luigi: 
 Partners in Time. But when I started playing this game I just couldn't put it down almost like 
 it had some sorta hold on me. The game contains several things to pass time away, such as fishing, 
 catching bugs, buying selling, working the stock market and even creating an orchard of fruit trees. 
 The online feature which so many people thought was a waste b/c of Nintendo making it so you can 
 only play with people you've met in real life. This problem is simply over come by a simple internet 
 search. I say to people who don't have the wi fi, there missing out of an amazing experence that 
 made this game superb. There are a few things I didn't like about this game which include the touch 
 screen elment, using it to move you character is useless (no one does that) . Also the real time 
 thing is sorta cool but sorta annoying ex. there arnt many bugs to catch in winter.
  But besides these little problems this game is a definate classic that people will play years from 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsfan64
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  When most games go from console to handheld, the result is catastrophic!
  :cough: King Kong for the ds: cough: The result differs for Animal Crossing: WW. In fact, this game 
 is better than the GC version. Not only do critters say more hilarious things, but also there are 
 more cool tools to keep you busy. The shovel, axe, and fishing rod come, ofcouse, but added are 
 a slingshot, with which, you can shoot down gifts from the sky, a watering can, and even a nifty 
 little stop watch! Also, one of the things that GC owners were sad about was that there was no 
 on-line! With the DS Wi-Fi, players can chat with friends, and even make new ones! All in all, 
 this is a must-buy! PETA may not like it as much but I sure do! Just make sure you take short breaks, 
 or you may end up girlfriend-less and with reposessed furniture. This is still a really great game 
 with funny characters, and really cool clothing, accesories, and furniture. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runicslayer
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is just like animal crossing for the gamecube even in terms of graphics and things that 
 you can do, as well as playability wich makes for a fun and huge game that you can even take with 
 you on the go! You can do everything that you loved doing in the original animal crossing game 
 including going fishing, catching bugs, buying furniture, upgrading your house, go to the market 
 and you can even just go around doing jobs for people to gain friends and items, but now you can 
 even go to your friends city and buy stuff and get things that aren't available in your city making 
 it friend friendly too, this game will entertain you for monthes on end, so go out and buy it already! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeymano
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  This is like the dream game DS owners have been waiting for, and animal crossing lives up to it 
 also. everything from the daily changes in the environment to the townsfolk moving in and out of 
 the town, the town has many things to do each day. one of the most entertaining things for me so 
 far is K. K. slider on the weekends, because of the hilarious way he sings his songs! animalese 
 is the best made up language ever! next up is the music. each hour the music changes which is awesome, 
 and ACWW also lets you bring out the mini-Mozart in you with the town tune. the game is never ending 
 which is a good thing. I recommend, no i am ordering you to go out and get this because this game 
 will keep you busy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeykenny
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:08 am PT
Review:  After a long wait, animal crossing ds finally came out. Though, it was worth it! The gameplay is 
 awesome and your animal neighbours are outrageously funny at times. You decide what you want to 
 do and when to do it. Going wireless to visit your friends is another new feature. The NPC's make 
 the game way more interesting as well! With the returning KK. Slider, comes many other NPC"s you 
 haven't heard of! There are many new items for you to experiment with as well.
  
  The sound is just as good as ever with different music themes for you to choose from.
  
  Now 
 with the ds screen, you can use the new item the slingshot to shoot presents down!
  
  Wireless lets you meet new friends, get new items, and many more!
  
  Gameplay is awesome and 
 lets you do almost anything!
  
  New NPC's make your game a lot more interesting.
  
  Will your house be a royal palace or a dirty dumpster??
  
  Will you be a king or a slave??
 
  
  You decide what you do in animal crossing ds.
  So if you still haven't bought it, hurry and get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1910Chin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay, this game has many tasks and stuff to accomplish. Even though there is really no point 
 to doing all these tasks, its quite highly addictive. If you play everyday, its quite fun to see 
 whats new in town and whatever things your neighbors have to say. You can fish and try to get the 
 golden fish rod or maybe catching bugs is better. So many bugs, fish, fossils, and other items 
 to collect, it will keep you coming back for more. 
  
  Graphics, they are ok, but not something very very great. Of course Animal Crossing for the Gamecube 
 werent all that great either, but who needs graphics when the gameplay makes up for it. 
  
  Sound, you can hear the bugs buzzing, the ocean waves making a crisp water sound. Overall the sound 
 for things are kind of "Wacky". Of course wackiness isnt a bad thing in this game. It makes it 
 more fun, than fishing, while nothing happens, but a boring song or sounds. 
  
  Value, there are enough things in this game to keep you busy for a long long long time, if you 
 would buy only one DS game this year, might as well be Animal Crossing Wild World. Even after a 
 year of playing, you still might not even have collected all the bugs or fish in the game. 
  
  Overall, great game, a must buy for a DS owner. There are enough features in this game to keep 
 you busy for quite a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamin218
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  My favorite DS game right now. It is a really good game. I didn't play GCN one before so this was 
 new to me. I like the on-line playability. The only thing I didn't like was that it is a limit 
 of 3 visitors to a town. The characters are really hilarious like no other characters I have yet 
 to see in a video game. I like the fact that the animals move out of your town after awhile so 
 that you can meet different characters that come into your town after former villager leaves. I 
 also like the part when the cab driver, Kapp'n, questions you and that determines your face when 
 you begin the game. That is so cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tidustheheart
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  This game rocks almost as good as the first one. It has an amazing learning curve, the gameplay 
 is as addictive as the first one. If I had to choose a top ten favorite DS game favorites this 
 would be on there. The townspeople are still as goofy and well... down right stupid as the first 
 one but hey... what do we care... it's an AC game. The different aspects towards the sound and music, 
 is basically all the same but there are a few new jingles. Which one is better? The first... Which 
 ones are tied HAHA? Both. Over all I would be glad to see another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shexisxbeautifu
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is a life all in it's own. As soon as you buy it, it's always there, 
 and you'll visit it daily to see what new things are happening in the town, may it be a new visitor, 
 new things for sale in Nook's shop, or new villagers themselves.
  Basically the game starts off and you're in a cab and a frog, I think, asks you a bunch of questions. 
 How you anwser them determines what your character will look like. When you arrive at your town 
 you will be given tasks to do by Nook and also a new home. You have to pay off your loan to Nook 
 in order to expand your house further (and you will want to expand it because it is ridiculously 
 tiny) . There are many ways to earn "bells" (the games currency) . For example, fishing, digging for 
 fossils, catching bugs, dumpster diving, doing tasks for the animals in the town, selling fruit, 
 etc. You can buy furniture for your home, choose the flooring and the wallpaper, and expand it.
 
  One aspect of the game I really like are the other characters. Normally when you play a game you 
 rush through the dialog to actually PLAY. In AC the characters are funny, sweet, and sometimes 
 give you free stuff! What more could you ask for?
  The only downfall for this game would have to be that you run out of things to do as you play for 
 a few hours. But don't let that stop you from getting the game, because there's new things to do 
 EVERY SINGLE DAY. If you get this game, your DS will be used daily, and you will be getting your 
 moneys worth out of it. All in all, if you own a DS, get this game. And if you don't own a DS, 
 buy one, and then get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snika_2
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  A long, long time ago, in about 2002, gamers were introduced to an entirely different sort of game... 
 A game where you could fish, shake down fruit from trees, and associate with various creatures, 
 all in real time!
  
  This was one of the first times a company incorperated 'real time' into a game. Sure, there have 
 been day to night features in games, and some that followed a real clock, but none of them had 
 real seasons and holidays!
  
  Well, three years have passed, and a sequel has dawned upon us. It has taken all the elements of 
 the original game and made them into something wild and wacky. A lot more detail has been put into 
 the game, and a lot more emphasis on the whole 'real time' thing.
  
  So, from here on out I'm going to assume you have been living under a rock for the past four years, 
 and have never heard or played the original Animal Crossing before...
  
  When you start the game, you are on your way to start a new life for yourself, and by doing this, 
 you have decided to move to a town. Once you arrive, you slowly realize that you are the only humanoid 
 among these crazy talking animals. 
  
  For instance, a racoon supplies you with a house and you must work off your debut to him. You may 
 have a bear as a neighboor. You can see a pig trying to catch bugs. Anyways, the whole animal thing 
 has been greatly improved upon in comparison to Animal Crossing 1. The animals feel more alive, 
 and can do pretty funny things like become hilariously sick, come up with ridiculous nicknames 
 for you, and have hobbies.
  
  You and these animals all live happily together in a town that corresponds to real-life. Example: 
 In real life, you get home late. You turn on your game to do some shopping, but uh-oh! The stars 
 are out and the moon is shining, but the local neighboorhood store has closed an hour ago! This 
 means that certain things will only happen in the day, and certain things will only happen in the 
 night.
  
  Guffaw, you say! You're no dunce! You've seen day to night features in games before, eh? Pretty 
 lame, right? Well, let me tell ya', this goes all out. There is dusk. There is afternoon. There 
 is morning. It's all reflected by looking at the sky. Sometimes, there will be BEAUTIFUL sunsets. 
 Other times, the sky may be a muddy gray. Either way, its a totally awsome experience.
  
  OK... Now that I've told you all that, you're probably wondering what the heck you do in this town 
 with animals and sunsets... Well, whatever the heck you want. Fine, fine. You can't start your 
 own fastfood chain, or play the stocks as a business investor. But, you can do simpiler things, 
 like grow a garden, or be the interior designer of your house. Want to cut down all the trees in 
 your neighborhood? Go ahead! Feel like fishing? You can do that, too! Of course, all of these tasks 
 require you to get the certain tool you need to perform the action (i. e. getting seeds for flowers, 
 buying an axe and a fishing pole, ect.) .
  
  Right now, you probably think this is the most boring game ever. It sure sounds like it. Surprisingly, 
 its one of the best. The amount of freedom alotted gives the game ultimate replay value, and makes 
 it hard to put down. Its crazy-great. CRAZY-GREAT!
  
  Sooo, you're probably wondering about how it utilizes the DS's spectacular features. Let me list 
 a few things...
  
  TOUCH SCREEN: The touch screen makes writing letters and talking to friends a snap! Don't over-indulge, 
 though! You may wear out the screen because its so fun! 
  
  Also, you can perform ANY task with the touchscreen, which means walking and talking and digging 
 and fishing... I prefer using the controls, though. The touch screen is good, but it could never 
 replace the D-Pad for movement.
  
  THE DOUBLE SCREENS: Most activity goes on with the bottom screen, which means all your little animal 
 friends can be viewed from there. But, the top screen is where you can view the awsome sky and 
 the pretty sunsets. The top screen may sound pointless, but it adds a whole new dimension to the 
 game.
  
  MICROPHONE: Yeah... Nothing really goes on with the microphone.
  
  WIRELESS MULTIPLAYER: Have a friend within the DS's wireless range? You can visit eachother's towns! 
 Its a real blast!
  
  WI-FI CONNECTIVITY: Have a friend in China your a hankerin' to play with? No trouble! Just plan 
 a time when you two can go to eachother's towns!
  
  Bottom Line:
  Animal Crossing: Wild World really makes the DS worthwhile. I bought my DS the day it came out, 
 and was dissappointed with the selection of games until recently. Animal Crossing helped clear 
 that one up. Buy this game. It's just plain fun, and unlike some adventure games out there, you 
 can never get stuck 'caz there isn't any goals! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T1K1F1SH
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing, the sleeper hit on the Gamecube that took the most menial tasks and made them 
 fun and addictive. This game is also more of the same and doesn't screw with the tried and true 
 formula of the series. One of the biggest differences is the multiplayer, before AC multiplayer 
 was very limited to only one person playing at a time and you couldn't visit your friends village 
 while he/she was there and now you can. Now you can use the Nintendo wi-fi connection to go to 
 a friends town if they are online and you have their friend code registered, or if you are within 
 a certain range of each other you can just do it DS to DS. I personally prefer DS to DS because 
 its easier to just talk to your friends but the chat interface isn't bad at all. Although you can't 
 swear like you could in normal conversation :) . Alot of the old stuff is back as well like fishing 
 and bug hunting. New types of bugs and fish have been added so even people who've played it before 
 can find new creatures. Also the number of fossils has increased so theres more of those to find 
 as well. With all this increase in catchable critters and fossils the museum which you can donate 
 things you catch or find to has increased in size, ( fish and bugs went from 40 different kinds 
 each to 55 kinds each as well as 52 fossils ) the sole purpose of this museum is really just to 
 show off what you've caught and you can go see the stuff whenever you want. A new building thats 
 been added is the Town Hall which really just combines the post office, garbage dump, and wishing 
 well from the old game into one building. The acre system was also scrapped so the the town streams 
 toghether as one and it also won't cause you to lose fish or bugs like in the last game. Tom Nook, 
 the owner of the only good shop in town isn't much different from the last game, the biggest difference 
 you'll notice is that he doesn't sell clothes and umbrellas anymore and those are sold over at 
 the Able Sisters clothing design place. Also he keeps track of how much you spend in the form of 
 points and when you get certain amounts he gives you a membership and then store discounts. Of 
 course you'll still pay off massive debts to him to increase the size of your house over and over 
 again so you have room to store all your furniture. Furniture collecting is probably the biggest 
 thing to do in the game.
  
  The player is different as well. You are no longer stuck wearing that stupid horned hat from the 
 last game or that Legend of Zelda looking hat if your a girl. Theres a whole host of hats, accessories, 
 masks, and other what nots to obtain. Of course this is only taken from the back of the box but 
 in total 600 new items have been added, and there was already a TON in the last game. 
  
  Technical aspects of the game really aren't that impressive to some people, they are alright to 
 me and since the gameplay is great it doesn't matter, of course graphics are low-res compared to 
 the Cube but these are 2 different sets of hardware. Sound is pretty entertaining, the animals 
 speak their own laguage caled animalese but if this annoys you you can turn it off. When your outside 
 theres a music track that changes every hour of the day which is usually some nice relaxing melody. 
 The inside of your house can sound pretty cool if you go to the dog K. K. Slider on staurday nights 
 at the museum coffee shop and request a song from him, when hes done playing he'll give you the 
 recording to put in a sterero in your house and you can play that song. This game can easily keep 
 you entertained for days and easily until the next installment. The game has no replayability because 
 you never beat it! Things are always changing and happening so theres always something to do. The 
 last game kept me busy for well over a year and I'm sure this will do the same. If you want one 
 of the greatest DS games out there today get this game it takes Animal Crossing, improves it and 
 makes it portable, what more could you ask for?! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovedylaan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  This Game is Probably the best so far.
  First of all It IS worth the wait & IS awesome.
  In this game you not only Have to still pay off your house but You get bigger & better expansions! 
 Including 6 rooms instead of 3!
  There are a BUNCH of diffrent fish, insects, & Fossils.
  The world in this game is round lol you have to get used to it but I love this game.
  In The 
 gamecube game You had to stay with the character it gave you WELL for Nintendo Ds if you answer 
 the question's in a certain way you could come out cute/cool Or Ugly.
  But lucky for us we can at least make our cute/cool look or even ugly look Better by going to the 
 Able Sisters in there you can now Get new clothes , New items , & New head wear.
  When you have updated To Nookington's you will be able to get A new do In this case a hair cut 
 lol.
  All I can say Is this game is Definatly worth the wait ,time & money.
  This game is the best so far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit_kong
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 8, 2006 6:44 am PT
Review:  This game is built well and have many many things to do. It makes this game playable for ages and 
 a really long lasting game. It is very attractive which even attracts non -gamers. Wifi lets you 
 connect you and your friends in a beautiful Animal Crossing World. It also has calender where there 
 will be events on certain dates. The event is kind of little and nothing to do much though. What 
 you actually do in Animal Crossing are fishing, bug catching, digging fossils and shake trees for 
 fruits to make a living. The stuff you sell will be able to spend on furniture, clothes, and enlarging 
 your house which cost a ridiculous amount of time to gather the money. I give it a 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgloveromega
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard this game was coming on to the DS I thought that it would be stupid. I don't 
 own the original because I thought it was dumb. But when I saw all the hype over the DS version 
 I had to see what it was about. I fell in love with it immediately. Probably the second funnest 
 game currently on the DS i Love it. I give it a 9.1. It begins with your character going to a new 
 town named anything you name it. When there you get a house and learn you now have a mortgage YAY (rolls 
 eyes) . Afterwards you meet Tom Nook the local slave-driver who puts you to work to pay of your 
 debt. After the missions you are free to fish and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bignfanboy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I heard that Animal Crossing was coming to the DS, I couldn't wait! After opening the 
 package and popping the Game Card in, I got ready for the same, fun little game I had played on 
 the GameCube. Immediately, I was in a taxi, Kapp'n being my driver. After answering a few questions, 
 I was in my new town. Every second I was amazed by the graphic quality, although I have seen the 
 occasional little slip. The sound wasn't as great as I expected, but hey, I was okay with it. Now, 
 what I was really looking forward to was the WiFi multiplayer, looking forward to going to visit 
 people I didn't even know. But, to my disappointment, you would need the other person's friend 
 code. As before, all of my favorite characters like Blathers and the Able Sisters made their return, 
 back up to their old tricks. There is an abundance of items, and trying to create the perfect room 
 can be quite fun. There's also a host of bugs, fish, and fossils to find, just like last time! 
 I wholeheartedly recommend this to anyone with a DS. At times, yes, the gameplay will get repetitive, 
 but playing with friends makes it all worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmgGamer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  The fans of this game have waited two long years for the sequel of the original game to be released. 
 These fans have learnt that the longer they waited the sweeter the game would be when it was first 
 released and let me tell you, Nintendo did not dissapoint.
  
  Nintendo faced the difficult challenge improving on what appeared to be a dying franchise on the 
 gamecube. Despite much apprehension from long-time fans of the series they undoubtedly succeeded. 
 Not only does Animal Crossing feature amazing new featuresa as well as multiplayer and a moving 
 communal score to create the most enjoyable simultaion game of all time; they also captured the 
 essence of the characters. Regardless this is arguably the greatest game on the DS..
  
  Animal Crossing Ds; the ingenious innovative ideas, the RPG-like development, the communal exlporation 
 of a growing community. The game is not a simulation as some misinformed critics suggest but something 
 else; something the fans have affectionately dubbed as something in it's own genre, in it's own 
 league. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macky_7
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Just got this game yesterday, and from what I heard from other reviews this was a good game. The 
 game itself has the same gameplay as the Gamecube version, however there are little differences. 
 First of all, there is no acre system, which I personally like better because everything flows 
 more smoothly. Secondly, there are more housing upgrades. There are now a town hall and a main 
 gate, which help you get access to Nintendo Wi-FI Connection. This feature is very enjoyable it 
 allows you to communicate with other people around the world in their towns and in yours. Where 
 this game lost huge points from me was because even with the new features, it's still the same 
 gameplay from the original. This game is a must buy for fans of the original game. If you didn't 
 like the original, you won't like this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fridgeman500
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  Remember Animal Crossing for the Gamecube? I think just about everyone does. Well, Animal Crossing 
 Wild World is the next installment in the Animal Crossing series, except that its on the DS. It's 
 a fun game, very addictive, and you can spend hours at a time playing. Even after playing the crap 
 outta Animal Crossing, Wild World delivers enough new material to keep you playing.
  
  Graphics: Quite surprising since its on the DS. Everything is pretty much rendered in 3D. Characters 
 and Animals look cute, the furniture, clothing and everything else seems to be just about the same. 
 The DS's dual screen comes in handy with the top screen being the sky.
  
  Gameplay: Wow, just wow. Still the same gameplay from AC on the GCN, but with added features. If 
 you want, you can just use the stylus to move around, pick things up, talk to people etc. But i 
 found the stylus to be a little less responsive than the normal D-Pad. You can fish, catch bugs, 
 garden, decorate your house and so much more. Like I said earlier, you can easily spendhours at 
 a time playing this game.
  Did I mention Multiplayer. Yes, well its here. You can either go to another town via Ds to Ds, 
 or over Wi-Fi. All you need is that persons friend code, town and character name, swap it with 
 yours and go talk to Copper. You can do just about everything when in each others town. 
  
  Sound: Same tunes for every hour of the day and more. Same little noises come from the animals 
 and the overall sound effects are nice. I have noticed every now and then that the sound will kinda 
 become fuzzy and sound more like its in the background at times when playing, and the only way 
 to get rid of it is to save and restart. Other than that, the sound sounds good.
  
  Value: Definately worth your purchase. There is so much going on even when you're not playing and 
 you can do so much WHEN you're playing that this is a game you MUST pick up. Since the game follows 
 us in real time, you'll be playing for at least one year.
  
  Verdict: I give Animal Crossing Wild World a 9.6. This game is absolutely amazing and highly addictive. 
 Theres so much to do at all times. Whether you want to fish, chat with a friend via Wi-Fi Connection 
 or just talk to the neighbors, there is always something to do. If you own a DS, then this game 
 is worth every penny and then some. I highly recommend this game to anyone.
  
  FridgeMan500 GameSpot Wannabe Editor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyHawk
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:28 pm PT
Review:  If you like simulation games like The Sims series, you'll really love Animal Crossing: Wild World.
 
  
  Now, when you try to explain this game to somebody who is not familiar with the GameCube title, 
 they'll think you're completely out of your mind. "Where's the guns and violence?!" they'll say. 
 But if you love a game where the emphasis is not on character stats or story or skill, but instead 
 on item collection, you will love this game.
  
  In case you're not familiar with Animal Crossing for GameCube, here's basically what it is:
  
 
  You're a young human boy or girl, and you're moving away from your parent's house to a remote town 
 named [town name here] . The townspeople are animals, and you can change your own appearance by 
 collecting different shirts, hats, accessories, etc. 
  
  Your goal in the game is basically not to be in debt, and that will take a lot of devotion, since 
 there are something like nine different houses you have to upgrade to before you're done. You can't 
 really finish the game, but the item collecting aspect is very addictive because of it's sheer 
 amount of items.
  
  In addition to item collection and decorating your house, you can also build relationships with 
 the animal-citizens of your town. You can't get married or anything like that, but you can... well, 
 get more items from them!
  
  So that's Animal Crossing: Wild World in a nutshell. If you don't mind your games being cutesy 
 or fun, and you like item collection in games, you'll most likely be hooked on Animal Crossing: 
 Wild World. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredBed
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  i liked this game at first. you know play it for half an hour each day. but now im sorta playing 
 everyother day. beside that point this game is actually quite an upgrade from the first AC game. 
 wifi gameing is still great even though there are some things u cant do. graphics are not bad even 
 though its on the ds. gameplay will make u waiting for another 24hours so there is still that thing. 
 all in all this is a great simulater of life and it is a great game for the ds. neone who owns 
 a ds should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is essentially the same game you played on the Gamecube a year or two 
 ago, but with some great changes and landed itself on a handheld which really warrants a purchase. 
 With that in mind you should expect to hit the same familiar wall in the game when you have upgraded 
 your house and gotten it decorated the way you want (hopefully with a good HRA rating) and have 
 gotten the maximum donation award possible.
  
  The game starts off much the same way  only in a taxicab rather than a train (Rover is still in 
 the game as a random visitor however) . That insane sailor Cappn happens to be driving the taxi 
 in which you arrive in your town. Everything else is pretty much the same as it has always been 
  get asked questions and your face is a result of the answers.
  
  It just so happens that about all the animals (with a bunch of new ones) are still in the game. 
 What is rather different, however, is their A. I. The A. I. in Wild World is so much better that 
 it feels as if you had never played the game before. In the Gamecube version of Animal Crossing 
 all the animals sat outside their homes and really didnt venture far at all. In Wild World for 
 the DS all the animals are constantly engaging in activities all over the town, having conversations, 
 and just really giving you the feel that these guys have an agenda  something they need to be 
 doing all day long. On the flip side, it seems like these animals are up all night!! I mean sometimes 
 I wonder.
  
  The game plays just like the other Animal Crossing with noticeable touch screen involvements to 
 the menus. Besides gathering bells to pay for the mortgage on your home and collecting items for 
 the museum, there are a few new things that have been added just for the DS.
  
  One of the most noticeable features is the Wifi interaction. You can actually visit another persons 
 town and interact with them in real time! Engage in anything like fishing and bug catching together, 
 a lot more is possible in the DS version!
  
  Graphically, The DS version of Animal Crossing boasts almost the same exact level of graphics as 
 its Gamecube counterpart. It was mildly amazing to boot up Wild World for the first time and see 
 the same level of graphics (just more jagged, and it seems to twitch at times) and audio found 
 in the original game. Perhaps the only graphically poor areas are the larger textures like the 
 Nookway sign and the bulletin board.
  
  The sound couldnt be more similar to the Gamecube version, and perhaps has the best audio throughout 
 any DS game! Each K. K. Slider song sounds very full, even though the sample rate is really low 
 and sound effects and just the general audio feels very lively.
  
  Animal Crossing could be the most ideal game for a handheld since it is a game that is time specific 
 and is now portable. My biggest issue with the Gamecube version of the game was the fact that you 
 had to find time to sit down with the game and play it then, now it is available anytime you have 
 a moment to play.
  
  All in all this is a game that will take forever to fully beat and even then presents itself 
 as a fun quirky adventure suited for 10 minutes of play, or 2 hours anywhere you are.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gundamxzero
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Being a fan of the first animal crossing, I had very high expectations of this sequel. Which were 
 met. Nowadays finding a DS game with replayibility is like wrestling a pig in the mud, they just 
 always seem to slip through your fingers. I remember looking at screenshots for this game months 
 back and hating nintendo for even considering putting this on a portable.
  
  The graphics are great, in fact I would almost stretch to say an improvement, on detail and polygon 
 count of course not but the world is actually ! It's the same game with minor tweaks, you begin 
 this time in the back of a cab anwsering questions to determine sex, name, and where you are going 
 dependant on how courteous you anwser them will be your facial features act rude and you will end 
 up with a permanent scowl.
  
  Controls are great, you can use the touch screen or if you prefer (which I do) use the d-pad. The 
 town has alot of the same buildings as the first a townhall containing a post office, your bank 
 account, a donation center, and the recycle bin (this was the junk yard in the first) there is the 
 old nooks shack that will recieve upgrades when you purchase from him. Your home which you will 
 find yourself constantly investing you money (bells) into wether it be your constantly increasing 
 loan from paying off and then upgrading your home. Or finding that perfect furniture set for you 
 room (s) There are other citizens in your town that you can talk to or sometimes do tasks for. The 
 clothing store, where you can now purchase hats, sunglasses, masks, etc. The museum where you can 
 donate fossils, fish, bugs, works of art, view and create constellations, or have a cup of coffee. 
 And finally the town gate where you can check the lost and found (like the old police office) change 
 what your town flag looks like, and finally invite visitors into your town or venture out to other 
 DS owners' towns.
  
  The new multiplayer is great! When you can find a town that is, you must first get the recipient's 
 friend code, town name, and their name and then add it to the list. However unless you have set 
 a date previously the chances are slim to none. It is fun to visit other towns seeing their progress 
 or what they have in their home, or trading with them. The lag is minimal I have been in towns 
 that it will take 4-5 seconds to pick up fruit but that seems usually rare. Chatting is very simple 
 now with a stylus you dont have to be near to talk to someone and through certain encounters you 
 can learn emotes and facial features.
  
  The skinny:
  
  Pros: The stylus makes "life" easier.
  - Some of the best graphics for the DS to date.
  - A 
 game that you can look forward to playing tomorrow because the game changes daily. 
  - Multiplayer is a great addition. 
  - Tons and tons of items, carpets, wall decor and hidden 
 fun.
  
  Cons: 
  - Earning money gets teduious (you will probably be fishing 65% of the game. 
  - There could 
 be better rewards for donating museum items. 
  - I really wish there could be an easier way to find another town via wifi.
  
  Final word:
 
  
  If you don't already own this title put it on the top of this list, most anyone will definitely 
 enjoy this game and there are easily 10+ hours of gameplay, you will always find something to do.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieed15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:09 am PT
Review:  At first I was a little bummed to hear that the next Animal Crossing was a DS only game. I was 
 hyped up in hopes that Nintendo would make a true sequel for the Gamecube as opposed to a port 
 for the DS. Now, however, i'm really glad that they decided to venture into the handheld system 
 for this latest romp because it is an even better game than the original.
  
  While parts of this game feel like a Gamecube port with N64 graphics, once you start playing you'll 
 see that it is more like an 'expansion' of the Animal Crossing world. Not a sequel or a port, but 
 something inbetween.
  
  New additions include new tools like the watering can, and the slingshot. New characters, like 
 Brewster and Celeste, and new areas like the Cafe' and Civic Center. Of course the heart of the 
 game hasn't changed, and you'll still have to pay old Tom Nook off in order to get a nicer house. 
 
  
  Speaking of house, unlike the first Animal Crossing game, when new residents move into your town 
 they live in one house. They all pitch into pay off the house, and they all can move around and 
 buy furniture and whatnot. I liked this little addition, but it also felt sorta odd, three people 
 sleeping upstairs as I ran about collecting sea shells. 
  
  The post office is still an important place in Animal Crossing, but it is not within a large building 
 called the Civic Center. Outside the center is where you'll find Tortimer, because the wishing 
 well is now gone. All the characters from the original game are here and they are as funny as ever, 
 you can even make 'friends' with Sable and the new coffe making bird, Brewster. 
  
  Along with the additions such as clothes, hats, acessories, tools, furniture, and areas there is 
 one huge addition that alot of people have taken advantage of.
  
  You can now visit Animal Crossing towns from all over the world! Just make friends with someone 
 either online or nearby and use thier 'friend code' to visit thier town. You'll be able to run 
 around with them and do whatever you please, from chopping down trees to fishing. You can chat 
 together of course, which gives the entire game a better multiplayer/social feel. Of course you'll 
 need some friends for that, or you can connect to a friend near by using the direct DS to DS connection. 
 Either way, it gives the game a nice little change of pace.
  
  Graphics wise, most things are the same. There are no 'hills' in this version of animal crossing, 
 which I actually thought was a good idea. And there isn't really any 'acres' like in the first 
 game, which I sorta miss. Sacrifices had to be made, but luckily none of these sacrifices are big 
 enough to matter, and the entire game is just as pretty as the console version.
  
  The sound is great, although the 'animalese' that the townsfolk speak is a bit more rushed and 
 annoying. It's what would happen if you threw some chipmunks into a blender and switched it to 
 liquify.
  
  All in all Animal Crossing Wild World is a nice addition to the original. The biggest draw for 
 me was just the fact that I can play on the go. I don't have to worry about memory cards or controllers, 
 all I have to do is throw in the cartridge and play. So yes, if you're tired of playing solo on 
 your Gamecube version, then take the DS for a spin because it is truly a Wild World. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jt11989
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is back now on the Nintendo DS in Animal Crossing Wild World. You may think that 
 its the same game as the first one, but guess what it isn't there is a lot of new features in the 
 game. Its still like the first one in a lot of way though. You start of going to a town that you 
 name and that you live in ith a bunch of animals. Sounds Familiar because it just like the first 
 game. Your in debt and have to pay off a raccoon named Tom Nook. You can buy furniture for your 
 house from tom using bells, which is the currency in the game. You can also catch bugs, dig up 
 fossils and fish to hear some cheesy puns and to get bells. After you pay off your debt tom will 
 ask if you want to upgrade your house which leads to more debt. The newest thing about the game 
 that you can visit friends using the WI-FI hotspot that is conveniently located several miles away 
 from you or you can just buy an adapter for your computer so you can use it at home. Believe me 
 that its not like the other game. It has a lot of new features that makes it surpass its counter 
 part, so i will give it a 9.3/ 10 compared to 8.6/10 that i gave the first one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Microsoft_
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:03 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing was first release on the Nintendo Gamecube in 2002. It was instantly made players 
 choice and a truly loved by the fans. So naturally they had to make a sequel on the Nintendo DS, 
 Animal Crossing: Wild World, and let me tell you it will not disappoint true Animal Crossing fans.
 
  
  Additions from GCN version
  
  - World goes around when you walk
  - New Characters
  - New furniture
  - Multiplayer
  - Now wearing hats and accessories
  - More villager interaction
 
  - 4 Town members share a house
  - Hair Salon
  
  Subtractions from GCN version
  
  - Wishing well gone
  - Holdiays like Christmas and Halloween are gone
  - 4 houses are now gone, 
 everyone shares a big house
  - Saving Gyroid is gone
  - Post office is now Town Hall
  
  Game play
  
  This is where Animal Crossing shines, the game play will keep you busy for a few 
 hours a day. Whether your fishing, bug catching, hanging out with villagers, planting flowers, 
 pulling weeds, planting fruit, buying stuff, upgrading house and more. There is so much to do. 
 Your house at the end of the upgrading gets much, much bigger then in the GCN version. You also 
 pay a much higher price. The only thing is that once you pay off your house, and get a lot of furniture 
 in it. You may run out of stuff to do except just making money.
  
  Wi-Fi 
  
  Nintendo has recently started a new Online Multiplayer for a few games. Animal Crossing being one 
 of them. People can come to your town, talk to you, raid all of your fruit. The most important 
 thing is to get someone to buy something for the shop, once that happens the shop gets a hair salon 
 where you can change your hairstyle which is cool, and you can compare your catalogs (buying history 
 for yourself) . Wi-Fi connection is a good addition but in the end you are going to play single 
 player a lot more. If you don't and won't get Wi-Fi, the game is still great although you don't 
 get as many features.
  
  Audio
  
  The sound in Animal Crossing is above average, you get a lot of cool sound affects like bugs, water 
 the wind, and your town clock. You can also change the town toon, which is like the sound that 
 happens every hour on the clock of town hall. Sound is the least important thing in this game.
 
  
  
  
  Replay Value
  
  Replay value is very, very high. You can play the game over and over again because it is so fun 
 and so much to do again. You can restart and go to a new town for a new adventure. This is where 
 the game really really shines.
  
  Final Thoughts
  
  This is a truly great game that anyone with a DS should pick up. I owned the GCN and all they did 
 with this one was polished it up and added new features. So if you have a DS and this sounds interesting 
 then PICK IT UP!! If you don't like games that you have to clean up your room and pull weeds stay 
 away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garand13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is about as real as it get's with a game that let's you control your own town and do 
 everything that you could do in the real world. Once you play it, you WILL NOT be able to stop 
 playing. It never really ends and if that's not enough for you, the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection makes 
 it even more worth whle. I highly recommend this game to anyone who has a DS. This game has graphics 
 that are good enough to have fun, and it never stops playing, even when you're not playing, so 
 everytime you go on and play, something wioll have changed, it's never the same. Who knows, maybe 
 you'll have another person in your town next time you play. The possibilities are endless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! I loved and spent hours playing the one for gamecube and I will have to say 
 the DS game is just as good. Great graphics and sound. The game play is great and everyday is something 
 different. It was worth the $35.00 I paid and I was really happy to see they did not change the 
 game too much from the first one. If you liked it on gamecube you will love it on DS. Buy it, play 
 it and you will know what I am talking about! Animal Crossing is one of the best! Try it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sovako
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the reason's I got a DS. After playing Animal Crossing for the GC i remember thinking, 
 Man I needed more in this game. (Even though it goes on for ever) 
  
  When I heard about Wild World and looked into all the new things i knew it'd be a great hit for 
 DS.
  
  I enjoy going to others towns. I enjoy screwin up my brother and his town and doing simple but 
 fun things. Like Fishing, Bug-catching, running around getting a bigger house. etc
  
  I reccommend this totally to anyone who has a DS lying around.
  
  / // / / / / / / / / / / 
 / / / / // / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / // / / / / / / 
 ///// // / / / // / // / / / // / 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkMeas
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 5:59 am PT
Review:  Wild World doesn't toy with the original Animal Crossing formula, but simply being able to take 
 your town with you on the go makes it an easy recommendation. All your base belong to us. Luke 
 I'm your father, it's true son. I miss you lil Jon. Shout me a holla. Tell your mom hi, we went 
 out ya know. Wassup Nick, do some work man and bring me a biscuit.
  
  The Good: The exact same brand of addictive gameplay from the first game is front and center here; 
 many more fish, bugs, fossils, and other crazy things to collect; writing is still very sharp, 
 and the new characters are pretty much all great; online play.
  The Bad: Touch screen controls aren't altogether useful; some odd restrictions on the multiplayer 
 features; a few of the new day-to-day tasks are kind of dull.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedRaven_XXI
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  If the sound of a portable community of small quirky animal friends piques your interest or your 
 looking for something completely bizarre for your DS don't pass up this game, mind you its not 
 for everyone but It's charm and simplicity are more than enough to suck you into its miniature 
 world. Its good clean, wholesome fun. (a big change in pace for me...) The interactions between 
 characters are clever and often an enjoyable experience in themselves. You're actions always effect 
 the community so you always feel like a part of it.
  
  Clean, addicting fun for just about anyone who i'snt heartless or so "mature" they neglect to pander 
 to their inner-child's whims. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: En-GaGe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! It is very very fun and will keep you playing for a long long time! Putting 
 life into a video game is the perfect idea and with the online play you can meet and trade with 
 other people. You can decorate your house and choose your wardrobe. This game lets you make friends 
 with the neighbours and run errands for money and items. 
  
  GAMEPLAY- it is almost perfect some might ask "Why is it not perfect" well sometimes and I mean 
 rarely you find yourself having to wait when you want to keep playing soooo badly. But the anticipation 
 does make it more fun when you do play.
  
  GRAPHICS- extremely well done the best they can be!
  
  SOUND- great! you can make your own 
 town theme song and everything!
  
  VALUE- awesome you can keep playing and playing for almost ever!
  
  TILT- perfect nothing could 
 be better!
  
  This game is a definite must for all DS owners, why experience life when you can play it?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: isawthelight
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2002 Nintendo released a quirky little game known as Animal Crossing. It was game that 
 was unique in the fact that you didn't really fight monsters or hopped platforms. It was more sims-ish 
 and harvest moonish. The most unique feature was that it was a game that ran 24/7. If it was 6 
 PM in our world, it was 6 PM in it's. There was lot a room for improvemet. Now Nintendo releases 
 a somewhat of a sequel and deliver a DS game that Animal Crossing fans will eat up.
  
  Graphics: In terms of graphics it looks a lot like the GCN version. This is pretty impressive in 
 some ways and not some ways. Its impressive because the fact that it is producing similar visuals 
 as the GCN version, but then again, the GCN version wasn't the best looking game. Still the game 
 looks clean and crisp and in some ways better. The character models have more diversity since you 
 can have them wearing all sorts of new clothes. The animations have not changed during the transmission, 
 but that won't be too much of a bother playing this. Overall, the visuals look nice and are pleasant 
 on the eyes.
  
  Audio: Yet again this is another section where it is a lot like the GCN version. Don't expect hard 
 rock or J-Pop or symphonies. The music in this game is light hearted, and whimsical. It matches 
 the atmosphere of the game. Still the audio seems like it was directly ripped from the Animal Crossing 
 for the GCN. The animals all speak in the animalese style and the K. K. Songs are still cool though 
 2 games old now. Stil the fact that the DS is handling all this audio and such is impressive to 
 say the least. The audio is recycled, but great.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay department didn't change a lot either. But then again, if your new to the 
 series or just loved the GCN version to death then you wouldn't have it any other way. You start 
 off paying debts and you will continue as you get house upgrades. Theres also lots of animals to 
 interact with and lots of chores to do like fishing, buying , and just hanging out. The museum 
 got a huge upgrade from the original. Now everytime you find a fossil you don't have to mail it 
 and wait a day. Now Blathers the Owl will identify it on the spot. You also have a coffee shop 
 and a place to draw star constellations. Its also nice to mention that your house will become a 
 mansion by the last debt. The biggest addition is the WiFi support. You can go online to visit 
 towns or just search for one nearby. That means you can now have more than one person in each town 
 hanging out. This makes trade easier since they took out the Universal Codes. The fact that traveling 
 is easier is cool, but it could have been executed better since all your doing is the same thing, 
 but in a different town. Still the first attempt was done well. The familiar gameplay might be 
 a little disappointment, but atleast its still fun.
  
  Overall: Overall Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great DS title. Fans of the original will love 
 this game even more. The gameplay is still addictive with even more things to collect! Newcomers 
 will experience some curiosity and fun with the WiFi. However, those that hated the original, don't 
 even bother. Still if your tired of saving princessess, fighting, shooting, killing, racing, battling 
 for 10 hours to level up then pick up Animal Crossing: Wild World and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_Metroid
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I been playing ever since I gat it and I just can't stop playing. Let me tell you a littel about 
 the game. In the game you can design cloth , flags and constellation with the touch screen! You can 
 go to other people towns like your firends and they can come to your town too. Theres over 600 new 
 items that you can use to accessorize your house! And there always something you can do in the game. And 
 its has wifi is free! This is a must have game for the Nintendo DS and I mean a MUST have game. And 
 if it is sold out it is worth the wait! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtafreak621
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  As a newcomer to the Animal Crossing Series, I truthfully did not know what to expect. However, 
 that said, I did not expect a game of such high polish and fun factor. The game is so fun, actually, 
 that I recommend it to everyone that owns a DS. If you have doubts of this game, I think its about 
 time to clear them. Although this is a love-it, hate-it type of game, I promise you that if you 
 LOVED the original Sims, much like did I, you will absolutely love this game.
  
  graphics 10/10
  
  Now for a DS game, this game has great graphics. In the end though, graphics 
 are not what makes a game. Gameplay makes a game.
  
  GamePlay 10/10
  Now, depending on what type of gamer you are, its basically a love-it, hate-it type of game (as 
 earlier mentioned) The basic gameplay of Animal Crossing Wild World (which will now be referred 
 to as AC: WW in this review) basically consists of living a virtual life. Everything you can think 
 of that can fit into that category, is basically in the game.
  
  Sound 10/10
  From Shovels hitting rocks and signs, to an axe hacking away at a tree, even to your characters 
 footsteps as he/she walks around their house, I must say, this game's sound is superb. Never before 
 would I imagine hearing a mole cricket (thats underground, I might add) in my regular life. Its 
 easy to get lost within this games sounds, wishing at one point, that you yourself were the character 
 you were personified as.
  
  Value 10/10
  I found myself wanting to start a new character when I hadnt even seen half of what this game has 
 to offer. This game just has so much value its ridiculous. I havent purchased another game for my 
 DS, or even thought about purchasing another game for it, since I bought this. Its too compelling 
 to put down after hours of play and homework that is malevolently sitting by your side. This game 
 just offers too much that you can chew at any given point.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 10/10
  
  what can possible be said that is positive about this game that hasnt already been developed within 
 this review. This game just has way too much things to do and so little time to do it, the game 
 goes by the time and date as adjusted to your DS's internal clock, and when you stand still for 
 about 5 seconds, it will tell you the time. You will quickly begin to see that an hour has passed 
 by with it seeming like it was only 20 minutes. As the saying goes:"Time Flies when your having 
 Fun." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScorpMaster
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 4, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  This game is totally amazing! There is always something happening and each town is all diffrent. 
 The online play is really good, but it has some odd restrictions though. There is plenty to do 
 in this game!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are great for the ds. Each character and animal are very detailed in an cartoonish 
 way, which is really cool.
  
  Sound:
  The sound and music in this game is really good and happy, but there could of been a bit more tunes.
 
  
  Value:
  This game will last you for a very long time if you get into it! Esspeically if you have online 
 play.
  
  Overall:
  Overall this game is GREAT! I reccomend this for all DS owners, unless you didnt like the previous 
 animal crossings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Playing Animal Crossing for the gamecube, I knew I was playing something different from your average 
 game. It could'nt even be called a game, but more of an experience. 
  Now Animal Crossing: Wild World is here for the Nintendo DS, and it more enjoyable than ever. You 
 start your game not in a train with an annoying blue cat, but in a car with cap'n. This is a good 
 first impression for long time Animal Crossing players, foreshadowing Wild World's diffrence to 
 it's original gamecube game. Sadly though, Wild World does not do much to seperate itself from 
 it's original, but the fact that it is a portable version of the original game makes up for Wild 
 World's stubberness to change.
  Wild World did try to distenguise itself from the original Animal Crossing, but nothing more than 
 little interesting things to check out, such as a bar, an observatory, some new characters and 
 dialog, and a few new tools, but none of these are essentials, but neat little extras.
  The gameplay in Wild World is trure to the original Animal Crossing formula. You'll catch bugs, 
 fish, shop and do chores just like in the last game, but having all this on the go is truely great. 
 Though this game will not challenge you in any means, it is a highly rewarding experience.
  Wild World's representation is amazing, capturing the look and feel of the original gamecube title. 
 The frame rate has dopped slightly, and the objects are a little bit choppier, but thats to be 
 expected. Wild World has also made a change in the very land itself. Now, there are no more acers, 
 and the nameless planet that you inhabbit has gotten very smaller, as you can see trees, people, 
 and houses dissapier over the horrizin. 
  For the most part, Wild World's music is spectacular, capturing the very meaning of relaxation. 
 Wild World's music truely adds to it's relaxing experience, though there are a few boring and repeditive 
 tracks. The sound is very succesfull as well, as you'll hear the waves of the beach grow louder 
 as you approch the shoreline. You'll hear bugs making sounds, and trees rustling as you bump into 
 them.
  Wild World will last you quite some time, as that is one of the main focuses of the game, as it 
 says, "There's always something going on in Animal Crossing!". Though there is alot to do, this 
 game is best played in short frequent sessions rather than hours at a time, as doing this will 
 sometimes make Wild World lose it's lasting appeal.
  Overall Animal Crossing: Wild World sticks to it's roots, though thats overlooked considering this 
 is a portable version. Wild World is a relaxing experience witch would appeal to anyone in look 
 for an nice, easy, pick up and go experience.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepinkpig
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  at first, i didn't think this game was going to be much better than the animal crossing on game 
 cube... but i was completely wrong. there are now two places to look for free furniture, the recyclin 
 bin, and the lost and found.
  at the able sisters, there's now weird accessories [wigs, beards, glasses, and hats]
  new fish
 
  new bugs
  coffe in the museum
  star gazing in the museum
  you can get your house WAY bigger in this game
  thats all i kno so far, so dont call me a newb, 
 cause u wood b stating the obvious
  IF YOU DONT HAVE THIS GAME BUY IT NOW!!
  AND IF YOU HAVEN'T EVEN PLAYED ANIMAL CROSSING ON GAMECUBE YOU REALLLLLY NEED TO BUY THIs GAME!!!
 
  THIS IS MY FaVORITe GAME!!!
  I love the graphics-
  I love the game play-
  I LOVE THis GAME BUY IT NOW!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kakumei-san
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:47 pm PT
Review:  If you enjoyed Animal Crossing for the Gamecube, you will definately enjoy this version. A great 
 game for a handheld, just fun to pick up and play. Most of the added things in the game are great: 
 the spinning world, slingshot, not having to go back to your house to save, Wifi and wireless multiplayer, 
 etc... The best thing is definately the fact that you can carry your town anywhere you go. Another 
 really good aspect of the game is the wireless multyplayer, which adds a whole lot of fun. I really 
 have alot of fun with this game and i recommend it to all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nighthawk7000
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game may look like the stupidest game on the planet, but don't judge a game by 
 its cover. I got this game as a Christmas present, and when I started I absolutely loved it! This 
 actually had better graphics than Animal Crossing GC! The gameplay is absolutely First of all sometimes 
 a player randomly ask you a new question, (Usually) And when you send the animals letters they 
 send you back a different letter. There's also a ca'fe called The Roost that's at the bottom of 
 the museum. You can also make constellations at the top of the museum. There's 60ft range Wi-Fi 
 play, plus the awesome new Wi-Fi Connection that allows you to play world wide. Just to be clear 
 with people that want to buy this game, GET IT NOWWWWWW!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowprince92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a game where you are a person that moves into a town (with a name of your choice) 
 and make a living there. In your town are some animals that add some character to the town. Some 
 move away after awhile and others will like you more than others. You can invite your neighbors 
 if they ask and fads also pass through the town. You can also buy things at the shop that gets 
 bigger as you buy more. Celebrities also pass through the town such as Animal Crossing 1 veteran 
 K. K. Slider. This game has great replay value. You keep coming back day after day to see what's 
 new in the town and what's new in the store. This game is worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowflame07
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is 100% amazing. If you are a true AC fan, you definetley need this game. 
  
  --- This game gets a 10 gameplay from me. Themoving around with the sylus makes it much easier 
 to move items around your inventory. All the people say you will definetley use the stylus to move 
 around, but as you play it, moving around with the D-Pad is much easier. Having yuor own house 
 and doing whatever you want with it makes this game an amazing RPG. This all includes furniture 
 from the Gamecube Animal Crossing and much much more only for Animal Crossing Wild World. They 
 got rid of the acre system which makes it much easier/ faster to get from place to place. You don't 
 have to wear that hat with horns on it from the Gamecube version. You have the hair you start out 
 with for awhile. There is the beauty parlor where you can change your hair but, you have to unlock 
 it. Sorry but I won't spoil how ;) . There are different upgrades for your house then the original 
 had. Better uprgades. Your house also isn't in that one acre anymore. It is built some random place 
 in your town. Nintendo has added more items to use. They put in the watering can where you can 
 water your plants to grow, the slingshot (my favorite) . The slingshot hits presents attached to 
 balloons on your top-screen of your DS. Plus the timer where you can time things like contests 
 you want to have with yuor friends. 
  
  Townsfolk -- New animals have been added and many of the gamecube ones are brought over too. Relationships 
 go on between your towns animals like love, hate, or just friends. Animals can come into your house 
 only if you invite them in at a certaint time. Birthday parties go on where you can go to a neighbors 
 house and be sure to give them a present! Events like special holidays will be held. The holiday 
 of Christmas has been taken out for religious reasons. The same with Halloween ( I am pretty sure...) .
 
  The animals just walking around will usually have equipment on them like an axe, net, fishing 
 rod, etc... They will also usually ask you to have a contest with them. For example they will ask 
 you to catch a certiant bug or fish for them. They also might ask you to give them a fossill, clothing, 
 or furniture. They will usuallly send you mail to invite you to their party... or just to chat! 
 They might give you a nickname or act differenly to them if you treat them a certaint way.
  
  Hats/ Clothes/ Accessories -- The Able Sisters has it all!! They sell clothes, umbrellas, hats, 
 and accessories. There are a huge variety of hats, clothes and accesories. Accesoires are like 
 glasses, masks, etc. ( stuff that goes on your face)
  
  The graphics and sound are amazing for a handheld. This game is highly reccommended. 
  
  IF 
 YOU BUY THIS GAME, I AM TELLING YOU, YOU WON'T REGRET IT, YOU'LL GET ADDICTED!! YOU WON'T BE DISSAPOINTED!! 
 I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoardingKid07
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Yes, yes, yes!!! Animal Crossing is back and in a new, portable way. I was surprised at this big 
 game in such a little package, as it is probably more addicting than the original. With wi-fi connection, 
 this version brings a whole new element to the table. Also, writing out letters and grabbing items 
 is now a breeze, thanks to the use of the stylus. The one minor negative aspect of the game is 
 that you need to get friend codes to visit and be visited by other players with the use of wi-fi, 
 but really its for the best, because you could possibly be matched up with someone who would destroy 
 your town otherwise. With the use of internet forums, you can easily find others that are more 
 than willing to swap codes with you and hang out, so don't fret. Overall this game is awesome and 
 I definitely recommend it to Animal Crossing fans and DS owners that like innovative games that 
 stand out from the pack of the normal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murasaki-kun
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  When I first looked at this game a few months back, I thought "The only reason that I'd ever get 
 this is for the multi player." Sure, I liked the one for the Gamecube, but for the DS? Then, when 
 I got it, I started playing it, and before long, I was addicted. Cleverly using the Wi-Fi, Nintendo 
 creates a way for you to interact using the DS with other people far away. For example, my friend 
 in Colorado also has this game, and this way, I can still do things with him. 
  
  There were some letdowns, but nothing to say that this game's THAT bad. I was disappointed that 
 you could no longer do errands for the animals, but it also gave me a chance to get things while 
 going fishing, catching bugs, getting fossils, and even giving the animals new clothing! I was 
 also disappointed with what they used the top screen for. I'm glad that there're constellations 
 and gifts, but during the day when there aren't any presents, it gets sort of stupid. Another thing 
 that I dislike is that Nook's store is closed for a whole day when remodeling. On those days, I 
 simply either not play or go to one of my friends' town. Still, I love this game, and I would recommend 
 this to anyone who had a DS.
  
  In this game, I actually stay with it, because this game never really ends. I didn't really like 
 Mario Kart DS because it sort of got boring after you beat the Grand Prix, and online, you couldn't 
 really communicate with your opponent, and tell them "You're good" or "You should do [insert helpful 
 message here] ". It also uses real time and uses holidays like New Years, where you can actually 
 watch the fireworks at 12 am until some time from then. Well, simply put, this game is a great 
 game, so if you're thinking about buying it, you should buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobMango
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  After all this waiting, the game has finally arrived, and boy is it fantastic. It is just like 
 the GCN version, with some new features and over 600 items added! Graphics are pretty much the 
 same as the GCN surprisingly, and they are bright and colorful. Gameplay is fun, and it'll keep 
 you busy for years. Online could be better, considering you need someone's friend code and they 
 need yours, and its hard to do this. If they had made it so you could go to a random person's town, 
 it would've been better. Still, Online and LAN is fantastic, and a welcome addition. If you own 
 a DS, this game is definately worth a look, if not a buy. Great fun for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  This game is just like your life, sometimes great things happen, other times your bored out of 
 your mind. the good part is you can save it, LIVE YOUR REAL LIFE (or pop in another game if you 
 dont have a life) and when you get bored, turn on animal crossing and there something else to do. 
 i would say if you hav a DS, dont make animal crossing your only game, have something else to occupy 
 your time incase youre in a bored section of animal crossing.
  the voices of the animals are what sound to be little BA bA bA BA BA Ba BA noises, but if you listen 
 closely you can hear the actually say the words, its just REALLY fast! though i havnt heard any 
 of K. K. s songs on DS yet, i hav on gamecube, and if its the same, you will laugh as much as i did.
 
  the real time happenings are awsome, ive planted money trees in my town (yes, money trees) , but 
 now i hav to wait 4 days for them to grow, and thats assuming they make it past the first day. 
 there are schedualed events throughout the year, and weekly events like K. K. Sliders visits to 
 the local cafe. you hav a shop that will grow as you spend more money there, and debts to pay for 
 your house. theres also a musemum you will try to fill with your donations of fossils, bugs, fish, 
 and paintings. during the week you may find someone wandering around your town youve never met, 
 thats because there are ARE random visitors througout the week.
  wifi is pretty cool, but mainly to trade items, or get some fruit that doesnt grow in your town 
 (sells for more at the shop)
  you may like this game right off the shelf, but i mainly wanted it because ive played the first 
 one and it was cool. if you liked the first one, you will definatly like this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zman101
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 9:17 am PT
Review:  Finally thank the lord that a new animal crossing has came out. Now here are some new twist to 
 the game. In Animal Crossing wild world they have made a bar at the baement of the museum. Also, 
 they have made a new hair style place in nookington's but you have to wait till you get nookingtons. 
 You also get to play with your friends and using wifi connection. When tour with your friends you 
 could play fun games with each other like hide and go seek. Now some bad things about this game. 
 You can only have up to 8 people in your town. Tou also have to pay a big loan to tom nook and 
 for reeds tent you need to say a password. Anyways this game is a pretty fun game. But if you have 
 mario kart ds or mario and Luigi partners in time this game gets pretty boring. So this game is 
 kinda a most have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firejeff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World for the Nintendo DS captures the magic of the original, adds several 
 features, gets rid off some old useless stuff, and packs it into the smallest package available.
 
  
  Gameplay: The core gameplay hasn't changed much. You are still living in a town out in the middle 
 of no where constantly chatting up villagers and desperately trying to trigger the get free stuff 
 chats. And on that count talking to the villagers isn't the chore it used to be. Now the villagers 
 actually have more than 5 things to say and they will actually be interesting! The dump is gone 
 and replaced with a recycling bin inside the civic center. The civic center is also your friendly 
 post office ran by Pelly and Phyllis from the original. Mayor Tortimer is still around and he gives 
 you presents on holidays. For example on New Years Eve he gave me some party poppers. The acre 
 system of travel has been gone so that means no more treasure hunts in one particular area. I have 
 yet to test out online but it appears like the multiplayer version of Animal Crossing WW sounds 
 great to. Designing fashions with the touch screen is also much improved. Recently I created USC 
 Trojans and Florida Gators jerseys in the game. There are now 8 house expansions so you can pile 
 your junk all over the place. It's unfortunate that Tom Nook only has the 4 expansions. I would 
 like to see a Tom Nook shopping center or a Tom Nook Mall. Unfortunately the last one is a department 
 building. And think of all the activities you could be doing? Fishing, shoveling, bug hunting, 
 slingshotting! Oh the selection. And oh so many things to buy. From couches, to coffee, to garbage 
 cans!!!!!!!!! Gameplay gets a 10 for the sheer number of things to do.
  
  Graphics: The original Animal Crossing graphics were improved. The game looks great on the DS and 
 there is no lag at all.
  
  Sound: All of the cartoony voices and music all flow into 1 big milkshake of sound. Very impressive 
 sound in this one!
  
  Value: Buy this game and it will last you for years. Unless you are really against animals you 
 should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: movin_target
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I've never played AC before but this game is awsome i sweare if you dont have it get it now! The 
 reson is it gives you a break from the gut wrenching killing you people do. It's like any normal 
 life game but with animals and other things... But the point is it's fun the single player is what 
 gets ur atttion but the online is the BEST see people anywhere and if you dont have any friend 
 codes go on fourms or something. But the downside to it is that you have to have friend codes.. But 
 still if you are like me and play fps games or fighting games you will want to get this! Said and 
 done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruttness
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:56 pm PT
Review:  For about 3 weeks, I would call my local electronics stores and ask if they had Animal Crossing 
 yet. Finally, I got a copy. I turned it on and began playing. I noticed similarities that are necessity 
 for a good Animal Crossing. The graphics are just as good as the Gamecube version and the sounds 
 are almost the same too. If you are a fan of the first Animal Crossing, then this will surely be 
 a favorite of yours. The wait of 3 weeks was worth it and I love playing with other people. Wi-Fi 
 on this is smooth and works just great. Of course, like the other Animal Crossing, you can get 
 your neighbors mad at you, which is very fun. You can write weird letters to them as well. Anything 
 you want to do, you can do on Animal Crossing : Wild World. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monkeymens
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 8:10 am PT
Review:  I loved the original and i am playing it STILL!!! I was just a tiny bit sad that its not as addicting 
 and some of the funnest holidays are gone. Yet the multiplayer is great because the fact that the 
 player hasnt Mestriously dissapeared is fun because we play hide and go seek and stuff like that. 
 i think that its great that you can get haircuts but the fact you have to wait until nookingtons 
 is just plain bad! one more bad thing is that you cant ask villagers for errands is horrid. though 
 they still give jobs! I like it but i just think it couldve been a wee bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Javourman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:28 pm PT
Review:  This game allows you to run your own life, how ever you want. You can also make your town the way 
 you like it. This game has a goal to play for. You can invite people online to visit your town. 
 So you want a good town to show off to others. Also you can own a huge house (after you pay off 
 your loans) and decore it how ever you want. There are so many decorations to choose from, that 
 every house is unique. 
  
  Grow your own trees. If you don't like a tree where it is you can chop it down. You can also grow 
 trees. Dig a hole plant a seed.
  
  Also you can choose out of thousand of cloths to put on your character. You can also make your 
 own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmashAndRun
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I was like, this game is to girlish. But now I bought because of all 
 the great reviews. And WOW!!! This game is awesome. Its as if living a second life! When you start 
 out the game is kind of hard. You have to fish, get shells, and apples and stuff to pay off mortgage. 
 Then your mortage gets bigger. But after that it gets way better! You can take your money and buy 
 furniture and clothes and other accessories. The best part of the game is the fact that the date 
 is the same and the setting of game changes seasons and activities accordingly.
  
  The multiplayer is cool. You just have to get somebodies friend code. Then you could visit their 
 town and talk and stuff. But if you dont have somebodies friend code your out of luck. I say buy 
 this game even if you think its as girlish as I did. Make as manly or girlish you want. The game 
 is cool either way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightningrod767
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing WW is one of the greatest DS games I have ever played. It is perfect in almost 
 every way. You get to have a certain town currency, animal friends to talk to, and much much more. 
 One thing I don't recommend is time traveling. That just makes the game stupid and boring fast. 
 
  
  Other than the AC for the GCN, you can now wear hats, sunglasses, get new hairstyles, over 500 
 new items, more house upgrades, a few more people, more tools, Wi-Fi, and many more!
  
  It's easy to learn the basics of the game. 
  
  If you're a true AC fan, get this game!
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-c
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is the not-so-anticipated sequal to the 2002 Gamecube hit, Animal Crossing. 
 You start out as a normal human moving to an animal infested town. You start out with a very small 
 house with a cardboard box and a radio inside. You work for a Raccoon, Tom Nook, delivering furnature 
 and mailing stuff. You have to pay off your Mortgage to your house which is at first 19,000 bells. 
 After you do some Chores, he lowers it to 18,000 bells.
  
  There is so much stuff you can do in the game. Fish, Catch Bugs, Dig fossils, Talk, ect. The Game 
 runs in Real Time so when its Christmas in reality, its Christmas there! It's amazing.
  
  If you've never played Animal Crossing, or you Loved the original, This game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: System_Knot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is an accomplishment very hard to describe. Putting it simply, I think 
 anyone with a DS and a wireless connection set up should try this game. Actually, even without 
 the Wi-Fi, this game is amazing. 
  If you're one of the few people who have yet to play Animal Crossing on GameCube in some way or 
 form (rental, played at your friends etc.) then trust me on this, you won't be disappointed. 
 
  All the odd colorful characters may at first seem out of place, but you grow on them. Think of 
 when you were out on your own for the first time, or imagine it, Now add the best friends you can 
 possibly think of, and so many things to do, you can't keep track of all of them. That, is Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World, in my opinion the greatest game on the Nintendo DS to come so far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshinator64
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  I liked the first one. this one is just a as good though.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World for the DS is good. and they got multiplayer down. and you can take 
 off the horn hat. wear glasses... yeah. but it's like been said and done if you don't have Wi-Fi 
 acces at home. but the game is still fun anyways it's like a free roaming sim game with out having 
 to eat drink sleep or sit. but it's still cool. nintendo made this one with so many improvements.
 
  
  You can still do all the stuff in the old AC but now it's portable. they only only only thing you 
 can't do is play old NES games. but that's it.
  
  Nintendo stuffed more than 600 items. from hats to house hold items.
  yeah that's a lot of crap. if 
 you thought it took a long time to pay off your old debt to that fat b (l) astard Nook. in the end 
 you'll in up paying, 948,000 and that's not in total *evil laugh*
  
  there's much to do but you'll be using you "Time Machine" if ya know what i mean to get all hats 
 and items.
  
  still worth playing.
  
  I give AC a hard beacuse of that massive last pay. Anyways i give Animal Crossing: Wild World a 
 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coolmonkey14
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:53 am PT
Review:  is that you both need each other friend code i got the game on the 28th and today is the 30th so 
 i have played it alot and there is a bunch of dirrerent towns so you most likly wonk get the town 
 of your freinds and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and 
 and and and and and and and and and nad and and and and and it is really fun and and and and and 
 and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and and 
 and and anda dna dna dand and and an 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dabesttoad
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is great its like living in a whole diferent world! It goes day by day on ur clock, and 
 they have special events! if ur bored with ur neighbors move to a new town! there is more and more 
 stuff and u keep finding out more! and if ur friends play it u can do nintendo wifi! u can actually 
 talk to other ppl. Its a must have. if u lie there all day thinking wat to do wat to do u should 
 get this game! i play it at leat 4 hours a day! (well actually most my free time) its great must 
 have! BUY IT OR I WILL HUNT U DOWN AND KILL U! (not joking) So mind telling me where u live lol 
 joking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisebob134
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is a beatiful game that is the best looking to date. The game always keeps you 
 coming back to do one more until you find out one more thing to do. It's a very simple game that 
 keeps you interested. The game runs of your clock which make it fun to go through seasons. Evey 
 day in the game is a day in the actual world. You can customize everything. Also if you start a 
 new game it will be a totally different town with different animals [villagers] . This game is very 
 entertaining and i'd reccomend it to anyone since there is no learning curve at all unless you 
 can't read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobHankKitty
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:16 pm PT
Review:  very good everything i enjoy playing this game very much it is fun and neat and suberb and most 
 definatley spiffy you should buy it and call of work and sit and play it all day long if you dont 
 buy it you really are missing out on a great game even if you haven't played the game for game 
 cube you should still buy it there is no reason why you shouldn't buy it you really need this game 
 or you will break down and cry when you have nothing to do i am telling you you serously need this 
 game i got it for chirstmas and i want you to buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikekane21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Animal crossing is a hard game to review, its more than a game - its like living inside your Nintendo 
 DS.
  
  So basicly for people who havent played the Gamecube Version (the people who will find this game 
 most enjoyable) the whole point to the game is carrying out fun tasks set by the animals, collecting 
 furniture, living in an ever changing world, with real time events happening all year around (such 
 as New year) . Its one of these games where you will play it everyday just to find out whats happening 
 in your little world.
  
  Scince Nintendo have had a long time to develop this game you would expect more, this game is basicly 
 the same as the Gamecube Version - which isnt a bad thing because the Nintendo DS works SO much 
 better to the design of the game with the two screens, and with online gameplay, thats just the 
 icing on the cake! Ok its not great, but if you have plenty of friends with the game - you will 
 be heaven.
  
  The tunes on the game are catchy, and customisble hourly tunes too! The games graphics are similar 
 to the Gamecubes version, they should be slightly better though, they are not.
  
  Overall an enjoyble game which will last you a while, you will find yourself taking your Nintendo 
 DS everywhere with you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuffedcabbage
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 28, 2005 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is like the first game. But it has a lot of new things. New additions 
 to your house, new items, new clothes, new touch screen controls, new animals to meet, new fossils 
 to uncover, new bugs to catch, and it has a world like feature (the land and trees dissappear into 
 the horizon, its sweet)
  
  Going to other peoples towns are so much cooler now cause you can actually talk to them, and do 
 things like fishing and digging together. You can even play axe tag (its tag, WITH AXES)
  
  This game isnt a game where you can sit down and just beat it. You play for like a half hour to 
 an hour a day. But you are compelled to play EVERYDAY, just looking for that one peice of furniture, 
 or that one outfit, or that last piece to your T-Rex. As you know, you have to talk to your neighbors 
 or else they will get mad, jeese.
  
  Did i mention that you can wear hats that are different than your outfit. And different accessories. 
 Right now, i have a cowboy hat on, with a pair of sun glasses and a kung fu shirt, its sweet. And 
 you dont have horns in this one, OH YEAH.
  
  Well i hope my review helped you decide wether this game is good or not, or just made you laugh. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World (ACWW) , is a great, fun, and addicting game at first. It is almost identical 
 to the Gamecube version, and that is one of its flaws. One of the advantages of this, however, 
 is that you can take ACWW anywhere you want to do, and it has WiFi capability.
  
  You are thrown into this town. There are many things you can do in the town. You can grow stuff, 
 collect items, write letters to friends, and much more. There are a couple main things that you 
 can accomplish, like paying off your mortgage to get the best house, collect certain items, etc. 
 Unfortunately, once that is done, there really isn't very much else to do. The WiFi is very limited, 
 all you can really do is visit a friend's town who you already have the friend code for, which 
 means you will have to talk to them in real life to get it. The graphics and the sound, are recycled, 
 and old. Thankfully the graphics for this game fit a lot better on the DS than they do on the gamecube. 
 There is no excuse for the sound though.
  
  Animal Crossing often pretends to be something it's not. At first, you may get the false impression 
 that you are in a living breathing town. After a while though, you realize the letters you send 
 get automated responses, the characters have limited and robotic behavoir and conversation, and 
 there really isn't THAT much to do. If you're expecting a lot out of this game, you'll figure out 
 after hours of playing, that what you are playing is quite a shallow experience, and there are 
 much better games out there, that do it much better. It is quite a letdown. Despite all that, this 
 game might be for you, you might find it very addicting and satisfying, just don't expect too much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killofreakinlot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game is almost exactley like the first one but with lot more stuff more fish more bugs Hats, 
 Glasses, goggles, and a hair salon when you after you spend 160k on your debts I LOVE THIS GAME! 
 Wifi is hard but when u figure it out its awsome truthfully if you like rpg youl truely love this 
 game This is one of the d. s. finest games touch screen could of been better you dont use it as 
 much its easier jus to use control pad it is kinda hard to pay off the debt but u get new rooms 
 three more new ones and just like gamecube four people can live in the same houseyour whole familly 
 could play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z3r02007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2005 12:30 am PT
Review:  Darn it Nintendo! You already had me hooked with Meteos and Advance Wars, but now you release this? 
 Do you just want me to be addicted to your Dual Screens forever? 
  
  Well, if that is your plan, then Animal Crossing: Wild World certainly does it.
  
  -Gameplay- 
 
  Simple and intuitive, and the touch screen works well. However, you may fnd yourself switching 
 between control schemes, which is made painless by simply using the buttons or screen. 
  
  Your daily gameplay is based around a real-time, always existing world. Even though you are in 
 a small area, there is always something to do or see. And visiting freinds online is also fun. 
 Although, some my find life games tedious, and this might not change your mind.
  
  9/10
  
  -Graphics-
  Very clean and crisp, and translate the look of the Gamecube version well. The 
 animation is very smooth, and there are no loading or render problems. It is a free scrolling world. 
 Although, there was some clipping issues that cannot be ignored. But they don't deprive the experience 
 at all. 
  
  9/10
  
  -Sound-
  Definitly a weak point, but it is still good. The music sets a nice tone, and the individual speech 
 noises are always entertaining. It should be noted that this game has some often humorous writing 
 , which is amazing, considering that there are THOUSANDS of lines of text. 
  
  8/10
  
  -Value-
  Easily the most addicting games for the DS. Once you get sucked in, there is no way 
 out. And online adds even more gameplay fun.
  
  10/10
  
  -Tilt-
  Just get it people. 
  
  10/10
  
  This is easily one of the greatest handheld games ever 
 made. This game is easily percived on a home console, bu the fact that there is so much content 
 and enjoyment from an underpowered handheld system shatters every expectation when it comes to 
 handhelds. 
  
  FINAL VERDICT - 9.3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoodyFlame
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This game appeared on the game 4 or 5 years ago, it wass surprisingly a hit for such a wierd game 
 wth absolutely no stry other than the fact that yo had to scavange fruit and fish, fossils and 
 items and such, use them to makke money and go o like this forever. This may not seem like fun but 
 it has a appealing flavour to people of all ages. This is no different on the DS. It's baisically 
 the same thing, you collect frniture pay off your debt and do all the same activities as the GCN 
 version. The only reasonable change here is online wifi/multiplayer DS to DS and the graphics:
 
  
  WiFi online: this is a good system to meet other people and trade fruit and play games and such.
 
  The good: Fun to play, easy to connect, free online.
  The bad: Can't play online uless you have friends added in your friend roster (yes, that suks alot) , 
 the games you can play arent organised, you have to make them up (e. g. just type "lets play hide 
 'n' go seek" if the friendyour playing with agrees then you hide and he has to go look for you 
 [if you know what i mean] )
  
  Graphics: The world is colourful and fun to look at, but the colours arent as bright and fun as 
 the GCN version and characters are quite polygonial and the fac details are ard to recognise, but 
 of course this was to be expected de to the DS's engine compared to the GameCube.
  
  Some facts: 1. When you pause, the world keeps on going, meaning its hard to catch bugs for switching 
 to net when you access the menu could mean the bug has time to run away. 2. The touch-screen MOVEMENT 
 is very accurate for digging and fishing, but MENU MANAGEENT is so much freggin' easier than the 
 GCN version and using the D-Pad. 3. Balloons fly in the air which you can shoot down to get gifts 
 ( thats all the upper-screen shows [the sky] ) and you can also make contallations and see them 
 in the upper-screen at night. 4. Drawing with the touch-screen isnt as great as you may think.5. 
 World seems diminutive and the acre system is removed and the world rotates in like a sphere when 
 you move, but you'll get used to it.
  
  This is in general a great DS game and is definately worth checking out for the fans and non-fans 
 of te series and feels like its as if Animal Crossing is right your poket, that is definately what 
 makes it comparable to the GCN version, because nowyou dont have to spend your time at home unpacking 
 and packing te GCN to play, just go out and play.
  
  WARNING: IF THIS GAME IS NOT PLAYED IN SHORT BURSTS IT MAY GET BORING!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigre_nina
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I love this game it is absoulutely wonderful. So many new things to do and so many chalanges too. 
 The Wi-Fi rocks too. The other characters that live in my town have very realistic attitudes. Tom 
 Nook is a character. (no pun intended) I like that owls run the museum. Suits them just fine. Baarbra 
 has a huge attitude. She seems rich. Her house does have an air of a fortune about it. Same with 
 her accent. I have to use the wi-fi because none of my friends have a DS or if they do they dont 
 have Animal Crossing. But the wi-fi rocks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 27, 2005 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is back. The whole game is a little pointless except that you're trying to pay 
 your mortgage to the person who gave you your house. The game is very fun at that part. You try 
 to find stuff to sell to him, you work for him, and you repay him. It'll take you about 2-3 days 
 to repay him. After that, you have fun decorating, meeting new people, fishing, digging up fossils, 
 ect., but when you have had all of your fun.. the fun is done. You will begin to start playing 
 less, and then stop playing. This is a good game for on the road, so you can show your town to 
 the people you're about to see. The game will only last for a little bit, but you will play it 
 every now and then after you THINK you have seen everything. The gameplay is pretty normal, along 
 with the music. The graphics are pretty good, though. All together, ACWW is a good game, but you 
 need to be the best Animal Crossing geek to fully appreciate this pretty fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BillytheDeviant
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  So when I heard that the Nintendo DS was getting an Animal Crossing I knew one thing... I had to 
 own a DS. Luckily, a week before the actual Wild World game came out the Mario Kart bundle was 
 released, and I made my actual DS purchase.
  
  I played Mario Kart while patiently waiting the week out for the true reason I bought a DS. When 
 Animal Crossing came in, I bought it and began my new city "Kingland" on my new handheld.
  
  First of all, the game looks just like the NGC version and somewhat better. When I was being 
 driven to the city in the Taxi, I could tell that the graphics seemed to of had more time and detail 
 put into them. I liked it.
  
  I hadn't really read up on the game at all, so I had no idea what to expect when I arrived in my 
 new city. I knew Tom Nook would be back (who could replace him?) and sure enough he greeted me 
 as soon as I got out of the cab. 
  
  I played around with the control pad for a bit, but I felt I really should use the stylus and see 
 how they wanted me to play the game. I was surprised when I realized how easy, and great the control 
 was with the stylus and now it's all I need.
  
  The game was quick to get into because of my experiance with the NGC version, and I enjoyed all 
 the new additions that I started to see. I couldn't wait to try the WI-FI, as that was one reason 
 why I wanted the game. At first I was a little dissapointed that I couldn't easily visit anybody's 
 town, but I actually have friends who also own the game... so I knew I would have cities to visit.
 
  
  So, now that I am about three weeks into the game I am still enjoying it. I have visited cities, 
 and upgraded my house and things just keep getting better and better. I really like this game.
 
  
  On a side note, Pudge who was the first resident I met in my NGC version also happened to be the 
 first resident I met in the DS version. NICE! That just brought back a little bit of memories, 
 and makes me appreciate the game more.
  
  So if you've played the NGC version to death, like myself and are don't know if you'd enjoy the 
 DS version I say put those fears aside and buy it! You will not regret the pruchase, as the game 
 is a lot of what we enjoyed the first time around and then more of what we will enjoy in the future. 
 Check it out!
  
  That's my review of Animal Crossing : Wild World. A reason to purchase the DS, and well worth it!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Aresnal7
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 7:18 am PT
Review:  I have not found a single glitch yet it is very addictive it is like reality to me the game gust 
 blows my mind it's asome. I perfere to buy and buy in this game well I just like spending in this 
 game I also like looking in recycling for furniture and goods totally amazing! I haven't yet tried 
 multiplayer some people say it is not all it is cracked up to be well who now it might be asome 
 or it bad. The first game I played before Animal crossing was Harvest moon It was addictive but 
 I started to Stop play it was boring me where Animal crossing there is something diffrent it has 
 something just can't dislike about it ! Well here it is IT IS HIGHLY ADDICTIVE I just can leave 
 it Alone ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazammm
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Hello, I am Adam and I love this game! Its was put out on DEC/5/2005 and I got it DEC/7/2005 (my 
 local store did not have it till then) . Anyway like the old game you (as the player) walk around 
 and talk to your friends in the game, but in this game (not the old one) you can go to real friends 
 towns, if you have WIFI in your house. Like I can goto Jimmy across the street or Scott in some 
 other state.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is really just a SIM of life, you (as the player) buy and sell stuff, 
 eat, and have fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rageanmachine
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:45 am PT
Review:  This is a great game to have for the DS library, once I got it could not put it down fun for any 
 age. My fiance and I play for hours everyday! I have had more fun with this game then the one on 
 the gamecube. With the list of games out this fall for the DS Castlevania, Animal Crossing, and 
 Mario Kart it has kick the PSP butt all over. This is one of those games you have to go out and 
 buy a DS just to play. One of the top games of the year, it should be up for game of the year award. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinksBackup
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  This game grabs you from behind and buckles you into obsessed mode when you first start playing 
 it. Now, I really had my doubts about this game, since it dealt with Animals, with human-like similarities, 
 and once again.. another game with house decorating ahoy. But what I didn't know was how that whole 
 wrapped up experience was going to play out like, and it was one of those times when something 
 incredible happens. A video game surprises me. I had wanted the game for Xmas, and immediately 
 got sucked into it after about 5 minutes of play, my mom was wondering why I hadn't started playing 
 with my new electric guitar, and Animal Crossing Wild World was the reason why. The game's incredibly 
 simple idea, zany characters, top of the line DS graphics, sound quality, customization, and endless 
 possibilities make it such a spectacular thing. I also think another reason why this game is so 
 great is because you don't HAVE to do anything, you do what YOU want to do, not what that cat who 
 looks like a ninja wants to do. It gives you what us guys really want, down deep in our souls. 
 Freedom. And I know that since this game gives me so much freedom, that it made it to the top of 
 my favorite games list, and will probably wander off that list once I've spent the many hours, 
 days, weeks, maybe even months, playing this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flashx11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  I thought that there were a few interesting changes between versions. The most surprising ones, 
 however, were the least known ones. Some good, some bad.
  
  1) The multiplayer is awesome. Tag mode provides a way to encounter new people in public places. 
 Wi-fi allows meeting with friends across the country or planet. Rating is a +
  
  2) More space in bureaus and cabinets. Now all the cabinets can hold 90 items max. and min. Bureaus 
 and cabinets are like access points to a 90-item-storage box. Gives you more space, but you get 
 90- that's it. No more, no less. Rating is a +
  
  3) You have only eight design patterns. The displays in the Able Sister's cost $$ to buy -- or sell. 
 Rating is =
  
  4) You can't ask villagers for something to deliver to each other whenever you want (I think, I 
 haven't done it yet) . Rating is -
  
  5) Villagers will have little contests with you like who can find a certain kind of bug first. 
 Rating is +
  
  6) Tom Nook's store. More maneuvering room, less errands at first, and medicine you can buy. Mysterious. 
 Rating is a +
  
  7) You start with less villagers and get more. Rating is a + 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiho24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Awesome... Awesome is the best word to sum up this game. Animal Crossing Wild World is so addicting 
 that you wont even believe it. If you are a fan of Simulation games than this is one for you. You 
 are a character in a world of other animals which you spend your time interacting with them to 
 gain friends, a little extra cash to build up your home, and improving your city. You literally 
 can spend hours fishing, and digging for fossils in hopes to get some rare finds that you can either 
 sell for a healthy amount of cash or donate to a village museum which the owl working there will 
 be happy to put on display. 
  
  The thing that really makes the game is the on line connection. With Nintendo wi-fi connection 
 you can access anyones village as long as you exchange friend codes. This is a definite improvement 
 over the Game Cube. And as you venture to their towns it will be layed out differently. Different 
 animals are there that you can talk to and they may be farther in the game than you, so you should 
 definitely check out their store and museums. 
  
  The game play itself is easy and quite boring to if you look at it on paper. But the interaction 
 with the animals and the things you set out to look for can keep you hooked for hours at a time. 
 Not to mention that those hours are in real time to your hours, so you better get to Nooks store 
 before your locked out for the whole night! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwalker2020
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 11:43 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing is my all time favorite game. It is also one of the only RPG games for the DS. 
 I jsut got this for Christmas and i have only played it for five hours, but that is enough time 
 to get a feel for the game. 
  This is a very, very good first game to get because it utilizes both the button controls and the 
 touch screen, it is wifi enabled, and it is one of the only DS RPG games. I would highly recommend 
 this game to anyone. 
  The only problem with this game is that you need a friend code to get anything done in the wifi 
 mode. Go Tom Nook! (He's my favorite character) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weilongli2003
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2005 8:49 am PT
Review:  This Game will capture the imagination and make it reality. The touch screen just about makes everything 
 a breese. Although the game is sometimes unpridictible (I stole Teddy's training regimen?) , that's 
 what makes it just plain fun. The game just makes your day. Events happening almost everyday... 
 It's just one of the best games on the market for the DS. We still have a great simple art, and 
 everything. Seriously, even if you don't have a hotspot, You can do about anything you want to. 
 This game (and Mario Kart DS) litterally made me get a DS. Therefore, I give this game, Animal Crossing 
 Wild World, a 9.3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_head06
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 8:49 pm PT
Review:  well I can; t actually think this game will be good but its is its awsome because it has a little 
 Sims mixed wit ha other whole bunch a Sim stragdy games this the 2nd best game in the ds next to 
 Mario Kart that rocks any way I hope nintendo... hey hold up anybody reading this why dont the 
 y make A pokemon Sadium Ds or something I mean the ds is taking its next generation from the N64 
 games I mean i know that pokemon crystal/pearl wiil be hear in a while but pokemon sadium come 
 on anyways makes some really good games and the not the other games you know that will get 1.0-6.0 
 which relly suck you really need to mke some really cool games so far theres Metorid Prime Which 
 will rock because there 's wifi.... alll wifi games have good rating so then make more games for 
 wifi. One more issue its on wifi :- ( it sn therre any thing nintedo can do like to upgrade wifi 
 more hotspots or someting try make pictochat wifi or something because why wouild somebody talk 
 from 100 meter seriously thety could just end up talking to each other face to face any ways Animal 
 Crossing is Awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennis19920624
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  Even though the colleting money from trees, fishing, bug catching and all seems boring after a 
 bit, it would never die away! A rare fish pop up to keep your taste up everyday! Wait till Spring 
 for the Bug-Off, man! They are awesome.
  Surprises are everywhere, you won't get all of them if you just play this game for a month. Trust 
 me, you will get addicted.
  Stylus controls are so useful, you won't want to use the D-Pad.
  
  Grapchis : 10/10
  Wow, 
 can't believe there are such good graphics on a portable system! They are just plain good.
  Super smooth animations, too!
  
  Sound : 8/10
  The sound changes depending on seasons, wheaters, 
 where you at ... etc. Overall, they are all great, but they tend to be annoying sometime. Annoying 
 in a good way. You would want to stay in one place to hear the music!
  Wait till a Saturday night... K. K. Slider is got the sweetest song ever. Request the song "Rockin' 
 K. K."!
  
  Value : 10/10
  $35. Cheap for such a good game.
  
  Tilt : 10/10
  Keep you busy all year long, I'm serious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: remorseful_kid
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 3:39 am PT
Review:  This is the game i've (and you shouldve) been waiting for... this game is THAT GOOD!! I swear if 
 you do not have this game i will cry... Anyways, the gameplay is just amazing... a lot of stuff 
 was added from the gc version and onto the DS. The sky is interesting, although i was hoping for 
 the top screen (or viceversa) would b the inventory, like a quick equip screen ... or somethin 
 similar... besides that, everything is AWESOME... this game should deserve more than 10/10. if you 
 still do not have a DS, this game is another reason why you should get one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallen_Riku
Rating: 2.4
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:04 am PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking... well I like Mario Kart DS and its wi-fi connectivity made it AWESOME. 
 Even though I was very sceptical about buying Animal Crossing. I gave in after reading many reviews 
 about how cool it was and how you could visit other players towns, etc.
  
  I do not see what makes this game so good at all. Fishing, Catching Bugs, Planting Trees/Flowers, 
 shaking trees is about all their is to do in this game. For what? To sell for money to decorate 
 your house. That is it. So the whole point of the game is to visit someone elses house and say, 
 "WOW, that house 0wn3z" I guess. I mean the NPC's are among the most dynamic I have seen for the 
 DS, but then again their is nothing else to do in the game so they had plenty of memory to program 
 them and the NPC's get to a point where they repeat what they have said eventually.
  
  I mean I play my copy every now and then now. I turn my DS own. Collect Apples, sell them the store 
 for money (bells) . Then cut it off, 3 days later or so. I will stop playing whatever I am and for 
 a change of pace, put the game in and do it all over again, since time passes in real time. You 
 have to give your trees time to grow back their apples, pairs, etc. You will find it is the easiest 
 way to make money in my opinion. If you find yourself working secondshift at your job, you may 
 tend to hate this game, as you will find that the 2 stores (clothes and items) in this game are 
 closed from 11:00PM to 6:00AM (I forget the opening time) . I guess it is to deter children from 
 staying up on school nights or something. It is kinda annoying. 
  
  I mean, looking at this game, it looks like a children's game, but you will find that some of the 
 complexities of the game require you to be a little under, to fully understand what you are being 
 asked to do.
  
  Also, online play is very limited. You can only visit other towns of people who have your friend 
 code and you have theirs. So that kind of ruins the fun out of exploring as you have to know the 
 person and them no you. So their is no real suprises in the game. Even when you visit other people's 
 towns. Their is nothing you can do there that you couldn't do in your own tow. Except maybe grab 
 whatever fruit they are growing at the time. Other then that if you find joy in fishing side by 
 side, I guess you could do that, but fish seem to be more spread out so fishing side by side doesn't 
 seem pratical at all in my opinion. Their really is not multi-player features that really matter. 
 Nintendo was just saying "look what we can do" and left it at that. Partly due to the fact they 
 think they are protecting children this way, as they (as many Mario Kart DS owners know) do not 
 want people talking to strangers online for privacy issues.. 
  
  Anyway, I find this game to be way overrated. Unless you like these type of games (where their 
 is no point what-so-ever) I wouldn't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thx4datips
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is the sequel to the popular game Animal Crossing for the GC. The game 
 is amazingly addictive, and its great to play with friends. There are many things to do, and it 
 may not be as large as the first, but that just means less time-consumption walking to other houses 
 right? The fact that the game is able to go online is a great addition to the game, and its great 
 to do with your friends while they visit some place far, far, far, far, very far place, or if their 
 right next to you.
  Overall, i recommend this game to anyone. The game isnt flawless, but it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACaddict
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  When you think about it, the animals in ACWW are only a small morsel of what the game has to offer. 
 Yes they ar engaging and more lifelike in so many ways. Yes they act realistically. But the fact 
 is, there is so much more in the village. There's the 600 or so items. There's the clothing. There's 
 the wifi which provides endless fun. There's a barber for gods sake!
  
  And even then that's only one quarter of what Animal Crossing Wild World can offer. Everything 
 is in abundance. And this is precisely why Animal Crossing Wild World is so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmewater
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 2:47 pm PT
Review:  The ups of this game is you cna visit towns make town tunes get a cd or robo stereo and you can 
 change your flag and people can move in the town you've once named and different things happen 
 in different things happen and you can listen to song from K. K. and he makes up songs to the name 
 you give and while he plays it shows the credits and you can turn the tv on and you can play pinball 
 and buy alot of stuff and its just plain fun
  
  
  The downs of the game is well not anything except for the part you can go back in time and forward 
 thats like cheating and its just like real life and your tree's die I hate that my apple tree's 
 always die it annoys me alot so that is it for the downs
  
  you can get a whole bunch of new items compared for the gamecube version its just a superior game 
 for the handheld it proves they could make a really good Legend of Zelda game for the DS thats 
 a good thin
  
  Its a good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spike17spiegel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Im personally not a Sim fan at all but this game has something about it thats almost everyone will 
 enjoy.
  
  There isnt a real story besides the one you make yourself... your life in the game is the story. 
 A short scene is about all you get from story. It fill you in on what exsactly going on with you 
 and where you headed. 
  
  I always knew DS can do games with good graphics and this is one of them. The graphics are very 
 similiar to the GC version just a bit dimmed town and not as crisp. If you have seen or played 
 the N64 game then its exsactly the same. The characters look good and very detailed... facial experssion 
 is a big thing here and you get lots of it. 
  Its all 3D with a nice rolling log kinda perspective.
  
  The gameplay is great... there is almost 
 nothing that you cant do. Design, make a house, make music, plant trees, make constilations, get 
 fossiles for museum, talk to neighbors... you get the idea.
  Its really easy to get in and startplaying. The menues are simple and very user friendly.
  
 
  The music is fine... there is a tune for almost everything, differnt roon=different tune. The fun 
 thing is you can make your own and listen to it
  
  Replay value here is unlimited because there is something to do everyday, all year round. 
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagistrateD
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:28 am PT
Review:  One of the best games of the year for sure! Great everything especially their new Wi-Fi! Completely 
 redid special events, except for the tournaments. And added more of everything else: fish, bugs, 
 fossils, items, tools, and what ever else i missed. Also completely redid their speech scripting 
 with you neighbors to allow for more to happen :) . Only thing lacking was the ability to control 
 your localized neighbors, some of them get a little annoying and demanding but you cannot really 
 do much to stop em, and exchanging friend codes can get a little limiting. So far have not noticed 
 any glitches or graphic flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game, despite it's outer look is one awesome and addictive game. Most look at the game and 
 cast it off, on paper this game completely fails. However during gameplay this game is a very explosive 
 fun game, the characters all have unique personality's and eccentric quality's, witch adds to the 
 humor of the game. Witch by the way is the funniest game i've picked up all year. 
  
  Building up your home, gathering and collecting with a huge amount of extra's and things to keep 
 you entertained, as well as real time play witch makes playing the holidays, and experiencing a 
 more life-like game that also releases on its finest moments. The change in weather, countless 
 hours of fun and entertainment make this game a safe buy for anyone.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  This has a excellent sims gameplay with ability to fish, net, dig, chop, grow and interact among 
 many other fun things. As well as its real time, witch is far better than the sims experience in 
 every aspect. 
  
  Graphics - 10
  This looks like N64 graphics, witch is great on a handheld system. This game completly underwhelms 
 others.
  
  Sound - 10
  This has a colorful, unique memorable sound as well as excellent sound effects.
  
  Replay Value 
 - 10
  This game will keep you entertained for countless hours and even more so. 
  
  Overall - 9.5
  A superb game for anyone, and for fans of the GC title, don't worry it add's enough 
 to make it worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iwillkillyouall
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Usually no matter how bad a game is i consider it a 10 oob ganespot but after spending an extended 
 amount of time with it it goes to about a seven. Sfter plsying thid game for over 15 hours since 
 o bought it on the 10th my opinion on the game has not changed at all, and no matter how great 
 a game is i rarely say that it is the greatest game of all time. (Usually i say that it is the original 
 Animal Crossing) Althoough the improvments aren't humongus they make me all fuzzy inside because 
 of my animal crossing blood cells. And for the websites sake dont get me startedo n the greatness 
 of the multiplayer. And holy hell online makes me cream my jeans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioLookalike
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply the best game on the Nintendo DS to date. There are not very many differences 
 from the original Gamecube version, but who said that was a bad thing. Everything is here: neighbors, 
 mailing, Tom Nook, every season, and most of the holidays. And then they also add in online, an 
 ATM machine, and... um.... um well thats about it. But it really doesn't matters because its still 
 a very good game that will have you more addicted to it than any other DS game around. Its a game 
 that basically never ends, so there are plenty of activities to do. Believe when I say that your 
 DS will be at constant work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Impex
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 20, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World immerses you into a never ending world. Just like you live every single 
 day in life, so do all the characters in this game. When you first start off, you get to pick whether 
 you are a boy or girl, the name of your town, and your name that you will go by. When you reach 
 your town, there will be plenty to do. 
  
  Now, for all of you who have played the GC version, you know what to expect, and you won't be disappointed. 
 For all you new comers to the Animal Crossing series, lucky you. You'll be able to experience all 
 the fun and greatness compacted into one small cartridge that fits in the palm of your hand. 
 
  
  If you're still wondering, what the heck you do in a game that never ends, and running around with 
 little animals, here's your answer. AC: WW isn't a game where you're going to run around shooting 
 people in the head and laughing at them bleed mercilessly on the ground, but it gives you a nice 
 feeling of satisfaction, say after you've payed off a hefty debt to Tom Nook, and get to rebuild 
 your house. So, when you enter the world of Animal Crossing, you are granted a home, but is quite 
 small. Each time you pay off your debt, you can talk to Tom Nook (the owner of the store Nook's 
 Cranny) , and he'll upgrade your house, and make it quite bigger. To pay off your house, you can 
 do chores for the animals, like giving someone a shirt, or delivering a letter. But, the main way 
 you're going to pay that big load off is to take out the ol' fishing pole and give it a whip. 
 
  
  AC has got all you need for literally a lifetime, and now with the addition of online play, this 
 simply is a must have for the DS. You and three other buddies can hook up and hang around town, 
 having fishing contests, playing tag, trading items, or just talking to each other, and it really 
 sets this game apart from any other DS game. Sometimes you might be spending hours hopping from 
 town to town, meeting new faces, and stealing their stuff and running back to your town. Just kidding. 
 But, really, if you don't pick up this game, you'll really be missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiger_01
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 20, 2005 9:39 am PT
Review:  After I played this game, I pooped my pants, I was like, I wish I had friends to go over to their 
 towns, than I got a friend, and I pooped again, I am getting this game for christmas, yes the birth 
 of jesus, it's called christmas, screw the "holiday season", it's the "christmas season", so yeah, 
 If you bought a DS like I did last winter, and was disappointed with the games, get animal crossing, 
 and mario kart ds, both are the best ds games ever.... i was even desperate enough to buy nintendogs, 
 poor little guy is starving right now.......... i'm gonna go feed him, dammit! (spelt wrong)
  
  Word to your mother 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhys1elliott
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 20, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  Well Animal Crossing WW is not really a game ,it's a new life and it feels real on a scary level. 
 You'll want to miss school/work just to catch that sale! 
  Basicly, you get dumped in a town by Kapp'n he asks you to name the town and for your name. You 
 mave into a house which can be expanded by paying back Tom Nook (Shop clerk) .
  
  You have to do all the work in the town like gardening, which are chores in real life but are some 
 how great in this game. You can make many friends in town, they are all animals (hence 'Animal') . 
 You can also cross over to your friend's towns online or wirelessly (hence the 'Crossing'') , this 
 is where the fun comes in.
  
  The graphics are colourful (or colorful for all you Americans, lol) just like the on the 'Cube, 
 but the world is now a semi spere, it rules!
  
  You can do everything from fishing to abusing people with nets ,this game will last years, i recomend 
 it to all. Forget the 'Cube version this game was destined to be on the DS.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link5566
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:10 pm PT
Review:  If anyone played the Animal Crossing for the Gamecube, it should be a no brainier to go out and 
 get Animal Crossing: Wild World. The game play it self has not changed on bit. You still get to 
 do all of the things that made the original AC great. Fishing all day, digging up fossils, and 
 talking with the townsfolk all are in AC: WW. However, Nintendo does something in this one that 
 was a pain to do in the Gamecube version. Online play. That is what sold me on it. The massive 
 wi-fi system that Nintendo has is great. Being able to meet people in New York while I am in Chicago 
 is amazing. If you have a DS and a wireless internet at you home or have access to one, please 
 go out and buy this game. You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3rev
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 6:44 pm PT
Review:  this is better then the second animal crossing with better items and more things to do its like 
 the first one though becuase the world around u is going on 24 hours a day but man is it fun and 
 a good way to kill lots of time for a long trip or just anything at all. i just wish there was 
 more use of the bottom screen they could have done alot with that screen i hope they keep on making 
 these games becuase they are worth buying so make sure u do the wi fi is also a great addition 
 to this becusae u can go online and go see other peoples places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TargetDog
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 19, 2005 4:42 pm PT
Review:  So, Animal Crossing: Wild World is out for the DS. A game that "simulates" the real life, but in 
 a very non-realistic way. While a very good game, it definitely has some flaws that will hurt it 
 in the long run. Here is my review:
  
  Gameplay:8
  The gameplay has no real goal. What you do is you do what you want in your little town. You have 
 your own little house, and you're free to do what you want. Some things you can do in your town 
 are fish, dig for fossils, plant trees, and catch bugs. Really, there are too many things to do 
 to be mentioned in this review. A major thing in AC is conversing with your neighbors. You can 
 talk to them for fun, and occasionally they will want you do a task, like find them a specific 
 fish or let them go over your house for a while. Generally, the dialogue is very well written, 
 but unfortunately, dialogue is repeated too often. Luckily, the personalities of animals are all 
 distinct and interesting, so you probably won't mind. Although there is technically no goal in 
 AC, you will probably set goals for yourself, like collecting all the music tracks in the game, 
 filling up the museum, or getting your house to the largest size possible. Also, special visitors 
 will come every once in a while, and AC has its own holidays, making you want to turn on your DS 
 everyday to see whats new.
  
  Graphics:9
  These graphics are the best 3d graphics on the DS to date. The artistic style is very nice, with 
 all the characters looking interesting and unique. Almost everything is rendered in 3d, and almost 
 everything is charming. The frame rate isnt spectacular, but its more than enough.
  
  Sound:8
  The sound is not bad. Generally, the music is ok (but not amazing) , and sound effects 
 all sound rather cute. The gibberish that animals talk is nice, and everything overall is ok.
 
  
  Value:10
  Animal Crossing will make you want to play every single day to check whats new and whats happening 
 in your town. You can play this game forever, and you might even want to. However, you probably 
 won't. One of the biggest problems for me was that this game got too old too quickly. I expected 
 to play this for a long time and not get bored. It's been 2-3 weeks and I'm already getting a little 
 tired. The number of things to do, which initially seem so broad, begin to feel limited. It doesn't 
 help that most of those things get pretty boring later.
  
  Animal Crossing is a great game, and you should get it, no doubt, but its not a masterpiece like 
 some people think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkzone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 19, 2005 11:09 am PT
Review:  if you haven't played the game just read the review ..
  
  What i think about the game is a huge game play a life of your own and get money and exploring 
 and build a house and designing a room of your style
  and buy & sell clothes and furniture , who have played the first game of it he sure will like it 
 and its better than the old one, and who haven't play it one word just PLAY IT ... and I forget 
 you can play with your pal how far he is you can connect with him by the Wi-Fi .
  
  (I'am sorry about my grammar)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDesigner
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2005 9:30 am PT
Review:  I briefly played Animal Crossing on the GameCube, but something about it bugged me... what was 
 it... oh yeah, the fact that I can't just run home at any time and hop on the GameCube to see what's 
 going on in town. Right.
  
  So that's where the DS version comes in. The portable experience is ultimately quite valuable. 
 Being able to take Animal Crossing WITH you, really makes this version of the game shine. Out of 
 town, at your family's place for the holidays, but you want to see what your town is up to on December 
 24th? No prob, just open up the DS and turn it on, wherever you are.
  
  Not to mention the wireless multiplayer aspect is incredible. A little kid got lost in my town, 
 who claimed she was from none other than my cousin's town! So I hopped online, he opened his gate, 
 and I escorted the poor kid home. This makes me wonder what other surprisese Animal Crossing has 
 in store.
  
  Improvements over Animal Crossing for the GameCube (and forgive me here, as I have limited experience 
 with the GameCube version) :
  
  - portable
  - multiplayer
  - immediate fossil identification at the museum (no more waiting for mail)
  - constellation design 
 & sharing
  - Nook's store has way better hours (they realize gamers stay up past 8pm)
  
  Animal Crossing Wild World has its downfalls too:
  
  - can't drop stuff in your house while 
 a wi-fi player is in there with you (what the?)
  - can't send letters to your friends in other towns unless you actually mail it while visiting 
 their town (bummer)
  - multiplayer chat is cumbersome
  
  All in all, though, a very impressive and fun game. I highly recommend it if you like open-ended 
 games that give you nice little surprises when you least expect it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEWINDWAKER10
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2002, one of the most addicting, yet pointless game of all time was released for the Nintendo 
 Gamecube. Animal Crossing had players going around, performing random tasks to please hippo neighbors 
 and pay off raccoons. Its simplistic yet addictive gameplay made it one of those must-own titles 
 for the Gamecube. Now, 3 years later, with the release of the DS, Animal Crossing is back in Animal 
 Crossing: Wild World with the same gameplay that made it fun and addictive on the Gamecube, as 
 well as a few new additions.
  
  First off, Animal Crossing was known for its lack-luster graphics back in the day. What was intended 
 to be an N64 game was bumped up to the Gamecube without many graphical upgrades. Of course, the 
 DS isnt as powerful as the Gamecube, therefore Wild World has very good graphics. While they havent 
 changed much since 2002, the colors arent quite as bright and some of the models have been scaled 
 down. 
  
  The character models alone are very well done. Each character is unique and looks the part. Every 
 character is an animal, but Nintendo gave each character some creativity, leaving each character 
 recognizable, yet gleaming with ACs signature humor. Animal Crossing was known for having a very 
 eccentric sense of humor, especially when catching fish and bugs. This sense of humor has not been 
 lost and new lame puns and one-liners can be found all over the place in Wild World. Even with 
 Nintendo WFC, bulletins can be put up that are incredibly random. For example, one bulletin goes 
 this way:
  
  -Talking to Myself-
  Its odd how even the chattiest people get quiet in elevators! Except my sister
  
  Lots of 
 Oh no you Squidnt type messages are to be found everywhere, even slipped into conversation. 
 Its nice to know that since players will be spending so much time with this game, that it can 
 at least make them shake their heads at the lame puns and odd stories.
  
  Like the original for the Gamecube, Wild World is addictive. Theres always something to do, whether 
 one plays it in short bursts or decides to tackle a big project. There are events and activities 
 to do almost every day, which is one of the big drawing points of the game. Whether it be a fishing 
 tournament or just a flea market, there are tons of pre-set things tasks to do in Wild World, as 
 well as many tasks players can make themselves. As with Animal Crossing for the Gamecube, players 
 have to pay off debt to Tom Nook the owner of the local store. This requires players to sell fruit, 
 furniture, shells and other doo-dads and nick-knacks that they come along. Depending on whether 
 or not players have non-native fruit, the whole process can go fast or slow. 
  
  Sadly, the task of doing simple chores for ones neighbor has been taken out of Wild World. Now, 
 instead of delivering the furniture to neighbor a from neighbor g, neighbor a now has hobbies. 
 Each animal has a different hobby, whether it be fishing, catching bugs or digging up dinosaur 
 bones, neighbors will engage not in random tasks, but rather random competition. Whoever can catch 
 the cockroach first is obviously the superior being, therefore winning bragging rights and a space 
 in the neighbors house. While this may seem rather odd, its a great way to kill time while waiting 
 for Nooks new store to open. This is a great way to befriend neighbors now, as well as add items 
 to ones collection, as bugs and fish are tracked through the main menu.
  
  As well as the main menu, items such as bugs, fossils, fish and paintings can be collected in the 
 town museum. This is one of those things that makes the town cool, as it is up to players on what 
 goes into their museum. New to the museum this time around are the Observatory and the Coffee Shop 
 entitled The Roost. The Observatory lots player make constellations in the sky, which can be 
 viewed at night and even be made in other players towns. This is one of those unique things thats 
 really just cool to look at and doesnt really play a huge part in ones town. The same can be 
 said about The Roost. Players can buy coffee, befriend the bartender and get music from K. K. 
 Slider. 
  
  While on the topic of music, the music in Wild World hasnt changed much at all. It still consists 
 of the same hummable tunes as the original, as well as some new music. While the music is fairly 
 simple, it fits the Wild World profile very well. The voices of the characters just consists 
 of random mumbling, which surprisingly doesnt get annoying. Players can change the type of speak 
 if they choose, but it really isnt necessary. The sound effects of regular tasks themselves sound 
 pretty much the same as the Gamecube version.
  
  The graphics also look similar to that of the Gamecube version. Although when compared side-by-side, 
 the originals graphics are much brighter and colorful. Some items are more noticeable than others. 
 For example, the fishing pole in Wild World is much darker than the one on the Gamecube. These 
 little things arent enough to turn one away, but if one was a fan of the original, its noticeable.
 
  
  One of the biggest selling points of Wild World is the Wi-Fi compatibility. While this is a great 
 idea, its really one of the low points of the game. While some of the Wi-Fi stuff is rather fun 
 and has tons of potential, the rest is rather boring and needed to be thought out a little more. 
 The main draw of Wi-Fi is that players can go into each others towns. This is true, but players 
 must first exchange friend codes. This makes it hard for those gamers who dont have any friends 
 with a copy of Wild World. Once players exchange codes, theres not much to do. While players can 
 compete in fish catching competitions and play games of hide-and-go-seek, thats about it. Nintendo 
 didnt supply enough stuff to do online. 
  
  Other parts of Wi-Fi are rather interesting though. When connected to Nintendo WFC, copies of Wild 
 World exchange things. Whether it be neighbors, Blanca (the cat where players can draw faces) or 
 messages in a bottle. The potential for this option is amazing. Neighbors could be wearing a players 
 design, move to another town and then other animals could wear that design, ultimately moving the 
 design throughout the world. This also works for constellations and catch phrases.
  
  Although player-to-player Wi-Fi still has its perks. Whats there works very well. The chatting 
 system is very efficient is used with the stylus and there are a few emotions that can be expressed 
 as well. Tom Nooks cant be updated to a certain level without a non-native player buying an item 
 from Nook. As said before, Wi-Fi is pretty much Wild World with a second character. Well, at least 
 there are games of Net Tag.
  
  Another addition to Wild World is the stylus control. Players can choose between analog and stylus 
 control. The problem is that theres no real draw to use the stylus. Its a matter of preference. 
 Its a little easier to use the d-pad, but the menu is much easier with the stylus. Switching between 
 both is recommended, but besides the menu, players probably wont use the stylus at all. Besides 
 control, theres not much that uses the stylus in any innovative way. Players can make patterns 
 via the touch screen, but thats about it.
  
  One of the things players can access in this menu are clothes. In the Gamecube version, one piece 
 of clothing covered everything. This time around, players can choose between shirts, hats, glasses 
 and headgear. Players can wear a Bunny Hood or a Hockey Mask. This really lets the players personality 
 shine through. Also, at a certain point, players unlock Shampoodle, a hair salon where players 
 can get a new haircut based on a series of questions. One of the better additions that really lets 
 players customize not only their house, but themselves as well.
  
  The biggest draw of Wild World is that its essentially Animal Crossing for the DS. The basic addicting 
 gameplay is still there. Players are a human stuck in a little town filled with animals that have 
 house themes and enjoy catching fish and bugs. Players will sell fruits, shells and furniture to 
 pay off their debt to Tom Nook and expand their house and Nooks store. While doing this, players 
 can catch bugs, fish, dig up bones, buy paintings, create clothes, create town tunes and a million 
 other things. One of the best things about the Animal Crossing series is that you can never run 
 out of things to do. Ever. Wild World will go on forever, no matter how long one plays.
  
  With all the additions to the Animal Crossing series, Wild World is a must own for DS owners. Although 
 there are some flaws and letdowns, Wild World maintains the addictive gameplay that made it a hit 
 on the Gamecube. If players can find enough people to play with, Wild World is a huge expansive 
 game. Even if they cant, Wild World has so much value that theyll be playing it for months, maybe 
 even years after they first pop it into their DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethoo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best ds games released to this date. there is no way this game should have 
 been reviewed and given a misarable grade of 8.4
  
  in my opinion, animal crossing wild world kicks ass. this game along with mario kart, tony hawks 
 american skateland and the up comming metroid prime: hunters, make your ds library the greatest 
 considering the use of nintendos wifi connection. its too bad nintendo made it so you need a friend 
 code to go to other players towns in wild world. BUT, you coudnt even get online in the gamecube 
 version so its not that big of deal. graphics-wise, animal crossing: ww amazed me. sure, its not 
 anything like your psp's graphics but they are still very good. and all the people who criticize 
 the ds because its a handheld with no extra media functions such as an mp3, movie player or a picture 
 viewer and web browser... why would you need all of that.
  there is no use to the pornstation portable if you have a laptop. you got all of your mp3, movie, 
 web browser and picture viewers on that. so if you dont have a ds or a psp, the answer is clear/obvious... 
 go out a get yourself a nintendo ds for 129.99 - 149.99 and save yourself ootles of cash. dot forget 
 to pick up animal crossing wild world when your out there since its just that damn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrivateJessard
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Girls Gone Wild World. Ha ha ha ha ha! On this game you can change the phrases 
 the villagers say. ex:"You kick ass!" this game is online! (Only you have wi-fi dumbsh! t.) This 
 game kicks @$$ it's the fu (king sh! t biach! If your a bastard then choose this game mofo! This 
 game even has ur bday @$$wipe! This game has Christmas, Thanksgiving and all that sh! t biach! You 
 get to live in a frigging house **** If you play this game on Christmas Eve night then Santa will 
 come! (Not Santa dumb@$$ but it's a frigging reindeer.) You can buy accessories for your face too! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Barinaman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:55 am PT
Review:  What can I say about Animal Crossing WIld World?  It has got to 
 be the best DS title out now. I love this game!!!! If you liked the first one you'll love this 
 one. Some of the stuff is the same but some has changed. I for one think for the better, but some 
 people could think otherwise. In my opinion you most definitely ask for this game for Christmas. 
 I could go on and on about it, but if I did that would spoil all the surprises for you. If you 
 want to know more about the game go buy it!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shan14
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:21 am PT
Review:  Even though I haven't played Animal: Crossing for the GameCube I seriously
  think that this game is awesome, why well there's just so many things to do that it's impossible 
 to get tired of it, first there's so many animal's to talk to I
  sure you start of with only three animal's in your village but almost every day there's someone 
 new and a new house with a different animal with a different personality appear's and you get that 
 sense of realism by watching
  him unpack, it's just so real.
  
  Now gamplay wise this game is outstanding, it is just so great that you can do so much, I mean in 
 the game certain fish and bugs appear at certain times of the year and even though you may think 
 that that's a bad thing because you want a butterfly and it's winter and you can't get it, that's 
 good because in real life you do have to wait to get something you want.
  
  Overall this game is outstanding and for those of you that can get the game now, get it and for 
 those of you that have to wait for christmas, well just keep playing Mario Kart DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_hawk117
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 8:29 am PT
Review:  THis game is so addicting and fun. Every day, there will be somthing new going on it never gets 
 boring. This has some of the best graphics on the DS, along with sound. The real great thing is 
 the gameplay though. You get new villagers in your town, villagers leave your town. You can go 
 to another friends town when he/she is in California and you are in New York. They cna meet your 
 villagers and become friends with them. The real great thing is the special holidays that the villages 
 celebrate. They celebrate real life holidays like Christmas and your Birthday and New Years, then 
 they celebrate their own, like the Acorn Festival. They also have specail days were they have fishing 
 and bug collecting tourneys. Those can be real fun too. So whatever you do, go get this game, you 
 will be playing it for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invadercloudie
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I saw it was coming out, and thought nothing of it. Besides, I hadnt touched my DS for over a month. 
 Bleh, down with videogames, I thought...
  
  2 days passed, and that game started looking good...
  
  about 2 days after it came out I was 
 at a local store. I ran inside and grabbed the display box, and started reading the back cover. 
 I looked around for the nearest buyable box... Nothing. None. Devastated, I left. 
  
  I called everywhere... nothing. No one had it. Finally a GameStop down in Fife said they had 15 
 copies. The next morning I went to get my game.
  
  Am I pleased? Yes. I am sad they took away the, "Give me work" option. But life comes and life 
 goes...
  
  Animal Crossing stays forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axelcoolio
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 17, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I have gotten my Nintendo DS recently, and Animal Crossing: Wild World was the second game I have 
 played (Mario Kart was my first) . 
  
  Gameplay:
  There really is no big objective for this game. The player controls a character, and will try to 
 make the town more attractive by planting flowers and trees, by finding fossils, fishing and catching 
 bugs to enrich the museum, and simply make animals moving into town. There is often chores and 
 jobs assigned for you from the animals to do, which gets somewhat mundane and repetitive after 
 a while. There are sometimes surprising events, such as animals visiting your town, etc., which 
 do add a touch of creativity into the game. 
  
  Graphics: 
  The graphics are really not bad. You can differentiate the characters quite easily with the detailed 
 and cute designs. I am not a person who really cares about graphics, and the game's graphics do 
 exceed my expectations. 
  
  Sound: 
  The sound quality is good enough to please my ears. However, the music does get repetitive after 
 a while, which is sometimes irritative. The music usually is calm, and is almost never fast - paced. 
 
  
  Value: 
  If you like games like Harvest Moon and Sims, Animal Crossing: WW is a great game to play. For 
 a person who has never played the Animal Crossing Series, nor the Harvest Moon series, nor the 
 Sims series, playing this game is a good start. It did gave me enough satisfaction for a non-action/adventure 
 game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowy2004
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World works the same way as Animal Crossing for the GameCube: You move into 
 a town where time flows in real time and where animals live and you pay off your house to get it 
 bigger and better. All the other basic stuff are still there (Fishing, bug catching, the museum, 
 Tom Nook, Fossils, K. K., seasons etc.) that made the original all the fun it was. I does add some 
 other features like listening to the animal's conversations, much more personal personalization 
 options that include hair style and colour, glasses, hats, and more, the ability to create constellations 
 to be viewed in the night sky on the top DS screen (unless you are doing things like typing or 
 other stuff -- or you're inside) . Probably the most important new feature is the most obvious one: 
 you can play anywhere!
  Now ACWW surpasses AC by a lot in multiplayer play... well unless you're using the same game cartridge. 
 Unlike the original, all four players in a cartridge are in the same house (I have yet to try out 
 how this works out but it seems like it could get a bit interesting at times!) . Then there's the 
 wonder of Wi-Fi. Easy to set up and it's tons of fun to play with other people. To play with others 
 with Wi-Fi, you need their friend code, the only setback but a good security precaution, unless 
 you find a fan site where you can exchange them! One thing to note is that Wi-Fi is far from being 
 flawless. I have more than once met the BSOR (Blue Screen of Resetti where a blue screen with our 
 old friend Mr. Resetti (yes, he is also back in the game it self) comes up telling you the problem 
 and even noting that the game will reset and you'll lose data) so ask the owner of the town you 
 are in to save from time to time. 
  Animal Crossing: Wild World takes almost everything from the original, stuffs it in a DS, sprinkles 
 on some extra stuff then puts a Wi-Fi cherry to make it a time-wasting experience not to be missed! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafreak12
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I LIKE APPLES!... AMAZING GAME! This game really knows how to get ya going!... ya see, theres fish... AND 
 APPLES!... really a great combination... GOOD JOB GUYS IN THAT BIG BUILDING WHO MADE THIS!.... you 
 will all get really great socks this christmas! ANywho... PLUM INCREDIBLE is what I call it... never 
 gets tiring or boring in a million years!... people can actually spend MONEY on this game and live 
 to see it open and running! (thats a plus!) wow... I cant stop grabbing things within 5 feet of 
 me.... thanks all you people aged 7-195 for thinking I can walk all the way to the store to pick 
 this gem in a bucket up!... being serious now....
  Nintendo has done a great job bringing the series over to the DS... Its fun and highly addictive 
 and shouldnt get old anytime soon... pick it up if you have nothing else to play...10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom_nook_204
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is in my opinion one of the best games of 2005. Almost every thing 
 in the creation of this game was done right. In terms of Gameplay, it is highly addictive and loads 
 of fun. There is always something to do and get involved in. There is a long list of things to 
 do in the game, from catching insects to writing letters to building lasting relationships with 
 the local animal villagers. The character customization properties and nearly endless with a large 
 choice of clothes and gear (hats, umbrellas, sunglasses, etc.) available to you. Creating your 
 own designs and patterns is an excellent way to allow the player the express themselves. On the 
 other hand, Nintendo didnt do an amazing job of making AC: WW all that much different from the one 
 for Gamecube, but there are more than enough new features to provide a fresh experience. That in 
 part is due to the online mode, which is very well done, and while there are some limitations on 
 what you can do, there is a large sense of freedom when you explore other villages, and a large 
 sense of accomplishment when showing off your sweet MTV Cribs worthy house. :)
  
  On Graphics, they are very impressive. Bright, vibrant colors bring life to the game. There is 
 great variety among the characters which keep the visuals always feeling fresh. Outdoors and indoors, 
 everything looks great. Though, the game lacks in hi-res textures and the slight repetitiveness 
 of the outside scenery.
  
  The sound is just as lively and uplifting as in the Gamecube version of Animal Crossing. The effects 
 are clear and accurate, and the music does a very good job of setting the mood. The DS's stereo 
 speakers further increase the quality of the sound. And although the sound is incredibly varied, 
 it can start to get slightly old after a couple months of play.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is an excellent value for your money. This is a game you come back 
 to months and months from now. The hours upon hours of fun you will have will definitely make this 
 game worth your money. With the sheer amount of things to do, you will never be bored. All this 
 AND online mode too? It cant be true..... But it is.
  
  Overall, Animal Crossing: Wild World is a one of kind experience you cant find anywhere else. I 
 would recommend this game for players of the original Animal Crossing, and people who want to see 
 what all the excitement is about. This is definitely a must buy for all DS owners, and a good reason 
 to buy a DS if you haven't already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshuafaille
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is great and im glad picked it up
  If you played the G-cube version and liked it then you will be happy to know that this is basically 
 the same!
  
  Sure theres some great things and not so great things left out
  
  -NES games 
  -Different houses for different users on same cartdridge
  -some furniture
  -less 
 people able to move into your town
  
  But theyres also great additions
  -more people
  -The people in town are more complex
  -More people come... hard to explain what i mean
  -easier 
 interface
  -ETC
  
  Its definitly worth the cash and if you can afford wifi connection its worth that to
  Its not 
 perfect cause no game is... but it is spectacular 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 15, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  This game is great , the game play is fun very similar to the old game cube so if you like it on 
 gc u will like it on ds. Even if you don't have online you can still make the most out of this 
 game. Wifi for this game really does not have much in it to do like go to you're friends town and 
 right him a note with a touch screen it really does not go much past that . I am happy that there 
 is a game that useis the ds power mr Iwata said that ds is more powerful then n64 but alot of games 
 on the ds could be done on gba. So this makes me happy to see a game that looks great on the ds. 
 This game has alot of replay its kinads like the sims but more fantasy sytyle. One thing this game 
 has on the sims is when you turn the game off stuff happens when you are not playing .Also it has 
 online the sims does to but it sucks and animal crossing online is just more fun and its free. 
 So this game is like the sims killer this game is easy to learn when you first turn it on it does 
 not feel like it; s very good but give the game time and you will love it you just got to let the 
 gameget moving then it will be fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apieceofgum
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Ok i look at it, and think... this will probably be a ok game. I play it, and boy, IT HAS ME HOOKED, 
 its not easy where as you will finish it in seconds, but its not hard either. I cant believe there 
 is a handheld game this fun. I wonder what nintendo will do next.. im excited.. The best thing 
 about this game is being able to pick it up and play. You can do something in 10 minutes. Also, 
 the replay value is the best part of the whole game. Everything always changes, so u can never 
 get bored.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syluvan
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Spectacular! A life simulation with enough fantasy to satisfy the biggest RPGer. The game runs 
 so deeply and so complex! I can never run out of things to do. Even once all of my neighbors are 
 asleep, there's still so much to do! ... Ok, at least there will be once spring comes. But seriously, 
 there are no flaws in the graphics, animations flow perfectly smooth, AI is integrated with nothing 
 less than absolute flawlessness, and, of course, you gotta love the Wi-Fi. Besides that, I've always 
 loved games where there are side-missions to collect special items or accomplish secret tasks. 
 This game supplies an endless flow of these, from filling the museum and catalog, to upgrading 
 the house, to simply making new friends and creating your perfect dream home. Yes, I'm in love 
 with this game. It pulls you into its own little world, providing a perfect source of stress relief 
 in the form of an escape from reality. Anyone with taste at all should GET THIS GAME NOW!
  
  Btw, if you're looking for WiFi friends for this game, feel free to PM me! My town has cherries, 
 apples, and coconuts. Bring new fruit! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveJ009
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 9:35 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has finally graced it's fans with the second installment of Animal Crossing. This time 
 it is on the DS, which brings it's own unique benefits and shortfalls. I wonder why it wasn't made 
 for the GameCube, but I guess Nintendo has it's reasons.
  The benfits of the DS port are obvious: The ability to take the game everywhere! Recently, I had 
 to take a friend to the hospital (for a nonmortal ailment!) , and as I was waiting for the medicos 
 to patch him back up, I was fishing! Sounds cold, I know. But there we are. Another benefit is 
 the ability to take advantage of wireless networks. Go, have a cup of coffee at Starbucks, and 
 visit your British friend's town in one fell swoop. Now, the GameCube has online ability, so I 
 wonder again why the sequel is not on that system. The last advantage is the touch screen. This 
 ability makes selling and writing letters extremely easy. The interface was a little clumsy in 
 the first version, making letter-writing into a bit of a chore.
  The shortfalls are there, yet not so obvious. The first shortfall is that without the ability to 
 link to a Gameboy, there is no island. Granted, it wasn't that large of an island, and not really 
 important to the game, but it was a nice touch. Also, it allowed for another house in which to 
 store hard-won treasures. Another disadvantage is that the towns themselves are now much smaller, 
 as the DS cartridge doesn't give you a whole lot of room for code. Figure that the town is about 
 2/3 of the size of the original.
  These disadvantages are really nitpicking, and Nintendo has answered some of them in interesting 
 ways. Instead of a second house on the island, your home in the town will now have up to 3 additional 
 rooms for it. In the original, you only had 3 floors to play with, including a roomy basement. 
 Obviously, multiple rooms will give you plenty of room to display those theme rooms people are 
 so fond of. "Join me in the Space Parlor, won't you?"
  With the town being smaller, it actually becomes easier to manage. No more searching through a 
 5 by 5 square grid to make sure that all the weeds have been pulled. Wild World actually uses a 
 scrolling world rather than the grid system in the original. It makes for smoother strolling about 
 town. Sometimes that can make finding people out walking a little more difficult, but again, with 
 a smaller town, the search takes less time.
  Most of the activites are the same as in the original. Fishing, catching bugs, beachcombing, and 
 landscaping are still part of your duties. Of course, you also still have to pay off that house 
 from that crook Nook, who charges criminal rates for renovations, but the cash reward for selling 
 items seems to have increased. Simply cleaning the beach of shells can usually net you at least 
 500 bells or so. Also, individual items seem to have gone done in price, with a shovel costing 
 a mere 500 bells. Like I said, the only major expense is the house. Are these renovations Union-certified?
 
  A new twist to the game involves the wireless ability of the DS. Now, instead of just sending 
 letters to townspeople and other memory cards in your 'Cube, you can write messages in a bottle, 
 that will end up somewhere completely random. I personally haven't received any (c'mon people, 
 they only cost 200 bells!) , but I can see this as a very interesting feature. You can include gifts 
 in these bottles, and hopefully people won't just send things like old boots and tires. Personally, 
 I send fruit, so someone else may get that last kind of fruit tree that they are missing. But that's 
 just me. You could always send me bells, of course!
  Something else that is enabled with the wireless system is that almost anyone can visit your town. 
 In fact, one of Nook the Crook's expansions is dependent on someone else from a different town 
 purchasing something from his store. In a way, this almost forces the player to find a friend or 
 two, but realistically, all that opens up is a hair salon, so if you don't want to open your gates 
 to outsiders, you aren't missing a huge part of the game. Don't worry that someone could come into 
 your town and start a lumber mill, as you actually have to be playing for someone to visit, as 
 well as provide a "friend code", AND opening your gates. But why wouldn't you want to visit other 
 towns? Other towns give opportunities, like gathering other types of fruit you may not have, or 
 purchasing furniture or items that you can't get at "home".
  And yes, there is a TON of stuff to get in this game as well. I just recently perused the FAQ on 
 furniture, and it's huge! Expect to see familiar themes like Space and Ranch, as well as new ones 
 like Beige colored items the Fantasy setup. You still have the ability to place different floor 
 and wall schemes, and yes, there is a Room Board that will rate your setup.
  Beyond the furniture, there are also more fossils, fish, and insects to collect. Convientiently, 
 Blathers the Owl can now identify fossils on the spot, versus the old system where you had to mail 
 it out and wait for a return letter. Far less annoying! Fishing is the exact same, with the fish 
 still doing the "I see your bait, but I'd rather hide out near this rock you can't get near" thing 
 again. I guess this is to make fishing a little more difficult, because otherwise, it's a two button 
 press process. Yes, you will still get boots, tires and cans from the river too! Who's putting 
 this junk there?
  This version is also time specific. That is, on certain holidays and seasons, the enviroment will 
 change, and you might even get a present or two! Personally, I don't get to play until later in 
 the evening, and the game is shown as being at night. My friend plays during the day, and his screen 
 is brightly lit with noonday sun. It's touches like these that make this game so neat. You can 
 only get specific species of "catchables" during certain times of the day, which CAN be annoying, 
 unless you use the glitch countless others have used: time travel. Basically setting your system 
 time to a different setting will affect the game. Personally, I don't recommend it, though I have 
 done it! LOL
  All in all, I look forward to the many hours of my life that I will lose trying to find that last 
 breed of perch or butterfly. I look forward to finally completing the King Tut theme of furniture, 
 and finally paying that house off. If you liked the previous version of this game, you should definetely 
 give this one a try. And come visit the town of E-ville. It's swank.
  Oh, and to explain the low scores in graphics and sound: Realistically, this game isn't going to 
 blow you away visually. The fun lies in the collecting, maintaining, and trading aspects. Please 
 don't let those low scores dissuade you, I am just being honest.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lantis57
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  OK look. Even though i don't have a DS but have the superior PSP (dont get me wrong here) i think 
 this game is great. I have yet to play it but still, im an animal crossing fan. Even though im 
 a male teenager, i still care about this game because it is just that great. Animal crossing is 
 great whats to say about that, even though it was a japaneese import it is still amazing. This 
 is one of the reasons why i want a DS and yet im going to be able to get one,........, So this 
 game would be a system seller. Animal crossing is great, great to entertain, and just perfect for 
 al ages,. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonutGundamX
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game ever I like hitting the villigars with my net and axe and fish and stuff. 
 This game is highlly addictive so make sure you buy it on a weekend! The multyplayer is awsome 
 when you go "DS to DS" but Wi-Fi is kinda a drag because you have to have a friend code from someone 
 else to go online but the rest of it is awsome. They have added like 300 more furniture and clothes. 
 Its also easier to make designs and stuff with the stylus. The hats and glasses are a big change 
 and is very cool, they add more custimization to your character. This game is Da' Bomb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioDS01
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 11:04 am PT
Review:  I am pretty glad that I buyed this game then just rent it. Nintendo made a lot of good upgrades 
 and changes to the Animal Crossing series. This series can become quite good down the road.
  
  The Graphics, yet not as good as Gamecube's it is still very decent. The frame rate is very 
 smooth in this game. I like it that you could go all over town in one smooth transaction then go 
 into town in areas like in the last version. The character models are very good and the enviroments 
 look nice for the most part.
  
  The sound is still good in the game. Some music gets a little repetative, that is why there is 
 the volume control. A little weird that some of the animals sound similur then in the other game, 
 but you can get used to it. Other sounds are just perfect.
  
  The controls are good in the game. You can do it by the buttons or the stylus. 
  
  Ton of replayablity 
 in the whole game. There is no real ending, you just keep on play to see what happens next.
  
  This game is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Parsaw
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 5:40 pm PT
Review:  As I was playing Animal Crossing, I was thinking to myself, "There is nothing to be improved on." 
 I then thought to myself, "Maybe I should wait and get farther into the game, I could be wrong." 
 But now I have found that I am not wrong, this game is outstanding, perfect, terrific. It was worth 
 every penny I spent on it.
  
  Before I actually picked up the game and started playing, I figured it would be a mediocre port. 
 Then I actually played, I started my town, got into it, and started seriously playing. It was awesome, 
 I couldn't put it down, and still can't. (Well, I only put it down to write this review.) Here is 
 a small breakdown of Animal Crossing: Wild World for the Nintendo DS.
  
  Game play: Perfect, awesome, amazing, the only words to describe it, it's perfect for any age, 
 young or old. It isn't too hard, it isn't too easy, and it's learning curve is just right.
  
  Graphics: Okay, graphics. Though the graphics are cartoony, it makes up for it in sharpness. 
 The graphics are sharp, nice, clean cut, anything you could ask for in visuals, they are EXACTLY 
 like the graphics on Animal Crossing for Gamecube.
  
  Sound: Sound is soothing to the ears. The music is nice, the sound effects sound great.
  
  
 Online Aspect: The online part of Animal Crossing is just like single player except for the fact 
 that you can visit another players town or have them visit you, and you can give each other items 
 and such. All you need is each others friend code and you're set. 
  
  Replay Value: As for the replay value, well, let's put it this way: You can play this game FOREVER. 
 It never ends, you can just keep going and going, on and on, forever. It's good for those video 
 game addicts that never want to put a game down, it's also good for regular gamers.
  
  All in all, this game is revolutionary, and will change the way Nintendo DS is played as we know 
 it. I would suggest picking up Animal Crossing: Wild World for the Nintendo DS as soon as possible!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunisherAB
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:26 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. I have the Frist one and now this version.
  It's fun, it's never boring, and it's online!
  WFC is easy on this game and their so much to 
 do. I never got bored with Animal Crossing and I won't with this one. I just retired from playing 
 Animal Crossing (3 yaer I been playing it) and now I bet I will play ACWW for 3 or more year or 
 untill the next one comes out. :)
  
  I can't say anymore, because there nothing that could say that this game is a bad game.
  
  
 Animal Crossing Wild World get a A-
  For a Creative, time-taking, never-sleeping fun game that will never get boring.
  
  AB Crew 
 2005 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljmjag
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 11:38 am PT
Review:  Look, I understand that a lot of people are head over heels in love with this game. And I certainly 
 don't deny the fact that it is fun, expansive and, at times, immersive. But if you take a close 
 look at this game it is not very innovative - fundamentally it is all about social interaction 
 - which is really what the Sims were all about when it first came out (and actually still is today) .
 
  
  Since this is a Nintendo game, however, unlike the Sims, the interactions which occur between people 
 are highly structured and designed so as eliminate any potential of, ummm, more interesting interactions. 
 It is a game designed for kids, although as an adult I certainly can appreciate its fairly interesting 
 gameplay and design.
  
  As for the online aspect, again, it is highly structured - and could be so much improved if it 
 allowed for more potential interactions with "strangers" from other lands. This is not quite a 
 WOW MMO, but is a rather good start toward an MMO type of community for Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squirreltakos
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2005 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Overall this version of Animal Crossing is the best because of all the new stuff added to it, plus 
 all the problems fixed. Small things yet important things were added, like now Blathers can identify 
 fossils. Not THAT important but it's a good improvement. One thing that bothers me is that the 
 fish act even stupider before! It soo hard to caught some of them compared to the GC version. No 
 rumble makes it harder but it never throws as short of a distance as I want. I give this game a 
 A- because it is improved alot but still some more things I want to see. Like a plot to buying 
 furniture since you really can't do anything with it. It's quite a bit of fun going to others towns 
 but why can't I trade??! Or amybe I am doing something wrong. Either way it's still kind of makes 
 me nervous when my friend is in my town and I can't see him. He could be stealing flowers or chopping 
 down trees. But overall I am a huge fan of this serious and I hope to see another version on the 
 Rev hopefully.
  
  note*the review below might not be corect because it's not clicking right.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZabuzaR
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2005 2:32 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest game sequels is finally here! This game is for people who don't play games 
 very much and to hard core gamers. The learning curve of this game takes about 15 minutes to master 
 so it does not take a very long time to learn. With new stuff happening in this game every day 
 there is always something to do. The on-line concept of the game however was a little disappointing 
 because you have to exchange friend codes in order to play with each other on-line making it very 
 limited. The game-play gets repetitive after a while but with so many items to collect and bugs 
 and fish to collect you will be coming to play this game on-line even more. Another great thing 
 about this game is that you can do anything you want without any goals! With so many types of furniture 
 you can customize your house any way that you want too. If you cant find any wall paper to fit 
 your house what do you do? Make it. Since you can also make designs with the touch screen you can 
 make your own wallpaper, carpet, cloths, signs, hats, and even place them on the ground outside! 
 However making designs with the stylus on the touch pad gets really hard because you have to fill 
 in these tiny squares that are so small you need a smaller stylus to get them. So its best off 
 to use the d-pad and buttons to make it. Also if you are a fan of the original one then you will 
 soon find out that there are less holidays on this one then the original. However you can also 
 download extra content while on-line. What is also cool about going on-line is that you can celebrate 
 a holiday with friends when they are on-line which is a plus for multi-player. With this game on-line 
 meeting new friends and a lot of new items added to the game this game is perfect for all people 
 new to the series or not. This game is a must for DS players. So if you are finding a good game 
 to play on-line or just to kill time this is the perfect game! What are you waiting for go buy 
 it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omali
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:56 am PT
Review:  Most of the people who have played Animal Crossing on the Gamecube will tell you, why don't they 
 make more games like this? 
  
  Animal crossing for the DS starts out virtually the same as in the gamecube version. You find yourself 
 in a cab going to the town (which you name) . Unfortunately, you have nothing to your name but the 
 clothes on your back. Don't worry, though, Tom Nook is more than willing to let you work off your 
 debt on a house.
  
  When you initially move in, there's not much to do. The townsfolk don't know you enough to trust 
 you with errands. However, with time, they will come to give you more stuff to do. But even with 
 those delays, I should be able to pay off my initial debt (of about 18,000bells) within the first 
 day of owning the game.
  
  You can customize your character's appearance from your hat, to your umbrella (for rainy days) , 
 your clothes, and even leave little marks on the ground.
  
  About the characters and maps, I cannot give you any information since it is completely random 
 what your town looks like and who will inhabit it. However, every town comes with Tom's Nook (store) , 
 A tailor, the Mayor's office (where you will send letters and pay off your debt to Tom) , and at 
 least 3 residents to start. relationship will determine who stays and who leaves. So you won't 
 be getting married like in Harvest Moon, but it's a good idea to write to your neighbors every 
 now and then. You can also gossip with them, and every now and then they will give you something 
 to do.
  
  Other than making money off of errands, you can plant flowers, collect fruit off of trees, find 
 shells and coral, and fish. You can also create designs and sell them back to the tailors
  
  The game also uses an intenral clock, same as the gamecube version. Events are planned in game 
 and for those that are hour-two hour long, it's a either your there or you're not. Attempting to 
 change time (through your DS's time clock) will wield bad results. I won't go into those right 
 now but they will ruin your game. Also, Mr. Resetti (and perhaps Mr. Reletti [sic] ) come back. 
 If you reset your DS while playing (as most people do to go off of a saved game) Mr. Resetti will 
 be waiting at your door. He may punish you for resetting so don't. That's what you get for cheating 
 the game.
  
  As for the internal clock, the events are weather changes, holiday events, and more. Your birthday 
 is greeted by a nice present in your mailbox. 
  
  The only problem I have with this game is the inconvenience caused by the internal clock. Like 
 I said before, the events are played out as either, you're there or your not. You can find out 
 ahead of time what the upcoming events are from the bulletin board stationed outside of the mayors 
 office. Also, the town can be pretty big, and finding people to do deliveries can be a daunting 
 task.
  
  The only problems in this game are small ones which had no effect on gameplay. I give Animal crossing 
 for the Nintendo DS, a 10 out of 10
  
  The only problem i have with the game is the inconvenience caused by 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwissy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 5:15 am PT
Review:  Amazingly fast, ultra modern, extra ordinarily hilarious, fantanimalisticaly posh, stintishly damp. 
 No matter how you describe it, it is the best three course meal in the world. 
  
  Dear god,
  May you blews my maimal family for this gravy,
  Amen.
  
  Exuse me Larry Flea, 
 did you see, it was me, my crusty GiGi, the mouldy gravy, finky lee lee, dont you see see?????
 
  
  Some people call me a space cowboy, but I prefere to be called Bob the shoby grob nugget. 
  
 
  RSVP:
  Low-Fizz Lawrence
  Jinkys!!!!!!!
  
  WIN!!!! Enter now:
  Fill in this sentence:
  
  My stint was funny but it was bettter __________ so I lofty loop.
 
  
  The slugish, powgant straganini was dreary after the gruntingly foe-shay blimp connector. Union 
 workers describe garlic prawn syndrome... In other news, Aroooooooooga, wa fu za za za grimp tin 
 upi upi dut sug wix foo foo. Now to sport.,,,
  
  Excuse my french, I'm from Italy not Frenchland, bopsoir congit frigit bobo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xg836
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I was kinda disapointed when I received it because they cut out the holidays Christmas and Halloween. 
 I mean, come on, no Halloween, no Christmas?! Have the designers gone mad?! Other than that it 
 is challenging and fun. All four people must live in the same house and you can chat with other 
 people playing their DS's. You also can now get emotions from a therapist who comes by town every 
 so often. Not only that, but you can wear a hat, or not, and when Nook's shop is finally upgraded 
 all the way, you can get a hair salon and you can choose the style of your hair! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAGNUM826
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:00 pm PT
Review:  I think that this game is a hit!!! I love it. When im playing, time goes by very fast. And i love 
 the Wi-Fi feature too. The graphics are awesome for DS, but not quite Nintendogs graphics. The 
 gameplay was easy to get used to, and it was kind of tricky to get the Wi-Fi to work, but I got 
 it to. This game was very exciting, and entrigueing. It was an awesome expirience and i hope they 
 come out with something like this again. I hope you guys liked it, because if you didn't, or don't 
 want to, you are missing out on a very awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shear1017
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I would reccomend this game to anyone. The game is just great. For the old AC fans, some of the 
 new things in the game would be the touch controls, the new museam, and the wifi play. Its a whole 
 new experiance that i believe everyone should get into. The graphic are good for the ds though 
 sometimes the frame rate is a little slow. The sould is cool, calm and catchy. Youll be playing 
 this game for years on end. there are over 600 items and with the touch screen designing is much 
 easier than using a d-pad. The animal are very intellegent in this game. They will remember you 
 forever no matter where they live. The multiplayer is a bit bad of course because you need a friend 
 code to go online. All in all the game has much to offer from the younger croud to the oldest. 
 My friends who have just seen screen shots of the game think it looks babyish. It is for everyone 
 and i recommend that you buy a DS just for this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mobab
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  i think that in general people are too quick to accuse nintendo of making "kiddy" games. animal 
 crossing wild world, while it does have cartoon graphics, appeals to all genres and ages. it's 
 innovative games like this that give nintendo their unique niche in the gaming industry. with the 
 new online capabilities, animal crossing wild world improves on the original in almost every aspect. 
 one of the most satisfying things about the game in general is the sense of accomplishment that 
 you achieve when obtaining prizes. this is not just an instant gratification game where you can 
 turn it on an beat it in a half hour, it's a game that requires work and time. i am proud to have 
 animal crossing wild world as part of my gaming collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing Wild World is everything and more you would expect from an animal crossing title. 
 The character design is brilliant, the customization is awesome, and the graphics aren't too bad 
 for a handheld either.
  This time around on Animal Crossing, you will probably first notice that (what i found to be annoying) 
 the map is no longer set up by acres, but instead by an angled planet like strip of land. On this 
 land, you will find neighbors, rivers, beaches, and a buttload of things to do. Whether you decide 
 to fish, catch bugs, hunt for fossils, or simply interact with your neighbors, you will see that 
 it never gets old. The gameplay may be rather simplistic, but dull, not by any means.
  Now more than likely, most people reading this review are simply wanting to know what the online 
 feature is like. The feature shows that it is not meant to be an all out, full fledged, MMO game, 
 but the feature doesnt hold the game back either. Its very entertaining to be playing the game 
 online over the internet interacting wirelessly, but thats just it, the only people you may be 
 able to interact with is your friends. For, you see, you do need the Friend Code of the person 
 your playing the game with to go online, otherwise, your out of luck. But even though that is very 
 frustrating, its all worth it when you finally play online.
  I would definitely say that in this game, looks can be decieving. As childish as the game looks, 
 there is something for everybody. Whether you change your neighbors catchphrases to funny or inappropriate 
 things, or you decide to be kind and friendly, it all works out as a fun innovative game. The characters 
 phrases are well written, and yes, even at times funny. Each character has their own distinct personality. 
 Sone are fun and happy, some are depressing, some are stubborn, and some are very rude. But don't 
 fret, if you find a neighbor you don't like, just repeatedly smack them with the bug catching net, 
 it will tick them off and occassionally make them decide to move. Its actually pretty funny.
  Finally, as far as the graphics concern, I must admit im a bit impressed. Although the graphics 
 arent PSP graphics by any means, I myself can find very few if any differences between the gamecube 
 and ds versions of Animal Crossing with graphics. The characters are well designed , the world 
 is bright, and the 3D on a handheld is awesome. Every time I pick up my DS and play a 3D game on 
 it, I still say wow, because I still remember using a colorless gameboy 10 years ago.
  All in all, if you are looking for a great, fresh new game that constantly thrills and never gets 
 old, you may want to check out Animal Crossing: Wild World for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dog64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2005 5:42 pm PT
Review:  After playing Animal Crossing on the Gamecube for over 3 years, Animal Crossing fans have been drooling 
 for a sequal. While Wild World is not a real "sequal", it's also not a 100% port of the Gamecube 
 version. 
  If you have played the GC version, you will feel right at home when you start the game, as the Capt'n 
 is now driving a car (though he talks like he's still in a boat) . After answering a few questions, which 
 you should answer carefully, you will arrive in town in front of the Town Hall, which has the Post 
 Office inside. When you go to your house, Tom Nook will appear and once again tell you that you 
 owe him 19,800 bells for this house. Since you don't have that kind of cash, and you don't start 
 with 1,000 bells like in the GC game, you must work at Nooks shop. The jobs are exactly the same 
 as they were in the GC version, just with different items. After you do that, you have to pay off 
 the rest of the morgage to expand your house.
  The games graphics suffer from some minor slow frame rate issues, but it's nothing that noticable 
 nor does it take away from the gameplay. The colors are still pretty good, for a DS game, and the 
 sky view on the top screen is a nice addition. It gives you a view of the moon at night, and star 
 constellations which you can design. Villagers even comment about your constellations.
  Speaking of the villagers, they have really "moved up" from the GC game. Their houses now look more 
 like real houses, and they even put some things you give them in their house. Some villagers have 
 hobbies, like fishing, fossil hunting, catching bugs, ect. and the jobs they ask you to do sometimes 
 involve their hobbies. Villagers also have conversations with other villagers, and you can even 
 listen in. You never know what they might say!
  There is no gyroid in Wild World, so can't have your own mini-shop and sell items to people who 
 visit. However, via the Wi-Fi connection, you can visit other friends towns and sort of trade by 
 dropping items and picking them up. Nintendo promises there will be other Wi-Fi features in the 
 future, besides getting mail and items from Nintendo. So, you never what they might do. Other things 
 to do in others towns are, well, create your own fun like other games, and you can also chat with 
 each other.
  All and all, Animal Crossing: Wild World is a great buy for anyone who likes life simulation. And 
 if you loved the GC version, this should be on the top of your "to buy" list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madartist
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Wild World doesn't break from the Animal Crossing formula at all, which is a good thing in my opinion. 
 If you didn't like the first game, you probably won't like this on either, but all fans of the 
 original should be happy with this DS version.
  
  Almost everything from the GC version is here, although some of the features are more condensed 
 and compact. You can still change the town's theme song, but instead of having it's own post outside 
 the main gate, it's simply an option when inside the city council building. 
  
  The graphics are good, although a bit jaggy around the edges, and the polygon houses have a weird 
 case of the "shakes" when you walk around the 3-D models. The world now has the appearance of being 
 a small sphere, instead of an overhead view where you move from screen to screen (like the original) . 
 In some ways this is cool, but it seems to make it harder to see your surroundings, or to find 
 fish in the streams.
  
  I love this game, and I could easily spend hours fishing and doing other tasks. With WiFi support, 
 and endless playability, AC: Wild World is a must own for all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaystoe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 7, 2005 4:08 pm PT
Review:  it good i guess it still could be more realistic i maen yeah you can flirt you have to acually 
 buy fish bait and there are more itams but the animals are really babyish i mean yes i am addicted 
 to animal crossing but it has to liven up a little bit and become more like the sims animal love 
 some smooch action in there so yeah. so anyway it was good i guess alot better than the one for 
 game cube. it really is a big addicing game (but the sims is more addicting because it's more realistic) 
 don't get me wrong i still love playing this game but for me the sims all the way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 7, 2005 8:23 am PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is the second in a game series that really is up to three versions 
 worldwide (the N64 version never hitting the US N64 console) . Basically, you are a person moving 
 into a new town, where you have already ordered up a house for yourself (as small as it may be) . 
 You start off the game, being asked a set of questions, which result in your appearence & gender, 
 then you arrive in the town. From there, your task is just to live among the citizens & pay off 
 your debts that you accumulate improving your house. The game is completely open ended & your experiences 
 in the game are yours to make.
  
  Gameplay- 10- These games that are that open ended really give the best gameplay, because there 
 is much less restriction than even a great game that follows a storyline. You get to see your town 
 grow, relationships change, all while you earn as much as you can to finance your lifestyle.
  
  Graphics- 9- They didn't go so much for heavy detail, more to make everything very smooth & 
 colorful. The details are nice, just not made to be as much as they could be.
  
  Sound- 8- Everything sounds nice, the custom town tune option is cool, but the real treat of the 
 sound is the voices of the citizens as they talk to you... some of them really make me laugh.
 
  
  Value- 10- Completely open-ended... this game could really go on forever.
  
  Tilt- 9- Why a 9 when I talk so HIGHLY about this game? Why, oh WHY couldn't Nintendo have added 
 a voicce option when your in someone else's village? All you get is this little line which is just 
 way too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlappyMc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 11:45 pm PT
Review:  A few years ago a little company named Nintendo (maybe you've heard of them) released a game unlike 
 any other. In an age where action games and first-person shooters were the real money makers, Nintendo 
 went out on a limb and released a unique life sim game drenched in cartoony visuals and wacky characters. 
 The object wasnt to make it to the end boss with guns blazing, but to live life the way you wanted 
 to; through the avatar of your humble human counter-part in an animal town.
  
  The game progressed in real world time, and really hit home the appearance that the town folk we're 
 out and about doing their daily tasks weither you were playing or not; a very good imersion technique. 
 Another great thing Nintendo did was added holidays and events through out the year for you to 
 take part in and each holiday offered special furniture and items unique to that holiday. It made 
 you want to keep comming back to see what was next on the calendar.
  So instead of collecting guns and ammunition, you were given the task of collecting furniture and 
 clothes and other little knick-knacks for your town and home. Oh yeah, you've given a home as well, 
 to deck out anyway you see fit. 
  Already you must be getting the picture that this was no ordinary game. This simple fact turned 
 a lot of people off, dismissing it as a "kiddie" game or childish; they were wrong plain and simple. 
 This game was fun, and rewarding no matter how long you decided to sit down and play it for.
  
  This game is back people; and very much like the original.
  Now is this a good thing or a 
 bad thing? mmm, a little of both.
  
  Gameplay:
  Its all here.. The same great stuff from the original is back. new fish, bugs, songs, and holidays 
 have been added to keep it fresh and seem new.
  There's been an addition of a whopping 600 new items to the game (which boasted an even larger 
 number in the original to begin with) which opens up a whole new can of worms for the people that 
 this game addicted the first time around.
  I guess the main addition to the game though, is the wifi capabilities. Now this is cool. reviews 
 seem to be brushing it off as "no big deal" but when you think about it in terms of the original 
 game, this is huge. Gone are the days of those clunky 20 character codes from the GC version. Now 
 trading is simple as "Let me visit your town and we'll trade". A Truly great addition to the game.
 
  Great thing two about wifi: The viral capabilities of this game are huge. By sending letters to 
 animals in other people's town, theres a chance they will keep those letters and show them off 
 to the people in the town. One way of leaving your impression on the town. The real thing I see 
 being truly viral is the constellations. 
  After my first visit into another town I had picked up a constellation (they sometimes follow you 
 back to your town) . Now its not hard seeing this take off as more and more people go to your town 
 and vise-versa. My constellations may end of un kansas by the end of the week.
  Aside from the new elements (a lot of which I havent listed here) The game just feels better on 
 a hand-held. One of my big problems with the GC version was the big production you had to gothrough 
 to play some GC animal crossing. It didnt feel like a game that you should sit down in front of 
 a TV to play. This game was made for handheld. I'll just leave it at that.
  
  Visuals:
  Hmm, There has been a little sacrificing here. But not too much. The textures are a little more 
 blocky, but thats to be expected no? This is something I'm willing to over-look because of the 
 fact that I can play the game anywhere. Its an acceptable sacrifice.
  The games 100+ characters (I'm just threw out a number) all look unique and have very well written 
 dialogue to converse with you about.
  The town itself seems to be a giant log. It seems like you're literally log rolling around town. 
 This is different from the GC version and I like it.
  
  Sound:
  The music is all good. The DS' sound isnt as great as the GC's version's of course, but again, 
 small sacrifices had to be made. This one I dont have as much as a problem with because the sound 
 is actually pretty good overall.
  
  Should I Get this game:
  You know.. It's hard to say. I've done my best to describe a game to you that's very hard to describe. 
 You're either going to love this game, or pretty much hate it. 
  I'm almost 18, I'm a male and I truly dig this game.
  
  Nintendo is now known for trying new 
 things and I commend them on this new thing.
  Give Animal crossing a try, it's the only way you'll know if this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonnyglitch8
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:49 pm PT
Review:  A serious must buy. With Plenty of new things to keep you busy animal crossing DS Keeps what made 
 us loves the original. Besides loss of the popular playable SNES from the original, noone will 
 be dissapointed on how the DS version turned out. The ability to play online with other players 
 is not only fun but addicting, the only thing that sucks bout that is if you dont have a wireless 
 router or usb connecter, youre gonna have to make mcdonalds you and your friends new hang out spot. 
 The amount of items is incredible with the 600 new items plus the enormous list from the original. 
 Animal Crossing DS is a game that should not be missed, especially for players who enjoyed the 
 original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jumaxe
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard that this game was coming out for the DS, I didn't think much of it. I didn't 
 think I would play it for 8 hours non-stop. I own the previous Animal Crossing for the GC too, 
 it also is considered an instant classic. But this sequel makes up for what the previous game lacked.
 
  
  You start out in a cab with a turtle named Cap'n, (who appeared in the GC version ) he asks you 
 a series of questions which figure out what town your going to, what your name is, and what your 
 gender is. When you get to your town (I called my town Valhalla) you go into the town center where 
 you learn where your house is and how to pull up your map and other usefull stuff. At this time 
 you get to explore your town untill when you venture in your house and come back out to find the 
 capitalist Racoon, Tom Nook, who makes you his slave for the day. So you can start to pay off your 
 loan (this is just away to learn the basics of the game) . After that your free to do whatever you 
 want in your new village.
  
  The controlling in this game is simple. It is jut like it is in the old GC version for you vetrans. 
 But you can also use the touch screen. I find it easy to use the buttons on ceartain areas, like 
 moving around furniture. and the stylus in others, like writting letters (Which is 10X better than 
 the orginal way with the control pad.) But I did find it hard to draw a strait line on the screen 
 when making patterns. Also the use of the stylus is really simple on menus. Especailly when selling 
 items, sending mail, or putting things in your cabinet (which by the way holds 90 items, includeing 
 furniture.)
  
  I am afraid that this game will make me totaly forget the town on my GC version of this game, and 
 will overgrow with weeds. So don't get this game if your not willing to make a committment.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreyAtom
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game, I was shocked. Firstly, the graphics are amazing, considering it's the 
 DS. If you've played the game or seen any of the videos, you'll see that the visual styles have 
 changed dramaticly and it looks like it will draw old GCN Animal Crossing fans to purchase a DS, 
 if they haven't already, along with this game. This game sets the standards for the DS, after the 
 disappointing array of launch titles for the DS.
  
  The original Animal Crossing was one of my favorite games, despite it's "kiddiness", it showed 
 a combination of many styles of games and genres that had never been seen before.
  
  The sound could have been better, and it all seems like it's taken from the original for the most 
 part, but other than that, it's great.
  
  This game is amazing. Pick up this game either for yourself, or as a stocking stuffer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sterg
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Animal Crossing: Wild World is in my opinion one of the best games of 2005. Almost every thing 
 in the creation of this game was done right. In terms of Gameplay, it is highly addictive and loads 
 of fun. There is always something to do and get involved in. There is a long list of things to 
 do in the game, from catching insects to writing letters to building lasting relationships with 
 the local animal villagers. The character customization properties and nearly endless with a large 
 choice of clothes and gear (hats, umbrellas, sunglasses, etc.) available to you. Creating your 
 own designs and patterns is an excellent way to allow the player the express themselves. On the 
 other hand, Nintendo didnt do an amazing job of making AC: WW all that much different from the one 
 for Gamecube, but there are more than enough new features to provide a fresh experience. That in 
 part is due to the online mode, which is very well done, and while there are some limitations on 
 what you can do, there is a large sense of freedom when you explore other villages, and a large 
 sense of accomplishment when showing off your sweet MTV Cribs worthy house. :)
  
  On Graphics, they are very impressive. Bright, vibrant colors bring life to the game. There is 
 great variety among the characters which keep the visuals always feeling fresh. Outdoors and indoors, 
 everything looks great. Though, the game lacks in hi-res textures and the slight repetitiveness 
 of the outside scenery.
  
  The sound is just as lively and uplifting as in the Gamecube version of Animal Crossing. The effects 
 are clear and accurate, and the music does a very good job of setting the mood. The DS's stereo 
 speakers further increase the quality of the sound. And although the sound is incredibly varied, 
 it can start to get slightly old after a couple months of play.
  
  Animal Crossing: Wild World is an excellent value for your money. This is a game you come back 
 to months and months from now. The hours upon hours of fun you will have will definitely make this 
 game worth your money. With the sheer amount of things to do, you will never be bored. All this 
 AND online mode too? It cant be true..... But it is.
  
  Overall, Animal Crossing: Wild World is a one of kind experience you cant find anywhere else. I 
 would recommend this game for players of the original Animal Crossing, and people who want to see 
 what all the excitement is about. This is definitely a must buy for all DS owners, and a good reason 
 to buy a DS if you haven't already. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
