-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/gyakutansaiban4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 New forensic investigation abilities add much-needed variety.
 Improved visual presentation.
 Last case is quite interesting and provides a good payoff.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Flaws such as slow pacing and linear, trial-and-error gameplay are still here.
 Forensic investigation tools are underused.
 New characters aren't as charming and interesting as the old ones.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 27, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.9, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 628 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Adventure
Date: Feb 19, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Fans of the previous Ace Attorney games will appreciate the new touch-screen mechanics and improved 
 presentation, but these changes don't do much to spice up the series' often slow and tedious pacing. 
 

  The Ace Attorney games have always been exclusive to the Nintendo DS in North America, but they 
 were essentially ports of the Japanese games, which were originally released on the GameBoy Advance. 
 Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney marks the first time a game in the Ace Attorney series has been built 
 from the ground up for the Nintendo DS, and it includes many features (several of which were first 
 introduced in the bonus case in Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney) that take advantage of the handheld's 
 touch-screen capabilities. It also has a new protagonist: Apollo Justice. These changes, along 
 with an excellent final case, freshen things up enough to make Apollo Justice worth investigating 
 for diehard fans of the series, but if you found your interest waning in any of the previous games, 
 you'll want to temper your expectations when it comes to how much has changed.  

           You can inspect every nook and cranny of these panties thanks to the 3D evidence feature. 

  Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney focuses surprisingly enough on... Apollo Justice, an attorney with 
 more than a passing resemblance to the series' previous star, Phoenix Wright. Apollo is young, 
 has spiked hair, lacks confidence in court, and even has a young, quirky girl for a sidekick. In 
 addition to Apollo, there are many new characters, some who are interesting, but few of whom are 
 as endearing as the characters from the Phoenix Wright games. The good news for anyone suffering 
 from nostalgia is that quite a few familiar faces make appearances throughout the game. The judge, 
 Winston Payne, and a few other more notable people make their presence felt here. Returning characters 
 are a blessing and a curse. On one hand, they're a nice way of tying the two story arcs together, 
 but on the other hand, they serve to show how the new cast isn't quite as endearing as the old 
 one.  

  There are four turnabouts (cases) , all of which find you defending a client accused of murder. 
 The first three cases are solid but aren't anything special. It's the last case that steals the 
 show. It's interesting, it has a number of genuinely intriguing twists and turns, and it weaves 
 a number of past cases together into one really compelling finale. The writing is as witty as ever 
 (if not a bit more long-winded) , and you'll notice various pop-culture references to U2,  Harry 
 Potter , Bon Jovi, and more. For the most part it's business as usual with regard to gameplay. 
 You'll spend your time out of court investigating crime scenes, collecting evidence, and interviewing 
 witnesses. The in-court proceedings are almost completely unchanged. You'll cross-examine witnesses 
 and present evidence and profiles to support your position in hopes of getting the judge to hand 
 down a "not guilty" verdict.  

  There's less ambiguity in Apollo Justice when it comes to presenting evidence, because the game 
 automatically narrows down whether you need to show a character profile or a physical piece of 
 evidence, but many of the series' flaws are still present. Witnesses repeatedly lie on the stand 
 without any sort of punishment; the proceedings are strictly linear so there's no room for creative 
 thinking; you'll still find yourself occasionally stuck while in the investigation portion of the 
 game because you didn't show someone a particular object or look in some out-of-the-way corner; 
 and the story moves along at a snail's pace, often forcing you to watch a flashback for an event 
 that occurred just minutes before.  

  It's not all bad news, though. The developer has finally added some new forensic investigation 
 mechanics that take advantage of the touch screen. Many of these were found in the last case of 
 the first game, which was created specifically for the DS, but they've been MIA ever since. The 
 new features will let you inspect and rotate items in 3D, dust for fingerprints, spray evidence 
 to find traces of certain liquids, make plaster casts out of footprints, and even isolate music 
 tracks with a mixing board. Many of the new mechanics are really neat, and they do help break up 
 the monotony of investigating, but they're used too infrequently to have much of an impact. Like 
 Phoenix, Apollo has the power to sense when someone's lying, though his ability is used only in 
 court. Thanks to Apollo's magic bracelet, you can perceive when a witness is hiding something by 
 zooming in on the witness and looking for a twitch or other slight movement. Unfortunately, perceiving 
 when someone's lying involves some guesswork and a lot of tedious trial and error when you're hearing 
 the same testimony over and over looking for a tiny, almost imperceptible movement.  

  Another benefit of having the game designed specifically for the DS is the improved presentation. 
 There are a few nice-looking full-motion video sequences, character sprites are larger and more 
 detailed, and the courtroom, lobby, and detention center have finally been redrawn. None of these 
 improvements drastically enhance the way the game plays, but when you're genuinely excited that 
 there's a new piece of artwork in the defendant's lobby, you know it was time for a change. Apollo 
 Justice's music isn't quite as catchy as the music in previous games (admittedly the bar has been 
 set pretty high) , but it's still enjoyable and fits each character well.  

           It wouldn't be an Ace Attorney game without a few music references.      

  If you've 
 played and loved all of the previous Ace Attorney games, you'll be able to once again look past 
 the series' inherent flaws and will love what Apollo Justice has to offer. If you're someone who 
 feels that the franchise is in need of an overhaul, you'll likely be disappointed at how little 
 things have changed. Problems and all, Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney is a good game that's worth 
 playing.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (45 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Teckblader
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 6:12 am PT
Review:  If youre not familiar with the franchise and not sure if you want to buy download the demo from 
 a nintendo wii for a quick view how it looks like but it doenst have the most features from the 
 original game.
  
  
  Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney is a game for people who likes alot to read or like great strory's 
 so it depends on your taste of games if you like it or not. 
  
  Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney is a great game and my first ace attorney game because i was kinda 
 atrracted to it.
  
  well i don't want to spoil anything so i just write about the gameplay etc. The gameplay is still 
 the same as the previeus ones so it is not hard to find out how it works. you have to listen to 
 the witness/suspect testimony and find the contradictions in it and present it with evidence. Now 
 about the "present" its kinda bothering to me because he yells "objection!" but it doesnt present 
 he says immediatly that its a contradiction. thats kinda hard because some evidence is not really 
 logical wich contradiction you have to present. so its kinda annoing if you know the what happens 
 and you want to present it, you have to think like appolo as you present the evidence.
  
  
  the rest of the game is fine. there is even a 3D cutscene in it and some better animations 
 when the murder happens.
  
  if you never played a ace attorney game before and you don't want the phoenix wright then buy apollo 
 justice because it doesnt really involve much of the story from the previeus phoenix wright games (i 
 recomment to people who like to read and like a good story) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 12:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first stared the game there was, of course, a starter case for those who have never played 
 the Phoenix Wright games and to introduce to you a young rookie, Apollo Justice! It was easy and 
 I breezed right by it. As I continued along with the storyline every case was a tad bit harder 
 than the previous one had been.
  
  The last case was not hard but it was time-consuming. I enjoyed playing this game immensely.
 
  
  Like the previous Phoenix Wright games the cases in Apollo Justice led to a totally different storyline 
 which is started in the last case. A story that you're totally not ready for.
  
  I enjoyed this aspect in Phoenix Wright and I was very happy that Apollo Justice had the same aspect 
 as well.
  
  There is a new power that Apollo Justice has: He can perceive when someone is lying. This is much 
 like Phoenix Wright's Magatama: He saw a locked chest when someone was lying. When Apollo's bracelet 
 sends a pulse through his body then he knows his client/witness is lying. You as the player must 
 watch the client/witness closely to see if they do anything particular when they're lying. Such 
 as scratching their head, blinking, etc.
  
  This new power isn't anything special but it does add a bit more difficulty to the game. You must 
 first find the sentence where the client/witness is lying then you must perceive the client/witness' 
 habit at the right spot in the sentence. This isn't extremely difficult but it can be hard when 
 you don't know what you're looking for.
  
  I've read a lot of reviews that claim Apollo Justice is not a sequel to the previous Phoenix Wright 
 games. I believe, however, that this claim is wrong. Phoenix Wright is in this game. In fact, he's 
 in every case. And the role that Phoenix Wright plays in the last case could not be more involved. 
 So I believe that since this game is related to Phoenix and that his character is in the game than 
 this is a sequel to the previous Phoenix Wright games.
  
  I would recommend Apollo Justice to anyone, especially those who have played Phoenix Wright and 
 enjoyed themselves.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Back in 2006 when Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney (possibly the most unlikely success story we've 
 ever seen) arrived on DS, it had something over and above what the original GBA version offered: 
 a fifth case to solve - a bonus to celebrate the series moving onto Nintendo's new handheld and, 
 more importantly, outside Japan.
  
  Supposedly, this new case gave would-be defenders of justice a taste of what we could expect from 
 the courtroom drama series in the future, offering as it did new features never seen in the game 
 before. Fingerprint testing! Three-dimensional evidence examination! Full motion video! If that's 
 what Capcom could add to a mere GBA port, imagine what the possibilities for a proper DS version!
 
  
  Stuck In A Rut
  Over two years on then, Apollo Justice: 
  Ace Attorney (the first game in the series developed specifically for DS) has all these things... 
 but the thing is, that's about it 
  on the new material front. Surprised? Disappointed? We know we were, even 
  if only a little. 
 
  
  Having waited ages and worked our way through the various GBA-to-DS remakes, the third of which 
 still isn't even out in Europe yet, we'd have hoped for something more than just a few admittedly-great 
 ideas pumped into the original formula. But, no; the judge is still bald and dumb, the courtroom 
 still several tones of brown and everything from the court record graphics to the green font used 
 for the on-screen text is exactly the same as it ever was. Damn it.
  
  Is all this a tad too negative perhaps, considering the positive score below then? Most likely, 
 yes, which makes this the perfect point to insert the phrase 'rant over' into the review. Yes, 
 so we're a little sad that Apollo Justice barely tweaks the formula but for all its lack of progress, 
 this is still undoubtedly the best example of what the Ace Attorney series has to offer.
  
  Order In Court
  The writing (of which there's absolutely loads) is just as tight and funny as 
 it's ever been, the various cases (of which there are only four, sadly) offer more unexpected twists 
 than riding a rollercoaster blindfolded and the characters are all nicely fleshed out with plenty 
 of depth. There's also improvements on the technical front with some polished animations. 
  
  As you might expect, it's the new elements that increase the amount of thought needed to solve 
 each case. Okay, so maybe they're not used to the extent we'd hoped for but combined with the 
 
  new method of picking up on when the witnesses are lying (detailed in the panel above) , they make 
 Apollo Justice more than just your average text-based adventure.
  
  
  Of course, there are still hurdles that would-be players will have to overcome, such as a few instances 
 of awkward logic which can leave you slightly clueless as to what to try next and the linear plot 
 advancement means there's only ever one answer to any one problem, regardless of whatever wild 
 theories you come up with.
  Regardless though, Apollo Justice is definitely one DS game for the cerebral crowd, perfect for 
 those who enjoyed the likes of Another Code and Hotel Dusk. It may sound weird considering the 
 negative tone of this review, but Apollo Justice is still well worth your time... providing you've 
 got enough time to invest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ms_nintendo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney is a sequel to the saga of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney.
  
  Following the same formula as Trials and Tribulations, you find yourself playing through what looks 
 like a simple case from the past. But through the unraveling of a mysterious chain of events, you 
 find that it turns out to be the key to solving a present-day crisis. If you enjoyed the mystery 
 and suspense of Trials and Tribulations, you should most certainly give Apollo Justice a try.
 
  
  The main story takes place seven years after Trials and Tribulations, and some old characters come 
 back to visit, one of which is Ema Skye, the forensic investigator who made an appearance in Phoenix 
 Wright: Ace Attorney. She is now a detective, taking the place of Detective Gumshoe.
  
  Nothing is ever said, however, about the role spirit channeling played in the previous games, and 
 the Fey family isn't mentioned either.
  This was the one thing that disappointed me, as Mia Fey was my favourite character in the series. 
 However, it made room for a new power to be introduced: a power that Apollo, the attorney himself, 
 holds.
  Using his special bracelet, Apollo is able to sense when witnesses suddenly become nervous on the 
 stand, and thus when they lie. This allows you to zoom in very closely to the witness, and find 
 exactly when they twitch slightly, or make any other such specific movements.
  
  You will find that every character in this game plays an important role in some way, or holds some 
 special significance in solving at least one of the man mysteries this game has to offer. If you 
 have a precise attention to detail and are a skilled logical thinker, or if you would like to gain 
 such skills, try Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platyphyllum
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  The adventure genre today has certainly become a lot smaller than what it once was. The genre which 
 was once populated with games like Grim Fandango and The Secret of Monkey Island rarely has any 
 of those great releases today, even on the PC and thus, that medium of games has taken a step into 
 the shadows while other genres took a step up in terms of popularity. However, when the Nintendo 
 DS came out and we were greeted with games like Trace Memory and Touch Detective, we were given 
 a sign that maybe text adventure games could still live on through portables and after some time, 
 that was proven to be correct. Games like the Ace Attorney series and Time Hollow have proven to 
 be rather interesting and popular titles on the Nintendo DS and show that even after its withdrawal, 
 the text adventure genre can still make a great (yet small) comeback. One of the more anticipated 
 titles is Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney.
  
  If you've been keeping track of the "Phoenix Wright" games, then the second half of the title might 
 be familiar to you. This is because Apollo Justice is simply the new main character who is included 
 in the 4th installment of the "Ace Attorney" series (Phoenix Wright was the main protagonist of 
 the first 3) . The first three games were actually ports of GBA games that were released on the 
 DS so that a North American audience could experience it and thankfully enough, they were a success 
 which led to Capcom deciding to make a new Ace Attorney game exclusively for the DS with all its 
 features in mind. However, this game was met with a lot of skepticism because of the fact that 
 it seemed to be trying to change too much and the developers might lose sight of what really made 
 the Ace Attorney games so good but after playing through this new installment myself, I am happy 
 to report that this game is far from a big disappointment and definitely has me looking forward 
 to the next game.
  
  Unlike the previous Ace Attorney games in which you played as Phoenix Wright, this entry in the 
 series has you taking control of a rookie attorney, Apollo Justice. Apollo is pretty much in the 
 same situation as Phoenix was in the first game, he's a new defense attorney who's scared, nervous, 
 and taking on a trial that may be just a bit too big for him. With only a minimal amount of evidence 
 and his mentor to help him out, he enters the courtroom defending a client accused of murder for 
 his first time.
  
  Fans of the series will quickly notice that this is almost exactly like Phoenix's first trial and 
 you would be quite right. While this game certainly is different from the Phoenix Wright trilogy 
 in a variety of ways, the roots and the core of the series is still present. One of the things 
 that the Ace Attorney series has always focused on is the story and this new entry is no different. 
 Each case in this game is full of mystery and at the start you'll know next to nothing about the 
 crimes that have been committed. However, slowly and surely, you begin to uncover several clues 
 during investigation and when you begin defending your client in an actual courtroom, the amount 
 of plot twists that happen will dazzle you. When you finish a case, you'll be amazed at everything 
 you had just gone through and the sort of facts you uncovered. All the Ace Attorney games made 
 me feel this way and Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney is no different.
  
  Other than the plot, one of the things that the Ace Attorney series is renowned for is its huge 
 cast of memorable characters. This is one point where Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney feels a bit 
 disappointing, but still succeeds. If that didn't make sense to you then I'll explain it more simply: 
 the characters aren't quite as memorable as the ones that were present in the Phoenix Wright games 
 but nonetheless, they are still pretty memorable and have way more personality than most characters 
 that you see in most games today. The main protagonists Apollo Justice and Trucy Wright (his assistant) 
 are both very likable and have interesting personalities. The minor characters were a bit disappointing, 
 some of them just didn't seem to have big roles in the case and their personalities seemed a bit 
 dull as some characters in the previous Ace Attorney games seemed just like them (one of the characters 
 in Case 2 for example seems to be trying to pull off a similar style as Dahlia Hawthorne from Trials 
 & Tribulations, but doesn't exactly pull it off as well as Dahlia did) . Regardless of that fact, 
 some of the characters are still very unique and memorable. Some of the most memorable ones come 
 from the third case like a kind-hearted singer who suffers from amnesia and a pianist who can't 
 speak English, while there are also a number of interesting personalities from the other cases 
 like an introvert girl who shows her emotion by drawing faces on her sketch pad. In the end, Apollo 
 Justice: Ace Attorney's cast of characters is good and likable, but they never really had the same 
 impact on me as the villains and witnesses from the previous games.
  
  As a text adventure game, the Ace Attorney games are also expected to have an extremely good script, 
 and all the games, including Apollo Justice, have succeeded when it comes to that. The localization 
 team for this game was pretty much amazing. They were able to include lots of witty, humorous, 
 and smart dialogue which ensures that we won't be falling asleep while playing through the cases. 
 There are also various references to certain things in real life like emo stereotypes, language 
 barrier issues, and slang. Overall, the translation team did a wonderful job in translating this 
 game from Japanese to English, just like they did with the previous three games. It isn't perfect 
 though as you'll always see the occasional typo here and there but when you think about how video 
 games haven't reached the same level of popularity worldwide as movies and books, you can't exactly 
 expect them to proofread this game perfectly without error.
  
  Now, so far when it comes to the overall story and plot qualities, the game seems to be doing quite 
 well but one of the things that most people looked forward to was the new gameplay mechanics. However, 
 let's first look back at the basics that the series has had since the beginning first:
  
  There are two main phases to this game. The investigation phase and the courtroom phase. During 
 investigation, you view the game from a first-person perspective (usually as Apollo) and search 
 crime scenes for clues, talk to people to get more information, and trigger key events. All this 
 eventually builds up to the courtroom phase. This is where the game shifts to a third-person perspective 
 where you must guide Apollo and help him prove to the court that his client is indeed innocent. 
 To do this, you have to listen to witnesses testify about their experiences relating to the crime, 
 point out contradictions in their testimony which can help get your client off the hook, and present 
 evidence to prove that you know what you're talking about. Of course, there is also a prosecuting 
 attorney that's trying to get your client proven guilty. In this game, Klavier Gavin, a prosecuting 
 attorney who also happens to be the leader of a rock band, is your opponent and it's up to you 
 to keep pointing out contradictions and proving him wrong until you can finally reveal the ultimate 
 truth and prove your client innocent.
  
  Since this game was developed straight for the DS, Capcom reported that they would be using the 
 DS' technology more efficiently and would make greater use of the touch screen. Did they end up 
 delivering? They definitely did, even though the new features are a bit light. In the original 
 trilogy, the investigation phases pretty much consisted of you moving around, talking to people, 
 finding out information, and presenting items to people in order to get more information. This 
 time around however, you won't just be doing that. Instead, with the help of the DS interface, 
 you'll also be using the powers of forensic science to figure out just what happened at the crime 
 scene and how it happened. Using the touch screen, you can search for fingerprints on certain pieces 
 of evidence, examine pieces of evidence in 3D by rotating it around and zooming in and out, use 
 x-ray machines to see through envelopes to read letters which you are forbidden from opening, and 
 more. There's certainly a lot more interactivity here than there ever was in the Ace Attorney games 
 and hopefully the future games will make even greater use of this.
  
  Apollo Justice doesn't only take advantage of the DS technology to make the game more interactive 
 though, it also took advantage of it in terms of graphics. By far, this is the most beautiful game 
 in the series. The character sprites are marginally more detailed than the ones in the Phoenix 
 Wright games and crime scenes are also recreated in 3D to give you a better idea of what really 
 happened. There's even a beautiful CGI segment in one of the cases which you'll love absolutely 
 love seeing. The character animations are also much more fluid in this game and you'll simply be 
 surprised at how much more detailed the characters are. There are still a few rough spots in the 
 environments and some old character sprites are recycled but those are just very minor complaints 
 that don't really significantly hurt the graphical quality of this game all that much.
  
  The audio in Apollo Justice is definitely one of its highest points and one aspect of the game 
 where I don't have any major complaints. The music here is definitely very fitting and helps enhance 
 the mood of the game as a whole. Whenever you uncover a shocking new secret, a suspense theme helps 
 build up to bring a feeling of eeriness to the moments afterwards. When you prove that your client 
 is innocent, a very cheery and happy victory theme plays which makes you feel extremely satisfied. 
 It's moments like these that need the music the most and luckily, the music is always there. I 
 also feel the need to praise the sound effects as they are all very solid and almost always used 
 at the perfect moments.
  
  An issue for many reviewers when it comes to the Ace Attorney series is that the games have no 
 replay value and Apollo Justice is the same deal. But honestly, give it a break, it's an adventure 
 game. Have adventure games ever been about replaying them and finding out little trinkets hidden 
 away in secret locations? No, they're about an emotional experience filled with a deep and detailed 
 story that makes a huge impact on you the first time you play through it so in that aspect, Apollo 
 Justice doesn't fail since it never had to accomplish anything in the first place (and it even 
 exceeds expectations in a way since some people may even replay cases to see a favorite moment 
 again) . As for the overall length of the game, you're definitely getting your money's worth here. 
 Four cases might not seem like a lot, but when you consider the fact that some of these cases can 
 last for more than 5 hours and the fact that each of these cases are just filled with a lot of 
 quality storytelling, the price tag of $30 doesn't really seem to matter that much.
  
  In the end, Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney is a great adventure game. To be honest, it doesn't stand 
 up well to the first three Ace Attorney games and is probably the weakest entry in the series so 
 far, but by no means does that mean this game is bad. It proves its worth as a text adventure game 
 by delivering lots of witty and humorous dialogue, interesting (but not quite unforgettable) characters, 
 and great atmospheric music. If you dislike adventure games or haven't played any of the previous 
 games in the series (what in the world are you waiting for?) then I wouldn't really recommend this 
 game but any fan of the Ace Attorney games or text adventures in general should consider giving 
 Apollo Justice a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  Who would've guessed that Phoenix Wright would have his attorney's badge revoked, eh?
  
  Literally and figuratively in this game is he relegated into the supporting actor position (to 
 a fault) and personally, I don't see any reason to actually change the protagonist. Perhaps it's 
 Capcom's way of saying, "This is not a port; it was made from the ground up specifically for the 
 DS." by introducing Apollo Justice into the Ace Attorney franchise. And although he has his qualities, 
 Phoenix Wright, IMO, still comes out as a more endearing, more complete character.
  
  That also applies to the other characters the game introduces. If you set them side by side with 
 the existing characters in the Phoenix Wright universe, yeah, they (the existing ones) come off 
 as better structured.
  
  But enough about the characters, how about the much ballyhooed new gameplay mechanics first introduced 
 in the (pretty hard) last case of the original game? To be honest, they're still cool, but they 
 just aren't employed extensively, meaning that the game kind of still reeks of microwave-heated 
 remains of Trials and Tribulations- its predecessor- in terms of gameplay. And this also means 
 that the bad eggs about Trials and Tribulations' gameplay mechanics- or the entire line of Phoenix 
 Wright games for the matter- still remain.
  
  You can save anywhere, thus making the Penalty system useless. The game still follows a linear 
 path, meaning that you really have to do something before trigerring the action required to make 
 the story progress, making me once again suffer some situations where I feel stuck. So word to 
 the newbies: if you're stuck, go to the most unlikely, most unrelated location or present the most 
 unlikely piece of evidence when stuck in court.
  
  Don't understand? Well the game basically has two stages: the investigation and the court stages. 
 You have several options when in the investigation stage which are to Talk to a person, Present 
 evidence to a person so he or she can talk about it, Examine the whole crime scene and Move to 
 another location if you haven't anything to do in a specific place anymore. In court, you will 
 primarily cross-examine witnesses, and with their testimonies, you can Press to squeeze more information 
 out of that statement or Present evidence that contradicts with the statement made.
  
  It's simple for most anyone to jump into the game because of its huge level of accessibility, but 
 it's not exactly for anyone. If you've got like, a short attention span, chances are you'll hate 
 the text-based gameplay. You'll seriously be doing a whole lot of reading here whether you like 
 it or not.
  
  This leads me to the quality of the writing which is still top-notch. Why bother reading a text-based 
 game with a bad script right? Once again, the audio-visual elements all colaborate to give each 
 moment some much-needed personality, the drawing and the animation are all superb as well as the 
 sound effects.
  
  For fans of the series, the facelift is noticeable, with everything acquiring more detail and quality. 
 Still, the game recycles a few of the art in the latter part so the new drawings stand out a bit.
 
  
  But overall, it's just same old same old with a twisted Parent-Trap-but-children surprise. You'll 
 get me when you get to finish the last case of this game which made my jaw drop 3 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firefly00
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This is the first title I've played from the series and I must say I've enjoyed it. However, as 
 a point and click adventure, I feel it isn't for everyone. I can understand how many may find it 
 not so entertaining. I feel the player needs to have a level of patience to understand and enjoy 
 the game. Yet once you get into it you truly fell apart of the game as Apollo Justice. His amusing 
 mannerisms and his humour is sure to give you a chuckle.
  
  Something that honestly impressed me with this game was the scripting. As a point and click adventure 
 it's vital that the game delivers a good, immersive story and it does exactly that. Each trial 
 brought new characters with lots of personality and enough tricky situations to solve. 
  
  As I reached the end of the game I felt that it was a well worth experience and that the makers 
 of the game did an excellent job of bringing together all the story to leave the player feeling 
 rather accomplished in completing the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarBreakerSP
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  And so a new ace attorny game comes out you thought the gem was about phoenix but not quite although 
 you play as phoenix the bulk of the game will be played as Apollo Justice. the game starts off 
 with the rookie taking on the so called rookie killer and takes a dramatic turn thats too spoiled 
 to explain. So now on to the game play. The gameplay is still the same except instead of using 
 the magnata you use a special band on apollos wrist that sees the nervous habits people have to 
 solve your cases the rest is the same although for the fun element to see evidence in 3d which 
 is very neat and essential to some cases. Although the game is way to short compared to other games 
 the first three cases arent as long as the final case in which everything is explained "in time". 
 well thats all for now see ya soon if I feel like it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garudo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2008 12:22 am PT
Review:  Personally, this game it's worth playing, but in terms of characters, it's not as lively as it 
 has in the previous 3 episodes, that makes the Apollo Justice dull to be frank. Somehow, it's improved 
 the presentation itself by giving us a better 2d view to understand the case and it is easier for 
 us to find contradiction, though sometimes you just don't understand why the evidence you think 
 and the evidence 'they' think is related. 
  
  Plus, they don't give us a 'why' Phoenix Wright remove himself from the court and had his own attorney 
 badge confiscated, I know he was being accused for forging evidence 7 years ago but I just feel 
 strange to have an attorney just miss out like that. 
  
  Same as ever, you have to investigate the cases on your own but this time, you'll do it like a 
 CSI, this is the part where I feel it's the most interesting part. But, we just don't have many 
 chances to do that though. 
  
  Even so, this is still an interesting game and I do recommend it, however, personally I still fond 
 of Phoenix Wright episodes and I hope they'll consider to take back Wright as the main protagonist 
 rather than Apollo (sorry to Apollo fans...) , even if they are not going to, please produce one 
 that makes an explanation on how Wright left his post, at least give us a better idea rather than 
 just say, he left because he forged evidence... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Last time in Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney: Trials and Tribulations, many players were left with 
 a touched heart when Phoenix was set up to provide forged evidence to the courtroom. To say the 
 least, many fans were likely worried that this could be the last Ace Attorney game for Capcom. 
 Thankfully, a new defense attorney has stepped into the Courtroom, giving us a brand new adventure.
 
  
  Throughout the game, you play as Apollo Justice. The main structure of the story is set in the 
 courtroom where the judge sits 7 years older, still in action. You'll mainly be listening to a 
 witness' testimony and cross-examining what was said. Pressing for details and presenting evidence 
 to the court is what will mainly drive you forward. Unfortunately, much of that evidence will likely 
 be provided through your trial and error. When you present evidence that makes sense to you, it 
 won't in the game to Apollo, which will result in his stuttering, which results in a penalty. Too 
 many penalties will result in a guilty verdict. To make this tougher, sometimes the penalty will 
 double upon warning. Thankfully, that really only happens when the answer is obvious.
  
  There are 4 episodes in the game, one of which is completely based in the courtroom. During the 
 other episodes, you'll be outside the courtroom some, looking for evidence and people that may 
 or will help your case. The outside world can bring some excitement, but it can feel limiting at 
 times. If you aren't listening, you can miss major details that can make the difference of a few 
 minutes or an hour.
  
  The characters in the game are somewhat recycled, most of which are improved. For example, Phoenix 
 Wright sure looks like a different person, not like an attorney, but like a casual fellow. Some 
 characters though, like Ema, can really get on your nerve. Want something? You'll almost beg to 
 get it. Some still have their humor or cool, but others are just the same.
  
  All good things aside, there are still quite some problems. You can still get carried away with 
 trial and error, but the problem is that you actually have to do it. You might present something 
 that makes perfect sense, but Apollo will just act like a moron, and you'll receive a penalty. 
 The mode where you can examine evidence also lacks any real reason to check it. Got a gun? The 
 only information you'll really get out of it is Apollo's fear of where the bullet comes out.
  
  The story is different, therefore it cannot be proven that it was improved. But that's not 
 to say that it's bad. In Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney, everything is based on interest, or on the 
 "Wow" factor. In other words, it's hard to stop listening to someone when they are explaining what 
 happened. The end of the story also holds an interest that ties in a murder into Phoenix Wright's 
 last defense.
  
  When you put it all together, Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney feels no different than a Phoenix Wright. 
 But the personality of it feels so intuitive that you cannot resist solving a few cases. Some points 
 feel only like detective work, but all that aside, this game is easily recommendable to any fan 
 of the law and/or courtroom happenings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash10692
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  When I discovered that Phoenix Wright was giving up his role as the central character for the new 
 Ace Attorney game, I was beyond skeptical. I needn't have worried though, because, as it turns 
 out, Apollo Justice is a brilliant lead character. And in keeping with the series traditions, he 
 often appears the only sane person in a courtroom full of eccentric witnesses, awkward defendants, 
 and a naive judge. The first case throws you in at the deep end. You've been asked to defend estranged 
 Ace Attorney, Phoenix Wright for the charge of murder. The game's interface looks much the same, 
 with an arrow to move along the text, and a button in the top right hand corner to check evidence 
 and character profiles when you see fit. Also, during cross examinations, you may ask the witness 
 testifying questions regarding their testimony, or present evidence to point out fatal contradictions 
 in it. Old flaws remain. One such flaw is when you notice a vital piece of evidence ,that is the 
 key to the trial, way too early. It is irritating that you cannot merely present this evidence, 
 and be done with it. Another annoyance is the fact that there are only four cases. I reckon there 
 should have at least been a training trial, where you play as Apollo Justice in a mockup trial 
 in law school. But anyhow, these small flaws don't mar what is essentially an awesome game, that 
 should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  Ace Attorney is a series you either love or hate. You either love the point and click interface, 
 great characters and addictive storylines. Or you don't. There's been three Ace Attorney games 
 now starring one of the best game characters ever, Phoenix Wright. But now Phoenix Wright has stepped 
 aside and new boy Apollo Justice has taken the reins. But does this game live up to the fantastic 
 Phoenix Wright trilogy? Yes, it does.
  
  How the game does that is very simple. It keeps the interface and progession through the game eeriely 
 similar to the predeccessors. That's no bad thing because long time veterans can easily jump into 
 it and start enjoying themselves. If this is your first time with an Ace Attorney game - fret not 
 - because the first case always acts as a tutorial to ease everyone in. The control is identical 
 to the previous three games. You navigate by either way of stylusing or D-Padding. Both work well, 
 but the stylus works far better. It just feels more natural. You press boxes to do various tasks 
 such as talking to characters, examing crime scenes and evidence. This time round though the majority 
 of the evidence can be examined in 3-D al Resident Evil style.
  
  This is where the beginning of the majority of the Super Sayian DS powers come into play. Most 
 evidence can be rotated and zoomed in 3-D, looking for minute details such as fingerprints and 
 scruff marks. It's very basic and comes into play with the cases a fair few times. It's a nice 
 addition and for those who played the fifth case in the first Phoenix Wright game will instantly 
 be familiar with it. Another prime example of the game using the DS hardware is with the forensics. 
 Granted, it's very basic and only involves simple strokes of the stylus, such as pouring plaster 
 of paris into a footprint to make a mold. It's another fine addition to the game, though it's less 
 frequently used which is a disappointment.
  
  Making use of the graphical prowess of the DS (the last three games were all GBA ports) is the 
 subtle movements in character animation. This is actually another gameplay element. Phoenix Wright 
 has his Magatama pendant to unlock Psyche Locks and get to the truth, Apollo Justice has his bracelet. 
 The bracelet is used to zoom in on characters testifying in court, spotting subtle body habits 
 at a key crucial moment in their testimony. Once you spot it, you break the character's lie and 
 expose the truth. You can also see crime reconstruction scenes in 3-D, though it's very rarely 
 used in the game, which is a shame. That's about it as far as the new DS features go.
  
  Now we come to the flaws. Apollo Justice just has one glaring flaw throughout the game. It's near 
 identical in to the previous three titles. It's no bad thing really, but it does get a little tiresome. 
 The backgrounds are all static and the courtroom and judge are RECYCLED again. The sound effects 
 are also unashamedly re-used and the only voice acting in the game is the iconic "OBJECTION", "HOLD 
 IT" and "TAKE THAT". It's a pity, although the game has had minor improvements in way of new gameplay 
 elements and better character animation, it doesn't do enough to make great use of the DS. However, 
 the great narrative that makes the Ace Attorney brilliant is just as strong in this game.
  
  New boy Apollo Justice is a rookie defense lawyer, taking the mantle off Phoenix Wright due 
 to an incident that happened prior to the events in the game seven years ago. During the course 
 of the four cases, you defend some eccentric yet brilliantly conceived characters, discover some 
 startling discoveries and links, and find out what happened to Phoenix Wright seven years ago. 
 New prosecutor/rock star Klavier Gavin is a fine addition to the cast, though no Edgeworth beater 
 by any means. Ema Skye (you may remember her from Phoenix Wright 1 in the fifth case) replaces 
 Gumshoe (... why?) and helps with the forensics. I find her to be a bit annoying and not Gumshoe. 
 Overall though, despite the lack of Gumshoe, the story is thoroughly engaging and constantly surprises 
 with its revalations and the MASON system (I can't spoil that bit) .
  
  Apollo Justice features some nice artwork and fine subtle animation that obviously surpasses the 
 GBA ports, seeing how this is a DS designed game. The inclusion of the majority of the evidence 
 in 3-D and crime scenes reinactments is also a bonus. The game is by no means a DS powerhouse and 
 the overall game looks remarkably similiar to the prequels. The sound is also a mixed feeling of 
 greatness and tiresome. The new music is cool, though it lacks any real memorable music and the 
 sound effects are unashamedly recycled.
  
  As with the previous titles, the game is strictly linear. You can't get lost, there's always one 
 logical step to take and you can't deviate from the storyline either. It's "Do one case, move onto 
 the next" fashion. Which is not bad of course because the pace is exciting and kept tight. There's 
 four cases in all and each vary in length, complexity and difficulty. As always, the last case 
 is always the best because it introduces so many new elements. If I had to guess, it should take 
 you at least 8-10 hours to complete this game. But a noticeable flaw appears the second after you 
 completed it. There's no incentive to go back. Sure there's two endings, but the bad ending is 
 really bad and doesn't end the game in a satisfying way.
  
  Ace Attorney: Apollo Justice is another fine game from Capcom. It stays true to its roots, but 
 ultimately that's the bad thing. It stays far too close to the roots to be truly called a next 
 generation of Ace Attorney. It should please the fans of the series, I had fun with it and I love 
 the franchise, but to newcomers I still recommend getting the first title and then working your 
 way through the list. But at the end of the day, it's another Ace Attorney game and it's fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demoncannon
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  As a spin off from the Phoenix Wright series, there were many expectations for this game. However 
 it has managed to past most expectations of the original series. Apollo Justice - Ace Attorney 
 is filled with new and colorful characters, a new soundtrack, some rememberable locations and characters. 
 4 new cases to solve each having an effect later on in the game. Its truly a must buy if you like 
 to experience something refreshingly unique and fun. There are some moments in the game which are 
 rather hard and sometimes tedious but overall it really is a great game to buy. Many of the games 
 good points are that the script is rather jolly and humorous as it was in the Phoenix Wright series. 
 It would be nice to have a sequel to this game and franchise because its not something you see 
 everyday and also adds to how exclusive it is to the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huxx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Its an odd idea for a game, but one that somehow works. I am new to this series and bought the 
 game purely on the reviews it has recieved all over the web. I was slightly put off by the idea 
 and the perhaps repetative scenarios it puts you in but it somehow keeps you guessing and makes 
 each situation feel different.
  
  Fundamentally, your job is to keep innocent men/women out of jail. Your first task is to prove 
 Phoenix Wright, ex-anchor man for the series, innocent. This is your tutorial. It gives you details 
 in what you need to do to successfully prove this man innocent and little nudges to push you in 
 the right direction. This in itself is full of twists and turns, no doubt a set-up for the rest 
 of the game;
  
  Or is it? That is the main question you will be asking yourself. Are things how they seem? Can 
 the evidence provided prove anything? I found myself frustrated at times when things I pointed 
 out in evidence I had given were right, but not what the game was after and therefore I was penalised.
 
  
  Presentation, so im told, has improved over the games, this being the most advanced one. It can 
 all be done on the touch screen, something I am in favour of; utilising the DS capabilities that 
 is. The characters will draw you in, to Apollo Justice's infamous 'OBJECTION' call to the stereotypical 
 german accent of your eventual arch nemesis.
  
  This is a good game, but one with a specific target audience. If your mind is not open to new games 
 and ideas, do not buy it but if it is and you are a thinker then this is a game that your DS should 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LForTheWin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I definetly had high expectations of this game as previously playing Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney 
 Justice For All and I was not disappointed. 
  When first playing the game Apollo (yourself) are first greeted by Phoenix's "daughter" Trucy- 
 a budding Magician with the most heart warming personality . But then instantly thrown head first 
 into investigations with the disapperances of a noodle stand and Trucy's MAGIC PANTIES :)
  New activities involve dusting for finger prints, looking for traces of poison and plaster casting 
 for footprints add to the new excitement of the game.
  A new feature of the game is Apollo's 'MAGIC BRACELET' which detects when people lie- Like Maya's 
 Magatama, which is fun at times but frustrating at others (i found it to hard to use sometimes) . 
 The last Trial allows you to travel in time to find more information on a case- which is a very 
 fun new idea but is made even better when you have to play as Phoenix Wright yourself adding to 
 the 'old school' adding more fun to previous Ace Attorney players.
  Unlike the infamous Hotel Dusk: Room 215, Apollo Justice has 4 plots as opposed to 1 which extends 
 your play time and therefore enjoyment of the game.
  But unlike the previous Ace Attorney games all the plots are intertwined making the game feel more 
 thought out and planned- therefore increasing your love for the game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlmoore
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  I have no clue why the gamespot reviewer looks down on this game so much. I'll admit I haven't 
 played the Phoenix Wright games, but I don't need to, to know that this one must have been ten 
 times better. Apollo Justice seemed more emotional and less full of himself. The characters had 
 few flaws, and the story kept me gasping every 10 minutes. I did have to use walkthroughs every 
 once in a while, but not with every predicament I was faced with. I strongly recommend this game 
 to anybody, and thanks to it I'm looking into a future career as a defence attorney. This game 
 is for nearly any age and gender. Apollo himself charmed me and made my day a lot less crazy. It 
 contains four seperate cases that you work on. The last case is so long that I've been playing 
 it for over 4 hours put together and still am not done with it. Your brain will be scrambled and 
 towards the end of the game you'll be going "OOoohhh. Now I get it!" To me, Apollo Justice definately 
 did not disapoint. To swum up my short review, I'd like to congratulate the writers of Apollo Justice 
 for an incredible job! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomWarrior69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Apollo Justice Ace Attorney is my favorite game I have for the DS. It is fun and you will want 
 to keep on playing it over and over again. This game would get a 10 if there were different topics 
 for each case and if it had at least one or two more cases. I would recommend this game to anybody 
 who just wants to play in their spare time. I play this game whenever I can and it is fun every 
 time. T hough you might get frustrated sometimes on some cases, once you get over it, it will be 
 great. Each case had a great plot to it and a great ending. I cant wait for the next game in the 
 series. The story in this game is spectacular. Everything starts to reveal as you progress farther 
 into the game. The graphics are good, the gameplay is amazing, the controls are easy, and it is just 
 plain fun. You will love this game if enjoy mystery games and or the Phoenix Wright games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aramitz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Apollo Justice is the fourth game of the semi-popular 'Phoenix Wright' or 'Gyakuten Saiban' as 
 they are known in Japan.
  
  While the original 3 games with the limited exception of the final case in Ace Attorney were ported 
 from the GBA, Apollo Justice is entirely built ground up for the DS system making it a first for 
 Capcoms franchise.
  
  Incase you are unaware of the concept of Ace Attorney games, you play as a defense attorney named 
 Phoenix Wright (or in this game) the new rookie Apollo Justice. The main crux of the gameplay is 
 a somewhat updated version of what a point and click adventure would have been 12 years or so ago. 
 Proceedings always start with being introduced to an accused client through your mutual friends 
 who bring with them a complicated back story and an always bizarre unwillingness to tell you what 
 actually happened. You then after a bit of back story proceed to investigate the alleged crime 
 and start piecing together what happened, why it happened and most importantly why your client 
 is innocent.
  
  You achieve this goal through pointing out prosecution contradictions and mistruths in a court 
 room setting by pressing witnesses and presenting evidence. This is all done on the DS via the 
 touch screen and using the microphone to yell 'Objection' or 'Hold It' which adds an extra layer 
 of fun to the proceedings.
  
  Although the game sounds serious and does indeed deal with various grizzly murders, it's anime 
 style presentation and goofy comedy makes it come across as more of a fun amateur detective romp 
 than any serious CSI style crime drama. That being said though the cases can really grip you and 
 some of the twists can really catch you off guard.
  
  Following the conclusion of the 3rd game. Main protagonist Phoenix Wright is no longer an attorney 
 due to losing his license for Perjury. So for this game you play his protege as it were, the oddly 
 named Apollo Justice. This isn't to say Phoenix isn't in the game, infact he's a central character 
 throughout the entire plot, some other characters from previous games make cameo's but for the 
 most part it is an entirely all new cast. This is probably a smart move as a 4th appearance from 
 some of the more annoying cast members (notably Lotta Hart & Larry Butz) would have been borderline 
 tedious at this point in the series.
  
  Maya & Pearl are replaced as comic relief tag along partners by Phoenix's adopted step-daughter 
 Trucy Wright. Not that she's any more normal, you're pretty much exchanging some bizarre druid 
 style sisters for a wannabe trainee magician. Still she converses with you and the people you meet, 
 offers advice and proves to be an important part of the overall story.
  
  There's 4 cases in the game (the usual amount for the series) and they all end up tying together. 
 Some interesting use of the DS technology is involved during events, some that's been seen before 
 in the additional 5th case for the Ace Attorney with some completely new tools such as an X-Ray 
 machine and a sound mixing board.
  
  The games puzzles for the most part are very logical and there's only a few instances of frustration. 
 Notably having to investigate a fairly generic and seemingly unimportant door in a BG to move the 
 game forward and also having to present a specific item of evidence when two pieces in your possession 
 would prove the same point.
  
  There is also some rather daft story twists which are a bit /too/ silly for their own good. Such 
 as a panty thief and a noodle stand vendor who talks endlessly about his uhum 'salty broth'. That 
 being said, some of the low-key ingame humour is actually quite amusing. There's a gangster boss 
 who looks the splitting image of Marlon Brando, a prosecutor named Klavier who spouts lines from 
 classic rock tunes at every opportunity and Mr Hat, who really defies all explanation.
  
  The game is a good length and will take you at least 15-20 hours to finish. There isn't any replay 
 value with this sort of game however so you should take that into consideration when deciding how 
 much you're willing to pay.
  
  For a long time Phoenix Wright fan. This game still has everything you loved about the series since 
 game one. Apollo is an equally endearing protagonist as Phoenix ever was and his own special skill 
 of 'Observation' brings something new just as Psyche-locks did with the second. While some fan-favourite 
 characters such as Miles Edgeworth are MIA references to past ingame material such as the Steel 
 Samurai are still included and worthy of a chuckle when they crop up.
  
  For new-comers although the game makes an attempt at putting the previous games into the past, 
 it still really isn't a recommended starting point. The main theme that runs through Apollo Justice 
 is the events of Phoenix Wright in the past and without experiencing his back story it'd be hard 
 to care exactly why he was wronged the way he was.
  
  As a DS game the presentation is handled fantastically with clean, well animated characters and 
 snappy expertly penned dialogue. The music isn't quite on par with previous games but as it proves 
 quite vital in a murder at a rock concert during the story it still manages to perform its function. 
 The save at anytime function is still present which makes the game easy to play on the move (albeit 
 a little easy if you want to use it to cheat via trial and error) .
  
  Overall it's a fantastic game and it'll be interesting to see what direction the Ace Attorney series 
 goes off into next now it's new leading character has been fully established.
  
  Good: Gripping story, witty dialogue, top notch presentation.
  Bad: Lack of replay, adult themes 
 'kiddified' on occasion, save system lowers overall difficulty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrunkSabortooth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Apollo Justice takes place seven years after the last game where now you play as a fresh new attorney 
 and the old one is now a complete bum. Because this is a spin-off series I thought it would be 
 annoying a repetitive so I hesitated to buy this game. But in the end it isn't either. The story 
 line is still compelling and there still has lots of humor. What I loved about the Ace Attorney 
 series is also the twists at the end of every case. The guilty party is one that at first glance 
 deems impossible for him to be guilty. In the Phoenix Wright series there has been big twists from 
 a wheelchair assailant to the prosecutor is guilty. This game does not disappoint in that department. 
 The first case starts off with a twist ending and it doesn't end there. But with the overall story 
 line twist ending is confusing a bit because they did no back story on your star Apollo Justice. 
 But then again this is a game so the important part is the gameplay. The gameplay is just like 
 the previous games. The new concept that was added for this game is called precieving. It is where 
 you focus of the witness and if they are doing some kind of nervous habit then you preceive the 
 area and tell the witness that they are lying. This is useful sometimes but others times it is 
 annoying when you already know what is wrong with the witness's testimony but you have to find 
 a very obscure nervous habit to present your evidence. One thing I do like about this game is that 
 you life meter is refilled after each section so you will be allowed to make more mistakes until 
 you figure out the contradiction. In this game you will only be able to present evidence while 
 in the last game you were allowed to present profiles. This isn't important though because the 
 profiles aren't usually used. The graphics for the game aren't important but I do have to say that 
 they added more life into the characters. In the old games the characters only had three or four 
 stills to display emotion on while in this game they have six or seven. In summary this game is 
 pretty fun and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 555fabulous21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Though, last ace attorney Phoenix had episodes that were somewhat a start up for whats really coming. 
 Not that it was bad, it was insane, but now Apollo Justice has more to offer. The game is an overall 
 masterpiece that still can improve. Such as less talking, more playing. At least one more bone 
 crushing case. Plus, a more role for most of the characters. Most people were waiting for that 
 attorney game that would blow their mind, but they were not satisfied at what came instead. I say 
 I'm waiting for what is next to come because I hope they could take these games seriously. A A 
 A A A A A A .A A A A A A A A A A A. A A A A A A A A A A .A A A A A A A A A  
 Buy it please or be squared! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ping5000
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 28, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney is a misleading title. As much it sounds like the game centers around 
 an ace attorney that goes by the unusual name of Apollo Justice, that's far from the truth. Apollo 
 Justice attempts to branch off into a brand new story arc, while holding onto the trilogy that 
 ended Phoenix Wright's story. It works sometimes and it weakens Apollo Justice other times, but 
 Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney is still solid entry in this unique series, just know that this is 
 a Phoenix Wright game at its core. It's just told from a different perspective.
  
  Apollo Justice takes place 7 years after the events that forced Phoenix Wright to give up his attorney 
 badge. That's right, and the once legendary Phoenix Wright is nothing but a mediocre pianist who 
 has a slight addiction to an ambiguously named beverage, grape juice. And since Phoenix isn't an 
 ace attorney anymore, you take up the role of the new hotshot rookie, Apollo Justice. In terms 
 of character, he's just like Phoenix in his defense days. He's sensible, logical, he lets loose 
 with sly insults in the form of asides and he ultimately searches for the truth. Your new partner 
 is now an aspiring magician, Trucy. In terms of character, she's just like Maya, who partnered 
 with Phoenix in the past 3 games. Trucy's energetic, eager and can often be quite the airhead, 
 just like Maya. However, she proves to be an invaluable partner during court. She'll point out 
 last-minute contradictions that will save your hide from time to time, just like how Maya did for 
 Phoenix.
  
  This is a problem. Apollo Justice suffers from a weird identity crisis. It's not completely sure 
 if it's a Phoenix Wright game or completely brand new one with a brand new principle cast of characters. 
 Even though the localization team has done another amazing job with the translation, (it even has 
 references to songs like "Knockin' on Heaven's Door) providing tons of genuine laughs and compelling 
 dialogue, it feels like the new characters are just less interesting variations of the original 
 cast from the Wright's trilogy. Ema Skye, who first appeared in the fifth case of the first Ace 
 Attorney game, is the only character that proves to be agreat addition to the new cast, as she 
 takes over the detective role that the often-clumsy Gumshoe once filled.
  
  For better and for worse, what still makes Apollo Justice great is because of how it's centered 
 on Phoenix Wright. It's ultimately Wright's story and it's ultimately about how he lost his badge 
 and how he ultimately found the truth through 7 years of work. Apollo Justice starts off incredibly 
 well, because of how Wright's plans are going in motion. The game then goes into an episodic format 
 introducing colorful characters and intriguing mysteries that don't really affect the main story 
 arc in any relevant fashion, just like how the Ace Attorney games before it. The stand-alone arcs 
 are very good for the most part, because of the excellent writing and the charming characters. 
 It then drives into a superb final case. It's easily the most original and innovative case that 
 the Ace Attorney series has ever had. It does leave a couple plot holes, but it's just so refreshing 
 and original and the characters introduced in the last case are so superbly well-defined and interesting 
 that it's easy to forgive.
  
  If there's one frustrating issue to be had with the overall story arc in general, it's that Apollo 
 Justice doesn't even take a glance at past characters, like Maya and Edgeworth. This is going to 
 be frustrating for Ace Attorney veterans, but this frustration can settle into acceptance overtime 
 as long as you aren't expecting a surprise cameo or anything of that sort. Apollo Justice really 
 tries to please both sides, the new comer and the fan that's followed the series since its inception, 
 but it ultimately pushes towards the latter side and even then it disappoints to a certain level.
 
  
  On the other hand, the gameplay shouldn't disappoint. It follows the structure that the series 
 has religiously adhered to. Do some CSI detective work, go into trial and repeat both steps until 
 you reach a verdict. The trial portions have always been the best aspect of the series, so it hasn't 
 changed that much. The biggest addition is the new ability to perceive the witness on trial. During 
 certain moments, you'll be able to tune your senses to such a degree that you'll able to and have 
 to point out subtle quirks from a witness when they're lying. It's a neat concept and it's a really 
 cool feature, but it rarely ever comes into play.
  
  The detective section has received the biggest improvements. It implements the many features introduced 
 in the fifth case of the first game. There's a lot of touch screen functionality included in Apollo 
 Justice. Besides blowing on the mic to reveal fingerprints, you'll get the chance to shuffle through 
 the many layers of a sheet of paper, revealing the contents of letters without having to open them. 
 They're not very challenging in any sense, but they're involving and very fun.
  
  On the graphical side of things, there are a lot of visual improvements. Many backgrounds, like 
 the courtroom, have been completely redrawn. The new character sprites also sport a decidedly cleaner 
 look, but the seemingly immortal judge hasn't been touched up at all. Whether that's a joke to 
 his immortalness or if he was just a victim to laziness is up for debate, but it's funny nonetheless. 
 The music still continues the tradition of Ace Attorney's sonic greatness. The new courtroom tunes 
 are a delight for the ears and while the music outside of the courtroom is hit-and-miss, they're 
 largely good. Not a lot of tracks have been reused, but when they are, they're used very well. 
 The fourth case in particular is a prime example of smartly reused tunes. Ace Attorney veterans 
 will be delighted, that's for sure.
  
  Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney certainly has a lot of problems, but in the overall scheme of things, 
 it's still a solid addition to the series. Stating that the localization is excellent is still 
 a vast understatement, the characters introduced in the episodic cases are well-developed and memorable 
 and the murder mysteries are compelling and engaging. A lot of story groundwork is laid out in 
 the last case, so there's a lot of potential for Apollo's own story and for the new characters 
 to grow and become unique identities. There's a lot to look forward to and Apollo Justice: Ace 
 Attorney is a promising starting point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiddaPotta
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Apollo Justice Ace Attorney follows the same path as the Phoenix Wright series like your usual 
 Investigating/Trials/Cases but after playing it, you wont to put it down.
  
  The new improvements in Apollo Justice for example are the Artistic Graphics, now we know DS games 
 don't have good graphics but does the job well, the artistic/colorful graphics on the DS make the 
 game more how you say "fun". Now in-game we have some new characters along like, Trucy Wright (Daughter 
 Of Phoenix Wright and a Magician) , Kristoph Gavin (Defense Attorney) , Klavier Gavin (A New Prosecutor 
 and Lead Guitarist in the Band The Gavinners) for example. With also some familiar faces like Prosecutor 
 Winston Payne and Ema Skye (Thats Detective to you) .
  
  Phoenix Wright has his Magatama powers, So what? Apollo has some too, His Bracelet! Yes, with his 
 Magical Bracelet trained by Trucy Wright a Magician, It will help you find a nervous habit out 
 of a person. Well if someone is nervous your bracelet will react to it and pump like a heart. Pretty 
 straight forward. If i had to pick which one is better, id have to pick the Bracelet. Come On! 
 Who doesn't want to see someone sweat for they're nervous habit!
  
  Like Phoenix Wright games, this one has its usual 5 cases i believe that take a well lit 5 hours 
 for each im guessing. To wrap this up, Apollo Justice is a great game with puzzling cases and a 
 variety of fun that anyone can enjoy.
  
  I'll give this game a 9/10. I say get it now if you have a DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowcat2576
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Games in this series appear to get marked down for being too similar to previous games in the series. 
 Why? If the first was great, and the future games keep all those great things, it should still 
 be great. Apollo Justice keeps the greatness of the earlier entries and add to it by making more 
 use of the touch controls.
  
  I'll admit that I was very uneasy about the change to a new main character for this series. The 
 best things about the games are the characters and the story. I'm glad to say that all my fears 
 were unwarranted. There's plenty of overlap of new and old characters, and most of the new ones 
 are just as endearing. I was overjoyed to see the return of Emma from the original game, now all 
 grown up, although I would have prefered a bit more of her original personality. I also liked the 
 way all of the cases weaved together into one overall story. Here's hoping for the return of even 
 more characters in the future.
  
  The overall gameplay remains the same, but the addition of the new forensic techniques is very 
 welcome. My only minor complaint is that they could have been used more often in future cases.
 
  
  All I can say is that I'm looking forward to the next game even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godofnerdyness
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  The Good: Same Ol' Phoenix Wright formula, New characters, Very well done script, New Forensics 
 science, Two different endings, Plenty of "omg" moments
  
  The Bad: Feels a little short, Apollo will never replace Phoenix Wright, Some moments will confuse 
 you until you just simply guess.
  
  Apollo Justice is the 4th entry in the Phoenix Wright / Ace Attorney series. You play as the new 
 kid, Apollo who seems to have the weirdest haircut since Cloud from Final Fantasy 7. In his first 
 case, he defends our friend Phoenix Wright who is now... Wait, what?! Phoenix is a bum playing piano 
 and drinking grape juice?! There's a story behind it, but I won't spoil it for you. Apollo nearly 
 has a coroney meeting Phoenix and then joins his "agency", working for him. He also meets Phoenix's 
 daughter, Trucy, who is obsessed with magic panties (And I swear to God she calls her panties magic) 
 and making a wooden man fly out of her **** and steal her hat. Apollo is sort of a mellow guy, 
 but he acts a lot like Fire Bird Phoenix. Trucy is... Trucy is exactly like Maya from the previous 
 games (Except of course for the magic panties) .
  
  Phoenix Wright is, simply, a point-and click adventure game. But, it's not just any point and click. 
 It's an amazing one. There are 4 cases in total, and each case Apollo is hired to defend his client 
 that has been accused of the crime, making sure they end up with the "Not Guilty" verdict. At the 
 start of each case, there is a fun to watch animated cutscene showing the crime (Usually murder) , 
 giving you an idea of what happened, but not giving enough detail for you to figure out who dun 
 what. You will learn about the murder, and meet your client. Every client has thier own personality: 
 From Gangster style G's, to nail biting blue haired women. Your first job will be to interrogate 
 people for info. they might know, and examine the areas you visit for evidence. There are a few 
 new features thrown in for the investigation parts....
  
  1) The pysche lock system from the previous games is only used near the very end.
  
  2) There 
 are forensic science parts with Detective Ema Skye, a somehow skinny scientist who eats "Snackdoos" 
 all day, literally engulfing bags and bags of the heart cloggers, but gains not a pound. *Shrug* 
 Continuing on, Forensics will involve stuff such as Dusting for prints by using your stylus to 
 pour dust on the items and blowing into the mic. to blow it away. It's a very fun part of the investigating 
 parts, but sometimes you wish you could do it more.
  
  Once you've gathered enough evidence, you'll be sent to court. The Judge will be listening to you, 
 and the Prosectutor will be trying to shift the blame onto your client. In Apollo Justice, the 
 prosecutor is a hardcore German Rockstar who is also very intelligent. Quite an interesting character, 
 he says a lot of german stuff and plays air guitar. But moving on, Witnesses will be called up 
 onto the Witness stand and tell their story. Your goal is to find the contradictions (lies) in their 
 statements, and point them out with evidence. You bring up the item and either press "Present" 
 on the touch screen, or shout "OBJECTION!" into your microphone. If you chose the right item, you 
 move on with the case. But if you made Apollo waste his lungs energy for nothing, your penalty 
 bar will lose points (It's similar to a health bar, if it drops to 0 you have to start from your 
 last save point, so save a lot!) , and you will be humiliated by the Judge and sometimes the prosecutor. 
 You will just keep finding contradictions until you find the truth of what happened. But there 
 is a new court feature... Perception. Apollo's bracelet will begin to rumble and he will concentrate 
 on the witness. Your vision zooms in and all you see is your witness standing in a purpleish dark 
 area, and your goal is to find any nervous twitches they may have such as Armpits sweating, veiny 
 hands, etc. It's... Cool, but also creepy. Zooming in onto someones sweating armpit isn't a pleasant 
 sight.
  
  Apollo Justice's strong points are its characters and story, even if you're not a big fan of point 
 and click, I still recommend you pick up Apollo Justice. It's an amazing game that will welcome 
 newcomers and Ace Attorney veterans alike. Enjoy, oh, and...
  
  OBJECTION! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon-chan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Time for great justice! Ace Attorney Apollo Justice on its way to being reviewed.
  
  After playing and reviewing the rest of the series it would only be natural to play and review 
 its successor, Apollo Justice is the newbie in the lot and has much to prove to the cult following 
 that Phoenix Wright has accrued over the years following its release in Japan and America. 
  
  This is actually the first exclusive Ace Attorney game that makes it to the DS, the other games 
 were simply remakes of Game Boy Advance games titled: Gyakuten Saiban, with a few add-ons here 
 and there; besides that we were getting recycled material for the most part that begged for improvement 
 and a fresh and vibrant new look. 
  
  This game connects well to the rest of the series; Phoenix Wright hands the torch to a young and 
 upcoming Apollo Justice quite forcefully, but with the appearance of some familiar faces, the transition 
 is somewhat put at ease. The only gripe is that we don't see the crew that I'm sure that everyone 
 is wondering about the most and that pretty much any recurring characters that show up have no 
 new sprite animations and weren't to eagerly anticipated, it felt more like they were fodder in 
 the mix more than anything. The older sprites being reused looked misplaced in the up to date game, 
 appearing somewhat 'grayed' of their use. Come on, even the judge has the exact same bust selection 
 throughout all four games. 
  
  This game series has always been about building identifiable characters as well as outlandish characters 
 placed as comic relief, Apollo Justice delivers this pretty well, but at times feels rather lacking, 
 the characters don't feel as deep as the others in the previous games, but this may be due to the 
 weight that three games carries on a single game's back, it's a bit difficult to heft with this 
 expectancy. Don't get me wrong, everyone has their particular identifiable quirks and whatnot, 
 but at times it feels a bit stiff, forced even. But that may be me, other than that they just need 
 a little push and further development in future games. 
  
  The DS specific features are expanded upon in the way that there are more mini games to play during 
 your investigations. Where you get to spray for poison, search for prints, make shoe molds and 
 more, a lot of these mini games are mildly entertaining and a refreshing tare away from the main 
 grind of investigations that has been ripped of Psyche-Locks completely, replaced by Apollo's ability 
 to perceive, which brings up a screen during certain cross examinations where the user searches 
 for a nervous give way or rather distinct twitch when the witness is lying, through this you're 
 able to proceed further through the case and unravel more information. You're also able to analyze 
 objects in a 3D perspective just like case five in the first Phoenix Wright game; sometimes it 
 is necessary to examine something before you're able to trigger certain events. 
  
  The story is very interesting but works mainly on the coattails of it's predecessor, Phoenix Wright's 
 story becomes a mysterious puzzle which you discover bits and pieces of throughout all the cases, 
 these twists keep you hungering for more and more as you go and it makes it very hard to put the 
 game down for long. For those eager beavers that play constantly and have nothing better to do 
 with their time (*Raises hand*) you should be finished within a week's time, if not this game should 
 take a couple weeks or more, depending on how oft and long you play. So definitely a lengthy game 
 worth it's salt. 
  
  Kicking it to the masses,
  
  It's the same courtroom drama that we've all come to know and love, with its many unexpected plot 
 twists and long winded value. I say that this switch to a new hero was pretty easy, at times I 
 felt that Apollo didn't have as strong as a reserve as Phoenix, but with time, he'll fill those 
 shoes. The basic formula has been untouched and still works well, with spiffy updates and loveable 
 characters, it's hard to say objection.
  
  Graphics: There have been some improvements in many areas, we see that the courtroom and many other 
 familiar areas have gotten a much needed revamp and are looking quite lovely and have a pinch more 
 character to them. The character animations are fun to watch and some laughable, the zoom in function 
 that you experience during Apollo's Perceive mode are nicely done and all around everything is 
 nice. 
  
  Sound: Music was fundamental in one case, so I couldn't help but notice it. For the Prosecutor, 
 Klavier, he had a guitar theme, which sounded particularly sweet and fun to listen to. One particular 
 animation of his is accompanied by a quick rift that enhances the feel to his personality. The 
 examinations have a more intense feel as well as the dramatic moments. It looks like they made 
 pretty big strides in improvement here. 
  
  Playability: The controls are smooth, it's easier to get the game to respond to your voice when 
 you have an objection and the mini games have simple handling. At times though, the Perceive mode 
 felt awkward to handle but wasn't impeding. 
  
  Entertainment: The game had me excited from the start, gasping, laughing aloud, crying, it had 
 my emotions trapped, but not by this solo excursion, the whole series has built up this attachment 
 to each of the characters. 
  
  Replay: There are two endings here, where at the ending point of case Four, you get to choose weather 
 the defendant is Guilty or Not Guilty. If you have enough foresight to save before this point, 
 you can see both. I don't think it's really spoilerific to tell which one gives you which ending 
 since I bet most people intend to get both. Guilty gets you a bad ending, and Not Guilty gets you 
 the good one. This game is a worthy buy, and by now, if you've played through the other three you'd 
 probably want to just buy it. But you could just as easily barrow it from a friend; I'd doubt anyone 
 could finish it within the allotted rental time from Blockbuster. 
  
  All and All: This game is everything, serious, dramatic, funny, mysterious, awesome and suspenseful. 
 It's a worthy addition to my library, I was hooked from the very moment I turned it on. Although 
 there were only four cases in this game, the length of each case was very well fulfilling, even 
 the tutorial case that you get is a lot more long winded than any other introductory case seen 
 thus far. If there was anything negative about it, I'd have to say it lacks more screeching megaphones. 
 
  
  
  Gotcha
  
  -Ri 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tornado_2
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Now, let's get this out of the way, first of all: I loved the Phoenix Wright games. Most of the 
 third game (and the final case in the first game) left me emotionally drained in a way so thorough 
 that only a few games (notably Snatcher, which makes me think I am just naturally attracted to 
 this genre of games) have had prior similar impact. Now, I will admit that I'm susceptible to a 
 good yarn, which does shield me from the problems the franchise has (for example, the investigation 
 sequences ranged from either decent to torture, and the story could take its sweet time coming 
 to pass) . However, the story's conclusion and the trials themselves always seemed to make it worthwhile. 
 Furthermore, the characters, no matter how redundant (Maggey) or annoying (Larry) , always contributed 
 and made the story believable and fun. On top of all of that, there were some cases where you simply 
 wanted to press onward to make sure the guilty party was punished (Manfred von Karma) . I can think 
 of few games that lend themselves so well to such emotional attachment, and I was saddened every 
 time I finished one of them (knowing it was one less game in the series to experience anew) .
  
  However, as a game series that essentially lives or dies by its characters, Apollo Justice 
 has some serious flaws right off the bat. First of all, the first two cases have the rather silly 
 task of trying to bring characters from the previous three games into the picture with pretty much 
 no explanation. For example, Detective Gumshoe does not make an appearance in a real sense, being 
 replaced with a certain someone from the first game. The problem is not with said person (who is 
 actually perfect for the role in a completely different way than Gumshoe was) , but with the huge 
 amount of questions it brings up surrounding a character who does not return. The other returning 
 characters do the same. Let's just say that all of the characters brought back raise more questions 
 about other characters than the game bothers to answer.
  
  The all-new characters, sadly, don't have the aura of old. The mandatory girl-tag along is cause 
 for downright brilliant dialogue when she is introduced in full in the second case, and her actions 
 are quite well shown. She has a backstory that is quite interesting as well, and is by far the 
 best of the new characters. Not all of the characters are runaway successes, though. Apollo Justice, 
 for example, the titular hero, is downright annoying in his naivety. Its hard to believe some of 
 the things he says in the beginning couple of cases, and his actions scream "doofus." The new prosecutor 
 just reeks of cool, and has the distinct impression of being the only prosecutor in the series 
 who seems from the start to be more interested in the truth than in winning. However, he has a 
 shallow backstory. No von Karma revenge or Edgeworth self-loathing. Furthermore, he reeks of cool, 
 by which I mean the game tries its hardest to shove cool down your throat, making it all pretty 
 forced. Godot and Edgeworth were cool because of their actions; and the prosecutor in this game 
 says "Frat Boy" more than anything else, spending his off the clock time whining and whatnot.
 
  
  The cases themselves are pretty interesting (the first case in this game is better than any of 
 them except the one in Trials and Tribulations, which wins on a technicality) . The final case is 
 the emotional thrill ride that the one in each game has been (along with a very interesting style 
 of investigation and a huge bombshell thrown in at the very end) , and the third case had a very 
 surprising twist thrown in half-way through to keep you guessing (though some things in the case 
 simply do not make sense when you think about it) . The second case was funny, but some of the dialogue 
 was a bit over the top, even considering the subject matter. The case itself was decent enough, 
 but was more of an intro to investigating than it was a fun trial. It should be known, as well, 
 that the new "Perception" system is not really any good. It seems like an unnecessary step to drag 
 on case length that simply presenting evidence would have solved in past games.
  
  The investigation is still pretty dredging at times. While the great 3D object viewer has returned, 
 it is in no way used to as great effect as it was in Rise from the Ashes; and nearly all of the 
 other new investigation techniques feel like gimmicky add-ons in the way they are presented (there 
 is the return of the fingerprinting powder and luminol spray, but the game all but tells you where 
 to look for the things you need to find, making it a shallow concession) . The ones that show promise 
 (the mixing board) also simply don't work very well because of what it requires on the player. 
 Also severely missed is the ability to ask people about profiles, which just comes off as a way 
 to not have to do as much dialogue.
  
  So, we know the gameplay has some problems. But what about everything else?
  
  The sound is, 
 as always, excellent. Each case has its own feel, each character their own personality, each moment 
 its own aura; all do in part to the great music. Nothing seems out of place, and I'm not even bothered 
 by the reusing of the older music (remixes can be nice, but they can also be terrible) . Apollo 
 has his own "Objection," "Hold it" and etc. screams, as does returning schmuck Payne and the new 
 prosecutor. You may even have your heart flutter when you hear a certain sound reused at a pinnacle 
 moment. The only real problem with the sound is in the sound board sections, which can be quite 
 difficult to ascertain exactly what you are looking for.
  
  The graphics have nearly all been redrawn (some character sprites are holdovers) , and while I never 
 had a problem with the texture dot-ridden backgrounds that some of the areas had before, everything 
 undoubtedly looks better. The 3D evidence interface looks quite good, and is better looking that 
 it was in Rise from the Ashes; with some pretty complex evidence being represented pretty nicely. 
 There is some tearing, and a bit of graphical hiccups here and there, but for the most part it 
 looks spectacular. The frequent use of movies (both 3D and 2D) are all great, and in one case are 
 interchanged quite skillfully. Even the minor characters all show great detail, better than some 
 of the main characters in the previous games (let's just say you know which sprites are reused) .
 
  
  The writing is great, as it always has been, but I was pretty disappointed in the obvious shortcuts 
 Capcom took with some of the dialogue. For example, present bad evidence and the exchanges between 
 Apollo and the Judge are lifted ver batim from Phoenix Wright, with the names changed. Maybe Capcom 
 did it as a throwback, but they also recreated the step ladder exchanges between Phoenix and Maya 
 without copy-pasting them, so I doubt this was the case.
  
  So, what is my overall point? Well, it saddens me to say this, because I hate to sound biased, 
 but if this was called "Phoenix Wright 4" it would solve (by default) a lot of the problems. The 
 slimming of the investigations (the Magatama MIA until the very end, not able to present profiles 
 unless prompted) makes already overly linear sections seem even more constricting. The returning 
 characters raise questions about the missing characters. The Perception system is a bad idea from 
 the start, and the execution doesn't make it come off any better. Finally, the returning evidence 
 viewer and tests aren't done to as high of a standard as before, and only a single new test stands 
 out as being well used. Don't get me wrong, for their essential rookie effort, Capcom did a great 
 job. But I'm at a gate, expecting the great gameplay of Rise of the Ashes with the perfect story 
 of Trials and Tribulations, yet receiving mere simulations of both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of Phoenix Wright and, to be frank, I think the series needs no introduction. There 
 are few DS gamers out there who have not tried the innovative point-and-click/courtroom adventure 
 series, or at least haven't heard of it. It's popular, and for good reason; but now, Capcom takes 
 the franchise in a slightly different direction, chronicling the events seven years after Trials 
 and Tribulations where the inefficiency of the court system is finally coming to light and with 
 Ace Attorney Phoenix Wright badge-less. 
  
  For the most part, though, despite the changed mascot the new Ace Attorney iteration is not very 
 different at all from the Phoenix Wright games. The game is divided into two big sections: one 
 in which you'll investigate the crime scene, question witnesses, and search for clues related to 
 your case. This takes the form of fairly typical point-and-click gameplay, and is the lesser of 
 the two parts of the game. Progression is very linear and oftentimes you'll be stuck simply because 
 you didn't examine some specific item or you forgot to present something to a random person. It 
 can get pretty frustrating at times, even to the point that you may give up and take the "Go everywhere 
 and present everything to everybody" approach -- it works, but it's certainly not what the developers 
 intended. It's a problem, but it's a problem that has plagued past Ace Attorney games, so if you're 
 a fan of the series this won't pose much of a problem to you. 
  
  The second and far more enjoyable part of Apollo Justice is the court scenes. It is here that you'll 
 use the information that you gathered during your investigation and put it to use defending your 
 client (who, by the way, almost always appears to be guilty) . The set-up is simple, but quite addicting 
 and really satisfying. The prosecution will call witnesses and present evidence that proves your 
 client guilty. But if there's a rule to live by, it's this: the witness on the stand is always 
 lying. They may not even know it -- that is, they may think they're telling the truth -- but there's 
 always a flaw, and it's up to you to find it. So, the witness testifies, and the testimony is broken 
 up into short statements. You can press each statement for more information, but to really prove 
 a contradiction, you're going to have to present evidence that contradicts a witness' testimony. 
 From there it's all downhill for the liar on the stand, and you're a step closer to your not guilty 
 verdict. 
  
  The courtroom scenes are a blast, but what's really compelling about Apollo Justice and what'll 
 keep you playing -- or rather, what should keep you playing -- is the plot. Each case is well-written 
 and well-conceived, and the ending often comes as a shocker even to those who are pretty good at 
 figuring things out. The writing is, as always, excellent -- it's quite humorous and there are 
 several lines that will likely make you laugh out loud. The last case, in particular, is pretty 
 awesome and does a good job of tying in the first and third cases as well (the game, sadly, has 
 only four cases) -- the second case, to be honest, sucks pretty bad and has little purpose in the 
 game other than to introduce you to the investigation process. 
  
  The character development, on the other hand, is not as good as we've seen in past Ace Attorney 
 games. Whereas the Phoenix Wright games had characters like Maya, Mia, Edgeworth, Gumshoe, and 
 Phoenix himself who were all distinct and lovable characters, there aren't many similar entities 
 in Apollo Justice. Trucy, Apollo's assistant, is well-developed as is Phoenix himself (he makes 
 an appearance sans badge, and part of the game is figuring out exactly what happened to him) . Apollo, 
 however, despite the fact that he's the game's main character, is strangely distant, hollow, and 
 one-dimensional. It's not until the very end of the game that he even becomes somewhat likeable 
 -- I, for one, am hoping that Phoenix gets has badge back and becomes a lawyer again, because he's 
 far more compelling than Apollo. 
  
  The biggest thing going for Apollo Justice is likely the number of new game play innovations that 
 have been added. In past games there wasn't a whole lot you could do on the investigative end aside 
 from talking, presenting, and examining -- the same goes for the court scenes. In Apollo Justice, 
 however, you can fingerprint, cast footprints, watch videos for clues, and even use this pretty 
 neat thing called the Mason system that allows you to travel back and forth through time in an 
 attempt to gather clues (it's neat to present some item you found in the present day to someone 
 in the past to get information that you could otherwise not have obtained) . In the courtroom, as 
 well, there's an addition, in the form of the Perceive action. Everybody on the stand lies, but 
 there's not always concrete proof (one of the themes of the game, by the way) , and so Apollo can 
 observe nervous gestures made by the witness to pinpoint a lie. It's actually pretty outlandish, 
 although at times it's kind of cool. The big problem with all this, however, is that these implementations 
 seem tacked on and are not fleshed out at all. For example, fingerprinting and footprint-casting 
 occurs only in the second case, and makes no appearance anywhere else in the game. Likewise, the 
 Perceive icon comes up only once in a while, so when it does you know that you're going to have 
 to perceive rather than present evidence. It would have been neat if these features had carried 
 over, but instead they act kind of divisively ("Oh yeah, this is the fingerprinting case") and 
 steal some of the thunder from the really dramatic ending. 
  
  The Ace Attorney series has finally received a graphical update, as Apollo Justice is the first 
 game in the franchise to be made specifically for the DS (all the past games have been GBA ports) . 
 However, it's really not very noticeable -- the visuals are changed a bit, sure, but it's nothing 
 incredibly noticeable. There aren't even any significant cutscenes aside from some very interestingly-done 
 ones that essentially are black-and-white drawings in a slow procession. While it's not technically 
 all that impressive, the artistic design is absolutely incredible, and to me, that's what really 
 counts. The music is, as any connoisseur of Phoenix Wright might expect, excellent, and combines 
 new character themes with some of the best music from past games. It does a great job of setting 
 the mood and the Ace Attorney games are among the few in which the music honestly does improve 
 the game. 
  
  Apollo Justice is a fairly long game, despite the fact that there are only four cases. If you've 
 been playing the Ace Attorney games all along, you'll no doubt know what you're doing at this point 
 and you'll spend less time aimlessly wandering around searching for clues and you'll make it through 
 the game a few hours quicker. Also, the game is fairly difficult, but those who've been playing 
 for a long time are at a clear advantage. There are some situations that are pretty mind-bending 
 and challenge you to think outside the box, but at the same time there are far too many instances 
 when you're not-so-subtlety told exactly what to do. This take a lot of fun of figuring things 
 out for yourself, and I'd say it's fairly clear that this game may have been designed for those 
 looking to hop on the Phoenix Wright bandwagon. 
  
  While it's a must-play for Phoenix Wright fans, it saddens me to say that Apollo Justice is probably 
 the weakest entry in the Ace Attorney series to date. The characters lack some of the charm that 
 made the first games so great and the neat game play implementations lose some of their effectiveness 
 because they're used stingily throughout the game. And despite a relatively new set of characters 
 and a toned-down difficulty level, Apollo Justice isn't a good place to start playing Ace Attorney, 
 just because it doesn't showcase the best that the series has to offer. Don't get me wrong: it's 
 a fun game, but it's also a bit of a letdown because it could have been so much better. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thattotally
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  The Ace Attorney games have always been very interesting, and their interactive novel type gameplay 
 has always proved to be a lot of fun.
  
  It's just a pity that there's so little to find in this game. Before playing this game, it should 
 be noted that to play the other three would be highly recommended, to see then and there if this 
 is the type of experience you'll enjoy out of these games. Basically if you enjoy reading, and 
 enjoy a lot of it at that, then this is the game for you. It's witty dialogue and semi-dynamic 
 characters prove it to be an enjoyable read.
  
  It's just a shame that there's not much left to do once completing the game. The fact that there's 
 no replay value whatsoever would influence Capcom to actually include quite a number of cases instead 
 of just four. Alas, this will not be seen apparently.
  
  While a game that can truly be suspenseful and keep you at your wits end to try and solve it, the 
 fact that there's little to be found other than the cases and with it's retail price as is, it's 
 a game only for those who have played the other games and have enjoyed it enough to play this one, 
 and to anticipate the next in the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I admit it, I'm a Phoenix Wright fan. Once I played the first, I could not help but want to play 
 through the two that followed. So, having discovered this to be the fourth game in the series, 
 I'm pretty excited the series seems to still be going strong.
  
  The basic flow of the game involves telling a story. In the courtroom, your primary challenge is 
 in grilling the witnesses' testimony and presenting evidence to find contradictions. On the field, 
 you're tasked with finding clues and talking to the people involved with the case. This is all 
 done with a simple stylus-friendly interface that does not go too crazy with the pixel hunting. 
 As the story progresses, the drama builds, solid writing and likable characters are the core of 
 the game.
  
  One thing always bothered me about the original Phoenix Wright series: the bonus case in the first 
 game had features that none of the other cases did, such as the ability to examine items in 3D 
 or have detailed crime detection equipment mini-games. So it is that I'm rather excited to say 
 that Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney has raised the technical bar by having these features in each 
 of the four included cases.
  
  Apollo Justice attempts to take the series in a new direction with a new central protagonist: Apollo 
 Justice, a brash young defense attorney with spiky hair and chords of steel. I was a bit bothered 
 to see the original ensemble of characters brushed to the side because, after three games of Phoenix 
 Wright and his associates, I was always curious to see how their stories progress.
  
  However, by the time I reached the end of Apollo Justice, I felt reasonably satisfied with the 
 treatment of the old characters -- they do have a certain cameo quality, established fans like 
 myself will see some pop up here and there. Without getting into spoilers, Phoenix Wright himself 
 plays a pretty big part in this game.
  
  The only reason I can't give it a 10 is because it was a little easy - I only had to consult a 
 hint guide once and that was over a matter hardly worth sweating over. Overall, I consider Apollo 
 Justice a success, and I plan to follow the series as long as the talent behind it keeps up the 
 good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  The Ace Attorney series has garnered a lot of fans because of it's wonderful characters, well written 
 dialog and the fact that when everything is put together, it's more like an interactive novel more 
 than anything else. In the previous game, we saw a fitting ending to the trilogy starring Phoenix 
 Wright and his companions leading way to the fourth game in the series.
  
  It is obvious by the title, that a new lead is taking over to the defense in the from of Apollo 
 Justice. At the beginning, he resembles Phoenix Wright when he first started out in the first game. 
 As the game continues he gains more and more confidence and finally you see his character shine 
 through. Though Apollo is a very likable character, he doesn't have very much back story nor motive 
 as to why he wants to be an attorney and is one example of a character that will probably less 
 endearing then characters from the previous games.
  
  You'll meet almost an entirely new batch of characters but some of them from the old series do 
 make their return even if it's for the briefest of moments. If you have played some of the original 
 games, then some of the game may seem more relevant to you but if you haven't played one before, 
 that will in no way stymie your ability to enjoy the story and have fun in the very engaging plot.
 
  
  Throughout the game, you will have have to investigate and defend clients from the strangest and 
 most bizarre cases that could ever be thought up. Through these four cases, you'll constantly be 
 defending those that are seemingly entirely guilty but if you investigate correctly and insert 
 a few objections here and there, you'll be able to get down to the truth.
  
  In the previous games, most trials had you going back forth between investigation mode, where you 
 interview witnesses and collect evidence, and defense mode, where you are in court cross examining 
 witnesses and trying to get your client a "not guilty" verdict. It is the exact same in this game 
 except for a few things. Trials are much shorter than in previous games. For some people, one major 
 complaint was the investigation side of the game because it could be slow and cumbersome to walk 
 around from area to area trying to show one piece of evidence that would allow you to access the 
 next part of the game. At times, the linear story, though written very well, doesn't allow any 
 deviation. As a result, sometimes when you think you have the right witness or the right evidence, 
 you don't only because the game's logic hasn't caught up to yours. This could also affect the game 
 play because at times, you might get stuck. If you didn't investigate one piece of evidence correctly 
 or didn't show something to a character, then your progress will halt. 
  
  By making less investigation times, that also means less witnesses and also less evidence to toy 
 around with. This also cuts down on the court time and in totality, the shortness of the game can 
 become apparent. In less than fifteen hours, you'll be able to run through the game and have little 
 to go back because of the lack of replay value and the linear story. The other games at times, 
 was very long and drawn out but it added to the experience. This game feels like they added a little 
 less meat, but it still tastes great all the same.
  
  Another difference in this game from the previous three installments is the ability to see the 
 evidence in full 3-D just like in the last case of the original Phoenix Wright. This is a really 
 neat feature because you can rotate the items and zoom in on them and focus on what you want instead 
 of seeing a flat picture. There are also areas of the game where you can dust for fingerprints 
 by tapping the touch screen and blowing into the mic and other little neat tools like playing with 
 mixing boards and scanners and these little new features don't change the game play but it does 
 make it seem like a more engaging experience.
  
  One new mechanic that the game does display is Apollo's ability to perceive. During certain times 
 in people's testimony, they will slightly tense up. This can be a wandering eye, or a twitching 
 finger. By tapping your bracelet, you will be able to go into "perceive" mode and call the witness 
 on it forcing them to reveal more information. It doesn't really change the game but sometimes, 
 the twitch is so hardly noticeable, you'll be going over the same testimony over and over again 
 to find the "slight" tension the witness has.
  
  Visually, the game does do a slightly better job than the previous games. If you compare the characters 
 and the backgrounds to games prior, you will realize there are a lot less jagged edges to both 
 and also they spiced up many of animations by adding more frames. Also, for some parts of the game, 
 you will get full 3-D video. Now, that isn't going to say that the videos are going to blow your 
 mind graphically, but it was definitely a nice addition.
  
  As for the sound department, the game doesn't do much new. There are still the "objections," and 
 "hold it" phrases from the previous games (that you can still yell into your mic to activate) but 
 what really shines again is the music. Although the music in this game is very strong, in my opinion, 
 it's not as strong as previous installments but is still worth noting. When the tide turns in court, 
 the music adapts perfectly to set the mood and tone and when bewilderment is there, so is the accompanying 
 music. Capcom has done a superb job in this are and this game is no different.
  
  Since the game is portable, it's nice that you can save anywhere at any time and just load. It 
 only takes a few seconds to save or load. Penalties that can arise in court draining your life 
 bar can be avoided by saving and loading. It can affect the difficulty of the game that way so 
 keep that in mind.
  
  The strength of the game, which can not be highly touted enough, is the story and the characters. 
 As in the previous three games, there is little to no replay value, and the linear story doesn't 
 allow for basically any deviation and yet these games are great games in their own right. Each 
 character has a unique personality and the baffling cases force you to want more to get some light 
 on each case. 
  
  Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney is no different. It forces you to think and contemplate how things 
 could have happened and only through that, do you have a chance in solving the crimes. Unfortunately, 
 if you played the previous games and found the pacing too slow or there was too much reading or 
 there just wasn't any reason to go back, all those problems still exist. But, if you found the 
 story too provocative to put down and you wanted to find more evidence and interview more witnesses 
 to find the truth, all of those elements are still in this game, with the addition of some new 
 3-D elements and so you should find this an enjoyable romp.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  It must be tough being Apollo Justice; his predecessor, Phoenix Wright, sat as the adventure king 
 of not just the DS, but all modern gaming. However, now there's a new face in town and he's more 
 than able to dethrown Phoenix.
  
  Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney is the forth game in the Ace Attorney franchise, and is the first 
 to not originate on the Game Boy Advance. Playing the game, you can notice it's a DS game. There 
 are many forensic tools used that require the touch screen to operate, there are great full-motion 
 cutscenes, the graphics are slightly improved, and the microphone is more responsive than ever.
 
  
  The game feautres four trials called "turnabouts." The the number may seem disappointing, by no 
 means is the game short and every single one serves a purpose in transitioning you off Phoenix 
 and onto Apollo:
  
  The first turnabout is the fairly short, instructional trial that Ace Attorney fans have come to 
 expect. However, this time around it's far more immerserve than in any previous games. This makes 
 up for the initial disappointment felt by the fact Phoenix Wright (who is still very much a part 
 of the game, just not as a defence attorney) is no longer who you're playing as. The fact there's 
 no Maya Fey sitting next to you also makes the first turnabout hard to appreciate, but this dissappointment 
 doesn't last very long.
  
  The second case rolls around and you get to meet Trucy, who is going to be your new Maya. She's 
 got Maya covered as both are extremely goofy and lovable, and after five minutes you might even 
 prefer Trucy. In this turnabout you also get to see Apollo's personality which is comporable to 
 Phoenix Wright's from his starring days, except with decidedly more double-entendres. Any doubt 
 had about Apollo's ability is quickly washed away and by the time you talk to the first witness 
 you accept him whole-heartedly as the new star of the Ace Attorney franchise. The case itself is 
 really good, and might just have the most memorable defendant in the series' history.
  
  Turnabout three is a phenominal Ace Attorney case. It ranks among the best Ace Attorney cases and 
 provides something Ace Attorney games have long been missing: a lovable prosecutor. The newest 
 prosecutor is Klavier Gavin who tries all your cases but the first. Miles Edgeworth from the first 
 three games is nowhere in sight and Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney profits from that greatly. While 
 Edgeworth did have an interesting back story, he always came across as cold and stoic; Klavier 
 adds a warmth and likeability to the prosecution that's been absent since the days of Franziska 
 van Karma. Without giving anything away, it's safe to say this third trial will easily rank among 
 your favorites from past games.
  
  Finally, we have the fourth: the crowning jewel of the Ace Attorney franchise. This case IS the 
 best in the series' history. I don't want to give anything away, but the throwbacks to past games, 
 the complexity of the trial, a new tack on investigating, everything just amounts to pure brilliance 
 and everyone at Capcom, whether they were involved with this game or not, should pat themselves 
 on the back for the accomplishment that is the fourth turnabout.
  
  The cases themselves are enough to challenge Phoenix Wright's thrown in his heyday, although they 
 are the easiest the franchise has yet to offer. Apollo Justice also brings with it something Phoenix 
 Wright has only brought small amounts of: a truly continuing plot. Based on the ending of this 
 game, you know there'll be an Ace Attorney plot and the game resembles a frame story more than 
 ever. There are overlooming mysteries that start in the first case only to be resolved after the 
 fourth one is already done. Then there are tiny cliffhangers that don't hinder the plot, but create 
 all-new mysteries that an Ace Attorney fan would salvate over until the day Ace Attorney 5 is released.
 
  
  If you're new to the Ace Attorney franchise, be warned! Most of the references and jokes that allude 
 to past games will not entertain you, and you will not get the full experience intended by Apollo 
 Justice: Ace Attorney. However, if you have been following the whole franchise, this is one experience 
 that truly appreciates its fans and will reward them for their devotion. Simple music cues will 
 manage to bring a smile to the Ace Attorney fan's face because of the memories they bring, and 
 a newcomer is advised, no is urged, to start the series from its beginning because Apollo Justice 
 is as much about the setting as it is about the courtroom action itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewh94
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2008 4:28 pm PT
Review:  I truly enjoyed this 4th installment of the Ace Attorney series. When I knew there were only 4 
 cases, I was disappointed until I played the last case (4th case) and realized that it was a really 
 good and interesting one!! 
  
  Why do I like Apollo Justice??
  
  I like it because of it's gripping storyline which makes me (and other players) eager to know the 
 secret behind everything which was revealed in this game.
  
  I was disappointed too because there wasn't any new art for "Objection" , "Hold It" and "Take That". 
 I didn't like the soundtrack here compared to the 2nd game (Ace Attorney: Phoenix Wright, Justice 
 For All) .
  
  The best parts of the game are 
  
  i) The Mason System
  ii) the "power"
  
  because we can use the Mason System to go back in time 7 years ago to learn 
 what happened to Phoenix Wright. While Phoenix Wright has the Magatama power, Apollo Justice also 
 has a power to notice the witnesses habits when they are nervous because they are lying/hiding 
 something and perceive it.
  
  It is quite boring when you are stuck with the same case for 3 days (game time) because you have 
 to go to the court 3 TIMES (the previous games) ! But luckily, the programmers realize that and 
 now we only have to go to court at the maximum of 2 times which is much shorter but still very 
 interesting. 
  
  Other than the power to perceive people by focusing on their habits when they are saying something, 
 there are nothing new that you can do in court which are one of the downs of this game.
  
  Overall, I believe that Apollo Justice is a great game and it will remain as my favorite game.
 
  
  Gameplay - 7.5/10
  Storyline - 8.9/10
  Graphics - 8.0/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  You play Apollo Justice, an amazingly more punny name then Phoenix Wright and a bit sillier character 
 all around. I have to say, he was hard to make a connection to for a main character you play in 
 first person most of the time. Phoenix had a way of saying just what you were thinking often, and 
 thus you could connect to him. However, Apollo seems to have problems even standing out as a character. 
 None the less, he's still likable and decent. The real problem comes in everyone playing their 
 "roles", Ema Skye replaces Dick Gumshoe. Apollo Replaces Phoenix. Trucy takes Maya's seat and a 
 couple of notable spoilers happen in the same way they do in Phoenix Wright 1.
  
  Onto the good points however, there's still a good deal of trademark phoenix wright "wtf" twist. 
 You'll be shocked at a few outcomes in this and the cases are fairly well written. One example 
 is the wtf intro to case 2. Phoenix is hit by a car, a doctor is shot stealing a noodle cart, your 
 client is a kid acting "gangsta" and someone stole some panties. You cannot make that kind of thing 
 up, and they're all linked. One notable new character of interest is Prosecutor Gavin. He doesn't 
 just take Edgeworths seat in the way Apollo holds Phoenix's, he actually has a personality different 
 than any other prosecutor. Can't even tell he is a prosecutor til he makes you say "oh crap!" near 
 the end of court day 1. 
  
  Graphics:
  A lot has changed since Phoenix Wright. No more reused sprites (for the most part) , everythings 
 been uped. Jagged edges are gone, shadows look a lot nicer, and there's a bit more detail than 
 there used to be. This looks like a new game, and I have to say, it looks a lot better. They however 
 make this clear. They do some flashbacks to back then and seeing a new sprite in the old court 
 just looked horrible. Worse off, that's not a small moment. You're stuck looking at that hideous 
 misplacement of sprite work for a while. There's some nice 3d this time around. In both animation 
 sequences, and in court record items. You get a lot more than you used to, and the full motion 
 video is a beauty.
  
  Gameplay:
  Overall, this feels a lot more refined than Phoenix Wright 3 did. You aren't stuck to using the 
 old all game. You get a bunch of nice new touches here and there to make the thing a bit more fun. 
 Evidence is more detailed, featuring 3d examinable items and occasionally stuff you can play with 
 like a soundmixing board or a videotape. Cases also feel a bit nicer. I said in my Phoenix Wright 
 3 review that I was feeling disoriented finding evidence that fit the right situations, as there 
 was often none or some that would fit in multiple ways. That's not the case here, I dropped my 
 habit of saving every present I do because I actually felt safe in what I was saying and deducing 
 now again. 
  
  But here's the big question, can a person who never played the Phoenix Wright series play Apollo 
 Justice? I say due to story quality, start at the beginning, but while there's ties to the past, 
 they don't get in the way too much. I believe someone new to the seires could play this game just 
 fine. Everyones a new character and you won't fail to understand every other line of dialog just 
 because you didn't play to get all the references. 
  
  Sound has been cut due to irrelevance. It sounds like Phoenix Wright. Nice music, there's still 
 slips and bleeps and trademark "OBJECTION!"s, and overall, there's nothing to touch on here. It's 
 a great sounding game still lacking VOs or anything.
  
  Who wants this game?
  Fans of Phoenix Wright, or people who have an interest in the old adventure games but can't find 
 the original in stores. It's a fun game that I say go for it if you're interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziellich
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  I love the Phoenix Wright games. I 'm not usually the type of person who puts story over gameplay, 
 but there is something about the series that rubs me the right way. Once I'd finished Trials and 
 Tribulations, my anticipation for the next installment couldn't have been higher.
  
  Enter Apollo Justice: Ace Attorney. 
  
  Right away I noticed a few quirks the game had. First, 
 Apollo looks like Phoenix in a sweater vest, and his companion, Trucy, looks like Maya in a magician's 
 outfit. Believe me, they act the parts too. The characters may have different names and faces in 
 this game, but most of them are exactly the same, the one exception being Ema Skye as compared 
 to Dick Gumshoe. 
  
  Of course, the game is still well written. I found myself in a comfortable groove of being sucked 
 into the plot of each of the four cases. The first three cases are interesting, but aren't much 
 compared to the masterful story in the previous game. The final case is fantastic though, as it 
 bring a whole new twist to the series' cannon that is very interesting. The game does manage to 
 tie most of the cases together in a coherant web as well. All told, its a very solid script, but 
 underwhelming simply because of the previous games in the series. 
  
  Gameplay is almost completely unchanged. You still get a client and do some investigating. You'll 
 talk to wintnesses, and try to weasel information out of them while searching for clues. The big 
 change is the full use of the ds stylus. You'll be able to dust for fingerprints, just like in 
 the bonus case of the original game, but you'll also be able to make footprint molds, scan an envelope 
 to see what's inside, and even spray to check for poison. These bits are fun and well done, but 
 they're admittedly pretty sparse. 
  
  Instead of the psyche lock sequences in the previous two games, Apollo has a braclet that allows 
 him to focus and see when people are lying. He'll be able to see the slightest twictch in a witness 
 and catch them on it. Pretty much like figuring out someone's tell in poker. Its an interesting 
 change to say the least, and I think its an improvement to be honest.
  
  Production values did get a bump here. Everything was redrawn and looks really crisp. The characters 
 have significantly more animations and all told move much more fluidly. Audio is still fantastic, 
 but the music isn't quite as memorable as the Phoenix entries. (With one or two exceptions)
  
  In the end, if you were a fan of the previous games, this is a must buy. Everyone else.... you 
 find anything much new here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devon_Legrion
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  To each his own, I guess? I have difficulty understanding why some revieuwers always rate sequells 
 lower and lower, even if they're better. But still just more of the same. Apollo Justice is basicly 
 just 4 extra cases to the Ace attorney series, is that a bad thing? No. At least, not in my eyes.
 
  
  I'm not going to spoil, so this revieuw will be brief. The music is great, no longer do you have 
 midi files playing, but fully orchestrated music. In mp3 quality. My friend even plugged the game 
 onto his computer speakers during a particulary cool theme in one of those epic "I got you!" moments. 
 I expected to hear cracky sounds from the conversion but the music was just as good as listening 
 to a live orchestra ( Oke, I might be exagerating here, but you get the idea. )
  
  The story is good and refreshing since it abandons the whole Fey family thing that gets a nice 
 closure at the end of part 3, the visuall presentation is like before, only slightly better seeing 
 this isnt a GBA remake. The evidence also uses some of the ds functions to stress the point that 
 this is not a remake.
  
  Theres alot more I could say, but for a detailed revieuw you'd better read one of the other once.
 
  
  All I can say is, it might not be the best of the series. ( depends on you ) Its not new, and yes. 
 It is linear. But who cares? Its good fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AttorneyAce
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  Hi my name is AttorneyAce and i going to make review my first review in my first days on gamespot 
 from Apollo Justice Ace Attorney
  ok the game is very very difernet than all games of phoenix wright firs i going to tell one litle 
 thing of the greafics from these game the grafics are similar from the befor games but got a litle 
 things difenrents and i need to say gamespot not review these and dont see the diferents new modes 
 from investigation the game got grat grafics and is very funny and with the grafics and the game 
 be similar than the befors games the game got very diferents than the beafors game these is my 
 review in the personal is verry bad but thats the new of the game and i a big fan of ace attornet 
 y love ache attorney games my bote is 10!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  Objection! AttorneyAce 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chazooma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Fresh new characters give quite a new face to the Ace Attorney series. Phoenix Wright, the protagonist 
 of the first three games, has handed down his place to Apollo Justice, a rookie lawyer with a growing 
 talent for turnabouts. Apollo may be inexperienced, and maybe even a bit slow at times, but he 
 is wiling to accept any advice, and is determined to fight for the truth. You can actually see 
 Apollo get the hang of trials and investigations as the game progresses. At the core, young Phoenix 
 and Apollo are very similar to each other, including their sense of sarcasm, making for hilarious 
 conversations.
  
  The hilarious humor and quirky characters give this game life. Each individual has their own full 
 personality to appreciate. Only a few characters from the old games make comebacks, but the new 
 ones are up to par with the old. Although the psyche-locks no longer play a major part in this 
 game, a new perceive system has been implemented, and can be just as effective.
  
  The DS touchscreen is also seeing more action, as now you can play forensic investigator, and use 
 many tools at your disposal to find important clues.
  
  The game may lack in 'epicness' as some people would say, and it's true in a way. This game in 
 general may not be as much of a plot-twister as Trials and Tribulations, but the plot-twisters 
 are certainly there, and enough to make you gasp. At the end though, everything is revealed, and 
 I'm sure you'll get a kick out of it. The plot is good, but it could've been just a teensy bit 
 better.
  
  That said, all-in-all it's a great game to pick up if you've played the previous games, and I don't 
 think Gamespot really gave it a fair score. It's a great game, and certainly not something to miss 
 if you're looking for a great storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicodae
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  Graphics: 9.5/10
  
  Since it was made for the DS and isn't just a GBA port like the others the graphics are smoother 
 and more polished. Evidence is 3D and fully rotatable. There is also a 3D cutscene. Animations 
 have a lot more frames, particularly Klavier doing air guitar. There were a few barely noticeable 
 slowdowns.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  
  If you played the fifth case in the first game, it's very similar to that. You can dust for fingerprints, 
 identify footprints, recreate crime scenes, and other things. But only at specific times. Which 
 aren't really that often sadly. The main new feature is Perceive which is Apollo's ability to see 
 nervous habits when someone is lying. It takes the place of Psyche Locks from the second and third 
 game. It's kind of annoying because the thing you are looking for is so minute that you will often 
 overlook it. Everything else is pretty much the same.
  
  Sound: 9.5/10
  
  Since it's for DS the sound is much better quality. The only problem is that when characters from 
 the first three games make cameos they have the GBA sound clips. It's only really noticeable when 
 they go, "Objection!" and a new character goes, "Objection!" right after much clearer and louder. 
 Lots of new songs and also a lot of the songs from the original game which makes me happy.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10
  
  There are only four cases, but the fourth case is very long. The new 
 characters are nice but right now they aren't as charming as the original characters. Hopefully 
 in future games they will develop more. The cameos are really great but they only make a difference 
 if you've played the first three games. There were some characters that I really wish made cameos 
 but didn't. I found it really easy to tell who was the culprit right away even if I didn't know 
 all the details. The fourth case really makes everything worth it though. So, overall, not as good 
 as the Phoenix Wright trilogy, but still very good. And it's not really a spoiler to say that Phoenix 
 is in it. If you're a fan of the series you will like it. But as always, play the other ones first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mvidmaster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Phoenix Wright: AA was a revolutionary game for the DS, a game that hooked players with it's twisting 
 plot, endearing characters and humorous wit instead of it's gameplay (which is basically pressing 
 A over and over again) . However, the games sequels did little in the way of innovation, by the 
 time the third game came around, it was little more than a rehash. 
  
  Apollo Justice comes to us with a whole lot of oomph, but it just gets dragged down by the earlier 
 games flaws that were unaddressed. 
  
  The games main plot is only present in the 1st and 4th cases. The 3rd cases plot focuses on the 
 games prosecutor and his musical career, while the 2nd case is meant to introduce you to your sidekick 
 and to the hell that is investigating. The main plot focuses on now 33 year old Phoenix Wright 
 and his fall from grace, despite the game being called Apollo Justice. The game's main protagonist 
 has almost no backstory or character development, which in my mind is not acceptable unless the 
 protagonist is of the silent type. 
  
  While Apollo Justices two main characters, Apollo and Trucy, are very likeable, moreso even than 
 the original two. Apollo gives off that 
  siastic, almost innocent Mr. Smith Goes to Washington aura, and lacks much of Phoenix''s cynicism, 
 which is very refreshing. Trucy plays the part of the quirky female sidekick, but thankfully she 
 is much cuter and much smarter than Maya (let's face it, Maya's face just was not drawn very well) . 
 Unlike Maya's dumb-as-a-doornail routine, Trucy's quirkiness stem's from her personality and her 
 youthful enthusiasm. That being said, the rest of the game's characters are seriously lacking. 
 The game's *only* prosecutor after Wincedin Pain is just too much of a team player, helping Apollo 
 out with clues during the case instead of openly mocking him as a prosecutor should do to a defense 
 attorney. The judge seems to be less brainless and biased towards the prosecution as he was in 
 previous games, though he still provides humorous commentary for the trial.
  
  The biggest flaw in the Ace Attorney games that should have been taken out has again been left 
 in. That is of course, the investigating portion of the game, where you teleport between locations, 
 examining cluttered crime scene backdrops, talking to witnesses and presenting evidence. Evidence 
 must now be manipulated to gain the most information from them, and this could be plus on the one 
 hand that it makes the investigation more interesting and interactive, but on the other hand it 
 also just makes it longer and slows down the plot delivery. The biggest problem with this part 
 of the game is that you get almost no prompting as to what your supposed to do, so you are often 
 left clueless as to what scene you should be back tracking to, or what evidence you should be presenting 
 to some person, which makes for a tedious game of trial and error. The fact that the first case 
 of every Ace Attorney game gets on perfectly fine without going through this hell is proof that 
 investigation sections are totally unnecessary, and are just used to pad out the games play time.
 
  
  Mini-games have been added to the investigation sections to make them more interesting, but you 
 only get 1 or two of these mini-games for each case, so it really doesn't make them any more enjoyable. 
 In fact, I actually miss the magatama feature of the previous sequels, which made investigating 
 more like the trial.
  
  The meat of the game, the trials, are as good as ever, but with one debilitatingly bad new feature. 
 In the trials, you cross-examine witness testimonies and *present* evidence to prove that they 
 are lying. If you can't see the contradiction in the testimony, you can *press* a witness to reveal 
 more information. Profiles are no longer used to prove contradictions, which makes it easier to 
 decide which evidence to present. The penalty bar remains to punish anyone that does not save often, 
 but you can save your game at almost any time, so this isn't much of a problem. The only time you 
 can't save is if you are prompted by the judge to present evidence, though he will usually warn 
 you. The fourth case in the game promised a jury of six, which sounded really promising for new 
 gameplay during a trial, but the jury watch the trial off site via cameras, so they might as well 
 not exist. 
  
  Amazingly, a new feature introduced to the trial portion has tainted what would have been a thing 
 of perfection. Apollo Justice must use his magical vibrating bracelet to detect nervous tics that 
 witnesses display while lying. While "perceiving" in this way, Apollo goes into a tunnel vision 
 mode where he can only see a tiny portion of the witnesses body at a time, and scan them for the 
 give away twitch. Unfortunately, these twitches are rarely on the persons face where you would 
 think they would be (one twitch could only be found by looking at the witnesses armpit, wtf) . This 
 feature turned what was otherwise a logic game of comparing evidence to testimonies to find contradictions 
 into a guessing game, of trying to figure out which testimony the lie is in (the evidence offers 
 you no hints) and where the twitch is, and will almost gurantee a trip to GameFAQs unless you get 
 lucky. 
  
  If you have never played an Ace Attorney game, or have only played the first game, I highly recommend 
 this game, as it does stick to the Ace Attorney formula that makes the games so enjoyable and every 
 DS owner should play at least one Ace Attorney game. However, if you have already played through 
 the first three games, you might as well skip this one and save your money, since you won't really 
 be missing out on anything. Apollo Justice offered a slew of new innovations, but they ignored 
 the serie's primary weaknesses which overshadow the new features. Had this been the second game 
 instead of the fourth, those weaknesses could have been easily overlooked, and the innovations 
 would have made this game perfect, but the fact that we've already done this three times now and 
 they still haven't fixed the problems, along side introducing new ones by turning trials into guessing 
 games, really marred this title for me. A classic case of too little, too late.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermanjaro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I was kind of hesitant to buy this game since Phoenix Wright is not at the helm, but once i got 
 to know little Apollo Justice, I was hooked.
  
  I started out like any other reviewer. I opened to package, read the instruction manual (ok maybe 
 i didnt read the manual) , and then I stuck the game into my old, dusty DS lite that i havent played 
 in the last two months. 
  
  The screen faded in and the game started with a bang. Literally. Someone was shot. This is when 
 I was introduced to the new protagonist, Apollo Justice. He looks goofy with his spiky hair and 
 all-red suit, but he's got the same personality as Phoenix, except maybe not as good.
  
  Anyway, I'll skip to my opinions on the actual gameplay. It's essentially the same, as you'll be 
 investigating some and you'll be in the courtroom some. You get to look for clues, like always. 
 The Psyche-Locks from the last two games are gone, but its not a big loss. The investigating part 
 is the same as always, except with the new faces, but the courtroom is where all the new stuff 
 is. Pressing and objecting is all there still, but a new feature called Percieving is introduced. 
 Its basically when you cant find a contradiction in there testimony, you'll use percieving to scan 
 the witnesses body language, and youll find a tick the incriminates them. Although I find it odd 
 the Apollo gets away with it all the time, it is a pretty cool feature.
  
  Like I said, in essence its the same game as the last three, but with updated graphics and a pretty 
 strong cast of characters, I think I like where the series is headed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green-Fenril
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  The Ace Attorney series challenges the player to think logically using whatever evidence he or 
 she has at his or her disposal. The 4th instalment is no exception. 
  
  While the gameplay remains mostly unchanged from the 1st to 3rd games of the series, there are 
 a few small additions
  
  The first we really can't consider new, being in the forensic investigation that we have seen in 
 the first DS verison of the game through the Rise from the Ashes case. 
  
  The second is the Perception system. Think of it as the new Psyche-lock system, but different, 
 instead of seeing a person hold things back, you have to pick out certain habits of a person during 
 a trial.
  
  The third is the Jury system, which will be your final test in the game. It is as it is in today's 
 legal system, convince 12 jurors that your client is innocent. 
  
  Other than those two, the game remains the same. Apollo Justice; the new protagonist of the series, 
 is a rising star in the legal circle, his first case is to defend a fallen star. (Phoenix Wright 
 from the first 3 games, now disbarred) The first case acts as a launch pad for the game story wise, 
 which will come full circle at the end of the game, much like the first 3 games.
  
  What I found most appealing was the soundtrack, like the other three games, the music tone goes 
 with the situation, with the usual "Suspense" theme from the other games during problems, to the 
 amped up theme when Apollo goes on the attack.
  
  The only drawbacks in this title is the lack of new things, for the most part it's rehashed gameplay, 
 but the game itself is challenging and forces the player to use their head and think, as opposed 
 to find the target and blowing it up. Highly recommended for adventure types 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomoto5
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 10:11 pm PT
Review:  ok these is my review og these games from the saga of phoenix wright .
  The first thing i notice is the new definition not the best but is better than the others games 
 i play of phoenix wright , the scond thing is the music it sounds much better tham the others because 
 the organ piano is better and it sounds better for the only phownix wright only for nintendo ds 
 .
  The game play is really better becaouse these habe the game play of the case five of the Poenix 
 wright 1.
  The personaje of these game are very.
  my rate for these games is 10 because is the best game of the saga in phoenix wright o and these 
 is apollo justice these guy is not better than phonix but i need to acosumbrate to these char ok 
 gamespot these is my review of Apollo justice ace atorney and i wonder if the others Apollo justice 
 it goin to by most better than these 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spade_Crisis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, seeing this game progress through the story really surprised me. This is very original 
 ( The Phoenix Wright series were merely ports of GBA) and made from the roots of the DS. Giving 
 back the ability to view evidence from every angle again ( remember the first Wright game in the 
 5th case?) really surpassed my expectations. And remember when they have diagrams from birds-eye 
 view? All 2D? Well, NOW, you can expect that this game will have 3D effects. They view the crime 
 scene in 3D affect for a better understanding of the case. You can even move certain objects when 
 its in 3D effect. Definitely, worth the wait if you loved the Phoenix Wright series. You WILL find 
 this game very fun and addicting. The story is really great, too. The game hasn't lost its touch 
 yet. And guess what...
  *spoilor*
  Phoenix Wright makes his appearance =P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avataraang1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Apollo Justice Ace attorney is the new addition to the Pheonix wright series with a few new quirks. 
 If you have played any of the other Pheonix Wright games it has basically the same layout (Investigate, 
 Go to trial, Investigate, Trial again) . Your first trial has you defending Pheonix Wright. That 
 right. Pheonix Wright is no longer an attorney he is just a Pianist/Poker player now. In the game 
 you meet his daughter Trucy Wright (Adopted) and are followed by her Just like Maya followed Pheonix. 
 I dont want to get too much into the story but just to tell the Old Pheonix Wright players I've 
 only played 3 trials And have yet to hear about Maya and pearl Fey. In the game they introduce 
 3 new techniques.
  1-Ability to see Defendents nervous reactions to see if they are lying.
  2-You can check almost all items in the courtroom in a 3D perspective to find any fingerprints 
 or something of interest.
  3-Ability to match finger prints and toe prints (Lol)
  
  Pros
  -------
  Same Feel as the other games
  Interesting cases which are fun to solve
  
 New investigation and court techniques which make the game funner
  Good soundtrack
  Awesome Story ending
  Cons
  -------
  Some times game can be too hard for its own good
  
 So far there is no mention of old characters besides the new detective (Not gumshoe)
  Sometimes if this was a real courtroom you can solve the case in one second if your smart enough 
 to realize it which may get you angry and want to speed up the case 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braindead_hero
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Apollo Justice, I have been looking forward to this game for a while now, as a fan of the Phoenix 
 Wright series I was at first fairly disappointed to hear that there is a new lead character replacing 
 Phoenix Wright. I was worried the game would lose some of it's humour and most importantly spiky 
 hair. However, things are on top form with this new game in the gyakuten saiban series (as it is 
 no longer correct to call it the phoenix wright series) . This newest outing has been developed 
 for the Nintendo DS from the ground up. No more GBA ports as with the first three games so this 
 uses some more of the DS's power to good effect.
  
  GRAPHICS 8/10
  
  For the most part it uses 2D sprites, which all look very nice as there are a varied array of characters 
 all with several animations all very well drawn and the characters do not really look out of place 
 or weird in this game. Thats not to say there aren't any rather 'quirky' characters because there 
 are and they fit the tone of the game very well. New to this title is the inclusion of more 3D 
 effects, these were last seen in the final case of Phoenix Wright: Ace Attourney and have made 
 a welcome return along with more fleshed out cutscenes as well as what I can only describe as 3D 
 environmental effects used a couple of times. All of this looks very nice but still relies very 
 heavily on 2D sprites so I would like to see more 3D effects coming into play more often.
  
  STORY 9/10
  
  The story is really the main feature of this game and it is a good one. Each 
 trial has it's own story which will keep you entertained and guessing throughout. As the case develops 
 you will find yourself becoming very involved in the case and when there is a huge twist in the 
 case you will left think OMG! WTF! As well as the sotry within each case there is an underlying 
 story behind the game which carries you from trial to trial and without giving anything away does 
 involve characters from previous games at less than their best.
  
  LONGEVITY 6/10
  
  The story of this game will carry you through to the very end but thats about it. As soon as it's 
 all done with there is no reason what-so-ever to return to this game, to be honest with all previous 
 games in the series they were very much a play it through, trade it in, sort of affair. However 
 it will keep you going a while unless your some kind of freaky genius or just played the others 
 to death and have become an ace attourney yourself.
  
  GAMEPLAY 7/10
  
  As prevously mentioned this has been created from the ground up for the Nintendo DS so the touch 
 screen and microphone play a big part in this game. you can also use the control pad. However, 
 this is all still just a lesson in how to press the 'A' button but what else can you really expect 
 from this kind of game. There isn't a super brilliant gameplay mechanic but whats there works well 
 for the style of game it is.
  
  FUN 7/10
  
  This is a pretty fun game, but is very text heavy so if you want something quick and fun get something 
 else, this is a very involved game which requires thought and patience. Some parts can be frustrating 
 when you have no idea what to do, mostly in the investigation scenes, and can sometimes be a bit 
 dry. The trials are where the game really picks up and becomes very clever and funny and generally 
 really fun.
  
  OVERALL 7.4/10
  
  This is a good, solid game and if your a fan of the series definately a worthy addition and also 
 if your new to the series as this one doesn't really rely too heavily on previous game, however 
 there are references to previous games and your game will be enhanced by knowledge of the series, 
 but in depth knowledge of the series is not essential to the enjoyment of the game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
