-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Arkanoid DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/arkanoidds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Arkanoid's classic gameplay is timeless.
 140 levels and two different single-player modes to play them in.
 Multiplayer support for up to four with a single cartridge.
 Online leaderboards add replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 D-pad controls don't work as well as the stylus.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 17, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 6.3, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 108 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: Taito Corporation
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 17, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Arkanoid is as much fun today as it was 20 years ago, and the DS version is arguably the best yet. 
 

  In the beginning there was Pong. Then there was Breakout, and 10 years later there was Arkanoid. 
 Taito's bat-and-ball block breaker first appeared in arcades more than 20 years ago, and in the 
 years since it has graced numerous home computers and consoles. Arkanoid DS, which comes to North 
 America and Europe minus the paddle controller that it was bundled with in Japan last year, introduces 
 a handful of new features to the Arkanoid mix but thankfully doesn't do anything that's detrimental 
 to the classic gameplay. Multiplayer options, new power-ups, unlockable audio and visual options, 
 and the objective-based Quest mode make Arkanoid DS easy to recommend. The lack of a paddle (you 
 can import one) is disappointing and the D-pad option is best avoided, but the stylus works just 
 fine.  

  Arkanoid's traditional Clear mode should be the first one you check out, given that visiting levels 
 there unlocks them for use in the new Quest mode. Taking the controls of the Vaus (that's the name 
 of your bat at the bottom of the screen -- it's actually a spaceship) , Clear mode tasks you with 
 destroying every block in a level using a ball (some kind of sci-fi energy projectile, no doubt) 
 that rebounds off of everything it touches without ever losing momentum. You keep the ball alive 
 by using your bat to prevent it from falling into the bottom of the screen, and the longer it takes 
 you to hit all of the blocks, the faster the ball gets. Previous incarnations of Arkanoid worked 
 like pinball in that losing a ball was the same as losing a life, and anytime that happened you 
 just launched the next one until you ran out. Arkanoid DS does things a little differently: You 
 get only one ball, ever, and if you lose it then it's game over. A number of energy barriers that 
 span the bottom of the screen make it impossible for your ball to drop early on, but if you use 
 one you lose one, so starting every level with three barriers means that you get three lives. You 
 might think that having that many lives for every level makes Arkanoid DS too easy, but considering 
 that the game doesn't stop or slow down when you hit a barrier, the real difference between this 
 and previous games is just that this one keeps you playing at a more brisk pace.  

           Thirty years later, at least one of the Space Invaders still poses a threat.      

 
  Clear mode consists of 28 worlds arranged in an inverted pyramid shape. Each world is made up 
 of five levels, and your goal is to get from the bottom of the pyramid to the top by taking any 
 route you please. Every world that you beat along the way unlocks two new worlds, and by the time 
 you get to the last row, you can end the game with any of seven different worlds. Given that they 
 consist entirely of square bricks, level designs in Arkanoid DS are rarely much to look at, but 
 occasionally the bricks are arranged to create pictures of everyday objects or recognizable characters 
 from classic Taito games. Additional variety and challenge come in the form of blocks that take 
 two hits to destroy, blocks that move, and blocks that simply get in the way because they can't 
 be destroyed at all. Some of the level designs are truly fiendish toward the end of Clear mode, 
 and many are designed in such a way that even power-ups don't help much. For example, equipping 
 your Vaus with lasers is no help at all if the blocks that you need to shoot are hiding behind 
 an indestructible wall. Other power-ups in Arkanoid DS include a longer Vaus, multiball, additional 
 barriers, a powerball that can plow through multiple blocks, and more.  

  The same 140 levels from Clear mode appear in Quest mode, but there's no map to navigate, and you 
 can attempt to complete them in any order you like. Rather than tasking you with clearing every 
 block in a level, Quest mode hits you with level-specific objectives that must be completed either 
 within a time limit or without hitting the ball more than a specific number of times. For example, 
 you might have to clear all yellow blocks from a level within 45 seconds, or destroy 10 blocks 
 while only hitting the ball three times. Objectives like these force you to play quite differently, 
 and they're a great way to hone your skills before you check out the multiplayer options.  

           Unlockable visual options can enhance or detract from your experience, according to 
 taste.      

  Arkanoid DS supports both local wireless and online play for up to four people (using friend codes 
 or random matchmaking) in two different modes, and one copy of the game is all that you need to 
 play with up to three friends locally. Bust All mode is a race to see who can clear a level first, 
 whereas Bust Color mode is a race to see who can destroy all of the blocks of a specified color. 
 The levels that you play on are randomly selected from all that the game has to offer, and you 
 can keep an eye on your opponents while playing via small thumbnail images that appear alongside 
 your own play area. Multiplayer games play out in the same way that single-player games do, except 
 that any negative power-ups (power-downs, if you prefer) that you collect are passed on to your 
 opponents. Shrinking other players' bats and slowing their balls are perhaps the most obvious ways 
 to upset them, but multiplayer-specific pickups, such as one that randomly drops a handful of additional 
 blocks on opponents' screens, are also worth pursuing.  

  Regardless of whether you're playing solo or multiplayer, you're rewarded for almost everything 
 that you do in Arkanoid DS with points that serve as currency in the game's shop. Items for sale 
 include new background music, new sound effects, new block and Vaus graphics, and new artwork for 
 the backdrop. None of the unlockables impact the gameplay, and the additional audio options aren't 
 nearly as agreeable as the default setting, which combines electro music with sound effects straight 
 out of the '80s. But, if you've always dreamed of playing Arkanoid on a leopard-skin backdrop, 
 with a Vaus made of wood along with blocks that look like Space Invaders, now you can.  

  There's more than enough fun to be had with Arkanoid DS to justify its budget price tag, and the 
 multiplayer content and online leaderboards that compare your performances in the single-player 
 Clear mode ensure that there's no shortage of replay value if you're the competitive type. Arkanoid 
 was a great game in 1986 and it's still a great game in 2008. Arkanoid DS is even better. If you 
 have any interest whatsoever in destroying blocks with a bat and ball, you won't be disappointed. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jasonglen87
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  well its Arkanoid allright but thats it nothing special its a good game for passing time like on 
 the bus or when the wife is talking to you lol i was wanting somthing differnt from what i can 
 get on any games website on the web and i dident get it a bit dissapointed but worth playing i 
 would wait for it to come down in price wouldnt realy recomend payong more than 10 pound for this 
 sounds harsh but theres a lot off other really good games out there that you could be spending 
 your money on so good luck in finding the write game
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Remember Arkanoid? I sure do! It was one of my favorite arcade games. The concept was simple; using 
 a futuristic paddle, you deflect a ball for as long as possible while clearing a play field full 
 of multi-colored blocks. Now, it's back to entice an entirely new gaming generation on the DS -- with 
 some neat new features and excellent use of the stylus.
  
  The standard 1P Mode will have you plowing through seven out of twenty-eight zones laid out in 
 a pyramid. Each zone consists of five rounds, so you'll have to plow through a total of thirty-five 
 rounds. The game uses both screens so as to accommodate a long vertical play field. Compared to 
 previous Arkanoid games, the DS version gives you a lot of space to work with. Gameplay is as you'd 
 expect -- you take control of a paddle, which is actually a spaceship known as Vaus, and deflect 
 an "energy ball" for as long as you can -- destroying specifically-arranged, multi-colored blocks. 
 They aren't rectangular as was in the older versions of Arkanoid, so they're somewhat harder to 
 hit. Another key element of Arkanoid DS is a barrier found underneath your Vaus which prevents 
 the energy ball from falling into the pit below, and can withstand up to three hits. While certainly 
 a helpful component, the downside here is that if it so much as takes one hit, you will lose out 
 on a 1000 point Barrier Bonus awarded when you clear the Round. And, of course, the longer you 
 keep deflecting the energy ball, the faster it gets and the more difficult it is to maintain it.
 
  
  As is customary of the Arkanoid games, you will come across powerups found when you destroy blocks. 
 A lot of them are quite beneficial, such as stationary lasers, balls that stick to your Vaus like 
 super glue, an extended paddle, and so forth. Some items are also designed to foul you up, too -- there's 
 one where your paddle shrinks in size, and another that has you juggling three balls at the same 
 time. Don't be too surprised if you find yourself emitting a few drops of sweat from your brow 
 going into the first few rounds. You have the option of using the directional pad or the stylus 
 to move your Vaus around, but the stylus functionality is perhaps the best way of playing the game. 
 The stylus offers a greater degree of precision control because the pure reflex of the human right 
 hand (or left) makes for easy saves and close calls with lightning-quick energy balls. And it just 
 feels right. 
  
  There's also a Quest Mode which has you satisfying specific objectives when clearing stages. Some 
 of the objectives are dreadfully easy, while others will probably drive you to the point of insanity. 
 Either way, you'll be kept busy and the rewards are worth the effort. 
  
  And by rewards, I mean, points. You earn "Game Points" which can be used to purchase accessories 
 from the Shop that, in turn, allow you to customize individual play fields to your liking. Borders, 
 background images, sound effects, block designs -- even your Vaus itself can be changed. It is possible 
 to configure Clear Mode's individual zones with their own unique design templates. It's a neat 
 idea. It might have been better if you could build your own stages from scratch as well, but I 
 digress. The music is enjoyably quirky -- some of it is strange, but it doesn't distract you from 
 the game play. If anything, the soundtrack is quite relaxing and upbeat. Of course, if you don't 
 fancy it at all, there's the option of turning it off.
  
  Arkanoid DS on the Nintendo DS makes perfect sense. Excellent stylus functionality, great customization 
 options and the classic Arkanoid gameplay you've come to expect round out the affordable package 
 of only $20. Anyone looking for a challenging yet rewarding game would do well to look no further 
 than Arkanoid DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Arknoid is basicly Breakout but with lots of powerups. Fans of Arkanoid may be a little dissapointed, 
 because Arkanoid is usually played with a knob, and in the Japanese version, the game came with 
 a paddle that could plug into the GBA slot, but it never got to America, but you can always import 
 it ftom PlayAsia. com. Its a great way to kill a couple of hours.
  
  
  The Good: Lots of levels and worlds-Great soundtrack and SE's-Cool Multiplayer-A lot of customizable 
 options-Wifi leaderboards and Wifi play
  
  
  The Bad: The space between both screens can be a slight problem-No paddle included in the American 
 version
  
  
  Final Comments: An awesome game that appeals to anyone. And at $20, its a great deal. I was a little 
 skeptical about getting this one, but now I'm glad that I did cuz its great fun and highly addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadPSPAddict
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  There have been several attempts to bring this sort of game to the DS (nervous brickdown/brick 
 'em all to name a couple) but this is the first one that really works.
  
  The Good:
  Controls are excellent whether using the stylus or the d-pad (which is my preference) the vaus (bat 
 really) moves smoothly and consistantly accross the screen.
  The gameplay is classic arkanoid (I spent hours playing Arkanoid 2 - the revenge of Doh on the 
 atari ST when I was a kid) with the concept of choosing a route through to the end, not after each 
 level but after each set of 5 levels. Great gameplay offering multiple routes to the finish and 
 making re-play value immense - I haven't seen all the levels yet!
  There is also a nice twist for gaming on the go - each level has a secondary objective accessed 
 in "quest" mode. Once the level has been played in standard "clear" mode it is availble in quest 
 - however the twist is the objective is different. For example, clear all in 45 secs/clear a certain 
 colour in 30 secs/hit a certain brick with only 5 bounces from the vaus etc. This are an ideal 
 way to practice and to hit that all important "5 mins waiting for the bus" scenario.
  On-line multiplayer - only good thigs to say about this, sometimes have to wait to find an opponent 
 but once in a game it is smooth with the ability to disrupt the opponents game with "power downs". 
 Lots of fun and re-playability - plus an online score board!!
  
  All this and sold in the bargin price bracket.
  
  The bad:
  About the only negative thing 
 I can think of to say is that the actual playable screen is a little narrow and the split screen 
 sometimes cause you to "lose" where the ball is coming from.
  
  Overall:
  What are you waiting for!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7-wonders
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:59 am PT
Review:  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO VB VB VB VB VB VB VB VB VB VB VB HHHHHH HHH HHHH HH HHH HHHH HHH HHHH HHHHH HHHH 
 HHHHHH V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V 
 V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V V
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SOV VVVVV VVVVV VVVVVV VVVVVV VVV VVVV VV VVVVVVVV VVV VVVVVVV VVVVVVV VVV VVV VV 
 V V VV V V VV VVVVVV VVVVVVVV VVV VVVVVV VV V VVVVVVV VVVVVVV VVVVV VV VV VVV VVV VVVVVV V V VVV 
 VVV VVVVVVVV VVVVVVV VVVVV VVVVVV VVV V V V VVV VVVV VVVVVV VVV VV VV VVVVV VVV VVVVVV V V V VVVVV 
 VVV VVVV VV VVV VVVVVVVV VVVVV VV VVV VVVVV V VVVV V VVVV VVV VVVV VV V V VV V VVV V VVV VVVVVV 
 VVVVVVV VVVVV VVVVV VVV VVVVVVV VVV VVVVVV VVVVV V VVVVVVV VV VV VV VVVV VV VVV VVVV VVVVVV VVV 
 VVVVVV V VVVVV VV VV VVV VVVV V VVV V VVV VVVVVV VVV V VVVVVV VVVV VVVVVV V V V VVVVV VVVVV VVV 
 VVV VV VV VV V V VVVV VVV VVV VVV VVVVV VVVVV VVV VVVVV VVVV V VV V VVV VVV V VVV VVVVV VVVVV VVVVV 
 VVVV VVVVV VV VVV VVVV V VVVV VV VVVVV VVVV
  SO -SO SO-SO SO-SO S O-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO 
 SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO 
 SO-SO
  SO-SO SO-SO SO-SO
  SO-SO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: one5841
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  It's been many years since arkanoid was released for all those systems including commodore 64. 
 Now in 2008 comes arkanoid ds. Anyone that loves breaktheblock games WILL love this one. This game 
 uses stylus or control pad game play and even uses an optional pad wheel. This game, created by 
 Square Enix has some of the BEST graphics you may EVER see for the DS. The game play is quite fair 
 except the fact of the narrow game windows. The game is fully customizable with some of the best 
 music for DS and custom backgrounds, and tile animations. Also customize your Vaus! Go wireless 
 with download or multi-card play to vs. in an action packed see who can clear the round first game! 
 This may sound fun already but wait till you know you can go Wi-Fi and submit you high score, play 
 with friends registered on your friend Roster and even go worldwide for a match with a person somewhere 
 around the world.
  
  Arkanoid DS is one of the best games so far released for the DS and I'd recommend this game to 
 anyone who likes breakout games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snickersangel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  It is highly addictive and great wi-fi play , but sometimes disconnections and long waiting. The 
 background music can use some improvements, it is retro, ughhh!!! More power ups should be needed. 
 I advice to always use the stylus, instead of the control pad, cause when using the control pad 
 it sticks sometimes. 35 rounds seem way to short to me I have finished the game about 13 times 
 already. The Quest games are so addictive, but some of them are really impossible to beat, but 
 there are many. The two split screens are making it hard to see where the balls are coming down. 
  
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
