-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Art Style: AQUIA
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/artstyleseriesaquario/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good twist on block-matching puzzle mechanic.
 Different block shapes add plenty of replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Timer system makes it too tough to recover if you fall behind.
 Lacklustre presentation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  6, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.0, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 27 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Skip Ltd.
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Apr 5, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Aquia is a fun puzzle game that combines Tetris and Bejeweled with a unique twist, but annoying 
 quirks prevent it from shining as brightly as it should. 

  Art Style: Aquia may look like another Tetris/Bejeweled clone at first, but dive under the surface 
 of this DSiWare aquatic-themed game and you'll find a puzzler with its own unique take on the genre 
 that can be as fun and addictive as its well-known progenitors. Unfortunately, it's not all smooth 
 sailing, given that Aquia's punishing timer mechanic saps a lot of what makes puzzle games so enjoyable, 
 resulting in a game that doesn't build on its strong foundations.  

           The darkness at the top of the screen will creep down and consume you if you're not quick 
 enough.      

  Aquia's playfield is a long column that stretches across the DSi's top and bottom screens. Inside 
 the column are different-colored blocks, and it's your job to make these blocks disappear by matching 
 three or more of the same color horizontally or vertically. To achieve this, you're given a set 
 of blocks that float outside of the main column -- you can push these blocks into the column to make 
 matches, but doing so will push out blocks on the other side of the column, which you'll then use 
 to reinsert and make new matches.  

  This is confusing at first, but it's actually quite intuitive and will take no more than a few 
 minutes to get your head around. The game mechanic of matching blocks/gems/stones/pills has been 
 around for a while now, and Aquia's twist on this well-worn formula is fun in its own right. In 
 fact, Aquia gives you three twists, or in this case, three differently shaped block sets in which 
 to play the main game with. The default is two vertical blocks, but you can also choose to play 
 with two horizontal blocks or four blocks arranged in a square. Your tactics and strategies will 
 have to change significantly depending on which shape block you're using, so it's almost like having 
 three different puzzle games wrapped into one.  

  You'll have to do this with a sense of urgency. The longer you go without matching blocks, the 
 darker the DSi screens will get (starting from the top and moving down to the bottom) , making the 
 game much more difficult because the visible section of the playfield shrinks. It's here where 
 Aquia starts to sink; decreasing the amount of visible playfield wipes out any chance you have 
 of making that dramatic, last-minute comeback that makes other puzzle games so much fun. There's 
 no way back if you start falling behind too much in Aquia, no well-planned flurry of block-matching 
 activity to pull yourself back from the brink. There's only the creeping darkness, a harsh penalty 
 that will no doubt frustrate many.  

  All of Aquia is submerged within an underwater theme, with a little human scuba diver on the right 
 side of the screens as your visual indicator of how you're progressing through the game's levels. 
 The more blocks you match, the deeper the diver goes, and once the diver is at the bottom, the 
 playfield resets and a new level begins. If you're playing in the game's main mode, these levels 
 are interspersed by a minichallenge that tasks you with putting back together a shape that has 
 been jumbled up within the column playfield. Once again, you'll have limited time to do this, and 
 if you fail, you'll have to start the entire level from scratch, which is extremely frustrating 
 if you've just spent the last 20 minutes on clearing a section only to fail at the last hurdle. 

           The serenity of the blue landscape is marred by the ever-ticking timer.      

  In 
 addition to its main, level-progressing mode, Aquia has an endless mode that challenges you to 
 last for as long as possible. There's no multiplayer, so the game's longevity comes from the three 
 differently shaped blocks that you can use. Art Style: Aquia looks clean and simple, and is at 
 best functional in its presentation. However, you can change the background "aquariums" you're 
 playing in via special unlocks achieved while playing the game.  

  You'll have to play quite a bit of Art Style: Aquia to unlock all of the different aquariums available, 
 but its frustrating quirks may mean that you'll leave the game well before you see them all. But 
 if you can look past the murk of its shrinking playfields, Aquia is a strong puzzle game at its 
 core and a good purchase for its 500 Nintendo point asking price.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sir-Nova
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 8:07 am PT
Review:  I saw the GameSpot review and realized this might not be the greatest game but it had the Get More 
 Than Your Money's Worth symbol on it. I bought it on the DSi Shop not expecting too much.... I was 
 playing and started to think GameSpot was right and it wasn't that great. In other words, it takes 
 a while to get down exactly what your supposed to do and how. But once you get in the hang of it, 
 it's a really great game! I COMPLETELY disagree with the GameSpot Reviewer who said there are no 
 big comebacks, with furious puzzle-solving. He's got it all wrong. The blackness that come to swallow 
 you up is the best part! *You think you're about to lose... but the third glowing block appears. 
 You rush to get it. But your screen is getting blacker and blacker and you can't see where you're 
 putting the blocks. Then the screen get's bright! You did it! You can breathe now!* Sometimes the 
 game just makes you feel smart! The only grudge I have with the game is when you don't have any 
 glowing blocks and the screen is mostly dark, then basically all you have to do is move up and 
 down a repeatedly tap A to hold of the darkness for a few seconds. Though it doesn't last very 
 long, you could get a lot farther in the game if you did that instead of thinking about playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korino55
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 11:12 am PT
Review:  Gasping for air, you feel your senses failing. Yet you carry onwards, racing the clock in hope 
 to reach the bottom. You realize there's no chance at making it. Just as all hope is lost... light 
 floods the field, illuminating your goal! In relief you exhale the breath you didn't realize you 
 were holding, and continue to reach your destination.
  
  At a glance AQUIA is like any other puzzler: simple graphics and a field of blocks. After the moment 
 it takes to learn how the controls work, you'll soon become lost in the awesome game play. The 
 core objective of the game is to string three or more colored squares together. You play as one 
 of three pieces (a square, a long rectangle, and a wide rectangle) in two different game types 
 (free and timed) . Even in free play, the ominous darkness will creep up on you. The darkness (starting 
 from the top screen and slowly falling down to the bottom) blankets blocks in an inky black. In 
 the darkness it's still possible to create combos, but you're blind as to what you're doing. There 
 is, however, one type of block that you can see in the darkness. The luminous blocks sprout into 
 the game at random times. When strung together, they abolish any darkness on the screen at the 
 time; making the darkness an exciting addition.
  
  When you insert the blocks in the column, an equal amount will pop out of the other side. You'll 
 keep matching colors until you run out of time or reach your goal. Your progress is shown on the 
 left by a scuba diver slowly swimming to the goal along a chart. To complete the level you must 
 reach the goal, to reach the goal you must constantly be pairing blocks together (thus the game) .
 
  
  When all is said AQUIA delivers a powerful, yet fairly simple puzzler. The clock and darkness makes 
 the game surprisingly immersive, which has left me feeling like I just took a dive on more then 
 one occasion. Topping it all off is the price: a mere 500 points. This is a great on-the-go game, 
 and a must for puzzle fans.
  
  Also: Opposed to what Randolph said, you can fight the darkness in two ways (pairing blocks or 
 pairing the luminous blocks) , making it an exciting feature that does allow you to pull last minute 
 come backs instead of being a game-diminishing attribute. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
