-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Asphalt: Urban GT 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/asphalturbangt2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Straightforward, fun arcade racer.
 Gorgeous, smooth visuals.
 Healthy variety of events.
 Tons of licensed cars and parts to mess with.
 Fixes many of the handling and collision inconsistencies from the first game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 CPU is a pushover.
 Audio is generic and mostly forgettable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 6.5, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 189 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Virtuos
Genre: Racing
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Asphalt: Urban GT 2 is a fun and visually impressive arcade-style racer, even if it is just an evolutionary 
 upgrade of the original game. 

  One of the more pleasant surprises during the Nintendo DS launch was Asphalt: Urban GT, a racing 
 game from Ubisoft and Gameloft. Everybody expected the worst, since the game had the misfortune 
 of being released for Nokia's much-maligned N-Gage platform at around the same time. However, those 
 who gave it a chance and played it discovered a fun arcade-style racer that actually did a good 
 job of flexing the system's 3D capabilities. Word of mouth must have led to decent sales, because 
 the sequel has just been published. Asphalt: Urban GT 2 picks up where the first game left off. 
 The underlying gameplay and graphics haven't changed much, but there are many more cars, tracks, 
 and events to pick from this time around. Motorcycles have also been added to the mix, and some 
 of the kinks have been ironed out, specifically ones concerning the physics and handling that made 
 the original game seem a bit rough around the edges. Taken together, these modest upgrades make 
 for a sequel that's meatier and more polished than its predecessor, even if the nuts and bolts 
 are really just more of the same.  

           Asphalt 2 is an intense arcade-style racer.     

  A good way to describe Asphalt: 
 Urban GT 2 in comparison with its contemporaries would be to call it a mash-up of Ridge Racer, 
 Burnout, and Need for Speed Underground. The majority of race events involve completing three laps 
 around a city course against a field of seven other vehicles. Cars tend to drift all over the place, 
 to the point that you'll often find yourself going through curves at 45- or 90-degree angles. Obviously, 
 this isn't a sim. Most of the time, you just have to mash the gas button and do your best to steer 
 through the turns. When you need an extra burst of speed, you can kick in the nitrous. The game 
 gives you extra nitrous, along with some serious bonus cash, for nudging opponents and getting 
 into close scrapes with traffic. Collisions with oncoming cars will stop you cold and suck some 
 money out of your bonus purse, while rear-ending the cars traveling ahead of you will send them 
 sailing off the course and increase your bonus total without so much as dampening your forward 
 speed. When you've caused too much mayhem, the cops will take notice of you and give chase. If 
 a cop car bumps you into a wall, you'll stop for a few seconds and end up paying a fine. Between 
 races, you'll find yourself constantly spending money to add another of the more than 50 different 
 real-world cars to your garage, or to outfit any of the cars you already own with a variety of 
 performance and body upgrades.  

  As arcade racers go, Asphalt: Urban GT 2 is exciting and hectic, although it may be too easygoing 
 for some. Ratcheting the nitrous up to three bars, outrunning the cops, and slamming opponents 
 into walls are all the sorts of things that add up to great fun, but the thrill fades somewhat 
 once you realize that the CPU does a lousy job of keeping pace or taking revenge. If you pick your 
 most tricked-out car, you'll blast past the pack and hold first place for pretty much the entire 
 race. As crazy as it sounds, the best way to keep the thrill level up is to pick a low-end vehicle. 
 You'll feel as though you're part of the pack that way, and you'll get to trash your opponents 
 more often. The addition of motorbikes to the vehicle roster is cool and new for the sequel, although 
 their inclusion hasn't made much of a practical impact. They tend to slide more, and they can use 
 the hoods of oncoming cars as makeshift jump ramps; otherwise, they handle the same as cars do. 
 A more significant improvement is the way they've tightened up the handling and physics, such that 
 the cars feel heavier and the artificial intelligence players are no longer able to pass through 
 walls and traffic like they could in the first game. Now, when you shove opponents into oncoming 
 traffic, they're going to be out of commission for a few seconds.  

  The variety of events helps to keep things fresh. In the arcade mode, you can pick and choose from 
 single races, time attacks, cop chases, bandit chases, and elimination events. The cop and bandit 
 chase events are particularly interesting because they have you running from the cops or chasing 
 down perps for an entire race. In the evolution mode, which is basically a career mode, you'll 
 tackle roughly 60 different championships pieced together from normal race, duel race, elimination 
 race, and radar events. The elimination and radar events can truly pose a challenge, because one 
 ill-timed crash can leave you at the back of the pack right before a cutoff marker or slow you 
 down so that you can't reach the speed required to pass the radar test.  

  It also helps that the game has the sweet 3D visuals and fast action that people crave from an 
 arcade racer. Cars are large and nicely detailed. The 3D engine has no problem pushing the eight 
 participating cars, a bunch of traffic cars, the multilane streets, and all of the various buildings 
 lining each course. Buildings and trees look sharp and colorful, and every track has a healthy 
 assortment of signs, garbage cans, and other sidewalk decorations that you can smash through. The 
 frame rate does hiccup once in a while, but overall the action is smooth. Anyone who played the 
 first game will be happy to learn that road draw-in and building pop-up are less obvious in the 
 sequel. Most of the time, roads and buildings in the distance slowly fade into view instead of 
 just popping into existence. About the only annoyance with the visuals is that objects and curves 
 in the distance sometimes appear distorted, which can cut back on the time you have to plan for 
 a drift or avoid an obstacle up ahead. It's the same sort of distortion that you see in every DS 
 game that has to scale detailed graphics on the system's low-resolution screen. After you've run 
 a couple of laps on each course, you probably won't be bothered by it. The generic sound effects 
 and rockabilly music that accompany the visuals don't make as much of an impression as the 3D graphics 
 do, but they'll get the job done without sending you rushing to mute the volume.  

           While racing, you'll drift through turns, kick in the nitrous, and slam opponents into 
 walls. Just watch out for the cops.     

  Compared with the first Asphalt: Urban GT, the sequel is an evolutionary update. The graphics are 
 a little cleaner and the handling and physics are more consistent, but the overall look and feel 
 has carried over relatively unchanged. The addition of motorbikes is noteworthy only in the visual 
 sense, as you don't have to change your driving tactics one bit when you're on two wheels -- you 
 can rear-end cars and send them sailing off the course just as easily with a bike as you can with 
 a car. The primary distinguishing factor between Asphalt 2 and its predecessor is that the sequel 
 serves up a whole bunch more content. There are 14 different tracks to race on and more than 50 
 vehicles to collect and upgrade in this new game, as opposed to the nine tracks and roughly 30 
 vehicles found in the original. The sequel also boasts twice as many championships in its career-style 
 evolution mode, and its arcade mode features a new bandit chase event that lets you see how long 
 you can outrun the cops in a "three strikes and you're out" format. Multiplayer in the sequel consists 
 of the same one-off race, three-race championship, and cop chase events that the original game 
 had, although now there are obviously more vehicles and tracks to pick from.  

  Anyone who liked the first Asphalt: Urban GT will probably enjoy the sequel, too. It's more of 
 the same, but that's not a terrible thing in this case. If you never played the first game and 
 you happen to enjoy arcade-style racers, then you should definitely check out Asphalt: Urban GT 
 2. The CPU is a pushover at times, but the hectic thrills and enjoyable presentation more than 
 make up for that.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (14 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 3, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  Man, I think I must have tried every street racing game to come along on DS. Sure, I've got my 
 Mario Kart and I love it, but I'm talking about street racing... different cup of tea. Finally! 
 Finally I find one without all this unnecessary and, in most cases, un-fun realism. I just want 
 a fun, arcade street racer, and I have found it with GT2.
  
  Now, one or two of the Need for Speed games on DS were fun enough, but tracks were always excessive 
 in their design, and the cars were designed to be middle of the road -- not quite arcade, not quite 
 simulation style. I can sympathize with people who want a racing simulator, but generally speaking, 
 I don't.
  
  GT2 controls very simplistically. You've got acceleration, brake and boost -- that's about all 
 you have to worry about. Cars drift with ease -- I don't have to slow down to a crawl and hug corners 
 -- and it's just good, old-fashion, arcade fun.
  
  Asphalt 2 also looks really good. It's got some attractive car models and tracks, and lots of variety. 
 The music is enjoyable, as are the sound effects, and the presentation and system of incentives 
 work really well.
  
  If you're looking for a more rigid driving experience that is believable, this probably isn't the 
 game for you. However, if you're shopping for a really fun, arcade-style, street-racing experience, 
 I can't think of another game out on DS right now that tops GT2. Content-wise, there's a lot to 
 do. Sure, you can engage in multiplayer, but personally, I've given up on that. I think it's best 
 taken as a single-player thing. Either way, though, you'll get your money's worth here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JeffNipples
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  This game has a lot to offer for a game thats cheap most places I have seen it at least. I bought 
 this game for 20 dollars new and am not disappointed a bit, in fact I'm very pleased, its far better 
 than I thought it would be. It has an "Evolution" mode in which you face direct challenges the 
 games give you where you have to do the direct task in the time given or score the score given 
 and so on. The arcade mode is fun too. You get new tracks unlocked with the more races you win. 
 More races won=more tracks you have. Not only that but you get to play other modes within arcade 
 mode such as cop chase where you are the cop chasing down the bandits or you can play a mode where 
 you simply have to shake the cops over and over. All of these modes earn you money in arcade mode 
 and the more money you have the more vehicles become unlocked. You get bikes, cars, garbage trucks, 
 cop cars... its got it all
  
  Overall there is lots to unlock and play, multiple game modes and new cars to unlock with every 
 single race you beat. Fun game, it would be worth it to me even if it cost twice as much as what 
 I found it for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbeebis
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  I don't own the game and I don't regret this. Actually my friend lend it for 2 days. I really felt 
 bad for him when I first turned it on! 
  Of course game looked good for first time, but after countless and easy taken wins I started to 
 really hate it. In fact I was amazed 'bout Moby - Lift me up 
  
  First things first. It cost probably 35 bucks but I don't care. I think for that price I could 
 buy a great GC game or at least put a money a side for PS3 game.
  Sound was awful - that police sirens which was taken from The Sims Bustin' Out was just pathetic, but 
 I liked soundtracks!
  Graphics - at the first look - oooooOOOoooooo - but later WTF! Just look, at San Francisco - that 
 train don't have a wheels it looks like it's sticked to ground,
  and the wheels, the bloody wheels from nice spinning 3D objects has been transformed in ugly ,low 
 rez ,2D round shaped, unspinning..... something.
  The overall glitches - oh, It's hardly to describe that pathetic lagging menu. 
  
  Game really 
 sucks and I mean It. I have not heard any good things from my friend who lend me it. Oh, and if 
 it matters I finished game under that two days!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RKSK
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Asphalt 2: Urban GT is a racing game for the DS. It is the second game in the series, with new 
 features like crotch rockets (motorcycles) The Graphics: The graphics aren't bad at all, but could 
 be way better. A prime example of the potential is Mario Kart DS. If it had better graphics it 
 would make the game a heck of alot more enjoyable. The Sound: Okay, I won't lie, the sound... SUCKS! 
 Well why would you want to listen to techno and the engine doesn't even sound as good as a lawnmower! 
 The Gameplay: The gameplay is what you'd find in most arcade races. You pick a race and win some 
 kind of way to upgrade like points or cash. The better part is that you get cars while you win 
 tournaments, so after all, it isn't a half bad way to play. I rate this game 7.0 Overall, its a 
 good racing game, but still look at your options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prankster_33
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I'v been looking for a great racer on the DS other than Mario Kart DS, and I have found it. The 
 cars in this game are great . Theres over 44 real cars, and it even has my favorite Corvette Stringray!! 
 The music in the game is pretty lame and forgettable, and the AI is stupid and very slow, which 
 makes the game a away to easy, but thats about the only thing that is bad about the game! Everything 
 else is awesome! I brough a copy for only $20 *NEW*, so if you looking for a awesome DS racer, 
 other than Mario Kart this is the game to get! For $20 its worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnybunny35
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  Going into the store to pick this game up, I was very anzious to play it and couldn't wait to get 
 home to my beloved DS. I own the first one in addition to this, and that is one of my most played 
 games, so I had very high expectations. But playing the game, I realized that it was the same game 
 but with more locations, more cars, and driving controls that were a little bit different from 
 the first one. So by the time that I beat it I was pretty bored with it. I got it for a very good 
 price though, so I am overall a happy gamer. Plus the music that is played at the beginning is 
 the worst song that I have ever heard in my life. Seriously, it's terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bibblebobbyson
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Asphalt: Urban GT 2 is a fairly pleasent arcade racer to play. It's really enjoyable once you play 
 it. It has alot of features, vehicles and tracks.
  
  The tracks are set around the world. You can race in the streets of NY, zoom by the Eiffel Tower, 
 cruise down the hills in San Fransisco and alot more. I wish they had one in Canada, ey?
  
  The vehicle selection is huge. You can pick exotics like Lamborghini and Mercedes, there's also 
 bikes like Ducati and Kawasaki, trucks and SUVs like the Dodge Ram or the Hummer H2, muscles like 
 Corvettes and tuners like Nissans or Mitsubishis. Now you don't have to be freakin' rich to have 
 all of them!
  
  There is also a female pop group featured in it, called the Pussycat Dolls. They are featured after 
 your races and make sexy poses (sexy to some people) . I like this game alot 'cause of this! jk.
 
  
  The graphics are satisfying, but could've been better. The cars look good, though.
  
  The sound not that good, The music is pretty lame, Moby music makes me want to listen to Hilary 
 Duff! It's that bad! The engines sound like a high-speed blender more than anything!
  
  The value is great! I got it for $20 and it is very satisfying for the price I got it for so it 
 was a smart buy!
  
  The opponents are so slow you're guaranteed to win!
  
  So overall I like this game alot! I recommend it to any race fan out there! So if you get it, make 
 sure that you have a MP3 player or something to listen to something decent that doesn't suck as 
 much as Hilary Duff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatballsofwat
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  This is a really fun game at first, but after a while it just gets too easy, even on hard mode. 
 In evolution mode you can get a gold cup every time which makes it no challenge to unlock the ultimate 
 car.
  It is easy to lap CPUs (in some races you can lap everyone) . Gameloft could of easily made other 
 racers challenge you and not get smashed down so easily. Potentially this game could be really 
 good, if they just made it a bit more challenging. The licensing of the cars and the way you can 
 unlock them from earning money in races is good, but it doesn't make up for the easy difficulty. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubiseewaba
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game and you should try it out. For one thing the vehicle selection is very 
 nice. You can have Lamborghinis, Hummers and even Kawasaki motorcycles. The courses are really 
 detailed and have nice graphics of 2D and 3D. They are also featured in cities from around the 
 world.
  
  The graphics overall are the best on the DS with an exception to Mario Kart and Diddy Kong Racing.
 
  
  The Arcade mode is really fun if you want to just drive around on courses or want to tackle illegal 
 street racers.
  
  The Evolution mode is fun and takes quite a while to finish iall the championships, but in the 
 end it's worth your time.
  
  The Multiplayer mode is fun but the Multi-Card setup is very lousy if you want to race a friend 
 who doesn't have the game.
  
  The Sounds in it are actually pretty good. The music is technoish but it is not as bad as some 
 people say. The FXs of the cars are very good, the engines don't sound as realistic as what you'd 
 hear in real life but overall it still sounds good. When the race is finished you have the lower 
 screen taken over by a Pussycat Dolls member trying to make a sexy pose so this makes it less suitable 
 for younger players.
  
  This game is worth your money and you should buy it or if you can't, rent it if you know somewhere 
 that rents games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Headpin
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I struggled hard to find complaints with Urban Asphault 2. With Arcade Modes and a Career Mode, 
 44 unlockable vehicles, 62 Chanpionships and 14 Tracks, the game's longevity impressed me, considering 
 it is an arcade racer.
  
  The graphics are also something that puts other games in it's genre to shame. Each track boasts 
 vibrant colours and unique landscapes that make driving through them a pleasure. The licensed car 
 models are also well-textured and characteristic of their real life counterparts so much so that 
 you can easily identify them in the distance whilst in the heat of a race.
  
  The handling of each vehicle however seems too responsive for its own good. Your car tail will 
 swing unrealistically when turning corners which may put you off initially, but this is nothing 
 you can't get used to after your first couple of races.
  
  The main draw of this title is it's blistering speed and Burnout-like race experience all at a 
 smooth consistent frame-rate. Using Nitro Boosts to regain traction after sharp turns and catapulting 
 rivals into the barriers will become second nature. Burnout fans will find themselves at home in 
 no time.
  
  The game unfortunately is let down by one major factor which is a shame because the rest of the 
 package is ultimately a blast. The difficulty is far too easy. You'll end up never needing to upgrade 
 your car because the CPU is such a push-over. Often you'll find yourself lapping opponents.
  
  Nonetheless it's hard not to recommend this game purely based on it's fast, pick up and play, 
 arcade style and gorgeous graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jayayess1190
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is a lot more fun than I than I thought it would be, even though it is extremely EASY. 
 I even have the settings on hard , yet I still win every race. This is much better than the first 
 Asphalt game. There are tons of cars to choose from, ranging from cheap Volkswagens to expensive 
 Aston Martins and Mercedes Benz's. The graphics are good. In the races there are multiple ways 
 to add bonus dollars to your cash total. But one thing that is a little annoying is that every 
 time you crash, you loose $1000. The sound sucks. The Moby song Lift me Up is played every time 
 you enter the main menu. There are only a couple other songs to listen too when racing, which are 
 equally bad. The car and motorcycle engine sounds are whiny and annoying. They all sound like a 
 video game engine and not a real car engine.
  
  There are two main game play modes, Evolution in which you complete races, earn money to unlock 
 cars and gain gold trophies, and Arcade in which you are the cop and chase bad guys, or pick a 
 car and race it.
  
  Two of the Pussycat Dolls are in this game. They show up as a picture in a menu after your race 
 is complete. They show themselves with a bra and panties on.
  
  Compared to Need for Speed: Carbon, this game is much longer. In both games the graphics are good 
 and the tracks repeat. In Asphalt you keep racing on the same tracks over and over, until you have 
 memorized the layout. Just as in Carbon, you race the tracks forward and reverse multiple times. 
 There are customization options like brakes, tires, larger engines, and paint jobs. Over all this 
 game is fun and should keep you occupied for days. Especially if you want to buy every car, like 
 the Aston which costs over $700,000. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercedes_5
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  This is an unrealistic and 'on rails' game.
  however it has its own brilliance. it has very good graphics for the ds and is very playable.
 
  the funniest thing in the game is probably the fact that speed cameras actually pay you. your 
 chance to play the british goverment without a boring political mess!
  The modes are exciting and varying, and there are many cars to choose from.
  This vs. the ds 
 version of carbon, the definate winner is urban! one deffinatly worth buying.
  However sound is its weakest area, though the menu music by 'moby' sounds amazing coming out of 
 the ds, the same song is played every time on the menus and in the races, plus they are boring 
 songs. still, that should not deter you from urban 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  At the risk of losing all of my agreement ratings for this, I've decided to add a few more things 
 to it in the interests of full disclosure.
  
  OK, so you are probably wondering which one of the two recent racing releases for the DS are truly 
 worth your hard-earned birthday/allowance money.... well, worry not, I've played them both, and 
 will express my views head to head on all the relevent factors. if you want to skip over the details 
 and get to the bottom line, then scroll down to the bottom.
  
  Graphics:
  NFS: Carbon wins hands-down. Beautifully rendered tracks with very smooth flowing action, and that 
 great blurring effect that gives the NFS franchise it's look . Nice gleaming effects off the cars 
 as well. The only downside is that it can be difficult to tell when a vehicle is in your path until 
 you're practically on top of it.
  
  Asphalt Urban GT2 (AUGT2) has more cartoony graphics, that are slightly choppy, probably to give 
 that 'moving in a reaaaally fast car feel', which might have been fine if I hadn't just experienced 
 what NFS: C had to offer. The only thing AUGT2 had going for it graphics wise was they put over-emphasis 
 on the headlights/tail-lights of the other vehicles, meaning you can see them a mile away and can 
 more easily avoid them.
  
  Car control:
  AUGT2 wins by a nose. The cars are very easily controlled, and responsive. NFS: C, while control 
 is decent, still has that slightly loose feel to it, making you always feel a bit out of control. 
 I will admit, however, that at times the steering for AUGT2 seems a bit sluggish, so I found myself 
 grinding against the side railing on a steep turn. This, however, is compensated for by a very 
 easy-to-grasp drifting technique.
  
  Car Physics:
  Neither one wins here... both are relatively arcade-like, AUGT2 slightly moreso. If you want a true 
 car-sim, neither of these offerings will satisfy you.
  
  Gameplay:
  AUGT2 wins hands down. In NFS: C, you play through a series of races in different neighborhoods, 
 which unlock new features for cars, and advances the story. All in all, the game only lasts about 
 8 hours. The extra games are merely repetitions of what you find in-game. Granted, each track has 
 lots of extra shortcuts to it that AUGT2 doesn't have, but that doesn't do much to extend the life 
 of this one.
  
  AUGT2, however, has multiple *different* game types, including a career mode, cop-chase, bandit-survival, 
 and so on. You earn money every time you win at something, and can use that cash to upgrade, unlock, 
 or buy a new vehicle (from a VERY large selection) .
  
  Also, AUGT2 offers you the chance to ride motorbikes, something not found in NFS: C. The control 
 of the bikes is somewhat sketchy, but still fun.
  
  Finally, AUGT2 will toss in the odd cop-chase if you go offroad too much, ram too many vehicles, 
 or damage too much property. If the cop takes you down, you lose cash. If, on the other hand, you 
 take the cop down, you earn it. The difficulty level of avoiding the cops increases the more wanted 
 you are (shown on a wanted meter) . They start out with motorcycle cops, then cruisers, then sportscar-cruisers, 
 and finally, choppers...!
  
  No cops anywhere to be seen in NFS: C.
  
  Music:
  NFS: C wins by a landslide here. Decent enough assortment of contemporary music. AUGT2 features 
 one licensed track... a Moby track.... that plays over and over and over and over..... ugh.
  
  Other features:
  AUGT2 features photos of the Puddytat Dolls on all menus..... what more needs 
 to be said?
  
  Overall, there is much more to do in AUGT than can be found in NFS: C. There are many more races 
 to win, cars to purchase, upgrade, or sell, and tracks to conquer. I finished NFS: C in under 8 
 hours. AUGT2 has at least double that if you just play through the career mode... once you add in 
 the 'survive' mode (stay alive while cops chase you) , cop mode (where you are the law and have 
 to take down the racers) , as well as several others, you have a lot in your handheld to keep you 
 busy. This, of course, assumes you don't mind somewhat inferior graphics, and a very arcade-style 
 physics engine.
  
  I can't understand why GS gave NFS: C such a high rating, considering how short it turned out to 
 be (something they failed to mention) . Bottom line, in terms of gameplay, longevity, and depth, 
 makes for an obvious choice:
  
  Rent NFS: C for a few days to get through it.
  
  Spend your money on Asphalt Urban GT 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOCATL
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  First i have to say, another very bad rate from GS.
  I got this game and the presentation is really nice, the sound is good, the graphics may no be 
 as detailed as NFS Carbon DS, but they are really good, and the effect of the nitro boost is amazing, 
 you really feel on the race, its a better game than its predecessor, it has a really simple controls 
 so you dont need to do fancy button combination to turn or to escape from the police, the driving 
 is not complicated even a rockie player can win a race wich is good to enjoy more the game rather 
 than focus in not crash in the wall, in general is a really good game, is one of the best racing 
 games i ever played on the DS. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
