-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Assassin's Creed: Altair's Chronicles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/assassinscreed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Occasionally enjoyable mix of platforming and combat.
 Pretty visual design and good sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bland, rudimentary story.
 Platforming is awkward due to clunky camera angles and control issues.
 Minigames feel like afterthoughts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 5.9, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 526 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Gameloft
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: Feb 5, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Altair's handheld adventure has some enjoyable moments, but it's hindered by loose controls and 
 other irritations. 

  It's not surprising that the Nintendo DS iteration of Assassin's Creed doesn't feature the often-stunning, 
 open-world exploration of its console counterparts. It does feature many of the same elements, 
 however: An attractive visual style, some nice animation work, and decent sound effects that make 
 the Middle Eastern cityscapes you explore feel alive with activity. Its fundamental design, however, 
 bears a closer resemblance to another of Ubisoft's landmark properties: Prince of Persia. In Altair's 
 Chronicles, you travel through 3D environments on a mostly linear path, avoiding traps, scaling 
 walls, and occasionally beating up some bad guys in the process. When the game hits its stride, 
 this makes for some fairly enjoyable entertainment. Unfortunately, clunky controls and an overall 
 lack of refinement frequently conspire to sully the experience.  

           Draw, pardner.      

  The sense of sci-fi wonder that permeated the console release 
 is noticeably absent from this prequel. The story is a pure, straightforward chase-the-artifact 
 adventure that wouldn't be out of place in a Tomb Raider or Indiana Jones title. Chronicles' holy 
 grail is a mysterious chalice, and while it serves its purpose as a plot catalyst, there's nothing 
 very interesting about Altair's tale. The narrative plays out via dialogue texts that convey just 
 enough information to keep you up to speed, and is thus missing the metaphysical, morally ambiguous 
 ramblings you may have expected. Altair is reduced to a generic hero in ancient garb, which may 
 be fine for Assassin's Creed fans but won't be of much interest to those new to this game universe. 

  Yet in spite of its generic characters and wooden script, you'll still glimpse a little magic here 
 and there, as fleeting as it can be. The art design is quite nice, featuring soft, earthy hues 
 and some nice details in the architecture. Altair himself often moves gracefully, and the climbing 
 and running animations are splendid. Others don't look nearly as good, and some jumps are missing 
 transition animations completely, making it look like Altair is teleporting instead of leaping. 
 On your travels you'll hear the commotion of crowds, the chirping of birds, and the snoring of 
 sleeping guards, and while the same effects are replayed often, they still make the cities through 
 which you travel feel organic. Combat noise gets to be grating over time, however, since you'll 
 hear the same grunts over and over again. The Arabian-themed soundtrack is similarly repetitive, 
 but still properly dramatic.  

  You'll spend the bulk of the game getting from point A to point B by jumping from rooftop to rooftop, 
 climbing walls, and crossing beams. The clear-cut level designs keep platforming sequences from 
 being overly challenging, though they occasionally require some light puzzle-solving (push a few 
 boxes or pull a few levers) and trap navigation (look out -- spinning blades!) . They do suffer from 
 some frequent annoyances, not the least of which is that you are often required to jump to a platform 
 that you can't see. Altair also has an annoying tendency to slide forward a bit after landing his 
 jump -- sometimes slipping right off the platform and into death's cold embrace. Even worse, the 
 camera will occasionally move to a position that doesn't even allow you to see Altair, forcing 
 you into even more guesswork. As a rule, the platforming works, but the general fluidness of what 
 you see onscreen is never matched by similarly slick controls.  

  Combat is often enjoyable, though it too suffers from some execution troubles. Your trusty sword 
 will do the bulk of the work, and the X and Y buttons perform weak and strong attacks, respectively. 
 You'll also pick up a number of other skills along the way that require you to block, then counter, 
 in a manner similar to the counterattacks in the console version. You'll earn other weapons along 
 the way, such as throwing daggers and bombs, but Altair's Chronicles rarely gives you a reason 
 to opt for them, since mashing X and Y will usually get the job done without too much trouble. 
 Beating up a few guards at once can be fun, particularly when the encounter occurs in the midst 
 of trap sequences, but like the platforming, it feels looser than it should. The autotargeting 
 doesn't seem to work well much of the time, so you'll waste time slashing at empty air -- which in 
 turn is made more frustrating by the fact that combo animations seem to take forever.  

  A few boss fights break up the pace, and they aren't bad, but they do serve to highlight some other 
 control issues. Like with other key elements (picking up boxes, assassinating snoozing guards) , 
 you need to execute context-sensitive actions that require you to hit a particular button when 
 you are in range of your target. All too often, however, you have to be in a peculiarly specific 
 spot for this to work. Shuffling around just to push a crate is an annoyance, of course, but it's 
 a mild one. Having to do the same "find the right position for the A button icon to appear" dance 
 when fighting a boss, however, could lead to Altair's untimely death. And sometimes the game simply 
 changes its mind and executes the standard move mapped to the button rather than the contextual 
 move it's supposed to deliver. Even trying to switch weapons, which requires you to touch an icon 
 on the touch screen, can be a royal pain, since your tap will often not register.  

           The minigames feel out of place.      

  The touch screen's other main purpose is to 
 display your minimap, though it does get some use in Altair's simple minigames. In some cases, 
 you need to pickpocket your victims. This minigame requires you to scribble all over the screen 
 to uncover all of the items your target is carrying in his satchel, and then carefully slide the 
 needed object around the other items and out of the bag. The assassination minigame is supposed 
 to approximate how Altair uses various pressure points to subdue his victims, and involves tapping 
 various points as circles close in around them, somewhat in the manner of Elite Beat Agents. You 
 won't be doing much of this, though it's just as well, considering that from a mechanical standpoint, 
 these minigames are the least enjoyable aspect of Altair's Chronicles -- a tacked-on way of giving 
 the touch screen something to do.  

  You could finish Assassin's Creed: Altair's Chronicles in around four hours, but even the promise 
 of a harder difficulty level won't likely lure you back for a second play-through. It's hardly 
 a bad game; in fact, the final hour mixes the various elements together nicely and hits a smooth 
 stride as a result. Nevertheless, the game offers few surprises, and some sloppy execution problems 
 get in the way far too often to make it outright recommendable.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bjs1978
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 5:14 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure why Ubisoft decided to go this route with the DS version. We all know the DS is capable 
 of really great games that can handle some good stuff. Ubisoft really pulled a lot of punches on 
 this one. But for what it is, it really is a decent game. It is one of those titles that really 
 grows on you as you play through it. 
  It's a side-scrolling action game with some puzzle and fighting. The puzzles aren't very in-depth, 
 and the fighting gradually becomes more frequent the further into the game you get. 
  The controls are definitely the biggest downer of the game - they're just very sloppy. The other 
 thing that bothered me was the difficulty of being able to tell your "depth" in the screen. What 
 I mean is this - while it is a side-scroller, there is some depth to the environment as well. With 
 some funky camera angles at times and the non-moving environment as you come toward and move away 
 from the camera, it can be really difficult at times to figure out where you are depth-wise which 
 makes things frustrating when trying to jump to a narrow raft, for example. 
  Though this version takes a bad hit by the critics and a lot of players, while it can be a bit 
 frustrating, it is a lot of fun. It's just that Ubisoft could have made a game that was very similar 
 to the console versions and they just didn't. Might want to rent it before buying just to see if 
 it's the kind of game you will like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  Hand-held version of Assassin's Creed is a nice add-on that doesn't try to compete with the console 
 version.
  
  DS version is a prequel that takes place just before the actual game released in 2007. There is 
 a mysterious Chalice somewhere in the Holy Land and whoever possesses it can turn the tide of the 
 third crusade to favor whatever faction he or she wishes. A young assassin named Altar goes on 
 a quest to retrieve this Chalice, but as time progresses there are a lot of twists and turns to 
 be made. DS game's conclusion is very unsatisfying, but it ends just where the console game begins.
 
  
  Graphics are nice. Environments are big and the animation of characters is smooth and well done. 
 There are a few cutscenes and their graphical presentation is even better, but they are too few 
 and far between. The use of bright colors ensures that you'll always know what you're looking at 
 despite of the DS's small screens. All the action happen mostly on one screen only, but at times 
 there is some use of both screens.
  
  Perhaps because of the limitations of DS cartridge there are only a few musical tracks available 
 and this causes some serious repetitiveness: especially that aggressive theme during combat gets 
 old really fast. Other sound effects are mostly there just to create a mood of living city with 
 lots of sounds. At the same time the actual sound of Altar's movement is almost non-existent and 
 there is no real voice acting what so ever. In short the sound design in DS's Assassin's Creed 
 is passable, but by no means great.
  
  Gameplay is a linear third person platforming with a little combat and fixed camera angles. Social 
 stealth that made the console game so great is kept to a minimum. There are 13 chapters as a whole 
 and it takes around 6 to 8 hours to breeze through. Gameplay gets quite repetitive after a while 
 so it's advisable to play it in small doses. Camera is handled well most of the time, but still 
 it causes irritating sudden deaths every now and then. Nothing you can't get over with because 
 of the frequent checkpoints of the game. Combat is slow and although you get combos and new weapons 
 as you go you can play through almost the whole game from start to finish by just tapping that 
 Y button over and over again in combat. Touch screen is used in a few pickpocket and interrogation 
 minigames: it works well.
  
  Assassin's Creed: Altar's Chronicles features a prequel story and some great platforming. It also 
 includes irritating camera, repetitive gameplay and music topping it all with a clunky combat system. 
 Game is worth playing, but not nearly as good as Ninja Gaiden Dragon Sword for example. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  It's a daunting prospect: take a sprawling sandbox-style game that mixes the acrobatics of the 
 Prince Of Persia series with the brutality of 12th century assassination, then squeeze it all down 
 onto the DS. Surely something's got to give, right? Well, yes and as a result, Assassin's Creed: 
 Altair's Chronicles sacrifices a great deal over the 'bigger' console versions. Think of it as 
 trimming the fat from a very, very fatty pig.
  
  But is that really the best approach? After all, the tastiest part of any meat is the fat and ultimately, 
 Altair's Chronicles is slightly bland without it. That's not to say it's totally flavourless though. 
 The well-formed, if very linear world certainly looks lovely and while Altair's sneaking abilities 
 have been drastically cut back to just running or walking, the mix of impressive combat (the countering 
 and assassination stuff is nice) and wall-climbing trickery at least makes for some interesting 
 action.
  
  
  Keep The Faith
  If all this sounds like fun, that's probably because it is... kind of. Unfortunately, it's also 
 nowhere near as solid or playable as 
  it should be simply because it falls short in so many key areas. Take the free-running sections, 
 for instance. It's all very well having a map on the bottom screen but it only gives a basic top-down 
 layout, meaning you're left performing numerous leaps of faith when crossing certain rooftops. 
 
  
  The inability to move the camera through a level to examine the layout or see if that potential 
 jump is actually possible makes things worse, especially during the frequent instances where foreground 
 obstacles block your view or the perspective makes it impossible to judge distances.
  
  What's more, the game's also incredibly glitchy and all too often you'll make a leap onto a narrow 
 platform, only to slide inexplicably off the other side, or shove an enemy off a ledge, only to 
 see him hover in mid-air out of your reach. Unpolished then? Definitely. But when such glitchiness 
 also makes certain sections of excessive jumping horribly unfair, you'll want to throw your DS 
 out the window in frustration.
  It's a real shame because Assassin's Creed: Altair's Chronicles shows plenty of promise, but the 
 areas in which it shines are all but wiped out by the jerky framerate, gameplay glitches and general 
 clumsiness of the overall package. A little less ambition and a little more polish would have gone 
 a long way here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: matwizard1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  I have to say... impressive. For the DS it's a great game, compared to XBox360, PS3, and PC it's 
 nothing. Much better then the mobile version. Great Graphics for the DS. Sound keeps playeng over 
 and over again but it is fun. you have to do almost the same combos over and over again though. 
 But great DS game! Now the game is hard at points but easy at others. Story is fair and not too 
 long but not too short. But if you have a good computer or a 360 or PS3 and you can play it get 
 it for those if not get it on the DS if not the DS then mobile but GET  
 is only $20 at Gamestop and get the DS starter pack if you like the game because it provides a 
 styleish disign for your DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game at Gamestop for $20, I was kinda excited for it. Assassin's Creed was a 
 splash hit on Xbox 360 and for some dumb reason, I expected the game for the DS version. But boy 
 was I wrong. Altair's Chronicles is really just a disguised Prince of Persia game. You'll crawl 
 around Crusades era Jerusalem killing and talking to people. The game does have great graphics 
 as well as good background music, but other than that, there isn't much to experience here. The 
 game has a lot of text-based dialogue but it feels kinda cheesy. The game also lacks the references 
 to being (spoiler) set in the near future. There's a boss that is impossible to beat due to a glitch 
 that pretty much ruins the experience. So don't bother with this game, just buy a better game like 
 the console version of Assassin's Creed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edraenth
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  All I can say about this game is "wow", and not in a good way. Not in a long time have I been so 
 incredibly bored with a game. 90% of it consists of running around on rooftops so you can avoid 
 actually having to interact with the enemies. And if you should happen to fall off the roofs and 
 encounter the run of the mill baddies, you don't stealthily sneak up behind them to take them out 
 (as you might expect an assassin would do) . Rather, you repetitively mash buttons to hack and slash 
 with your sword.
  
  Even the premise behind many of your actions is nonsensical. If you've successfully sneaked up 
 behind your main target and are trying to steal something from their bag or use pressure points 
 to take them down, if you fail, you simply get to try again, instead of it setting off some type 
 of alarm that brings the bad guys running.
  
  So in summation, shallow gameplay, repetitive controls, limited action ... what's not to dislike? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_DRUGGIE
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 10, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  We've all had something we regret buying. Everyone's most likely bought a defective stereo, a boring 
 movie, or a TV with a broken remote. The examples are fitting, considering that Altair's Chronicles 
 plays like a combination of all three. Horray!
  
  To be honest, the most fun anyone can have with this piece of  
 crap is burning it. Nothing went right for this game, not even the plot! In fact, the plot can 
 be best summed up by what the back of the box has to say, that being a "Prequel to the original 
 game". There's nothing else that can be said about the plot that would even be remotely interesting.
 
  
  The horribly feeble story aside, the game plays like a lame version of Prince of Persia. The main 
 goal in Altair's Chronicles is to avoid getting sliced, impaled, or drowned by the hazards that 
 frequently pop up (and kill some bad guys in between) . Sure, this concept sounds great on paper, 
 but the developers could've done a much, much, much better job on how it played out. First off, 
 the control system is so simplified that it can actually make the gameplay harder.
  
  Example: When I was trying to fight off a couple templars while I was nearly stuck in a corner, 
 I thought I'd move a bit closer to the wall to give myself some breathing room. The game then interpreted 
 this move as trying to move up the wall and it wasted enough time to let the templars crack my 
 skull open. This happened on more occasions than I care to keep track of.
  
  Another big issue with the controls is how combat plays out against certain enemies. Some larger 
 foes will need to be defeated with a quick time event that couldn't be harder to hit because of 
 how specific the placement of your character in relation to where the enemy was. Not being able 
 to find the right location resulted in flipping and hacking around the enemy for about 10 seconds 
 until the enemy snapped out of whatever kept them still and resulted in a painful death.
  
  The largest (and easily the most frustrating) issue with the gameplay is the way platforming works. 
 Throughout the game, plenty of Prince of Persia-style traps will pop up and prompt you to get by 
 them. Again, a concept that sounds good on paper but is ultimately destroyed by the developers. 
 About 80% of all deaths come from dying in a trap because of the horrible camera that usually fails 
 to show you where the hell you're jumping and forces the player to take a blind leap of faith to 
 the next object. What's even worse is the fact that the camera can't be moved at all!
  
  If anyone could look past the shallow story and awful controls, the "music" in this title is outright 
 criminal. The same few tracks play over and over again until you think about ripping your ears 
 off with the nearest pincer-like object available. Also, the sound effects are so muffled and out 
 of place at times that I began to wonder why the developers didn't scrap all the sound they had 
 and replaced it with cartoon noises.
  
  While on the subject of cosmetics, the graphics are the only thing that don't go completely wrong... Only 
 partially. The redeeming part of the graphics comes from the good environments and characters that 
 look pretty above average for a 3D DS game. However, the animations for the characters are so few 
 that the enemies as a whole had about seven or eight animations that I noticed. Altair isn't exempt 
 from a lack of animations, either as he only needs to use about six or seven moves to get through 
 any given level.
  
  Speaking of only using a few moves to get through a level, the entire game is way too easy (when 
 you're not dying from the horrible camera or controls) . Most of the time, it only took about 1-5 
 minutes to get through a stage if it didn't suffer from poorly laid-out traps. The salt in the 
 wound of the incredibly easy gameplay is the ability to upgrade Altair's sword or health once he 
 collects a certain amount of blue orbs that are either scattered around the levels or inside the 
 enemies themselves.
  
  In all, Altair's Chronicles is something you should avoid like the plague. There's nothing redeeming 
 enough about this game to even warrant a try if you picked it up off the street. Your precious 
 time is worth more than a thousand copies of this piece of shovelware.
  
  You'll thank me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion1197
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Ok, right off the bat I am going to complain about the video glitches collision detection ( none) 
 if you try to out run from someone they may corner you and all the sudden the sprites are being 
 pulled in every direction. another words your being picked up and shaken around and beat to a pulp 
 and the other guy is about a four feet away from you total Crap on the programmers part.
  
  The sound is ok, a bit to repetitive if you ask me and fight sequences although nicely animated 
 are button mashers no skill involved. even though you are given great sequence button patterns 
 to push.
  
  Attacks as an Assassin are also ok but not what I expected. I was hoping for more stealth. 
  
 
  This was more of a game of running jumping and dodging trap after trap after trap ( Prince of Persia) 
 Don't get me wrong if you liked the Prince of Persia series your going to love this game. But for 
 those who want a more cagey stealthy game your best bet is to steer clear of this one.
  
  Overall game play is hindered by the fact you can only walk or run you really can't hide in the 
 shadows and use surprise attacks. 
  
  I did play this game all the way through just to learn the full story plot. I was very surprised 
 to learn the plot. so the story is gripping from that stance.
  
  Overall time spent about 10 to 12 hours looking at every detail. 
  
  Which brings me to the 
 final note the detail is absolutely amazing. I love the backgrounds and the animations, I love 
 the scenery at night and the flickering fire effects. they are worth the price of the game to just 
 see what goes into the game is fantastic. Kudos to the Designers. and graphic artists.
  
  The ending was real let down I expected some really nice ending but all I got was Congratulations 
 you have finished Assassins Creed Now you may play on Hard.
  
  I gave this game just a bit higher than the critics because I really feel it is a beautifully designed 
 game it was just lacking in control and stealth. Otherwise it's great to play and very addicting 
 to finish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Going right into this I feel the need to preface that I absolutely loved the home console version 
 of this game (played on 360 and PS3 and gotten all the achievements in 360) . Additionally, I play 
 the DS for a portable form of entertainment while traveling and for a morning/evening commute. 
 
  
  Altair is returning, or rather predating, the console version of the game to help fill in some 
 of the plot in the mystery that is this series. Ubisoft did an incredible job of trying to emulate 
 the feel of the other games with solid graphics (for the DS) and a very loose control scheme. If 
 you were a large fan of the other iteration, you may be put off a little by the fact that the sneaking 
 and true assassination is not here (as I feel it would be nearly impossible on the DS) . Fortunately, 
 this game takes a positive approach at integrating the touch screen for various tasks like pickpocketing 
 and interrogation. The storyline is also solid and probably the best feature Altair's Chronicles 
 brings to the table.
  
  The biggest problem with this game is on the random levels of consistent pointless platforming. 
 Good platforming games have loose controls and a physics engine to achieve these tasks, but Chronicles' 
 obstacles are rigid and scripted. What's even worse, checkpoints are often just before a pointless 
 task where no true skill is involved but rather repetition (try it enough and you'll beat it type 
 thinking) . Couple this with various bugs (or perceived bugs) like limited movement or certain moves 
 only working in certain spots, and this falls short. By the time I finished the sewers level, I 
 didn't feel relieved or accomplished, just happy to no longer be in the torture chamber. Elements 
 like this remove Chronicles from the feel of the other Creed games and seems both unnecessary and 
 not correctly implemented. 
  
  From a portable perspective, this game requires too much from its user. When I'm on a crowded bus, 
 I am not going to speak into my microphone or blow into it. Most games allow you to turn this feature 
 off or begin by telling you it will be a part of the game whereas this game just drops it about 
 3 levels in and you look foolish in public. Also, from a saving standpoint, I think we've gotten 
 to the point that in gaming (especially portable gaming) a checkpoint should be a save point. In 
 this game you lose your checkpoint if you do not complete the level, returning to it at a later 
 time and having to start over. I should be able to power down and start up again at my old checkpoint 
 without having to complete the level at my desk at work in order to keep the frustrating elements 
 of this game behind me. 
  
  I feel that this game had a great and solid beginning that gave way to broken platforming in a 
 frustrating manner for a, at best, back story. If you are contemplating spending money on this 
 game, I would recommend not. If you already own this game, well, I hear Gamestop will give you 
 $10 store credit for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KFlip
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Great game but not too much on the fun side of what I thought it would be like...
  
  The Good:
  
  - I liked some of the combat but most of it was really, really, lame,
  - The 
 game play was alright pretty good overall as I said before,
  - Also the length of the game was good but more on the down side of the game...
  
  The Bad:
 
  
  - The number one thing that was awful was the graphics in Assassin`s Creed: Altair`s Chronicles, 
 when you were in a crowd of people and Templars it was very had to see how many and who you were 
 fighting,
  - Another thing that was bad is the mini games made you play from anywhere to 10 - 20 minutes!
 
  
  The Combat: 
  
  The combat took a lot of button mashing to get all of the enemies away from you. As the game went 
 on you got bombs, a crossbow, throwing daggers, better swords, and so on...
  
  The Graphics:
  
  Pretty good graphics but not as good as other games I have like Zelda : PH 
 or Mario Cart...
  
  The Gameplay:
  
  The thing I liked about the gameplay was that the game ran smoothly and that the part where you 
 could slice your opponents with you sword and the stun attacks!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockerking9
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Personally would by this game if my mom would let me, but she won't because I beat it to quickly 
 and it has the name Assassin's Creed. Basically the plot was amazing the way everything almost 
 worked out in the end, but then that's the prequel for you. Altair is an endless character that 
 is the perfect Super Smash Bros. character (almost exactly like Snake except faster and with out 
 explosives) . If rent a Nintendo DS game rent this game you will not regret with the story mode 
 it has, though I must admit the game has a short story, but you will spend hours replaying beating 
 it on easy, medium, and hard. Therefore if you want a game with a great story mode get this game 
 for you Nintendo DS. It has a perfect level of graphics and gameplay using both the D-pad and the 
 touch screen and stylus. Assassin's Creed has pretty good minigames except for the pickpcketing 
 minigame, but assinating and the pressure point minigame makes up for that lost cause. In the pressure 
 point minigame you play it exactly like Elite Beat Agents. Basically this game takes my cake it 
 will take yours too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leilamayhem
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 22, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I played this because it is part of the Assassin's Creed franchise. Though, it proved itself a 
 fun platformer, so I may have picked it up regardless. Like it's console big brother, the gameplay 
 can get repetitive - jump from this building to the next, dodge the spikes, hang off the beams 
 and jump (this can get REALLY frustrating at parts - I got stuck right near the end of the game 
 because of this) , kill some enemies. 
  
  That being said, it is fun if you're a fan of the genre and can tolerate a less-than fleshed out 
 storyline. The combat mainly consists of button mashing, some people love that, some people hate 
 it. 
  
  Much can be said about the mini-games, but it would be a waste of time to talk about them in detail, 
 they last about 20 seconds and don't appear all that often. They're pretty easy though, and there's 
 no punishment for needing to retry.
  
  The downsides? Sometimes frustrating controls and camera. Graphics could be better, especially 
 if you compare it to a game like Ninja Gaiden on the DS.
  
  This game isn't for everyone but it kept me amused on a long bus ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 19, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:   
 
  
  In November 2007, Ubisoft introduced the long awaited Assassin Creed and immediately received lots 
 of opposite feedback from gamers. However, no one deny that AC was a hot title of the last year, 
 so it's not surprising to see another version of this game come out in NDS: Assassin's Creed: Altair's 
 Chronicles (AC: AC) . As already known, Altair is a assassin in the organization Hashashin in 12th 
 century though his past has not been revealed in the console version yet. And it's the plot for 
 AC: AC to exploit. In this version, he receives a quest to obtain the Holy Chalice before the rival 
 Knights Templar. A new absorbing adventure awaits, with an amazing end that reminding us of the 
 recent famous novel "Da Vinci Code".
  
   action, increase 
  
 
  
  Though two factors still go abreast, this version emphasizes on much more on adventure. A great 
 deal of time will be spent on running, acrobating, climbing ... to past lots of obstacles. Through 
 the five cities in the game, you will have to take advantage of all types of terrain and architecture: 
 the wooden beams on which Altair can keep balance, the edges on the wall helping to swing forward 
 or hanging ropes for acrobatic skill. Of course, these are not very stable and sometimes act like 
 a kind of trap, so you can fall out at any time. If you feel something lacking it should be the 
 towering buildings in the original that allows the assassin to climb atop and perform his uncanny 
 jumps. Besides the thorny travelling part, another feature that can't be overlooked is minigames 
 here and there that take advantage of DS platform. For example, to steal a key, you will have to 
 make use of you sensor pencil to move it without touching any other objects in the pocket. These 
 games are like an useful spice to increase the adventurous flavour of AC: AC.
  
  Talking about action part, while fencing arts still maintains its effect, the assassinating skills 
 are now but a shade compared to the original. Assassination is rather useless because the game 
 allows you to cut slash your way through hordes of enemies without using any of "stealth-action". 
 The reason your sword play is so effective is because AC: AC provides Altair with many combos, especially 
 the "counter-attack" that throw opponents off balance and afterwards, everything necessary is a 
 simply "coup de grace". Moreover, besides familiar gears, Altair also possesses brand new stuff 
 like cross-bow, bomb or smoke-bomb... despite the fact that few of them are rarely used. Towards 
 the end of the game, he gains the hook that can pulls enemies close to finish them. In general, 
 weapon collection is much bigger than the console version.
  
  --------------------Continue the ... drawbacks of its 
  Easiest 
 to recognize is the linear design pattern of game scenes that makes players feel confined. Each 
 part of AC: AC contains too many repeating details, as a result, the first impression become a boring 
 feeling later. Typical is the fight against Basilisk: though the trick to beat him doesn't change, 
 you still have to do the same things 3 times in the whole story. Another adverse effect is that 
 though the game has 13 scenes, it still turns out to be pretty short at last and can be finished 
 in around 5-6 hours.
  
  Graphics and sound can't be compared to the impressive performance on console, neither to top game 
 on Ds like Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass, but if you are not too choosy, it's not really a 
 problem. Altair's movement are lissome and each scene is designed so that one screen display game 
 context and the other show map and character's location. Arabian music is still effective in this 
 version.
  
   hot 
 
  
  With all it can offer, AC: AC has the flesh and blood of Assassin's Creed but the skeleton inside 
 is like another Ubisoft's famous title: Prince of Persia. With too much focus on thorny travelling 
 and sword play along with making light of assassinating skills and "stealth-action", the developers 
 has made it look like Prince of Persia's Creed! Anyway it's still worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Love it, hate it, indifferent about it: Ubisoft's Assassin's Creed was a hit last year on the Xbox 
 360 and PlayStation 3. The company at least had the forethought that it would be, so it put its 
 Gameloft studio on a Nintendo DS rendition of the franchise. Gameloft is, admittedly, a hit-or-miss 
 development team, but when it squeezes out a hit on the DS system it's a pretty noteworthy one: 
 last year's Brothers in Arms DS turned out an impressive handheld rendition that worked the system's 
 strengths and weaknesses into a fun and intense action game. We may never know for sure if the 
 same internal group handled Assassin's Creed: Altair's Chronicles on the Nintendo DS, but it seems 
 to share a lot of the same similarities as the Brothers in Arms conversion. This game, however, 
 isn't quite as polished as it could (or should) have been.
  
  The Nintendo DS rendition of Assassin's Creed isn't a port or a sequel of the 2007 Xbox 360 and 
 PlayStation 3 game. It's a prequel, utilizing the same lead character and his acrobatic, assassin 
 abilities. Strike one against the DS game: while it's a standalone experience, Altair's Chronicles 
 lacks the same character development of the console game. In this version, you're a secretive Crusade 
 badass -- and that's pretty much all you need to know. It's a small knock against the game because 
 Assassin's Creed on the DS puts a lot more emphasis on the action than the storyline compared to 
 last year's bigger production.
  
  So in this portable rendition, you're sent on a task to recover a Chalice that could end the Crusades 
 once and for all. Of course, you're an assassin, and it's no fun just going up and taking it  
 you'll have to climb over cities via rooftops and try to sneak through guard-heavy areas undetected. 
 Or better yet, just take on those guards head-on using your earned swordsmanship. Each mission 
 unfolds just a little bit more of the storyline on your quest for the coveted cup. Players have 
 the ability to climb up walls and along ledges, slide down sloping rooftops and balance over small 
 pillars and planks of wood. When level designers string all of these elements together the game 
 feels a lot like an extended version of Prince of Persia, another Ubisoft property.
  
  If you're coming off the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of Assassin's Creed, now is the time 
 to bring down the expectations: the Nintendo DS version is not an "explore everywhere, do anything" 
 type of game like last year's release. Instead, the developers created a much more structured experience, 
 forcing players along a much stricter path that requires far more "go from point A to B" elements. 
 So less open-world Grand Theft Assassin, more Prince of Persia for the portable gamers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arclight_Blue
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  watered down ports on the DS are unaviodable, given the popularity of the console and the uhm... 
 technical limitations of it.. seeing a watered down port in the DS is as common as common as teenage 
 pregnancy
  
  Assassins Creed DS isnt exaclty a port but much more of a sidestory/game/dumbed down version of 
 the the original. the game's Combat system, can be deep it allows you to perform blocks, counters, light/heavy 
 attacks and it works well, not to mention youll be able to learn combos/instant kill maneuvers 
 as the game progresses, sadly you wont be using any too much these because of the dull AI, boss 
 battles usually consists of "press the right button at the right time" if youve played God of War 
 before youre familiar with this one, although theyre less epic and seem uninspired , you'll be 
 provided with health and weapon upgrades but seriously though why would you want to increase your 
 weapon's attack power if you have the ability to kill your opponent in one blow.
  
  technically the game is inconsistent, the game provides you with collapsible buildings, flammable 
 objects which is pretty amazing for a DS game, although the characters models look blurry and dull, 
 the sound is repetitive as you'll be hearing the same couple of tracks over and over again
  
  Game play-wise its still the same old kill specific person here, or go confront someone here 
 there are lots of platforming, battles and uninspired stealth in between
  
  All in all if you're looking for a portable version of Assassins Creed then you wont find it here, 
 the game is not entirely bad, sure it has its moments, but that isn't enough to make it a must have 
 experience for the DS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed: Altair's Chronicles is designed to be a prequel to the console iteration, but 
 if you were to never play it, you wouldn't miss anything. 
  
  The gameplay of Assassin's Creed has four parts: platforming, combat, pick-pocketing, and interrogating. 
 Platforming is what you'll mostly be doing, and if you've played a recent Prince of Persia game, 
 you'll feel right at home scaling buildings, jumping from beam to beam, and other acrobatic tricks. 
 Combat is little more than button mashing with a few combos you can pull off. These rumbles are 
 dispersed in quick little spurts, rarely with more than three enemies at once. 
  
  It's the pick-pocketing and interrogations that seem like they were after-thoughts; added on to 
 a game to give it an assassin persona. Both parts play out like mini-games, isolated from the rest 
 of the game with no chance of an interruption. Furthermore, the mini-games themselves are far too 
 easy, and can be completed by most.
  
  Graphically, the game looks pretty, if very blocky. There are some nice details in the surroundings, 
 but sometimes animations on the various characters (even Altair himself) look incomplete. 
  
  Sound effects though, are an achievement. You'll hear crowd murmurs, and snoozing guards among 
 the various environmental effects, giving the various cities you'll be visiting life. The music 
 however, although appropriate and a good compliment to the action, is often repeated.
  
  Control is a point of outright failure. A few times, it does seem like a genuinely good scheme, 
 but as the platforming grows more and more complex, the stiff controls rear their ugly head and 
 rob the later levels of what fun there would've been. 
  
  Speaking of the later levels, they come pretty quickly. This is a game that could've had an epic 
 storyline and game length, but this ultimately feels like Assassin's Creed: Trial Edition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pawel_9
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 23, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This is a good game with pretty good grahics, cool combat, lots of unlockables and much more.
 
  
  Graphics: As I said before, the grahics are pretty good but not the best.
  
  Gameplay: The game runs smoothly. The controls are slick and the game is fun. It is really fun 
 to cut up guards with your hidden blade and sword.
  
  Combat: At first the combat is just simple button mashing, but as you progress through the game 
 you unlock better weapons such as your hidden blade, bigger and better swords, throwing knives, 
 and many more weapons. Just like in the console version, there are reverse attacks and they can 
 stun your oppenent and probably even kill them. 
  
  The Bad: Some bad things in this game are the graphics. The graphics are pretty good, but when 
 you're taking on 10 enimies at the same time it just looks like figures with swords in their hands. 
 There are good details on the buildings and roads but sometimes they look wierd. Another bad thing 
 is that some of the minigames are really hard and some take 20 minutes to beat.
  
  The Good: Some good things are the gameplay, the combat, and the length of the game.
  The game 
 will probably take like 10 hours to beat. In short, ( you will be playing it for a long time )
 
  
  This game is an absolute twist to DS fighting games, and is fun, really fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed: Altair's Chronicles, from what I understand, is the prequel to the console version 
 of the title Assassin's Creed. However, just a few screenshots from both titles alert you immediately 
 to the fact that while the games share the same name, they're drastically different. Altair's Chronicles 
 is not a free-roaming, beautiful-looking title in which you pretty much do as you please and kill 
 who you want. But there are still some redeeming qualities to the title, and the real question 
 is whether or not the game's multiple flaws really get in the way of that fun.
  
  But before I really begin, I'll take some time to briefly describe how Altair's Chronicles works. 
 You play as Altair, with really no reference to the huge premise of the original Assassin's Creed. 
 A mysterious Chalice has been taken by the Templars, and for whatever reason, Altair is required 
 to go and retrieve it. He'll need three keys to get into the temple where it's supposedly held, 
 so he begins the hunt. This will take you through a number of really linear objectives, where you've 
 just got to go find so-and-so or chase somebody who has information for you. The gameplay is quite 
 linear as you progress toward your specific goal -- usually finding somebody with information or 
 one of the game's few assassination targets -- but things get a bit more complex when you start 
 to get attacked by the game's many guards. 
  
  Combat is decent, I suppose, though at its core it's really juts a bunch of button mashing. X and 
 Y buttons control your strong and weak attacks, respectively, and you can create simple combos 
 by pressing them 2 and 3 times, respectively. As you progress further into the game, you'll gain 
 more combos -- that the game "teaches you", but in reality you can use any combo at any point in 
 the game -- you'll just have to figure it out for yourself. You also have the option to assassinate 
 people that you creep up behind, but this is kinda useless because it just takes up time with a 
 slow-motion scene that you'll see several times throughout the course of the game, plus there's 
 no reward for assassinating somebody as opposed to just killing them with your sword. Finally, 
 most of the techniques are pretty useless, as you can just hit Y fifty times in a row until your 
 opponent's dead. A more balanced and difficult combat system would have helped out Altair's Chronicles. 
 
  
  There's also quite a platforming element to Altair's Chronicles, and this is probably the part 
 of the game that is most fun but also, at times, most infuriating. Running and jumping across buildings 
 is a lot of fun, especially once Altair learns the ability that allows him to climb up walls. You'll 
 also be able to do some pretty sweet jumps (more so once you learn the triple jump ability) , running 
 around and killing the occasional roof-top guard can be a lot of fun and quite exhilarating. But 
 there are also quite a few challenges that come with the platforming; for example, you may need 
 to grapple across a large gap, swing from some conveniently-placed ropes, or avoid traps. The traps, 
 in particular, are ridiculously annoying. The camera always looks at things from a side-scrolling 
 perspective, so there are times when you may be jumping and can't even see what's ahead -- or worse 
 still, you may not even be able to see Altair. There are also a ton of structures in certain parts 
 of the game, and these can get really annoying. The game automatically makes transparent a structure 
 that Altair is behind, so that you can see him. But sometimes this just doesn't work, and so you're 
 left to wander around aimlessly or be mercilessly beaten up by an unseen guard. 
  
  Another pretty significant problem with the game, and one that affects both combat and exploration, 
 is the fact that there are certain context-sensitive actions Altair can pull off. For example, 
 with certain bosses (all of which are incredibly underwhelming, by the way) , you can only damage 
 him by inputting a set button sequence. But, for one of the inputs to work, for example, you'll 
 have to be in some precise spot, so you're left to dance around your foe waiting for the X button 
 prompt to show up. And even once you get it, it could disappear if you so much as rotate Altair 
 90 degrees. The same goes for object interaction; for example, you can pick up crates to put them 
 on switches, or slide them around and drop them on unsuspecting victims far below. But sometimes 
 the input prompt just won't show up, so you're climbing around the box and running around it trying 
 to get it so appear. It may not seem like a huge problem, but it's actually a real detriment to 
 the game and gives an impression of lack of polish. 
  
  I feel bad about rattling on about the game's issues, but it's a sad fact that there are just several 
 key problems with this title, and one of them is the incredibly weak story. I know little about 
 the console version of Assassin's Creed, but I have heard about the "existential, morally ambiguous 
 ramblings" of Altair. Such is nowhere to be found in Altair's Chronicles, as the dialogue is flat 
 and boring and Altair never is really developed as a character. The Chalice, which you're supposed 
 to be after, has no value to you as the player because you're never really given a reason to find 
 it. There are even a few instances where you have the choice to, say, assassinate somebody, which 
 at first I found pretty cool. However, it has no real effect on the game; how cool would it be, 
 for example, for the dialogue to change based on whether you allowed people to live or die? Or 
 if it somehow effected the outcome of events later in the game? But it doesn't work that way, and 
 so these assassinations that you'll be pulling off are meaningless and rather useless. 
  
  One of the high points of Altair's Chronicles, however, is the graphics and music of the title. 
 The visuals or pretty nice, and Altair looks great in motion as he runs through busy streets, jumps 
 from building to building, and fighting off guards with some pretty impressive combat animation. 
 The color palette is not vibrant or particularly life-giving, but the down-to-earth sort of hues 
 that the game uses makes everything look grittily realistic. The music also contributes nicely 
 to the immersion of the title; the Middle-Eastern music is well-done and sounds great. Indeed, 
 these aspects of the game contribute to the game's best parts, as you flee from guards climbing 
 and leaping around the roofs of a city with crowds of people below and awesome music playing in 
 the background. 
  
  I suppose that, if one tried, it would be possible to overlook the problems that I've so far chronicles 
 with this title. However, the biggest flaw with Altair's Chronicles and the one that will likely 
 prevent you from purchasing it is its length: it only took me about 5 or 6 hours to complete, and 
 that was including the several times I had to replay areas because of poorly designed puzzles or 
 environmental structures that disallowed me from seeing what I was doing. Admittedly, the game 
 has a very forgiving save system, but this is pretty much canceled out by the fact that there are 
 some areas that I probably played 20 or 30 times before finally completing them (by sheer dumb 
 luck, I might add) . But aside from these immensely frustrating sections of the game, Altair's Chronicles 
 is really an easy game; combat is mindless, the platforming, while fun, is fairly easy, and the 
 bosses that you'll occasionally go up against are complete push-overs. It might be worth a rental, 
 but it's very foolish to shell out 30 bucks for a frustrating game that is, for the most part, 
 easy to complete and will last only about 5 hours. 
  
  All told, Altair's Chronicles does have some good bits, which I've already discussed. However, 
 despite the fact that the raw fun of the title can sometimes be obtained, it's inexcusable for 
 a player to have to undergo this much frustration to reach it. And then, when things finally start 
 coming together and you start to have some fun with the title, you'll find the fun bit over and 
 back to boredom. The ending seems incredibly long, drawn-out, and completely outlandish, despite 
 the fact that the game is so short. For the last hour or so, I kept expecting the game to end; 
 even once I half-defeated the final boss, he lays down a stupid ultimatum and Altair accepts willingly 
 (what the hell?! He's an assassin! KILL HIM!) . It's a decent game at best, but don't purchase it, 
 because it's honestly just not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Punishr92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  this game was ok for me I really didn't like the moves or T rating but if you get past all that 
 it is a pretty good game for all that matters in the wide world of gamers so if your looking for 
 a game that you will get board of in a couple days go buy assasins creed no its a good game but 
 If I had a chance to buy a different game I think I whould of got ninja gaiden instead because 
 assasins creed was to short and I like to play all the game I can get in my free time. Its difficult 
 to come up with eight hundred characters so I'll. 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 10, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed definitely made a big splash on consoles, proving to be one of the most popular 
 and exciting titles of 2007. With such a huge fan base already gathered up, Altair's latest adventure 
 rekindles the flame from the previous version while offering new and innovation segments that will 
 surely keep you entertained. While Altair's Chronicles has its fair share of letdowns and problems, 
 the core concept alone is one that will please fans and give DS owners a worthy title to play.
 
  
  Altair's Chronicles takes place prior to the events of the console versions and also formidably 
 omits the confusing sci-fi storyline in the process. The premise of Altair's Chronicles focuses 
 solely on a mysterious object known as the chalice that has the power to end the devastating Crusades. 
 Sure, the concept itself seems passable as a focal point in your adventures, but after the opening 
 scene you will learn next to nothing about the chalice or its past. The story itself often feels 
 detrimental to the console version which relied heavily on a well-catered story, something the 
 handheld version fails to acknowledge throughout.
  
  The main concept of Altair's Chronicles is about exploration. You will spend a great deal of time 
 scourging the city for clues as to the chalice's location and whoever might be on the hunt for 
 the item as well. Your travels will have you running in the streets, scaling rooftops, and doing 
 other various acrobatic feats that only a master assassin could perform. Your effectiveness in 
 performing these feats is the key to success for the majority of the game as you will see them 
 plenty of times during every level. There are also some puzzle segments thrown in during exploration 
 to make it feel a little more useful, but most of these feel slightly mundane as they are simply 
 nothing more than pulling levers and jumping over gaps, actions that require no basic thinking 
 whatsoever. There also seems to be an unnecessary huge amount of box stacking apparent, which kind 
 of is a letdown since it is often confusing to get them to line up properly for you to advance. 
 Still, don't let this overcome your decision as they are far and few between.
  
  The same could be said about the boss battles as well. While Ubisoft tried to utilize an impressive 
 mechanic while fighting, it ultimately boils down to being in the perfect position at the right 
 time. For example, there was one moment when we were fighting an enemy and were prompted to push 
 a button displayed on the screen. We missed our chance and simply waited for it to appear again, 
 only it didn't show up till we made our way around the room again and stood in the same exact spot 
 as before. Sure, it's notable to make the most out of utilizing button presses, but only being 
 able to defeat an enemy by standing in one specific spot negates the fun of the process.
  
  Combat in Altair's Chronicles is very similar to the console versions and it more than makes up 
 for the barrenness of the boss fights. Combat is based primarily on sword fighting, which is mapped 
 to the X and Y buttons. Altair can slash in both weak and strong stances as well as earn the ability 
 to master combo and counter attacks later on. The same fluidness from the console versions are 
 abound, just the necessity to use other weapons is completely withdrawn from this version. You 
 do have the option to throw daggers from a distance and even use the newly acquired bombs as well, 
 but the restraints of the DS tacked alongside the confusing touch-screen (you can only switch weapons 
 by tapping the screen with the stylus) make it just easier to blindly slash at enemies.
  
  The touch-screen minigames are fun to perform and offer a nice break from the basic exploration 
 and combat segments. Besides being used as a map and inventory during most of the game, the bottom 
 half of the DS will become useful when interrogating or pick pocketing enemies. During the interrogation 
 segments, Altair must utilize the use of pressure points which are represented by circles that 
 slowly dwindle away on the victim's body. By tapping these in succession you will ultimately force 
 the enemy to surrender and spill the beans. Pick pocketing enemies is a bit more fun where you 
 will use the stylus to erase the dark from an enemy's pocket and than guide an item from one end 
 to the other without hitting anything else in the process. Both aren't overly complicated, but 
 they do offer a nice break once in a while.
  
  Altair's Chronicles looks exceptionally well for being so hindered by the low-processing power 
 of the DS and still shows some brilliant flourishes from the console versions- such as birds that 
 fly from rooftops and crowds reacting to your movements. There could have been more polish during 
 the cutscenes as they are just still-pictures with dialogue that scrolls across, but that's only 
 a minor gripe and nothing that really dumbs down the rest of the game. The sound features the same 
 pros and cons as the visuals with distinct noises from the various towns and an impressive orchestral 
 score, but enemies that sound alike in combat and the lack of a spoken dialogue during the story 
 segments just feels bland at times.
  
  For what it's worth, Altair's Chronicles gives fans more of what they love while adhering to the 
 DS casual crowd. Although some slight problems exist, Altair's latest adventure is more of the 
 same while offering new challenges and innovative segments. It is a little on the short side with 
 a finishing time of only 4-5 hours, but fans of the series will no doubt enjoy donning the assassin's 
 robe once more while waiting for that inevitable sequel to arrive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2008 7:27 am PT
Review:  AC: AC was a game I wanted to get ever since I saw the first screenshots in GAMEINFORMER. I finnaly 
 decided to get it and it left me feeling... let down in many ways.
  AC: AC does get a lot of things right, the sword moves and combos are really fun and assassainating 
 guards on the roof-tops never gets old. If only GameLoft would have improved the story and overall 
 gameplay this game could have been amazing. I would go into AC: AC story some, but really what's 
 the point? The sory suffers from serious faults and feels makes you fell like your playing an idot 
 version of AC. But, like I said the combat feels really good and it diffiently kind of suprised 
 me when I found out you can do some preatty cool, graphic counter and combo moves in T rated game. 
 The whole "gameplay" element is really only run, jump, and dive at the right time it's "puzzle 
 platforming" when you get to its base. The game will keep you playing though even when the story 
 sucks as bad as it does, you really want to check out these new platforming puzzles. I should mention 
 that I beat the game in two days, it took around 7-10 hours, about 4 hours of that were really 
 good and fun, if only they could have made the whole game as good as those few hours. 
  AC: AC will diffently please hard-core AC fans in some way or another, but to anyone else you should 
 look somewhere else.
  
  P. S. Be prepared for another horrible ending. What's up with AC games, just give us one good ending. LOL 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrasaur
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Music- like many other reviewers they are correct same old music play over and over again it has 
 maybe like 2 scores that sound okay
  
  Graphics - Pretty blocky and pix elated but to be expected
  
  Game play/Story - I liked the 
 whole assignation move but you don't really see much because of the graphics still I thought it 
 was fun to do. Main because I don't have a newer console system I also like the acrobatic parts 
 of the game where you can climb up walls to catch onto ledges and so on kind of like princes of 
 Persia. Mini games pretty much none that would keep you interested examples pickpocket where you 
 have to drag a key out of someones pouch without touching the sides of the pouch or anything in 
 it and just moving boxes onto switches or pressing leavers.
  
  Story wise not very interesting but enough to keep you going through the game if not that just 
 to see the other moves and abilities you get later such as grappling hook and triple jump
  
  Sound - Very repetitive everyone sounds like each other when you bump into them or knock an 
 enemy down and ambient sound pretty much same track repeating it self
  
  Pretty much a rental no replay value what so every other then if you just want to preform the assassinate 
 on enemies which would probably get boring fast
  
  This game is a rental you may like it at first but after a while just gets repetitive and boring
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LokTinChiu_1993
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game, in my point of view, was just horrible. the controls are broken, the gameplay is full 
 of glitches and the graphics are terrible. There are a couple of other weapons to use, but all 
 you need is your sword. Also, you literally go through walls sometimes, or just randomly die. Although, 
 it's kind of satisfying when you sneak behind a guard and assassinate him. But somtimes if you 
 want to pull off an amazing move like wall jump behind an enemy, you'll just jump through the wall 
 and die. Sometimes, after you kill someone, you randomly fly off and die. The game can get pretty 
 hard and frustrating when you cant get to the next checkpoint because you're falling through the 
 environment. The pickpocketing and the interigation mini-games through out the game is kind of 
 random and broken. To me this game is not worth buying or worth a look at all and made the other 
 assassin's creed games for the PS3 and 360 (which were masterpieces) look messed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solar-Nix
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed: Altair's Choice
  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
  Ah, the new Assassin's Creed game. Many have been bashing this game so hard I was reluctant to 
 buy it. But, Altair's Choice isn't as bad as most give it credit for. I'll go over the four main 
 points of modern gaming.
  
  The graphics are okay. A little better than the DS version of Madden '08. The backgrounds are fully 
 rendered, but in game player faces are dark and scratchy. The cinematics are the same thing. No 
 different from what you see in game; kinda disappointing.
  
  The sound is also a little disappointing. The music is nothing more than for the background as 
 you play. When you're seen killing/stealing/whatever, the same music plays every time; no individual 
 says anything more than "HEY!", "OH!", "OWWWW!", or "AHHHHH!". 
  
  The game play is so good, however, that it makes up for the graphics and sound 10-fold. Think Prince 
 of Persia: The Sands of Time, but more classy. You jump, spin, run, climb, tight-rope walk, and 
 narrowly escape traps the whole game; it never slows down. Sword fighting can be solidly fun or 
 pointless and simple, depending on how you fight. You can take advantage of the system and button 
 mash, which always works. Or you can slow down and block, counter, and string combos. Some battles 
 are genuinely hard but most are very easy. 
  Assassinating people is fun, but you only really get to commonly use it in the first 2/3 of the 
 game. You get other weapons, such as bombs, throwing knives, and a grappling hook (used both in 
 battle and in plat forming.) . 
  The mini games are quite fun, but underused and underexposed. You only really pick someone's pocket 
 twice, and the pressure point game comes up only three or four times.
  
  
  To wrap it up, the story is bleak, but enough to keep you interested. There are many events here 
 and there that catch and hold your attention, but they don't make up for the almost plain blandness 
 of the remainder of the adventure. At many points in the story, you are "tested" with the task 
 of assassinating random strangers for little or absolutly no reason. Also, for most of the game 
 you are chasing people around from city to city (there are 6 or 7 cities, and you arn't able to 
 travel freely between them) . 
  I was a little disappointed to discover there are no side quests, and you arn't really given very 
 much information on any particular person, place, or thing.
  
  Also, I've noticed quite a bit of comparison between Altair's Choice and the console verison. I'd 
 like to point out that this game was made to be radically different, and is not fit for comparison 
 to a X360 game. There is no free roam or loose assassination guidlines because it is a plat former, 
 not a standard adventure game. 
  
  In conclusion, even though the game is short, it is very, very sweet. 
  In further conclusion, 
 the gameplay alone racks up a good '8 of 10', but the grafixs, sound, and story incentives, both 
 good and bad, bring it down to a respectable '7 of 10'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avaloch
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Basically speaking, the graphics are good for a DS game. It is somewhat impressive when you first 
 see the screenshots but once you start playing the game, you will be disappointed.
  
  The gameplay is very linear, little stuff to do other than to forward the storyline. The upgrading 
 system, which involves blue orbs, is very simple and requires no planning at all, in other words 
 its a no brainer. The battle system is likewise relatively simple. Little skill is required to 
 defeat enemies. In fact its so easy that one or two moves can be used to kill almost anything in 
 the game!
  
  Next up is music. The music is not only repetitive but also irritating. Constant switching from 
 the battle soundtrack to the ambient soundtrack is irritating and I would set my DS volume to 0 
 when I played this game.
  
  If you managed to stay for a few stages, you will be faced with more killing options and weapons, 
 things that are redundant and only serve to irritate you more when there are puzzles that require 
 you to switch weapons.
  
  Lastly, there are some issues with the controls. The controls are not precise and more often than 
 not, you will find that you tossed yourself off the roof and killing yourself. The lack of detail 
 prevents you from judging height and distance, thus increasing the impairment.
  
  In summary, I think that if you REALLY like the Assassin's Creed game from the XBox, I suggest 
 you stick to it there, playing this game would most likely change your view of the game. While 
 the battles are easy, maneuvering around the stages require more skill. This game is probably worth 
 borrowing from a friend or bought at super budget prices. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SARGE3D
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  EVERYONE (DS info not xbox 360) who has a DS. I'm sure most xbox360 players have gotten Assassins 
 Creed and most of all agree that it is one the best of the best of roleplaying games. I got the 
 AC Altair's Chronicals. And I must say this game is down right fun. I take it every where I go, 
 mile Dr's offices, where you wait from 1 to 2 hrs before being seen, I play the game, I raise my 
 levels, get the goodies I need in order to complete the game. The Graphics are great, it is a bit 
 different from the XBOX360, yet this game is worth it. Its is worth the money and fun you will 
 have with it. Get it while you can. You have different opinions to choose from, finding new items 
 and weapons to use, armour, spells, are different form xbox, the music is goes with the game. Pay 
 attention to the people you talk to , don't be eager to tap a button, for you want all information 
 you came get to finish the game, you have good guys and bad guys who will help or kill, take your 
 time, when you think your in a tough spot, there is always a way to get out or escape from your 
 foes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nature-elf
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 14, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed on the Next Gen console has been a huge success, garnering many awards so with 
 that kind of reputation it is pretty obvious that gamers have high hopes for the DS counterpart.
 
  
  Playing the game on the DS wasn't the best experience. I was hoping this game would be like the 
 next gen counterpart, gameplay wise with all the free moving kinda thing but it wasn't, instead they 
 give you a linear gameplay which is a bad idea. GTA is known for its free roaming thus it received 
 such positive review (minus the vulgarities that parents find are too much.... Whatever) , so it made 
 its way to the PSP and retain its free roaming style and it was fun, but the people at Assassin's 
 Creed thought it would be fun to throw the free roaming in Altairs' Chronicle away and make it 
 a platformer, and so all the hopes I had for this game was destroyed.
  
  The graphics on the game are crappy..... although its a DS.... But come on... there is a PSP which 
 is graphically more powerful.
  
  Gameplay wise it isn't the greatest because Assassin Creed is know for its free roaming, its sword 
 fighting is kinda boring. Now with free roaming removed it just becomes kinda pointless. And in a 
 3D environment having to use a D-Pad is always awkward. I have to say the mini games are quite fun 
 but gets dull pretty fast. Mini games include pickpocketing people or twisting the baddies arm till 
 they speak all with the touch screen.
  
  I haven't played the console version but after playing the DS one it is starting to make lose interest 
 in the Next Gen counterpart.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sovvtis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I never heard about this game coming out for the DS at all. My friend told me that it was coming 
 out, but I checked and it was already out for a few days. Couple days later I got this game. I've 
 played Assassin's Creed on the Xbox 360 and it is a spectacular game. Graphics and gameplay was 
 awsome.
  
  When I played this I thought it was also a great game. The graphics were pushed to the limits and 
 gameplay is great. Not much use of the touch screen but I wouldn't think of anything else to be 
 used with it.
  
  The touch screen is used when pickpocketing or interrogating people. When interrogating people 
 you do the exact same thing when playing Elite Beat Agents. You must hit the circles at the right 
 time and keep your stylus on the ball when it slides, that lifts up the guys arm.
  
  The gameplay on the DS is much like a Prince of Persia game. Traps such as spikes and moving platforms. 
 
  
  Combat in this game is also good. You can counter and stun people, and then pull a finishing move.
 
  
  If you liked Assassin's Creed on the 360 or you need another game for the DS I highly recommend 
 this game.
  
  I give this game an 8.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8nNotH8n
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Its not even borderline, it sucks really REALLY bad. GameSpot said it had good sound effects... 
 that's BS. I can hear the point where the track ends and it starts looping, sounds very cheap and 
 annoying. 
  
  And IGN's review is even worse, "not a bad game" **** you. It is very broken. I remember on the 
 second level I jumped off a building, just to find that I landed on a checkpoint as I died. So 
 it kept spawning me at the point that I died, but every time I got spawned I died IMMEDIATELY. 
 So I was forced to turn my DS off and try the whole level again.
  
  And I have played Assassin's Creed for the 360, and I loved it. But the story has no meaningful 
 linkage to the world of Assassin's Creed. All this game did was make me wish I was playing the 
 console game. 
  
  Ubisoft is so cheap they hired a team that developes for CELL PHONES. And the ideas are so bland 
 that they completely rip off Elite Beat Agents in a pressure point minigame. 
  
  But the smartest thing I had done in a while was trade it in for Professor Layton. Don't buy Ubisofts 
 way of milking Nintendo even more. BUY LAYTON.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prioritymail
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I, along with many of the early adopters of this game, am a fan of the assassins creed series. 
 The console version actually slips into my top 5 games of all time, pretty impressive. When I saw 
 an opportunity to take Altair with me in my pocket, I just couldn't pass it up. 
  
  The game has no intro, you just jump into Altair's shoes and get moving. I miss the beefy story 
 of the console version already....
  I am pretty impressed with the scope of the environments and the familiar music score that went 
 along with them (albeit noticeably compressed) .
  The gameplay, however, is more like a cross between AC and Prince of Persia, which is not necessarily 
 a bad thing.
  
  -As a side note, I am a big fanboy of Prince of Persia-
  
  The core gameplay is linear platforming which includes many familiar obstacles, including spikes, 
 pitfalls, and spinning blades. This all may sound good on paper, but be prepared to die, alot. 
 The controls are not spot on, leaving you to over jump gaps often. 
  
  The combat leaves much to be desired, I thought that after Ubisoft worked magic with the simple 
 fighting system on the consoles, that at least some remnants of it would be present here, unfortunately, 
 I'm mistaken. The moves that are in there aren't half bad, but the three different combos get old 
 really fast.
  
  
  *CONSOLE SPOLIER*
  The story is not all its cracked up to be. The only reason I knew it was a prequel to the console 
 version, is because Al Mualim is still master of the Assassins
  *SPOLIER OVER*
  
  
  BOTTOM LINE:
  Overall, I'm indifferent about this release, I definitely think this could have 
 been something special if it spent more time in development. But hey, I love Assassin's Creed, 
 and if you do too, its a must buy..... or at least wait a week and get it used instead.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Broken, buggy. Graphics: Average but inconsistent, Sound: Bad. Story: Generic, added 
 nothing to the AC continuity (as of yet) .
  
  If you can't tell from that paragraph, Assassin's Creed: Altair's Chronicles (AC: AC, I hope that 
 was unintentional on Gameloft/Ubi's part) is a plan, flat out BAD game. It is mercifully short 
 so those that feel in love with its big brother on the PS3/X360 can suffer through it so that any 
 reference made to it in the future can be understood.
  
  Ubisoft fast tracked this game once the success was determined of the next-gen AC and it shows. 
 Uber-frustrating parts that should have been remedied through some thorough QA, terrible enemy 
 AI and a combat system so broken, you can defeat any number of enemies by spamming the same move 
 over and over.
  
  Without spoiling anything except the sales of this game, Altair is featured but you hardly get 
 to know him due to a lack of character development. You do meet one or two characters that could 
 possibly play a part but will need a full reintroduction into the time line it really doesn't matter 
 if you play this game.
  
  Now that my little diversion into masochistic video game playing is finished, I can go back to 
 playing games that actually are GOOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braindead_hero
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 11, 2008 1:10 am PT
Review:  This is a review for Assassin's Creed: Altair's Chronicles on Nintendo DS. Assassin's Creed was 
 a highly anticipated game, in 2007, for PS3 and Xbox360, which although was short, lived up to 
 many of the expectation recieving very high scores almost everywhere. This game is a prequel to 
 the original developed by Gameloft in collaboration with Ubisoft. Gameloft do not usually do this 
 big a game as they are usually releasing various games on mobile phones and this represents their 
 first real foray into the console market. In this game you play as Altair, the main protagonist 
 from Assassin's Creed as he attempts to get the chalise from the Templars.
  
  GRAPHICS 7/10
  The game uses 3D graphics quite well and manages to catch the feel of Assassin's 
 Creed quite well keeping in mind the Nintendo DS' limitations. However, there are some areas where 
 slowdown is apparent and also some loading screens, surely loading screens? In a DS game? These 
 subtract from the overall decent graphics throughout.
  
  STORY 4/10
  The story is a fairly basic, fight the bad guys, get the girl affair. In a game such as Assassin's 
 Creed you would expect the game to be carried mostly on the back of the story, however the story 
 is nothing new and has been seen before in so many other games you soon find youself skipping most 
 of the story out in order to resume action.
  
  LONGEVITY 5/10
  
  This title will keep you going right to the end of the game, but there is little point continuing 
 after completing the game. There are no unlockables or special features of any type so one play 
 through will seem like enough for many people. Also, I would suggest to anyone to ignore Easy difficulty 
 as you will beat the game in a matter of days (A weekend will probably do) .
  
  GAMEPLAY 7/10
  
  It does have a fairly solid control system and attempts to capture the feel 
 of the acrobatic, free running action displayed on PS3 and Xbox360. It does it rather well considering 
 the limitations of the hardware. One thing I have issue with is the touchscreen and microphone 
 elements. It tries to work a lot of touchscreen elements to becoming an integral part of the game. 
 These seem to be afterthoughts and are very basic games which someone probably came up with 5mins 
 before deadline and the microphone aspects seemed to be completely broken, but these do not make 
 up a very large portion of the game and personally I feel that the gameplay has not been added 
 to by these and perhaps we would have been better off without them.
  
  FUN 8/10
  
  I'll admit that I did enjoy this title, although there are a fair few problems the finished product 
 is a pretty fun game.
  
  OVERALL 6.2/10
  
  This can be a pretty fun game with good graphics but with a rather shallow storyline, no replayability 
 and a few flawed gameplay elements it fails to reach its full potential and you get a fairly dissapointing 
 game at the end. I will be looking to see if there are any other portable versions of Assassin's 
 Creed in the future, as well as console releases and hope they address some of the issues as this 
 could have potentially been a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massconquer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  If you're expecting this to look like the console versions, guess again. This is very much like 
 a side scroller. Every once in a while, the camera moves, but it's fixed. In other words, the camera 
 is 90% of the time beside you rather than behind you. This makes the game a little difficult, but 
 it really helps for cliff-hanging (more info on that later) . This is supposed to be a prologue 
 to the console versions, but I haven't played the console versions so I don't know...
  Pros:
  -Very cool fighting combos like in the console versions.
  -Detail on characters and 
 places pretty well done (could be better) .
  -Very cool moves like jumps and wall climb (more info later) .
  -Authentic music that really suits 
 the time line.
  -A wide variety of weapons to use (crossbow, sword, poison darts, grenades) .
  -Some interactive 
 environments (places collapse, liftable/dragable boxes, etc.)
  Pretty convinced that it's a good game, eh? The wall climb is not like the console versions. You 
 can't climb forever, you climb a limited distance before you need to grab onto a ledge or you'll 
 fall. You can unlock a grapple which uses real momentum to help you swing. Sword fights are awesome 
 like in the console versions, but it's not much realistic. You click combos like Y-Y-Y or X-X or 
 Y-Y-X, etc (you unlock then throughout the game) , but the problem with this is, the limited ai 
 of the people. They just stand there while you pound them to their doom.
  Cons:
  -Camera view is fixed and looks very limited.
  -Unlocking moves takes a long time.
  -AI gets 
 annoying because they sometimes be invincible or very vulnerable.
  -Tricks and traps are everywhere, seems very unrealistic.
  -Game is rather short and justs end 
 without noticing.
  As you progress through the game, you end up mostly in either underground places or in sewers. 
 This really annoys me because who will actually make a sewer filled with tricks and traps with 
 some lone guards. This is maybe the one thing I hate the most in the game.
  Aside all of this, you do very awesome moves that are (in my opinion) better than Sam Fisher. He 
 can do flips and shimmy, stab people when they arn't looking, shoot people from a distance (in 
 order to do this, you need to unlock crossbow) , and make people co-operate by playing a bit of 
 EBA! (very straight forward, play EBA and the person will cooperate) .
  Sounds fun, eh? I highly recommend this game to gamers who are looking for something new or looking 
 for a challenge. It may sound complicated, but through the game, it'll give you a tutorial of how 
 to play. Altair also helps you too! If you like Splinter Cell, this is perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratchet10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Combat with different weapons, hidden blade, jumping on rooftops. Being an Assassin. This game 
 rocks. free roaming for the DS, the graphics are nice, I really like this game. I don't have a 
 PS3/Xbox 360 to play the first one. But I really like this climbing on buildings and stuff. It's 
 really fun. It's like AC, alittle PoP, and a violent Sly Cooper game since you pick pocket. You 
 hold the R button to walk slowly and quietly up to a guard and hit A if he's Zzzzz. You grab him 
 and kill swiftly. There's also some mini games, like pickpocketing and getting people/guards to 
 tell you info you need. The stylus isn't used that much, but it's still cool. The mic. is used 
 to blow off dust or sand of chests sometimes. It's hard to explain how great this game is. If your 
 a big Assassin's Creed fan. I'd say get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilligan841
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I have played it around 8 hours and I am absolutly pleased about it. 
  
  Graphics are the best I've played on my DS Lite so far; as much outstanding as my PS3 version. 
 
  
  Gameplay is faithful to my PS3 version, but you have special abilities that makes the DS worth 
 the buy; "pressure points" where you have to use your pen and touch the screen in time to control 
 your victim, "stealing" your victim by dragging a knife precisely on the screen (this one is very 
 easy though) , etc.
  
  The Plus:
  - Scenario is a lot more interesting than on my PS3, it is not repetitive
  - You don't have to 
 climb the towers
  - No women that screem for money
  - No waste of time between phases
  
  The Minus:
  - Like on the PS3, it's still easy to kill the enemies at the normal level
 
  - Like on the PS3, you can't sometimes control who you want to fight
  
  I can see that some fellows don't like it and I am very surprised about it, maybe that's because 
 they haven't played the XBOX or PS3 version. I respect their verdicts even if I do not agree.
 
  
  One of my best on the DS.
  
  9.0 out of 10 because of the controls issue and because it is easy to kill the ennemies. I gave 
 8.5 on the PS3 version.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cramer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:04 pm PT
Review:  I love games that give you fast paced running sequences that have you navigating obstacle ridden 
 courses that once executed with precision steeps leave you saying "cool." And this might have been 
 one of those games if it didn't have me feeling everything was a leap of faith.
  
  Because of the odd camera angles I saw two issues reoccurring often.
  1. Having to jump to a 
 roof top that isn't in the cameras field of view
  2. Inability to line up a jump onto a rope (either too far in front or behind)
  
  Fights that 
 occurred seemed to slow down the pace rather dramatically especially once the armoured knights 
 came into play. This would be no problem if the game to me seemed like it wanted to be combat intensive. 
 However, I felt that what it wanted to do was make combat seem like this that had to occur when 
 there was no other alternative, no way to sneak around, so it should be brutal and swift. However, 
 it isn't very swift as your sword swings only hit one enemy at a time and they are able to defend 
 from your attack. A defence mechanic is always nice but it really slows the fights down and this 
 game just feels like it wants to be really fast pace.
  
  When it came to objects like crates and vases you have to press the A button to interact with them, 
 push the heavy box, pick up the light box, or break the vase. In order to press the A button to 
 interact with the item you have to be very close to the object. However, what happens is your character 
 constantly seems to climb on top of the objects when you cross the fine line between close and 
 too close. These same involuntary actions also happen a lot near walls because in the game you 
 can run up walls for a short distance. My "dood" seems to enjoy doing it just to stretch his legs.
 
  
  However, if you can see past these issues you might find it a pleasant time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  From what I understand, Altair's Chronicles is a prequel to the console Assassin's Creed game. 
 I'd never know that, since I didn't play that title. My sole reason for picking up this game, though, 
 was because I love playing action games of this sort on my DS. The premise for Altair's Chronicles 
 sounded cool and the gameplay promised to be right up my alley.
  
  Before stopping to jot down this review, I took a look once more at IGN's number descriptions for 
 reviews. I'm going to utilize their scoring system to convey my measure of this game. So, please 
 keep in mind that, overall, I think Altair's Chronicles is a "decent" game. To say it's more than 
 that would be inaccurate, so far as it pertains to my experience with the game.
  
  And my experience with the game was short-lived. Not because I didn't play through it in its entirety, 
 but because the game iswell, quite short. That said, I'm an old-school gamer  I've plenty of 
 experience throwing endless amounts of quarters into a machine for a mere five-minute burst of 
 fun  so the length of Altair's Chronicles (AC) doesn't bother me. However, when compared to other 
 AAA titles on the DS, AC doesn't try too hard to be good in any particular area, really.
  
  AC is kind of a mix of Tenchu-stealth action and old Prince of Persia side-scrolling. It executes 
 neither all that well, but is still quite fun on the dual-screen. Much of the problem with the 
 gameplay comes from the framerate  it's choppy and hinders movement of Altair (the character you 
 play as) . Also, the camera will often leave you fighting behind 3-D walls and other background 
 elements, and during those moments, you can't really see what the heck you're doing.
  
  The game moves in a non-stop, straight-forward way, going from one checkpoint to another. The game 
 auto-saves, so when you're ready to put the game down for a while, you can quit and later come 
 back to the last checkpoint you left off at. It's a decent system and quite forgiving in terms 
 of repeating failed level segments.
  
  For the most part, a given level consists of making your way from point A to point B along rooftops 
  the stealth portion of the game's formula. If you get noticed by enemy guards, you must then 
 stop to fight them off. The battle system is simple but satisfying. One combo (Y, Y, X-buttons) 
 causes Altair to do two sword attacks and then a Matrix-style, kick-back-flip attack, which looks 
 really cool. Altair can also counter attacks, and if timed correctly, he'll then be able to perform 
 a one-hit kill to downed / stunned enemies. However, the framerate here too causes the action to 
 feel clumsy and lumbering; what could have been a more visceral experience tends to be rather button-mashy.
 
  
  Along various levels of the game, Altair will often need to retrieve an item or information from 
 someone, and that's where the mini games make their appearance (s) . If Altair requires a key to 
 move further along a level, he'll need to first find said key holder and proceed to do his pick-pocketing 
 thing. At this point, Altair enters a mini game in which he must reveal the key's (or item) location 
 within the person's pocket, and then remove the key  without bringing attention to his actions 
  before a timer runs out. It's simple, a little gimmicky, but still fun. The other mini game is 
 the interrogation. Some folks just don't want to tell Altair what he needs to know in order to 
 complete his assignment, and in these cases, Altair uses other means of persuasion. Here, you enter 
 an Elite Beat Agents-style mini game in which small rings shrink and you must tap them when they 
 meet a circled number; there's also a ball-sliding mechanism, and that too is lifted right out 
 of EBA. The interrogation mini game is not quite as entertaining as the pick-pocketing game because 
 there's no music and no actual involvement with the character you're interrogating.
  
  Put the various elements of AC's gameplay together, however, and it makes for some decent fun on 
 the DS. It's very rough around the edges, and seems to follow nothing but cookie-cutter gameplay 
 elements the whole way through, but it's still a fun, albeit short, ride for fans of action / adventure.
 
  
  On the production end, AC is fairly successful. The menus have a "slick" appearance and the game 
 walks the player through all the various mechanics along the way. The dialogue, too, is well-written 
 and paints an interesting story. The graphics are somewhat of a mixed bag, however. As mentioned, 
 the framerate is choppy and the character models are edgy. The backgrounds, though, have a nice 
 aesthetic and the texture work is pretty attractive. Perhaps the game's nicest production feature, 
 though, is its music. Somehow, the developers manage to convey some really nice, eastern sounds 
 and music through the little DS speakers. The stereo separation is utilized well and the instrumentation 
 comes across crisp and clear. One noteworthy wart, however, pertains to the game's load times  
 they're long and there are lots of them.
  
  In sum, Assassin's Creed: Altair's Chronicles is a "decent" game that should satisfy action / adventure 
 fans. It's not Ninja Gaiden: Dragon Sword nor Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass  for a truly 
 great action / adventure title on the DS, you'll have to play either of those games. But Altair's 
 Chronicles is entertaining for the very few hours it will take you to complete, and it's got various 
 levels of difficulty, which should make playing through it multiple times a viable option. However, 
 my two-cents worth is to say it's a good buy at a discount, but not worth a premium price. Let 
 Ubisoft know  with your dollars  that second best isn't good enough. They're a big western developer 
 now, and they should be more than able to live up to higher expectations. As it stands, Altair's 
 Chronicles weighs in more with the likes of something like Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's 
 End than it does with top-shelf DS offerings. Decent  nothing more, nothing less.
  
  Thanks for reading and happy gaming,
  
  GD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed makes it's debut on the Nintendo DS in a rather lackluster fashion. Ubisoft fans 
 and pretty much anyone who has played the Prince of Persia series to death will find this game 
 to be utterly dull and unenjoyable. But unlike the PoP games for handhelds, Assassin's Creed is 
 halfway decent, however it plays much like the console games with a linear gameplay experience 
 that is all scripted, you do not have much freedom to scale buildings like in the console games.
 
  
  You take on the role of Altair, an assassin attempting to recover an ancient item called The Chalice, 
 the game itself looks like it was ripped out of Mideval times and slapped into a Middle Eastern 
 setting sometime in the 1600's and the story plays out like it as well. The story itself is not 
 all that interesting and just seems rushed, as the game itself won't take you more then 10 hours 
 to complete if you know what to do. There are multiple difficulties which is a good thing considering 
 even on easy, the later levels enemies are annoying and hard to kill.
  
  The combat is typical button mashing, x and y are attacks and combos are formed with those two 
 buttons. You get a variety of weapons to kill your enemies with though and your sword strength 
 and health bar can be upgraded with orbs that you find. Running up to a wall will allow you to 
 run up it once you have unlocked the ability, you will eventually obtain a grappling hook and other 
 weapons like a crossbow and daggers for slaying enemies at range. Overall the controls can be somewhat 
 annoying when it comes to combat and the layout plays pretty much like Prince of Persia in that 
 regard as well. You spend more time trying to avoid enemies and death traps like steam which kills 
 you instantly, then actually fighting. The touch screen is used for stealing keys or applying pressure 
 points ala Elite Beat Agents kind of controls.
  
  While it is a decent spin off, this entry of the Assassin's Creed franchise is nothing to get excited 
 about since it really is not all that original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1G_D
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 8:22 am PT
Review:  Assassins' creed: Altar's chronicles is a great game, its not like the PS3 or XBOX360 version, 
 its a kind of mission-based 3D sidescrolling game. You get a mission and you go to the place thats 
 indicated by a green arrow. The graphics are great for a DS, i've got it on a normal DS, but i 
 think it will be even better on a lite, because of the better graphics. The gameplay is great, 
 with a capital G, you walk with the arrow keys and you attack with Y and X, jump is B and assasinate 
 is A, you can walk with R and crouch with L. The assasination looks great. I think they did a really 
 good job on this one, but i was hoping to see a free roamer. Its too bad there is no multiplayer 
 mode. 
  
  The game is based on you being Altar, an assassin. You do missions for all kinds of people and 
 you have to know excactly whats happening in the world. You dont have to ride a horse to other 
 city's, it loads automaticcaly. 
  All i have to say: BUY IT... NOW!!!
  
  review made by: DK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bones2515
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  I've been following this game for a while now and was really excited for its release. I knew there 
 was a high chance that it would feel rushed for release, and that's right on the money. I can't 
 make comparison to the console version because I haven't played it, but from what I've heard and 
 read, it's nothing like the handheld version for DS. 
  
  At no point in the game do you actually feel like you could be an assassin stalking victims through 
 the shadows. You're in plain sight the entire time, but can assassinate someone if you manage to 
 walk (as opposed to run) behind them and whip out your blade. There are a large percentage of enemies 
 that are simply facing the wrong way without the desire to turn around or look about. Obviously 
 this is a plot to let you assassinate them, and doesn't it kinda take all the fun out of it. The 
 guys might as well have signs on their backs. I find myself bumping into them on purpose so we 
 can fight because it's more fun than shooting fish in a barrel. The game is very easy, and you're 
 more likely to die of falling off a roof than being attacked. Your decisions are very limited as 
 well. Being a side-scroller, there's really only one direction for you to go. They even point a 
 giant arrow in the direction you should head. Any feeling that you might actually be able to choose 
 your own destiny is destroyed by the green arrow pointing right, or left, or down. But don't miss 
 any checkpoints because if you manage to somehow skip one, you'll get two green arrows. One pointing 
 backwards to the checkpoint you skipped and another where you should be headed. 
  
  I like the level up system though. It's classic collect orbs, buy new stuff. Enough blue orbs will 
 allow you to upgrade weapons or buy more health. You can also steal from some targets in order 
 to get keys and such to open locked doors. Using the stylus, you select the object you want to 
 move and try to avoid bumping into other objects (some that move in a pattern?) because they take 
 away from your time. This sounds like it could be fun, but instead it's just lame. They've positioned 
 things in the way that basically can't be avoided, but you'll still make it out with you item. 
 It feels like you're the worst thief in the world, but the person you're stealing from is so stupid 
 that they don't even notice. Learning to torture is another requirement. It's exactly like playing 
 Elite Beat Agents, but without sound at all. Who wants to push buttons when you aren't rocking 
 out to the Rolling Stones?
  
  The graphics are pretty good for the DS, and jumping from rooftop to rooftop can be fun. Unfortunately 
 Ubisoft didn't take the time to perfect any aspects of the game and so it's let down. It could 
 have been really great though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  So, I want to say first that I never played the original Assassin's Creed game. But having just 
 played a few hours of the DS version, I am sure that the original way waaaay better. Just like 
 the Simpson's game, the DS version is not comparible to its consol big sibling. And, does not challenge 
 you either.
  
  This game, although visually nice to look at at times, plays like a GBA-type side scroller with 
 only minor 3D-like upgrades. Sadly, you play through the game in a closed environment, "go this 
 way only" that bores most people with side scollers. 
  
  Even funnier though is the blatant rip-off from a truly good DS game. There is a feature in this 
 game that you must 'learn' that allows you to force your enemy to tell you information you want. 
 The process you do this is by exactly copying what you would do to play Elite Beat Agents. I wish 
 I was kidding, but sadly I am not.
  The combot system is blochy and not at all challenging. The player movement feels more uncomfortable 
 that Tomb Raider on DS is.
  
  Sorry Ubisoft/Gamloft.. but you have a dud here. And I think avid Assassin's Creed fans will not 
 be happy about this game. The DS can do way more here, and this game probably shouldn't have been 
 made as a side-scroller. Too bad.. I wanted to like this game, I really did.. I just don't find 
 it that engaging.
  
  Rent it first!
  
  : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanligo
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Assassin's Creed: Altiar's Chronicles is an entertaining Action Adventure/Platformer, but if you 
 are expecting a game like the original, prepare for a shock, as there is no free exploration of 
 the entire city, and no social stealth or almost anything that made the original so great.
  
  Assassin's Creed: Altiar's Chronicles is entertaining but after a while, the missions feel 
 like they are all the same. Mainly all you do is follow the marker to the next spot, take out a 
 few baddies, avoid some classic platforming obstacles (Such as spikes and snakes) rinse, repeat, 
 add a little touchscreen minigames, and you've got the level beat. 
  
  While the touhscreen minigames add some spice to the game, the actual gameplay isn't that exciting. 
 For controls, you have a walk button, jump, interact and Combat controls, with some touchscreen 
 controls that ae like extra buttons to draw and put away your weapon, and select your weapon. which 
 means that it will be more of an action game/platformer, which is quite different from the original's 
 freedom and city exploration.
  
  The Graphics are actually pretty good and are in full 3D but at feels like a 2D sidescroller with 
 a little depth and the characters are a little grainy but it all looks good.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamisjamas
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I just got it today and played it for about an hour and realized that it wasnt the same experience 
 I had when I played the game for Xbox360. This is a good thing ; the stylus only games give it 
 an enjoyable edge. TThis is what makes it a fun game for me and thats where it ends. I think that 
 this game has more in common with a Prince of Persia game than Assassin's Creed; name being the 
 only thing really in common with the precursor game. It was a little overhyped in my mind though 
 and at first I wasnt impressed. It has a similar storyline and linear levels but for a portable 
 game it does pretty good. I do miss the open levels and quick battles but the controls on this game 
 work pretty good. It also has pretty good cutscenes. Im glad I got the game though as it might give 
 me a better understanding of Altair. The music is ok and the graphics are great ; I mean this is 
 a DS so its pushing it to the limits. I might recommend a rental first though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquabfan
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I came into this not knowing what to expect being as I have never played Assassins Creed for any 
 console. Although I believe that Assassin's Creed: Altair's Chronicles is a fun game. It took me 
 about 8-10 hours to beat the game, and that's one of the cons about this game, it seemed to be 
 way to easy for my standards and reminded me of something like Call of Duty 4 DS or Star Wars: 
 Lethal Alliance DS length and difficulty wise. I also did not care for the lack of voiceovers, 
 everything is basically told with text. The 3-D gameplay and its visuals look pretty good for the 
 DS's Standards. 
  
  The gameplay is not all that bad. I don't really mind the platforming style of this game. The map 
 on the touch screen helps also although this is not a free-roaming game like I originally thought 
 it was going to be. But I can't take anything away from the game or my official rating just because 
 of that. 
  
  Now, overall I do not think this is the best or one of the best DS games ever created. You most 
 likely will not replay it just as you wouldn't do to other games similar to this, unless you are 
 a die-hard fan of Assassin's Creed. I know I'm probably going to take some heat for saying this 
 but I do not think that the game itself is worth the $30 I payed for it. You would be better off 
 waiting until it gets into your bargain bin. I basically just bought it because of all the hype, 
 like I did with so many other DS games such as Call of Duty DS. I will probably be sticking to 
 games that are developed by Nintendo for now on. 
  
  Also if people are having trouble deciding on whether to purchase this game or not. I would much 
 rather suggest something like Zelda: Phantom Hourglass, but games this short should not be purchased 
 for $30, and I could say the same for countless other DS games. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
