-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: ATV: Quad Frenzy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/atvquadfrenzy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Races don't take too long.
 ATVs have a nice chunky look to them.
 Music is decent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Impenetrable user interface.
 Zero sense of speed.
 Collision detection? Shyeah right.
 Floaty physics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 12, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.6
Critic Score: 2.6, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 4.7, 89 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Skyworks
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date: Nov 14, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
ATV Quad Fury's lackluster tempo and ugly user interface makes it one to avoid on the Nintendo DS. 
 

  Racing games on the DS basically come in two varieties these days: Mario Kart DS and everything 
 else. Nintendo's dual-screened handheld system hasn't really established itself as a successful 
 racing platform; instead it's seen a number of mediocre high-speed games that don't really do anything 
 all that interesting. Unfortunately, ATV Quad Frenzy, an off-road racing game from Majesco, doesn't 
 even meet the middling standards of the DS's racing also-rans, and the end result is a game that 
 should be completely avoided.  

  At its heart, ATV Quad Frenzy is an off-road racing game that has you piloting your ATV in races 
 against three other computer-controlled opponents over a variety of terrain types, including country 
 backroads, swampy bogs, and slick, snowy tracks. You can choose to run single races, hook up with 
 friends in multiplayer races, or enter a season of sorts, where you can earn cash to buy better 
 parts for your ATV. Sounds good in theory, right? Unfortunately, this game's problems are found 
 in its execution.  

          Nice looking ATVs don't make up for this game's clunky interface and bad physics.     

 
  For one thing, the sense of speed is practically nonexistent. It's understandable that an off-road 
 racing game would feel slower than your typical street or sci-fi racer, but racing in ATV Quad 
 Frenzy has such little speed and excitement that it borders on unplayable. Worse yet, the physics 
 are all out of whack -- your ATV seems to float in suspended slow motion during each jump you take. 
 Bizarrely, crashes are commonplace, but they often either happen when you least expect it, or don't 
 happen when you might expect them to. Getting bumped by an opponent is one of the easiest ways 
 to topple off your ATV, for example, but hitting the ground midway through a big-air trick will 
 not result in a big crash, as you might expect. After a bit of time with the game you'll come to 
 understand its unrealistic quirks, and there is even a sense of satisfaction you'll have when nailing 
 a powersliding turn. But, for the most part, ATV provides more frustration than fun.  

  One of the strangest aspects of ATV Quad Frenzy is its trick system. There's only one way to pull 
 off a stunt in ATV, and that's by holding the A and B buttons down together. However, there are 
 12 tricks you can pull off. To choose which trick you wish to execute with the A and B buttons, 
 you must press the select button to scroll through a numerical list of tricks. Wouldn't it have 
 made more sense to mix in the trigger buttons (or even the X or Y buttons) to give you access to 
 more tricks right away? As it stands, the trick system is clunky and incoherent, so much so that 
 unless you pop open the game manual, you may not even realize that the other tricks are there in 
 the first place.  

  Beyond a lack of speed and brain-dead computer-controlled opponents -- who have no better track sense 
 than the rocks and trees that line the virtual courses -- ATV Quad Frenzy is hampered by one of the 
 worst presentation setups we've seen in a long time. The main game menu is at once ugly and horrifically 
 organized, forcing you to back up through entire sets of screens to get to the main menu when you 
 want to change game modes or change ATVs, for example. You'll also have a tough time telling how 
 far you've progressed in any mode, thanks to the horrible user interface. A game with gameplay 
 this bad is problem enough, but forcing a user interface this impenetrable on gamers is just plain 
 wrong.  

          Want a racing game with a decent sense of speed? Then buy a different game.     

  Although 
 ATV Quad Frenzy is no beauty-pageant winner in the graphics department, the ATV models themselves 
 are bulky and solid looking, and some of the crash animations are fun to watch, even if they suffer 
 from the same bogged down pace as the rest of the game. In fairness, the lackluster tempo doesn't 
 seem to be a result of spotty frame rate -- the game seems to move at a decent clip throughout -- but 
 rather because that's how fast the designers decided the ATVs should go. The textures in the environment 
 are pixelated and repetitive, however, and there's some pretty egregious draw-in of the backgrounds, 
 especially when you consider how small some of the tracks are. When it comes to sound, we liked 
 the upbeat music, and the engine sounds of the ATVs themselves are serviceable, if mostly unremarkable. 

  Practically all of the things you've come to expect from arcade dirt racers are missing in ATV 
 Quad Frenzy for the Nintendo DS, including the vaguest sense of speed, challenging AI, and any 
 sense of danger. In their place is a sense of frustration resulting from sloppy game design, ugly 
 physics, and a user interface that looks and feels like a first draft. There's no sense in losing 
 your hard-earned cash on a game that's missing so much.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 2
Date: Aug 8, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Now, this game is a racing game for the Nintendo DS. But, with the most assinine physics, and very 
 little cars and racers to choose from, just makes this game truly suck ass. Now, it's not the basic 
 concept of racing that's bad about this game, it's the way it was all put together. First of all, you're 
 given very few ATVs to ride i this game, and also very few riders, and also no customization to riders 
 or bikes really can get people angry. Now, your first thought when buying this game is,"Wow! I just 
 got a really cool racing game portable! YAY!!!", but you should really be saying or thinking the 
 exact opposite for this game. A major problem with this game is the damn physics. First off, if you 
 land from a jump while still doing a trick, then you don't crash! What the hell?! And then you don't 
 expect to crash, but you do! I mean, a simple bump can knock you off that damn ATV. WHAT?!! Now, you 
 can ride in the back round, because there is no end to it. It's just like Indiana Jones: The Temple 
 of Doom, you walk to the right, you wind up on the other side. The top speed is a mere 40 miles per 
 hour, which can easily be topped by Mario Kart DS and any other racing game. The two player isn't 
 any different from single player mode, so it's basicly there just in case you want to inject your 
 friend to this torture. Well, if you see this game in any store, just avoid it unless you're sending 
 it to your enemy.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carterdj95
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  It's a good concept but Majesco totally FAILED at it. The only thing this game is good for is having 
 a reason to throw your DS out of the 70th story window out of Rockefeller Center. It's kind of 
 sort of good if you want to go up a huge hill and roll down it side ways but for anything else 
 the retarded interface and buttered controls just don't cut it. It totally fails so miserably that 
 all people who own it should be given a total refund from majesco plus any damages caused to equipment 
 because of the game (meaning that if you smashed your DS into pieces because you threw it against 
 the wall they should pay or that too) . E-. Epic Fail. Majesco officaly makes me want to hurt somebody 
 in the face. I hate this game, have you guess that yet? I hate this stupid broken piece of plastic 
 HORRIBLE TIMES ONE HUNDRED AND NINTY NINE MILLION. Don't ever play this game if you want to keep 
 your sanity. H O R R I B L E ! ! ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exiled4ever
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 5, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I remember the day I bought my DS. Every game store I been to were sold out, except Toys R us. 
 So when I picked up my DS, I noticed that they were giving this game away for free with the purchase 
 of a DS. Now I understand why. This game is horrible!!! First off, the menu screens are confusing. 
 You choose all your options, only to be sent back to beginning wondering if you have to input all 
 your options again. The graphics are so bad that it is easy to get off course on the tracks and 
 easy to get lost if you have no sense of where you are going. The sound effects are pretty lame 
 and monotonous and all the music sounds the same. The instructions that come with the game makes 
 you believe that there is a difference between Season Racing and Season Style modes, but I can't 
 tell the difference. I should have sold this game at Gamestop just to make a profit (even if they 
 only gave me less than a dollar) . Even if you find this game for free, avoid it at all costs. It 
 is an incoherent mess (kinda like my review) and complete waste of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-Draven-x
Rating: 2.1
Date: May 4, 2008 4:25 am PT
Review:  I regrettingly bought this game mid last year for a measly AUD$20 on sale. Looking at the back 
 it seems like it may be a reasonable racing game, however once inserted in the DS cartridge slide 
 and powered on, you wish you would have never bought it. I couldn't even tolerate playing this 
 game after 2 hours of frustration.
  
  
  While racing the ATV's run at an extremely low speed and the frame rate is crappy, simply trying 
 to drive in a straight line WILL make you want to break your DS in half, due to the quad's movement 
 being so depressingly slow.
  
  The menu's are extremely confusing and pressing a wrong button could cause you to go straight back 
 to the first menu screen.
  
  The only thing that isn't a complete disgrace about this shockingly terrible game is the soundtrack 
 which at best times is still not that great........
  
  The graphics are blocky and upcoming terrain is often unclear, you are meant to be able to do tricks 
 at any jump you cross, but this proves to be extremely difficult and you will be lucky if you can 
 do it once during a race and even then after doing so, you'll probably crash.
  
  The game isn't very hard in terms of actual difficulty, it's just hard to play due to so many frustrating 
 problems, I strongly advise you DO NOT buy this game, no matter how cheap it is, instead I recommend 
 cutting off your fingers, or possibly competing in the BME Pain Olympics, as they will probably 
 be less painful than playing this game at all.
  
  2.1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingOfTaco
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  If you are a racing game, and you're on the DS, there is only one of two fates available for you. 
 Your name is Mario Kart DS, or you suck. Normally this would be the kind of cliche that a praise 
 review would spout about there being some kind of exception and now you join the side of Mario 
 Kart DS, or something like that. Not here, though. Into the bargain bin with you.
  
  There's a very minimal sense of speed here. It's true that ATVs are supposed to feel slower, but 
 still, it's not that much fun to play a racing game and not feel a sense of speed. Also, the physics 
 are a bit wacky, jumps take longer than they should and crashes are a bit too commonplace where 
 they shouldn't be. The trick system is also incoherent, as you have to first use the select button 
 to choose from a numerical list of tricks. Then you have to hold A and B down, and by the time 
 you do that, even though the ATVs are very floaty, you'll have probably landed by then. The AI 
 is borderline brain-dead as well.
  
  ATV Quad Frenzy doesn't really meet even the low standards that the DS has for racing games. Instead 
 this game should be avoided. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I'm sorry, but the DS is simply not a system to compete with consoles like the PSP. This is why 
 my expectations are lowered, and this is why this game rules! The graphics are amazing, but the 
 framerate isn't perfect but it isn't unreasonable The gameplay is very tight, takes a little time 
 to figure it out, but works fine. The sound is just like generic, but I give them credit for nice 
 shot sounds. Career mode is a big highlight of this game as it lasts a long while and has a bunch 
 of customazation. Overall this game is sweet, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star67
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 28, 2005 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Well I put this game into my DS hoping it would be a good off road racing game, boy I was wrong! 
 This game is horrible! It is nearly impossible to control your 4-wheeler! And they aren't fun to 
 drive. This game sounds like crap! And the customizable features for your driver and vehicle suck! 
 Please do not buy this game! It is a waste of your time and money! Once again do not buy this game! 
 It sucks! Do not but this game! Do not buy this game! Do not buy this game! Do not buy this game! 
 Do not buy this game! Do not buy this game! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
