-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Avatar: The Last Airbender
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/avatarthelastairbender/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Being able to pick your favorite character is nice.
 Speech bubbles and voice acting tell the story in a charming manner.
 The 3D environments are absolutely gorgeous.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is boring and repetitive.
 Grinding to gain the experience necessary to match enemy power levels is no fun.
 The fetch quests and role-playing aspects don't contribute much.
 You rarely have reason to change characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.7
Critic Score: 6.4, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 142 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: AWE Games
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Oct 10, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Avatar's DS debut serves up an engaging story and some slick 3D visuals, but it's otherwise 
 just another mediocre brawler. 

  Avatar: The Last Airbender for the Nintendo DS is an action adventure game featuring the characters 
 and locations from Nickelodeon's popular cartoon show. In the game, players lead a party of four 
 heroes through multiple portions of the Avatar world and use the characters' unique abilities to 
 fight the seemingly endless horde of soldiers, machines, and beasts at the Fire Nation's disposal. 
 While there are a few role-playing aspects tacked on here and there, this is, by and large, a straightforward 
 brawler where you mainly have to mash the attack buttons and survive from one encounter to the 
 next. Fans of the show may appreciate that the story and characters ring true to the cartoon, but 
 it's tough to savor the story when the meat of the game consists of literally hundreds of tiresome 
 battle situations.  

           The thrill of the 3D graphics wears off after the umpteenth battle is spent mashing buttons. 
     

  In the world of Avatar, people known as benders have the ability to cast elemental magic. The world 
 is split into four different nations, each based on the element the nation's inhabitants have mastery 
 over: fire, water, earth, or air. For centuries, the four nations lived in peace. However, one 
 day the Fire Nation began a campaign to conquer the other nations. According to legend, the only 
 person that can stop the Fire Nation is the Avatar, the legendary bender that has the ability to 
 control all four elements. The game, like the show, follows the travails of Aang, the last airbender 
 and supposed Avatar, on his quest to awaken his powers and bring an end to the war. When the game 
 opens, Aang enlists a pair of waterbenders to help him on his quest, and, not long after that, 
 an earthbender joins up to make the trio a quartet. Together, the party of four heroes sets out 
 to visit the different villages in the land to gradually push back the Fire Nation forces and get 
 Aang the training he needs.  

  As you'd expect, each of the game's seven chapters involves visiting a different village, talking 
 to people, going on fetch quests, and, eventually, confronting the boss that has been causing so 
 much trouble in the neighborhood. When you encounter any Fire Nation soldiers, the viewpoint shifts 
 to a real-time battle perspective where Aang's party has to stomp as many as a half-dozen Fire 
 Nation troops. Each character has his or her own unique set of attacks and magical abilities. All 
 four characters are involved in each battle, but you only control the active character, while the 
 CPU controls the other three. It's easy enough to take control of any of the other characters, 
 however, simply by tapping the appropriate icon on the touch screen. After every fight, experience 
 points are doled out that increase the heroes' stats and periodically earn them new bending attacks. 
 Other role-playing staples, such as healing herbs and stat-boosting potions, let you manage health 
 and stats on a limited basis.  

  Despite the inclusion of a few token role-playing aspects, Avatar: The Last Airbender is really 
 a brawler. You don't have much control over character development, except when you come across 
 the occasional stat-boost potion, and fetch quests and people-finding missions don't require much 
 time at all. Ninety-nine percent of the time you spend playing the game will be devoted to fighting 
 the cookie-cutter soldiers that you'll run into every 30 seconds or so. While that doesn't sound 
 terribly enjoyable by itself, the game's fighting aspects are weak and sloppy to boot. Each character 
 only has a single hand-to-hand attack and three different bending moves, so you're constantly seeing 
 the same attacks performed over and over again. By the same token, the same four standard enemies 
 are recycled throughout the game, and they each only have a single attack move. As it is, combat 
 is straightforward to a fault. You don't have to worry about elemental strengths during normal 
 battles, so there's no reason to switch characters once you find a favorite, and there isn't much 
 strategy required during a fight, except to dodge or block each enemy's initial attack and then 
 mash your preferred attack button until all enemies are knocked out.  

  The cruel irony is that enemies are ridiculously strong, to the point that you have to burn through 
 health items and grind a ton of levels on lower-level enemies before the ones you need to kill 
 are no longer able to knock one of your characters out in three or four hits. To make matters worse, 
 the CPU does a poor job of keeping the three non-player heroes out of harm's way. Suffice it to 
 say, it's hard to stay motivated toward finishing the story when the game forces you to participate 
 in the same simplistic, repetitive battle situations hundreds of times per chapter.  

  For all of the grinding that players are forced to endure, the entire game barely requires six 
 hours to finish. Fetch quests are easy to fulfill, since the map always shows you exactly where 
 to go, and boss battles are a piece of cake once you invest a continue or two in figuring out your 
 opponent's attack pattern. Once you complete the game, there aren't any bonus quests or goodies 
 to further immerse yourself in. Six hours isn't a whole lot of game, and the replay value is almost 
 nonexistent here.  

           Thanks to overpowered enemies and pathetic CPU helpers, combat just isn't any fun.    

  It's a shame that the game isn't more fun, because it is presented well. Comic book-style speech 
 bubbles provide bits and pieces of the story throughout each chapter, while the lengthier exchanges 
 that occur between chapters implement recorded dialogue featuring the actual voices of the show's 
 actors. Visually, the game juxtaposes 2D character sprites with 3D backdrops. The characters are 
 fluidly animated and look just like their TV personas. The 3D backdrops, meanwhile, are razor sharp 
 and take the system's 3D capabilities to the limit. All of the superfluous environmental and weather-related 
 visual effects are truly a sight to behold, and there's quite a bit of detail evident in the trees, 
 houses, and other structures in the scenery. They didn't devote nearly as much horsepower to the 
 music or sound effects, but the generic battle noises do fit the action at least, and the music 
 has a Far East feel that wins you over by being calming, as opposed to raucous.  

  Slick production values can only go so far. Avatar: The Last Airbender for the Nintendo DS may 
 do a great job of capturing the look and feel of the cartoon, but as video games go, it's just 
 another mediocre brawler loosely patterned after a popular TV show.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DavisDUDE333
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This game takes Aang, Katara, Sokka, and Haru on an adventure you won't see in an episode. Packed 
 between Book 1 and Book 2, Aang's adventure is all original.
  
  Fire Nation machines are threatning the Aang Gang, plus stealing benders for evil reasons. I haven't 
 found out why! 
  
  Maybe I'm a bad gamer, but this game is too difficult for me! I reached the 5th stage, and keep 
 dying. Health goes down to fast, bending moves are slow, and enemies are just plain hard to beat. 
 There aren't really tactics to beating enemies, just hack and hope your health doesn't give out. 
 Fortunatly, using your secondary bending move is easy, after your stamina comes back up. YOU can 
 avoid enemies, but your dim-witted friends will run right into them, causing you and your pals 
 into a tiny arena with whatever Firebender you ran into. That enemy magically doubles or triples, 
 and you have to beat them up to get back into the game. Ugh! It gets tiring. It would be nice if 
 enemies just shot fire at you and you could run away. Bending moves aren't too unique.
  
  But that's just me. Although I haven't finished it, this game is alright besides being freaking 
 hard to beat. Cutscenes are cool, with the characters' real voices. There's just too many puzzles 
 and things to get through in one run.
  
  Although Haru only got in on two or three episoides, earthbending is fun.
  
  Maybe I just need 
 an action replay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessYoshi
Rating: 3
Date: May 24, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  In short, this was very easy and boring. I would stop here, but there's an 800 character min so 
 I have to keep going.
  
  This game is one of the most boring I've played so far. I took me less than 10 hours to finish 
 it, and my humbs are a bit sore, and my head's sore from Mum yelling at me to get off my backside 
 and sweep the floor. ( I don't usually stop a game untill I finish or fall asleep.) The game looks 
 like it has been torn from a Game Boy colour, and the battles are really boring. I mean, there 
 kina fun at first, bu it gets very jejune. (Means boring) I really love the show, but the game is 
 a peice of poo. The backgrounds are nice and pretty, and the minigames are O. K. Sometimes I wish 
 you could get Aang to use some other bending skills, and that Toph was there. A firbender would 
 be nice too. Unfortunatly, it is one of those games you will want to stay a far away as possible 
 from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickensrcul
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  I myself am a huge Avatar fan. Haven't missed one episode. And so I thought, Hey, this could be 
 an ineresting game to tryout . But i was dead wrong. It's all fun and everyhting, but man, it's 
 way too short. You think that coming from such a cool show as Avatar, the game would be pretty 
 cool. But again, it's not. Gameplay, pretty cool, but a tad too short. The graphics? Not the best, 
 they could done better. The use of the touh screen, that was probably the worst part of the whole 
 game. The only thing you could use the touch screen for was to choose your map, items, etc. Other 
 than the flops, it could have been an overall, good game. But take it from me, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodjoe921
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Difficulty - This game is not really that hard if you know what to do in it! But if you don't know 
 what to do in some parts, this game can be preaty hard!
  Learning Curve - This game makes leaning this game short compared to other games! Other games may 
 take 10hours to learn how to play them
  Gameplay - The gameplay in this game is preaty good! But not the best!
  
  Graphics - The graphics 
 in this game remind me of an old GBA game! In other words the graphics in this game are not that 
 good!
  Sound - The sound in this game is really good! I really like the music in it!
  Value - I think that if you are not really a big fan of the show them you should rent this game 
 first! But if you are a HUGE fan like me then buy it!
  In other words this game is ok if you are a BIG fan of the show! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle360
Rating: 5.1
Date: Oct 24, 2006 11:16 pm PT
Review:  At first this game might seem like a good game because you see the really nice 3D graphics, but 
 don't be fool. First of all, the characters are 2D which make the surroundings less attractive 
 by dragging your eyes into the 2D characters, not the 3D suroundings.
  Second, this game have some of the worst music &amp; sound ever. It's so annoying and irritating. 
 I mean, when you're fighting a boss they put a song where you only hear two bamboo sticks hitting 
 each other. That makes battles a pain in the but and so unintense. And don't even get me started 
 with the town and village music.
  Third, the story isn't good at all. I mean i got the story and everything, I just thought it stunk.
 
  Last, the only thing I like about this game was the 3D surroundings. Those were really nice ds 
 graphics that were put to bad use into this crappy game.
  Overall, every aspect of this game suck except for the surroundings 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jellyman99
Rating: 1.4
Date: Oct 14, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  i was very excited when i first heard about this game. i loved the shpw and when i thought of what 
 potetential the game really had it got me even more hyped up.
  
  to bad the game didn't live up to any of my expectations
  1. graphics not good
  2. gameplay was 
 just horrible. it was a bore to press the same buttons over and over.
  3. didn't take full advantage of touch screen. only buy this game if you are a HARD CORE avatar 
 fan, other than that don't buy it.
  
  p. s. about two days after i purchased this game i brought it to EB games and traded it in for cash 
 for about 7 dollars. then i went to the pizzera next door and bought a chicken parm. hero. it was 
 more exciting and fun (not to mention tasty) then the avatar game was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meleeboy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 14, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This is definitly a game you will want to get if you are an Avatar Fan. This is one game THQ HASN'T 
 screwed up, and that I am glad for.
  
  Controls: Fairly simple, all you have to do is use the D-Pad to move around and use the L and R 
 buttons to rotate the view of the area, there are 8 camera points. Battles aren't that hard at 
 all, and there is a tutorial for everything else unexplained.
  
  Graphics: Amazing. Simply amazing. You can't get ANY better than this, given the DS's power. The 
 characters are all sprites, but everything else like the scenery and general world is 3D. This 
 is what allows you to rotate the map at an 8 point camera angle view.
  
  Sound: As good as an Avatar game can get. The music quality is very clear, and it has the general 
 theme of the Avatar series.
  
  Replay Value: Not so sure how good this may be, I've only gotten a little into the story. It is 
 an RPG so I'm guessing you may be able to play it a few times more to find all the hidden secrets.
 
  
  Learning Tilt: It's very simple to learn the way to play this game. I'd say about 5 minutes to 
 learn.
  
  Overall: I think it's a great game, but that's just coming from a big Avatar Fan. It's a decent 
 as far as Movie/TV show based games go. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
