-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Away: Shuffle Dungeon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/awaytsuresararetaninnin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Shuffle mechanic adds intensity.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Slightly finicky gameplay.
 Unusual, blocky presentation is unappealing.
 Lacks challenge, depth, and strategy.
 Little control over spell management.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.6, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 20 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Artoon
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Oct 30, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You may want to shuffle away from this dungeon crawler. 

  Away: Shuffle Dungeon is an intriguing collaborative project between Mistwalker and Artoon. It 
 blends the creative talents of Hironobu Sakaguchi, the creator of Final Fantasy, and Naoto Oshima, 
 famed Sonic character designer. It's a simplistic role-playing game that emphasizes fast-paced 
 dungeon-crawling and a unique presentation, but the lack of any depth or challenge makes it hard 
 to stay interested for long. The game offers little more than a simplistic dungeon romp with a 
 mediocre story.  

  Webb Village, a cozy, seaside paradise, is experiencing a phenomenon called the Away, which is 
 a mysterious force that occasionally whisks off villagers. The hero, Sword, is next in line for 
 abduction when a local village girl takes his place, triggering the disappearance of the entire 
 village. Sword immediately begins rescuing villagers from the monster-filled caves that have ripped 
 open the land. Though the storyline is initially quite dull, there are a few twists that keep it 
 appealing.  

           Hack your way through opponents with your trusty, multicolored fupong at your side.   
    

  The game is so player-friendly that it's often too easy, offering brief tutorials that explain 
 almost every aspect, from gaining experience to shopping. Village exploration is very straightforward 
 and occurs on the bottom screen, where it's displayed in primitive yet adequate 3D. The top screen, 
 meanwhile, houses a convenient map that marks a star whenever your current goal is on the field, 
 so you'll spend little time wandering around aimlessly. Most of the objectives amount to nothing 
 more than simple, monotonous fetch quests, but if you get stuck, there's always a fortune teller 
 to point you in the right direction, making every quest ridiculously easy.  

  Very little differentiates Shuffle Dungeon from the usual dungeon crawler with the exception of 
 its unique shuffle mechanic. Dungeon segments are displayed in 2D on both screens along with a 
 timer; the designated screen rumbles as the clock counts down, eventually "shuffling" sideways 
 to display a new segment. The goal is to flip switches that modify dungeon segments, clearing a 
 path to the next staircase. This refreshing, fast-paced system is highly dynamic, applying constant 
 pressure as you rush against the clock, making split-second decisions before a shuffle. Whenever 
 you're caught in a shuffle, the switches reset and you restart that floor, but the penalty is hardly 
 crippling given that most dungeons are limited to an easy three floors.  

  Unfortunately, the combat system is boringly simple, providing absolutely no depth at all. Basic 
 combat consists of hacking and slashing your way through opponents via short, three-hit combos 
 in between flipping switches, which is largely dissatisfying. To worsen matters, there are only 
 four available weapon types, and their clumsy, slow combos make them highly impractical given a 
 dungeon's push for speed, simultaneously lessening combat variety along with any opportunity for 
 strategic thought.  

  Strategic play is further discouraged by a cumbersome magic system that relies on fupong, which 
 are colorful blobs that enable you to cast spells. You're allowed six fupong at a time, and though 
 initially, your fupong grant you only one spellcast each, you'll eventually be able to increase 
 their magical strength by combining them. However, you can't combine fupong of different types 
 to expand your spell variety, which is a huge disappointment. While the inclusion of fupong makes 
 for an interesting magic system, you have zero strategic control over your spellcasting because 
 you're unable to cycle among fupong, even during boss fights. This is highly frustrating because 
 you're forced to cast spells exactly in the order that the fupong line up in behind Sword rather 
 than the order you want. This means that you'll have to waste all the spells in front of a fupong 
 you want that just so happens to be at the end of the line, leaving you without magic until you 
 recharge the fupong by changing floors.  

  The highlight of any dungeon crawler is its boss battles, but only a handful of 3D boss fights 
 are included, with most of those rehashing boss designs and tactics. You'll find it annoying that 
 you're unable to maneuver the camera to look around because bosses occasionally sneak up from your 
 blind spot and whack you in the back. Another irritant is that the game manages to make even boss 
 fights tedious by requiring the same strategy for each one: hit the glowing red gem on the front. 
 The only way to attack a boss is to position yourself directly in front of it; swiping it from 
 the side by an inch causes you to miss.  

  Additionally, there are a few strange quirks. The foremost is that the gameplay is sometimes cheapened 
 by enemies suddenly spawning on top of you or backing you against a wall, where you have difficulty 
 moving to attack monsters head-on. This is due to narrow dungeon pathways and the controls, which 
 become less responsive when you're surrounded by foes. Another quirk is the inclusion of a partially 
 implemented, meaningless feng shui house minigame that encourages you to place your starting shops 
 according to nature's chi flow. Ideally, this feature should impact the item availability and success 
 of each store, but you'll find that feng shui rarely affects a store's inventory and is suddenly 
 dropped for the rest of the shops.  

           Combine fupong of the same type to increase their magical strength.      

  The 2D 
 dungeons are very detailed, with colorful sprites and spell effects. However, the game's real visual 
 delight is its 3D village environments, where cute if crudely textured houses and flowers dot the 
 landscape. Some may be put off by by the admittedly unique blocky character designs, which are 
 so unattractive that they actually detracts from the presentation's somewhat charming aesthetic. 
 The fully voiced cinematics are of a lower quality than the handheld is capable of, but their exaggerated 
 voicing is far more annoying. Ambient noises are a treat, however, with appropriate sword slashes 
 and casting effects accompanying attacks, and the mildy endearing music provides a nice backdrop 
 for each dungeon.  

  It should take you 15 hours to complete the main quest, but there isn't much in the way of replay 
 value. You can start a new game, maintaining your experience and items you have on you, or start 
 up multicard multiplayer matches with a friend, battling bosses together, but it's a shame that 
 a two-player dungeon mode isn't offered.  

  Away: Shuffle Dungeon is a decent, technically proficient dungeon crawler with an interesting shuffle 
 mechanic that adds some spice to dungeon exploration, but ultimately provides little depth and 
 almost no strategy or challenge. The interesting shuffle mechanic may draw a few diehard dungeoneers 
 into the fold, but most players will be better off staying away.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mikeian2014
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 8:51 am PT
Review:  Away shuffle dungeon is a new dungeon crawler that innovates in a way no other has yet it actually 
 has changing dungeons! This in itself adds intensity and interest in the game but it also keeps 
 you alert. You must seize every opportunity in this game there is little room for error. But the 
 game itself is pretty easy but don't get me wrong the game has gotten pretty harsh ratings. This 
 is sort of a zelda game with a could be better story and a better variety of weapons. But there 
 is no way i would pick this over a zelda game it just seems similar... But hey it is worth buying 
 it provides hours of entertainment value and totally relies on stratigie. Hey i'm probably throwing 
 my credibility on the line here but give this game a fighting chance. Without games like this games 
 wouldn't be what they are today! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
