-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bangai-O Spirits
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/bangaiospirits/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Outstanding control.
 Great assortment of powerful weapons.
 Level editor adds lots of value.
 It's easy to share and receive user-created levels.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Steep difficulty can be off-putting.
 Lacks a Campaign mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 133 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: Treasure
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date: Aug 12, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bangai-O Spirits is an intense, challenging shooter with terrific tools for creating and sharing 
 your own levels. 

  Treasure is one of the most distinctive development houses in the business. As the force behind 
 such games as Astro Boy: Omega Factor and Ikaruga, it has repeatedly demonstrated a knack for designing 
 outstanding and unusual shooters in which the screen is frequently filled with outrageous numbers 
 of bullets. Its mech action game Bangai-O, released in 1999 for the Nintendo 64 and later on the 
 Dreamcast, was no exception. Now Bangai-O's successor, Bangai-O Spirits, has arrived on the DS, 
 and it delivers intense action with more tactical depth than your average shoot-'em-up.  

           Yep, it's a Treasure game, all right.      

  Most traditional shooters have automatically 
 scrolling stages, but the stages in Bangai-O Spirits are self-contained areas of varying shape 
 and size where you can move freely in eight directions. Your Bangai-O is an incredibly agile machine, 
 capable of effortlessly flying in any direction or hovering in midair, and it controls like a dream. 
 Pushing the D-pad in any direction sends you effortlessly soaring in that direction. If you stop 
 flying, gravity will pull you down, but a quick tap of the B button will have you hovering in place, 
 allowing you to fire in any direction while remaining stationary. On each stage, you must destroy 
 certain targets to succeed. All of the action takes place on the lower screen, and the upper screen 
 serves as a map that shows your position and the position of your targets, as well as other useful 
 information, such as enemy life bars. There's no Story mode here, just a large collection of individual 
 stages that you can tackle in any order. It's cool to have access to all of the game's content 
 from the get-go, and there's no denying that the game is a great value, though some sort of a campaign 
 mode would have added some nice structure to the game.  

  Bangai-O Spirits is an extremely tactical action game. It's also extremely difficult, so understanding 
 the unique properties of each of your various attacks, which the game goes over in its 17 tutorial 
 stages, is essential to enjoying the experience. Among the premade stages included in the game 
 is a group of 18 levels called puzzle stages, consisting of mazes, box-pushing puzzles, and other 
 brainteasers; but in fact, each of the game's stages, even those in which you're firing hundreds 
 of missiles at swarms of attacking mechs, is something of a puzzle. Critical thinking is as essential 
 to success as fast reflexes. You need to know when to take your enemies out from a safe distance 
 with your bounce cannon and when to get up close with your trusty baseball bat, or you won't last 
 long at all. The game's more tactical nature means that it doesn't have the instant pick-up-and-play 
 appeal of many shooters, but the depth of the gameplay means that those with a little patience 
 will find a rich and rewarding experience here.  

  Among all the weapons in your arsenal, the EX attacks are the most important. They're the most 
 powerful attacks at your disposal, and they're also one of the most unique, fun aspects of Bangai-O 
 Spirits. That's because, in order to release the most powerful EX attacks possible, you need to 
 put yourself squarely in harm's way. If there are more enemy shots flying toward you, your missiles 
 will be bigger and more powerful. Under the most dangerous conditions, it's possible to unleash 
 100 missiles that are each four times the size of your normal missiles, and although the tutorial 
 points out that they may not all be displayed because of system limitations, it still makes for 
 a ridiculously massive flurry of projectiles.  

  What makes the game such a great value is its versatile, easy-to-use level editor. Even if you 
 have just mild interest in designing your own levels, it is great fun to mess around with the editor. 
 At any point during normal gameplay, you can enter edit mode and remove enemies or give yourself 
 unlimited hit points or EX attack power. The game won't save your high scores for levels you pass 
 using edits, but it's still enjoyable to make troublesome foes vanish with the tap of a stylus, 
 and giving yourself unlimited health can help you study a level so you can devise a strategy for 
 conquering it. But it's in the freedom to create new stages that the versatility of the level editor 
 really shines. You can totally start from scratch or copy and paste elements of existing levels 
 into your own. You have access to everything in the game -- every item, enemy, piece of music, and 
 background artwork. And the interface for doing all of this, which makes great use of the touch 
 screen, couldn't be simpler. If you can think it up, you can toss it together.  

  All this editing power wouldn't be that useful without a way for clever designers to share their 
 creations with the world, but Bangai-O Spirits offers a way for you to do just that with its innovative 
 sound load feature. The game converts any level you wish to share into a brief sound file that 
 other Bangai-O players can play into the microphone on their DSs to receive the level. The method 
 was a little finicky in our testing, requiring considerable adjustment of volume levels when transmitting 
 stages from a PC to the DS using the game's recommended method of earbuds as an output device, 
 but after getting things calibrated properly, we were able to receive levels with ease. There's 
 already a decent community of designers making some wicked level designs readily available by posting 
 the sound files on such sites as YouTube, so those players seeking more content won't have to look 
 far. Also adding to the game's value a bit is the local multiplayer option. Unfortunately, you're 
 limited to the premade stages during multiplayer games, but it's still good fun to tackle a stage 
 with a friend or three.  

           The baseball bat lets you send massive enemy projectiles flying right back at your enemies. 

   

  The game's graphics are relatively simple, but the screen is often packed with so much action, 
 it's hard not to be impressed. Although your mech is small, it still feels tremendously powerful 
 thanks to the size of the EX attacks you constantly unleash. Slowdown occurs frequently in Bangai-O 
 Spirits when the screen gets busy, but it actually doesn't deter from the experience of playing 
 the game. In fact, firing off EX attacks is so awesome, you won't mind seeing all those massive 
 rockets fly out from your tiny mech in slow motion. The music and sound effects are also solid 
 and befit the action very well.  

  Bangai-O Spirits requires considerably more thought than your typical shooter, but it is still 
 fundamentally a shooter, and a great one at that. The play control is tight, the weapons at your 
 disposal are powerful, and the levels are packed with explosive action. Best of all, there should 
 be no shortage of new content in the future with the exceptional level editor. This is a spectacularly 
 over-the-top game that any shooter fan with a penchant for serious challenge would do well to check 
 out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: s1l3n70n3
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The game has an optional tutorial mode that introduces some characters, strange dialogue, and the 
 ins and outs of the game. Then, when you're done with the tutorial you can forget the dialogue 
 and the characters, they don't exist anywhere else in the game. What's left is the terrific gameplay.
 
  The game revolves around the mixing different types of weapons to create certain kinds of attacks 
 for certain situations. Normal and special weapons are mixable allowing for a only a few different 
 gun types but those limitations are set to make the player use strategy.
  The special weapons are the real draw. Most can be charged to fire up to 100 missiles. Then the 
 gameplay throws in another twist. If there are a lot of missiles surrounding the player, the power 
 of the shots is increased but the number of shots is decreased. Still, up to 100 shots of missiles 
 4 time the normal power can be fired. One specific enemy however can create massive slowdowns because 
 it is an AI clone of the player capable of the same strategy. Don't be surprised if your game freezes, 
 it will come back.
  Finally, the stylus is implemented in an innovative way with level creation. The controls are a 
 little spotty but you can make massive levels with enemies the fill up the screen. The ability 
 to store you creations on your computer via sound creates a way for players to share their creation 
 on the net.
  Overall, the arcade feel, the pre-made levels, and the level editor will fill hours of your free 
 time. The addictive, accessible gameplay is perfect in carpooling, bus/subway riding, and whenever 
 else you have spare time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthRUSH
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  In anticipation of Treasure's Bangai-O Spirits, I replayed Dreamcast's 1999 port of Treasure's 
 classic Nintendo 64 Bakuretsu Muteki Bangaioh. Right up to level 61. For the veteran gamer, I was 
 feeling both excised and gloomy. Since it seemed Bangai-O has already been pushed to its limits 
 - what else can be done? That's where Treasure took me to class. 
  
  So many new features in Spirits, some better than others, but overall a polished gem from the masters 
 of 2-D gaming. Reminiscence of Alien Solider, Rakugaki Showtime, and Mischief Makers also take 
 a stronghold in the already-classic Bangai-O series. New weapons, including sword/bat similar to 
 smacking projectiles off Silhouette Mirage. Now you are equipped with double specials of your choice, 
 making the every level challenging. Treasure broke new grounds AGAIN - adding a unique level-editing 
 saving mechanism by sending via Voice Recorder though your PC. Will complete review soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterg500
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  It's more about finding the right weapon combos to beat each level more than anything else. Id 
 even classify this more as a puzzle game than a shooter. No real campaign mode sucks. But the Level 
 designer is really creative. I thought the graphics were nice, but it tends to freeze up when a 
 lot of missiles and baddies flood the screen. The DS just cant handle a lot of screen traffic at 
 once. So in conclusion if youre looking for a side scrolling shooter to play with a friend look 
 else-where. But if you want a challenging puzzle game to play with friends thats deguised as a 
 side scrolling shooter by all means have at it. It seems to have a lot of ambitious ideas built 
 into it. But ulitmately I think it's presents a very misleading picture of what the game really 
 is. So I'd rent a few copies with friends before buying this cart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliusmysad
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  This game is simply briliant, but only if you can manage to finish it all. The game compiles many 
 tasks/levels together, which makes up the main of the game. It's hard to describe, but its something 
 worth experiencing. The one PERSONAL problem with the game was the difficulty of some of the challenges. 
 Although it was challenging in a good way, the levels don't take too long to master. Patience and 
 luck is the key. Trial and Error basically. 
  
  Personally I'd treat this game as one of your "Puzzle" selections, as it's sort of structured like 
 a puzzle in the sense that it has many small senarios to complete.
  
  However, if you still haven't played other games that you "Really want", then i suggest you get 
 those first, leaving this as a "Second priority". But what can i say, its a really great game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit that I was completely oblivious to the Bangai-O franchise before playing Bangai-O 
 Spirits on the DS. Since I never had a Nintendo 64, and my experience with the Dreamcast has been 
 limited to the past two or three years, my oversight should come as understandable, but either 
 way, I was excited to make up for lost time with Bangai-O Spirits on the DS.
  
  Bangai-O Spirits is the sequel to the first Bangai-O pair of games released on the 64 in Japan 
 and the Dreamcast in North America from 1999-2001, depending on the country. In the game, players 
 followed a pair of kid mecha pilots as they sought the destruction of a group of nefarious fruit 
 thieves (no, that's not a joke) .
  
  The sequel then follows another pair of young pilots, this time named Ruri and Masato, through 
 over 150 levels of very intense mecha action. Unfortunately, that's essentially it in terms of 
 the story that this sequel gives you, other than brief glimpses into the hasty qualities of both 
 pilots as compared to the reserved nature of their professor, whom also serves as your teacher 
 through the game's 17 tutorial levels.
  
  These tutorial levels teach you basically everything you would want to know about the game, and 
 contain incredibly simply gameplay, when compared to the real stages of the title.
  
  Through these tutorials you'll learn that movement is controlled with the d-pad, and is incredibly 
 fluid. A simple tap in any one direction sends your Bangai-O (the mecha itself) soaring gracefully 
 in that direction, with gravity as the only force acting against said movement. Luckily, since 
 each level tends to have a lot going on at once, a simple tap of the B button will cause your Bangai-O 
 to hover in midair, allowing you to concentrate all your efforts on eliminating each level's targets, 
 thus clearing the level.
  
  Your Bangai-O has a large variety of weapons at its disposal, in both the projectile and melee 
 categories, with firing being controlled by the Y and B buttons. Projectiles range from "Bounce" 
 missiles that literally bounce off of surfaces and continue on to "Napalm" missiles that explode 
 upon impact. Melee weapons then are things like a standard sword that slices through enemy projectiles, 
 a shield that protects your Bangai-O from incoming attacks, and even a bat, which treats bullets 
 like baseballs, sending them back in the direction from which they came.
  
  The most powerful weapons in the game, however, aren't simple missiles or swords. These are the 
 EX attacks, which have a power gauge completely separate from your life gauge, with said power 
 gauge being replenished by collecting the fruit contraband that your enemies have previously stolen.
 
  
  These EX attacks are so impressive because of their sheer size. If you are surrounded by enemies, 
 you can easily hold down the R button to send out anywhere from 1 to 100 missiles at once. These 
 missiles can be basic rounds that attack in all directions, or have specialty effects such as paralyzing 
 enemies and their bullets or knocking those enemies away from you altogether.
  
  The interesting thing to note about the weapons system in the game is that weapon types can be 
 combined. That is, your Bangai-O has two open slots for attacks. While you could choose to equip 
 only one type of missile, say the Bounce missile, you could also equip a second type like the Homing 
 missile to then create a homing, bouncing missile that will rebound off of surfaces and continually 
 seek out targets.
  
  No matter which weapon you choose, each level contains the same goal of eliminating all enemies 
 on screen. The action takes place on the touch screen, while the top screen displays a map of the 
 level plus the life bars of the level's targets. While some stages may be small enough to be displayed 
 in their entirety on the touch screen, you'll be happy the map is there, as, in true Treasure fashion 
 (think Astro Boy: Omega Factor) , the touch screen is frequently completely covered with bullets, 
 explosions, fruit, and other content, making visibility quite difficult.
  
  To put this into prospective, you are told in one of the tutorial levels that at some points during 
 the game, like when firing off 100 missiles at once via an EX attack, that the game won't be able 
 to display everything properly, because there is too much going on at once in terms of the DS's 
 system limitations.
  
  Even when the game tries its best to display things as quickly as possible, lag is unfortunately 
 (although not surprisingly) a major factor here, creating a sort of "slow-motion" feel to most 
 of the more intense levels. And while some players might enjoy this slow-motion action, I have 
 yet to find a game in which I actually welcome lag, making this a pretty big negative in my book.
 
  
  Even if lag doesn't bother you, the game's massive difficulty level probably will. While the game's 
 controls are incredibly intuitive, there are oftentimes so many enemies on the screen that random 
 button mashing is the farthest thing from a good strategy and will get you killed within just a 
 few seconds. This makes forethought vital to your success, and also means that many players would 
 rather pass on this one that take the time to master the difficult gameplay here.
  
  Yet another two-sided aspect to the game comes in the title's graphics. With so much going on at 
 once, detail is often neglected in favor of massive explosions. An understandable choice sure, 
 but definitely a "quantity over quality" situation nonetheless. Now, that's not to say that the 
 game is ugly, as it's not. Level backgrounds can be a bit blurry, but the rest of the game is covered 
 in bright, primarily primary colors, and is of what many would consider acceptable quality for 
 a DS title.
  
  The soundtrack and sound effects of the game luckily pick up any slack left behind by the game's 
 not-so-thrilling graphics. Each fast-paced techno / electronica track is of fantastic quality when 
 played through the DS's small speakers, and does a terrific job of conveying the sense of urgency 
 and tension throughout each level. Likewise, the combat sound effects themselves are intense, which 
 is fitting, seeing as how the entire theme of the game seems to be intensity.
  
  Speaking of the sound department, Bangai-O Spirits contains a level-editor system that offers players 
 a virtually endless playground on which to create levels of varying designs and difficulty, and 
 then allows them to save their created levels and transfer them not only to other DS's, but also 
 to their PC's through the DS's microphone.
  
  Call me old-fashioned, but this is a transfer system that's completely new to me, so I was instantly 
 amazed by how it worked. When transferring a level to the DS from a PC, you simply plug in a set 
 of earphones (recommended) to your PC's speakers, and place one ear bud on the DS's microphone. 
 You then simply play the file on your PC and the DS records it. Voila, you've just downloaded a 
 level.
  
  Likewise, when transferring from one DS to another, you simply hold the DS's speaker above the 
 other's microphone and transfer that way. Transferring to a PC is more complicated, as one would 
 probably guess, as you need some sort of recording program and a jack plug to connect to the input 
 jack on your PC.
  
  However, even if you choose to never upload your own levels to the PC, the literally limitless 
 amount of gameplay created by having such a file sharing system is downright mind-boggling.
  
  In the end, while the level editor is one of the neatest things I've ever seen in a game, I 
 can also see that the challenge that comes along with most of those levels and the game as a whole 
 will be enough to deter most players from this intense experience. All in all, while some aspects 
 of the game may be readily playable by every kind of gamer, my recommendation for Bangai-O Spirits 
 must be reserved solely for shooter fanatics who enjoy such an extreme difficulty level in their 
 games.
  
  Review part of GrrlGamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=bangaiospirits 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
