-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Barnyard Blast: Swine of the Night
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/barnyardblast/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The writing is cute and funny.
 Traditional side-scrolling action never goes out of style.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Insane difficulty level often relies on cheap damage.
 Your character is slow and awkward.
 Relies on an old formula without enhancing it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.6, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 6.0, 20 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: DSI Games
Developer: Sanuk Games
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Feb 15, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Pigs and puns are the highlights of this otherwise routine take on an old formula. 

  If you saw Barnyard Blast: Swine of the Night sitting on a store shelf, you'd probably assume it 
 was kid-oriented shovelware, what with its faux-cheeky title and uber-cute cartoony box art. You'd 
 be wrong, though. This side-scrolling action game isn't all that great, but it's a passable throwback 
 to the 8- and 16-bit eras, when Mega Man and the Belmont family headed the baddie-shooting brigade. 
 And despite its brightly-colored, family-friendly exterior, Barnyard Blast is meant for nostalgic, 
 quick-thumbed old-timers ready to embrace its fiendish difficulty and clever video game references. 
 Nevertheless, it's more likely to inspire you to dust off your older consoles and take Ghosts 'n 
 Goblins for a spin than it is to keep you entertained on its own terms.  

           TP: The source of all that is unholy.      

  Barnyard Blast certainly has a sense 
 of humor about itself. Vividly drawn 2D scenes introduce you to Cliffy Belmart, a nosy young pig 
 with a penchant for mischief. Cliffy goes and toilet papers the local haunted mansion, much to 
 the chagrin of its unamused residents. It's up to his porcine pappy, the Rubenesque Robert, to 
 save him from the clutches of the restless wraiths within. Each of the six levels is preceded by 
 a humorous scene, and they are packed with sly winks to video game culture, horror films, and even 
 the silly conventions at the core of its own premise. A few jokes don't work as well as others, 
 but overall, the corny and kooky tone works to the game's benefit.  

  The humor may be as fresh as a daisy, but the gameplay is as musty as a tombstone. It's based on 
 honorable side-scrolling conventions at least: As Robert, you travel from left to right across 
 a variety of ghostly, purposely cliched environments while navigating platforms, avoiding traps, 
 and shooting any dastardly demon that dares poison your path. You've got only four weapons at your 
 disposal: a pistol with unlimited ammo, a shotgun, a whip, and dynamite. To help you along the 
 way, you gather yellow and blue dots, which are used to earn more lives and charge your accumulated 
 power-ups.  

           Porkchops and applesauce.      

  It's all very simple and old-fashioned, but Barnyard Blast lacks the vitality and tight design 
 of its inspirations. Robert is a plodding, portly hero who isn't always a joy to control. He crouches 
 slowly and is not a very agile jumper, aspects that may feel authentically piggish but aren't assets 
 in light of the game's often brutal difficulty. Sometimes, the challenge comes from cleverly placed 
 traps and enemies. Just as often, it's due to inescapable foes that spawn directly underneath you, 
 inconsistent platform placement, and insanely hard bosses without discernible patterns. When it 
 nails the formula, Barnyard Blast is a fun challenge, but even genre veterans with finely tuned 
 thumb-eye coordination will curse the frequent unfair cheapness. The game gets the template right, 
 but the devil, as they say, is in the details.  

  The levels are colorful and look nice, even if they hardly showcase the graphical abilities of 
 the DS. The sound and music are both appropriately amusing and entirely forgettable. If you're 
 a fan of old-time side-scrolling adventures, or pigs with whips, you could do worse than this. 
 Nevertheless, there are 15-year-old games that have already perfected this recipe, and the addition 
 of Barnyard Blast's brand of bacon doesn't enhance its taste.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Game_Maniaco
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  It all begins when his son is captured and then the adventure begins. You only have the provision 
 of four guns and nothing else that you can share with L and R or if you prefer with a stylus which 
 is done in real time while the enemies pursue you making you mount a strategy, gameplay is weak 
 and does not offer many options. Do not expect to find much things new, clich of some games are 
 here: zombies, skeletons, phases in cemetery and a whip ._.
  The songs make a nice nostalgic effect and the sound effects are good. The game is very short only 
 six phases. Although it is not a game of weight, Barnyard Blast reminds of games some old school 
 games, drew attention for his humor and tricks with clich of several games and offers some laughs. 
 It boasts a lot of humor and personality, but the gameplay is not doing anything new. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  With all of the focus today on impressive three-dimensional simulations and frighteningly realistic 
 graphics, it's a great escape to take a trip back in time to the classic 2D side-scrolling shooters 
 from yesteryear. This experience is made even better when you realize that games made in this classic 
 style are still being produced, and are just as fun now as they were then.
  
  Barnyard Blast, from DSI Games, sets you in the role of Robert Belmart, your average pig down on 
 the farm. That is, if average meant gun-toting and cowboy hat wearing. On a spooky Halloween night, 
 your son Cliffy tries to make a name for himself by tee-peeing the dark and mysterious castle on 
 the outskirts of town. With a nod to Monster House, the castle sucks Cliffy in, and you, as the 
 caring father you are, must save him.
  
  After some seriously funny dialogue, your wife equips you with a whip, pistol, shotgun and some 
 dynamite, and off you go.
  
  Barnyard Blast is split into six fairly long levels. As you can expect, each level is not a simple 
 trek from one end to the other, as you are often faced with dangerous jumps over spikes and bottomless 
 pits, along with facing the challenge of multiple enemy types, ranging from flying bats, to pumpkin 
 men who spit at you. The biggest challenge here however are the multiple screen traps that have 
 you unable to continue until you eliminate all enemies that are coming at you from both directions.
 
  
  Each level contains multiple bosses, and it is in defeating these bosses that your weapon and jumping 
 skills are really put to the test. Each of your four weapons comes in handy during different circumstances. 
 The pistol, for instance, comes with unlimited ammo and is your all around button mashing weapon 
 of choice. While it lacks in overall firepower its rapid shot capabilities enable you to escape 
 quickly when needed.
  
  The shotgun, then, is the much more powerful version of the pistol. While it does have limited 
 ammo and a limited range, the powerful blast sends multiple enemies flying, making it a great choice 
 when you feel backed into a corner. Similarly, the whip can also attack multiple enemies with one 
 shot, but with its reliance on SP (very much like mana) , it should be saved for when needed most.
 
  
  Finally, even though the dynamite available to you may cause massive amounts of damage to all things 
 in its path, just know that you are not immune.
  
  Other tools in your arsenal come in the form of power-ups, like Regen which uses SP points to recharge 
 your health, speed and jump boosts, and 2x SP which allows you to gain four SP instead of two each 
 time you pick up a blue heart, that is randomly dropped by slain foes.
  
  Other commonly dropped items include red hearts, which recover a single HP up to the maximum of 
 5, and yellow stars, which give Robert an extra life once 10 are recovered. Shotgun ammo and dynamite 
 are also dropped, but not as frequently.
  
  All of Robert's information is displayed on the top screen, with the action taking place on the 
 touch screen via the use of very simple controls. You move using the control pad, Y is for shoot, 
 B is for jump, and R / L cycle through your weapons and power-ups, respectively.
  
  With such intuitive controls, the fast paced gameplay comes as a welcome surprise. Where easy controls 
 normally mean fairly easy gameplay, Barnyard Blast does not fit that mold. Even in the second level, 
 I was finding myself dying more often than expected, normally from the fact that you can't shoot 
 up into the air at things swooping in from above. However, getting past that obstacle and finishing 
 said level makes the game all the more exciting.
  
  The gameplay is not so fast, however, to stop you from enjoying the scenery in the game. The graphics 
 here are straight out of classic arcade machines. Shotgun ammo explodes into a cloud of smoke and 
 enemies disintegrate before your eyes. Likewise, the backgrounds themselves are very retro with 
 flickering wall sconces lit by flame and deformed trees which are perfectly suited to the horror 
 movie esque nature of the game.
  
  The music, however, is not as spooky as I would have expected. Don't get me wrong, as the music 
 itself is very pleasing to the ear, with its simulated piano and horn orchestra playing throughout, 
 it's just that upbeat tunes are not the norm when fighting evil creatures from the darkness of 
 night. Furthermore, where the sound department may have added a bit of whimsy to the tale, so too 
 do the dialogue segments.
  
  It's been a long time since I've played a game this sarcastic. Nothing is taken too seriously, 
 whether it is the whimsical music I talked of earlier, or the character design of both Robert and 
 Cliffy and the monsters you're killing. The storyline itself, however, has to take the cake.
  
  Instead of being filled with depressing soliloquies of how Robert will never be able to save 
 his son, you have the wife nagging Robert to pick up a few essentials from the store on the way 
 home from his journey. There's also a very funny bit where Robert momentarily believes Cliffy to 
 be the hideous demon walking in front of him so he mentions how he must find his wife to replace 
 him.
  
  All in all, I haven't been this impressed by a side-scroller in a very long time. With a great 
 mix of challenging gameplay and genuinely funny humor, Barnyard Blast is just that - a blast. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
