-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Battles of Prince of Persia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/battlesofprinceofpersia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Deep turn-based strategy engine.
 Card system adds interesting twist to battles.
 Makes good use of the touch screen.
 Ties in to Sands of Time trilogy's plot.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Somewhat steep learning curve.
 Deck management is a chore.
 Modest graphics.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 6.4, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 368 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Card Battle
Date: Dec 6, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Underneath its modest looks and intimidating, complex battle system is a turn-based strategy game 
 that is surprisingly fun and satisfying. 

  The Prince of Persia series doesn't seem like an ideal candidate to modify into a turn-based strategy 
 game. The action adventure games on console are epic and cinematic in their visual splendor, as 
 well as very story-driven -- attributes that are hard to bring out on a handheld strategy game. While 
 Battles of Prince of Persia certainly falls flat in maintaining an epic presentation, as a strategy 
 game, it's actually fairly deep, offering a satisfying level of complexity for turn-based strategy 
 buffs. The steep learning curve, however, may be off-putting to those who aren't familiar with 
 the genre.  

          Battles of Prince of Persia fills in some plot details from the Sands of Time trilogy. 
     

  The story of Battles of Prince of Persia fills in some of the blanks between the Sands of Time 
 and Warrior Within games on consoles and PC. As you go through this game's lengthy 24-mission campaign, 
 you'll learn more about how the Dahaka began pursuing the Prince, and the sorts of measures the 
 Prince takes to dodge his fate. You'll also be able to play missions as other major characters, 
 such as an Indian general, and see how the story plays out from other perspectives. The storyline 
 advances through text-laden comic book panels. Unfortunately, there's no voice at all in the game, 
 and the art style isn't particularly inspired, either -- which is even more disappointing given how 
 stylish the action adventure series has looked in the past.  

  The first couple missions in the game serve as a tutorial. Similar to Advance Wars, the battlefield 
 in Battles of Prince of Persia is a simple grid, with certain terrain squares offering defensive 
 or offensive bonuses or penalties. The troops at your disposal range from melee troops like pikemen, 
 swordsmen, and cavalry to ranged units like archers, and even artillery like catapults. A general 
 unit is also available to each side -- generals are extremely powerful units, with varying abilities 
 depending on the general. The Prince is an accomplished swordsman, obviously, but other generals 
 may specialize in ranged or magic attacks. All generals carry a command aura around them to offer 
 bonuses to nearby units. Battles of Prince of Persia goes beyond the basics with some added complexity -- every 
 unit has a facing, so you can gain an advantage by flanking around the side or the back when you 
 attack. Morale for each unit is also a factor. An extremely crushing attack, for example, can cause 
 a unit to begin fleeing the battlefield. Overwhelming attacks can also push a unit back a square -- if 
 they're pinned by another unit or a part of the environment, like a river, then the pinned unit 
 suffers additional damage. This discourages you from just stacking all your units up together. 
 You also need to be careful when you use your ranged units, like archers or artillery. Their fire 
 actually affects any units surrounding the target, which is nice if the enemy has lots of units 
 stacked together, but it also means you need to consider friendly fire before you shoot.  

  It all seems like a lot to keep track of, and while the tutorial does a good job at conveying the 
 basics, a lot of the subtleties of the game need to be learned on the fly. For example, it does 
 seem like there is a logical rock-scissors-paper relationship between swordsmen, pikemen, and cavalry 
 in Battles of Prince of Persia. While this relationship is intuitively obvious to anyone who plays 
 a lot of strategy games, the tutorials and manual don't seem to address the point very clearly. 
 Once you digest all the nuances of the game, however, you'll find yourself putting a lot of thought 
 into every move you make. If you're sloppy, the computer is often quick to take advantage of your 
 errors and punish you for them, whether it's raining catapult shots on clumped-up troops or pouncing 
 on an unprotected archer unit.  

  Battles of Prince of Persia also has a card-strategy component to it, and this plays in to how 
 each army trades turns. Time on the battlefield is divided into hours, and these are further subdivided 
 into turns in which each general can play a card from his hand. You can enter a battle with a deck 
 of 30 cards. Most of these cards are going to be standard-order cards, which you can play to give 
 orders to two, three, or four units during the turn. Much like land cards in a game of Magic: The 
 Gathering, the standard-orders cards are going to form the bulk of your deck. However, you can 
 intersperse a number of special cards into the deck that can enhance your chances at battle. These 
 cards have widely varying abilities, like allowing your missile units to move and shoot in the 
 same turn, or giving temporary movement or combat bonuses to certain units. Other cards can put 
 auras on specific units for added bonuses in battle, or add negative effects to enemy units. Once 
 you've played a card and given the requisite orders to your troops, the opponent plays a card and 
 does the same. As you give orders, troops become used for the rest of the hour and cannot be moved 
 again. Only after both generals pass on a turn does the hour advance, and all the used troops are 
 available for orders again. At that point you'll also draw more cards into your hand and return 
 to the battle.  

  You'll earn cards with every battle you win, and you can begin mixing these into your deck in between 
 battles using the included deck manager. And much like a game of Magic, the special cards you have 
 in your deck and the luck you have in getting your more powerful cards to come up all play a big 
 role in how well you can fight. Unfortunately, the deck manager in the game is cumbersome to use. 
 It's difficult to see at a glance which cards you have and what their strength is relative to other 
 cards. You'll also find that some cards end up having fairly redundant functionality to other cards; 
 so while the back of the game box trumpets "more than 200 cards" in the game, the actual variety 
 is less than that number implies. Even so, the card system in the game adds yet another fun layer 
 of complexity to the fights in Battles of Prince of Persia and helps differentiate the game from 
 other similar strategy games.  

  While the actual gameplay in Battles of Prince of Persia is certainly meaty and appealing for turn-based 
 strategy buffs, the dressing doesn't do much to appeal to fans of the series who may not be as 
 familiar with the conventions of the genre. As mentioned earlier, the text-heavy cutscenes used 
 to advance the story aren't particularly stylish; neither are the primitive-looking animations 
 you see in the top screen each time you engage a unit in a skirmish. The battlefield and icons 
 used for each of the units are all pretty basic-looking. Even the artwork on each of the cards -- often 
 a highlight for card-based strategy games -- is generally plain and unappealing. The truth is, even 
 if Battles of Prince of Persia was a Game Boy Advance game, it wouldn't look like much. As a DS 
 game it just leaves a lot to be desired. The sound effects in the game are pretty ordinary and 
 thin, as well. The few songs used for menu screens and battle get repetitive pretty quickly, and 
 there's no speech at all. What saves the overall presentation is the game's pretty good use of 
 the touch screen for giving orders in battle and managing the battlefield. You'll need one hand 
 on the D pad and shoulder button as you poke at the screen, but thankfully for lefties, the game 
 mirrors the control mechanisms on the D pad to the four face buttons and right shoulder button. 

          The game's modest graphics belie what is actually a deep and satisfying turn-based strategy 
 game.     

  Battles of Prince of Persia also includes a head-to-head multiplayer option, and you're rewarded 
 with different cards for trying out the mode, as well as the ability to trade cards with friends 
 using the DS's wireless capability. Given the deliberate pacing of the battles, though, the game 
 doesn't really lend itself to a quick multiplayer game. There's also no game-sharing functionality, 
 but two players can play on the same DS via hotseat mode.  

  While the Sands of Time series doesn't seem like it would lend itself well to a turn-based strategy 
 spin-off, Battles of Prince of Persia is actually worth a look if you're familiar with turn-based 
 strategy games. The modest presentation and steep learning curve in the game may be a turnoff for 
 some people, but if you can get past those flaws, there's a worthwhile game underneath the sometimes 
 ugly and intimidating exterior.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (25 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 5, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of the Prince of Persia franchise you need to check this turn-based card strategy 
 game out.
  
  Usually hand-held Prince of Persia games have been enhanced versions from previous console games, 
 but this is not the case in Battles of Prince of Persia. BoPoP takes place between an era of after 
 Sands of Time and before Warrior Within. The Prince has now unleashed the Sands of Time and has 
 that mythical beast known as Dahaka after him. Of course he tries to prevent this from happening 
 and destroying his kingdom in the process, but unfortunately he also triggers a war between Persia 
 and India. Actually there are three parties in this conflict and the third one is known as the 
 Daevas, a demonic race released from the Box of Restraints.
  
  Story has always been a crucial part in Prince of Persia games, but surprisingly here the main 
 focus is in different generals and their personalities. There are three armies and all of them 
 have three generals, so all in all that makes nine interesting characters. Persians have King Sharaman 
 and his son, the Prince, and the third general is the trainer and mentor of the Prince: loyal Darius. 
 Indians&acute; strongest general is the evil Vizier and by his side is Kalim, the son of Maharaja 
 of India. Second in command is Arun, who usually likes diplomacy over fighting. Demonic Daevas 
 have Saurva, the prince of Aresura, and his sister Sindra. Second in command is obedient and strong 
 Aesma.
  
  Sometimes it may be a little hard to follow the main story, since it is told from a multiple perspectives. 
 It also might be a little weird to start by playing as Persians fighting against Indians and a 
 few missions later find yourself playing as Indians fighting against Persians. This brings variety, 
 but can be a little distracting. People usually play Prince of Persia games because they want to 
 be The Prince.
  
  Story is good, but the way that it&acute; s told is not. There are no video cutscenes anywhere: 
 instead you just look motionless pictures of different characters and read text beside them. Expect 
 to see lots of text, because there are so many characters involved, who all have their own intentions 
 and ambitions. This mechanic works just fine, but Metroid Prime: Hunters has proved, that there 
 can be impressive video cutscenes to progress the story on the DS.
  
  Graphics are very humble to say the least and they are not good by any means. Still the use of 
 colors makes the game pleasant to look at and you can easily see what they represent. Since the 
 game takes place in Middle-East the most common color is yellow representing desert. Unfortunately 
 sometimes the frame rate takes a serious hit especially when there are many units on the screen 
 and it&acute; s raining or there&acute; s a sand storm for example. When taking into account the 
 overall graphical presentation of the game this frame rate drop is very annoying.
  
  Music is that same quality you&acute; ve probably come to expect from Prince of Persia&acute; s console 
 games. Themes for the Persians are pretty much the same as in Sands of Time and The Two Thrones, 
 but luckily the music for Indians and Daevas are different from one another. This makes a little 
 different atmosphere between different armies. Sound effects unfortunately are mainly dull and 
 uninspired, but still they also manage do their job pretty well.
  
  Gameplay is slow-paced turn-based card strategy and many have argued that there&acute; s a very 
 steep learning curve involved here as well. I have to disagree on that one, since for me it was 
 no problem to be sucked into the gameplay after the 2 initial tutorial levels. The key to success 
 is to carefully read what&acute; s been said in each of your cards. After a successful mission you&acute; ll 
 be rewarded with new cards and then you can use Manage Decks to create your own deck of 30 cards 
 for the next mission. You can make 3 different decks for each general so there&acute; s up to 27 
 different card decks involved in this game. This means that you can spend a lot of time just managing 
 your decks thinking about the best strategy.
  
  Each map consists of a series of squares in which you move your troops along the battlefield. Luckily 
 these squares can only be seen when choosing the destination of your moving unit. It&acute; s not 
 pretty to look at, but it makes playing very clear and easy to understand. Controls work mostly 
 with the stylus, but the shoulder buttons and the d-pad is used as well. It all works just fine, 
 when you just give yourself enough time to remember the controls. Each army has its own units and 
 a general so it&acute; s absolutely crucial to be able tell what that particular unit is and against 
 what kind of unit it will attack. Fortunately it is easy to know the differences between units, 
 because without it this game would just have fallen on it&acute; s face. In this way strategic thinking 
 is made a lot easier.
  
  It&acute; s also an important thing to know which way your unit is facing when being under attack. 
 It&acute; s always advisable to flank your enemy or sneak behind his back and the results are usually 
 better comparing to regular frontal assault. Odds can still be balanced by the environment, for 
 example a rocky terrain lowers the efficiency of a cavalry unit dramatically. Individual unit&acute; s 
 type is of course also meaningful so you better learn soon that it is not advisable to put your 
 lightly armored long-range archers against a charging enemy cavalry. All this ensures that you 
 really need to think in advance when deploying your army.
  
  In time you may develop a personal relationship to your troops, which means that you really want 
 to keep them alive and well so they would be able to fight another day. Sometimes running away 
 is a better choice than to make a suicidal frontal assault.
  
  Battle progresses through individual chapters which are called hours and the appearance of the 
 battlefield changes accordingly. For example on midday it&acute; s different than in night time. 
 Sometimes there are also sands storms on the screen and you can also hear appropriate sound effects 
 when it happens. All of this helps to create an atmosphere which would not be that deep without 
 them because of the humble graphics of the game.
  
  Save system is good. Game automatically saves between each mission, but you can also save manually 
 at any time. This way you can continue playing in that exact same spot. This in turn makes longer 
 missions less frustrating, because after a disaster you can load your previous game and try again 
 using a different strategy.
  
  There are 24 different missions and maps and in the course of the campaign you get to command all 
 3 armies and all 9 generals. It can easily take between 60 to 90 minutes to finish one mission, 
 so playing through the game can take somewhere around 25 to 35 hours. Gameplay does not change 
 all that much as you progress the story so it&acute; s advisable to play only 1 mission in 1 playing 
 session. This way you have a better understanding what&acute; s going on with the story and you 
 don&acute; t get too bored.
  
  There&acute; s also a multiplayer option in Battles of Prince of Persia. You can trade cards and 
 battle against your friend via wireless mode, but both of you need to have your own copy of the 
 game. There is no Wi-Fi mode what so ever and that&acute; s really a bummer because I don&acute; t 
 know anyone who has this game so playing through Wi-Fi I would have been able to trade cards and 
 fight people online, but now that&acute; s not going to happen.
  
  Battles of Prince of Persia is a fun and rewarding experience, if you approach it with proper expectations. 
 It is also helpful to be a fan of slow-paced card strategy games and/or Prince of Persia franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FISHSLAP5
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game my first thought was that this was going to be a pathetic Fire Emblem 
 Rip off. When i did decide to finally play The game i was Very impressed. Gameplay: Uses the DS's 
 Features well to make the game fun to play. The game gets you involved to the point that it hurts 
 when your units take damage.
  
  Graphics: The game has very good Graphics. But I personally think that with the DS's Capability 
 that It could have been better.
  
  Sound: The sound is very good. The music is very interesting and varies depending on where the 
 attacking unit comes from. Value: Cheap game. The Game is more than worth what you pay for it. 
 Still If you have your own music that you prefer, listen to that.
  
  Final Verdict: I recommend this game to most people If you like or have never played a strategy 
 game then go for this game. It offers a good place to start at an excellent price.
  However if you don't like strategy games then this game won't win you over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  I have recently become a fan of the Prince of Persia series, but have only had previous experience 
 with Sands of Time (which was pretty good mind you) and I figured I might as well play this next 
 so that I can better understand the story before I start Warrior Within. I will admit that I am 
 not the biggest fan of tactics games nor am I a fan of turn-based strategy games. The few that 
 actually are enjoyable to me are Final Fantasy Tactics Advance, Advance Wars: Dual Strike and Heroes 
 of Might and Magic V. I have tried many others and just can't seem to enjoy them. For some reason 
 though, this game managed to hold my attention, despite its flaws. Read on.
  
  Gameplay (8/10) : Really this is the best part of the game. It is a lot deeper then a lot of people 
 try to believe it is. The way the game is played is through cards. Think PSOIII, kind of. You get 
 a deck of 30 cards with which you can customize with other cards (which you can obtain through 
 booster pack from completing a mission) and each turn you draw a certain amount (depending on your 
 general's abilities) for your hand and you get to play with that. You get different types of units 
 like pikeman, archers, catapults or swordsman and you use the cards to help you move your units 
 and defeat the enemy. Of course there are a few catches. First of all your general is IN the battle 
 and he/she has a Command Range, so that if your units are in that range they get certain bonuses 
 to attack and defense, once again depending on the general. Also losing the general puts down the 
 morale of your troops a lot and in a lot of missions usually means you lose. This causes for a 
 certain level of strategy since your generals are useful to have around and sometimes can be used 
 to destroy some pesky units that your normal units aren't good against, but at the same time you 
 have to make sure he/she stays alive or else you risk the loss of your mission. Another catch is 
 the cards. This is what makes the game deep and makes strategy quite interesting. Each card (minus 
 Order cards) will have a special effect and also a number on the card. You can choose to use the 
 effect (assuming conditions allow you to) or you can use it to merely order the number of units 
 corresponding the number on your card. You can keep on doing this until you either run out of cards 
 in your hand or you run out of units to order, in which case both sides reset (a full round is 
 called an hour) and start their turns over. It is actually very nice and it makes for some creative 
 thinking. The problem is that you never get to choose which units you start off with and you can't 
 make units during a match. For the single-player that is ok because it involves more strategy, 
 but in multiplayer it can be a little annoying being forced to ALWAYS use a certain type of unit 
 (depending on general and army size settings) . Nonetheless this is a very solid game and thanks 
 to the addition of multiplayer and card trading, this package is only solidified further. It could 
 have used internet play though, to make up for some of its downfalls, which I will cover in a bit.
 
  
  The story in this game is very acceptable as well. It isn't epic but at the same time it isn't 
 boring. It will hold your attention and will shed some light on what happens before Warrior Within. 
 It gets the job done and that is good enough.
  
  The other thing is that this game has a kind of steep learning curve. You probably won't fully 
 understand how to play this game (even with the help of the manual, which isn't entirely useless) 
 after the first 2-3 missions, which is about 2-3 hours of gameplay time. Nonetheless once you figure 
 it out, you will learn to appreciate the finer points of this game.
  
  Graphics (7/10) : At this point in the DS's history (even at the point at which this game was released) 
 we have seen the DS capable of SO MUCH more. The game doesn't look great. The simplicity is nice, 
 but unlike Advance Wars: Dual Strike, the art style is more realistic here so too much simplicity 
 isn't as easy to get away with. When two units begin a battle it will go into a little cutscene 
 that shows you what happens in a kind of good looking scene but you will find that after you are 
 about 1/3 through the game, you will likely turn this off to speed up the already lengthy missions. 
 The game's graphics get the job done but it could have been so much more. It is ok that on the 
 field things are simple, but during the battle sequences they could have utilized the extra power 
 not used by the DS for better looking scenes. Would it have also hurt to have more elaborate animations 
 for the effects of the cards rather then the same one for everything you do?
  
  Sound (8/10) : This is another better feature of the game. Each unit depending on its type actually 
 has an appropriate marching sound and also the battle sequences sound pretty nice. On top of that 
 environmental effects like lighting or rain or wind sound pretty nice. The musical themes for each 
 general are pretty well done as well and so are the battle themes. It could have been better, but 
 it is still pretty good nonetheless.
  
  Value (6/10) : Ah, this is where the game fails the most. Don't get me wrong, you will get a lot 
 of time out of this campaign. If you are very quick and good at this type of game you will probably 
 beat it in around 20 hours. For me, and plenty others, you will probably take around 35-40 hours 
 to get through all 24 missions, and that is including trying a mission you fail again. Each mission 
 takes around an hour to beat so that is good, and overall there is an OK variety to the mission 
 types. The problem is, outside the main campaign, there is nothing much to do. You can replay the 
 missions for booster packs or do skirmishes on maps you have unlocked for boosters as well, but 
 really once you beat the game there is no incentive to come back. There is no hard mode (and the 
 problem is the game isn't too challenging, when you lose you usually know why so you change your 
 deck accordingly and will win the second time around) , there are no bonus missions, no special 
 game types and not even unlockable special features. There is multiplayer but since so few people 
 actually appreciate this game, you will find difficulty in finding somebody to play. That is why 
 this could have used online play, which would have upped the Value to an 8. The worst part is that 
 some of the really good and rare cards you can only get by battling other people, which means a 
 lot of us (me included) will never be able to get a complete set of cards. Regardless of its downfalls 
 though, this is quite an ambitious game and has a lot going for it. It is a fun game that is worth 
 playing if you are into tactics and/or turn-based strategy and especially if you are into TCGs 
 as well. Be warned PoP fans though, this is NOT and Action/Adventure like the rest of the series. 
 But PoP fans who like this genre will enjoy this game even more. For everyone else, I wouldn't 
 suggest a buy without trying. In fact, I would more likely suggest a purchase of Advance Wars: 
 Dual Strike, which is in my opinion the best way to get into the turn-based strategy genre, since 
 it is so well made. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sirshredder
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The gamespot review of this game is pretty much spot on, however, I think the overall score should 
 be higher due to the really well done turn based gameplay and card system. Sure the graphics won't 
 wow you, but the heart of the game is solid. The card system was actually more fun than I thought 
 it would be since you take a certain amount of cards into battle and play each card on your turn. 
 The cards are diverse and control things such as your number of units to move, unit stats, abilities 
 and powers. Once into the battles themselves, they are standard turn based affairs (with bland 
 unit graphics) but the cards make the whole game work. This is a fun game if you like turn based 
 strategy... don't miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prinzofpersia
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  the very best game on the DS... and the very tactic-strategy, card battle game in the prince of persia 
 series...
  when I first saw it in the game shop in saudi arabia.. I thought my eyes were playing tricks on 
 me.. and I bought it... the day I bought the game was history to me.. because I couldn't find it in 
 my country or in any game shop I know..... a pretty sad thing really. ok, enough about me.. and the 
 history of the game with me.. AND ON WITH THE GAME!!!
  The game's story line takes you in the periodsof prince of persia: the sands of time,& POP: Warrior 
 within... and in this game you will understand more of the history of the prince, and king shahraman.."the 
 prince's father"and why the dahaka was chasing the prince, and because of that.. started a war between 
 persia and india and aersiua.. and you play with 9 different heros (or generals) .. and order your 
 army by using order or magic cards to strengthen your army, or weaken your enemy and order them 
 to move here and there, or to attack your foe..
  The Graphics
  COOL MAN!!!!!
  The sound
  JUST RADICALE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  and the recommendation
  HIGHLY recommended !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheche321
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 26, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  good game pretty hard in some places but i cant seem to find a problem with it oh here we go i 
 thought it could be a very very good nintendo wifi game . the learning curve take a couple of minutes 
 but i really like how the game switches to person to person. hhhh hhh long sentence. I had a fun 
 time killing every thing from a far with weapons like canapolts elaphents archers and some genrals. 
 one nice thing about the game is that you always have the altimate genral to help in batlle but 
 if he dies game over.............. And so on another easy thing is theres multiple ways to win 
 batlles such as points of how many men you killed or killing of a genral and every buddys favirote 
 pear maham of every soilder. oh ya one othe thing you get to pick from 9 genrals so its kinda hard 
 picking them. well that was my review i loved this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeerRosh
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 8, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Very weird style of gameplay. Prince of Persia is something I know little about, but this game 
 makes it a strategy gamble. It is like Advance Wars. Yet a little more complex because you don't 
 know how good your characters are. Easy to make mistakes. 
  
  It is also similar to Final Fantasy Tactics Advance. The only difference is that there is no RPG 
 element, thus defeating the purpose. There are fewer choices. It is also a card game, where you 
 can only move so many people. It depends on the cards you play. 
  
  Each card also has a different status effect it can also do. Yet it usually is a waste of your 
 turn. The game is also similar to Yu Yu Hakusho: Tournament Tactics. It is a little one dimensional, 
 but the gameplay itself is definitely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  this was the first game i bought for my nintendo ds. it was on sale and mario kart was sold out. 
 also i liked the sands of time games for the gamecube and i have a interest in ancient civilizations 
 so i was happy with this purchase. 
  the game is not too difficult to learn and the first missions are not very difficult. you move 
 these military units around the battlefield and engage your opponents units which results in a 
 nice battle animation. you have cavalry, infantry, artillery units. also each army has it's general. 
 there are 3 types of armies; indian, persian and demons, with each of them having 3 different generals, 
 including the prince of persia offcourse. the demons are a little out of place in this game and 
 personally i would have rather seen a macedonian/ egyptian army. during the single-player campaign 
 you get to see a map of the region, but you can't make strategic decisions on where you fight your 
 battles or even which army you control. this way you have to play a lot of missions with the demons 
 weather you want to or not. the campaign mode is driven by a story that is really uninteresting 
 and is told through very cheesy dialogues, so the whole campaign goes flat. the campaign does have 
 some difficult missions towards the end and when you're finished with it you can still play single 
 battle against the computer or against another player. i haven't played against a human opponent 
 yet, but i can imagine it'd difficult to find one since a battle can easily take a half hour.
 
  to conclude: it's an ok budget game for people that like games like chess or stratego but it could 
 have been a whole lot better. maybe they'll make a sequel? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 27, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Battles of Prince of Persia wasn't exactly the game I thought it would have been. Perhaps I should 
 have researched the game a little better before I purchased it, but at the rock bottom price of 
 AUD$30, I simply couldn't resist a cheap Nintendo DS title, so I thought I'd give it a go.
  
  BoPoP is a card-based strategy game in which you must defeat the opposing army by using cards 
 to make your army stronger. The game is also pretty similar to chess in a sense in that each army 
 has a king or "general".
  
  The game is self-explanatory, so I'm not going to go too deep into how to play. The game is pretty 
 simple, and as research has indicated, it doesn't take long to get used to and addicted to this 
 game.
  
  There are 24 levels here, some which may take around an hour (or more) to complete, and there are 
 200 cards to collect, each with its own special use. The card system takes a little time to adjust 
 to, but you'll get the knack of it after a few days of playing.
  
  In terms of gameplay, the game is surprisingly addictive, and I didn't think that I would be so 
 accustomed to such a simplistic card game carrying the Prince of Persia license. The graphics aren't 
 very impressive. They do their job, but still. The sound is great. And the tunes are very... exotic 
 and catchy. No complaints here. Since I bought the game at a budget price, I didn't feel ripped 
 off, and I'd advise anybody to try this game IF they can find this game cheap, but its simply not 
 worth paying a premium for. The game is replayable for some, although the multiplayer aspects (there's 
 also a nicely implemented multiplayer system for a single DS) will keep the game flowing for several 
 weeks and months more.
  
  Battles of Prince of Persia is a fun and addictive title for the Nintendo DS, but unless you can 
 pick up this game at a budget price, I'd recommend that you look for another game worthy of your 
 attention. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axel0391
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 22, 2006 11:58 pm PT
Review:  Battles of Prince of Persia for DS is a simply amazing game, moving from its traditional home in 
 the action-platformer genre to a totally new strategy game that does what it tries to quite nicely. 
 If you loved the Advance Wars titles, you will loe this game, and I especially recommend it to 
 anyone who finds storyline one of the best parts of a game (that is, if they've already played 
 PoP 1 and 2) It definitely takes a while to learn the rock-paper-scissors style battle advantages, 
 but soon you'll easily be able to overwhelm the toughest enemies. The 2D pushing 3D graphics could 
 be a little better, and sound is less than par, but it's DS so what can ya do. This is all about 
 gameplay anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duraxx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is absolutely NOTHING like any of the other Prince of Persia games, it has 
 more akin to older computer military simulators. The graphics in the game are fairly terrible, 
 the units actually appear as "placeholder pieces" a swordsman is just a box with a sword in the 
 middle, an archer is just a box with a bow in the middle. Superior units (i. e. more advanced archers) 
 are simply different shaped versions of the weapon in the box. At least when units fight, the battles 
 switches to a slightly more interesting 2-D battleground where the real units fight. The fun from 
 this game comes from managing all the little strategic elements. Not only do you have to worry 
 about how many orders can you give per turn, the movement, attack, defense, terrain, size, weapon-type, 
 and facing of a unit, you have to worry about your (and your opponents) deck of cards. That's right, 
 this game is a "card-based game" where you accumulate cards over multiple battles. In the beginning 
 of a turn you can simply use a card to give direct orders (attack, move) or you can use the special 
 abilities of a card (enhance attack, special charge order etc...) . As you get more cards and the 
 strategic use of them becomes clearer the game becomes really fun. Even more interesting is how 
 the game ties the stories between the first and second POP games. Unfortunately once you get the 
 hang of it the game can get extremely easy and repetitive. I won the last battle without losing 
 any units in battle (the enemy general had a card that instantly killed one of my units and he 
 drew it three times in battle) . This game is a very fun little distraction and I recommend it to 
 anyone who enjoys strategy games and values gameplay over graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troll_jackal
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is for turn-based strategy buffs, with an advance wars style combat system and facings, 
 morale, stuns and push backs to boot making it appear to be more deep. However, it lacks the splendour 
 and visual niceties of advance wars, as well as a lot of depth.
  The story fills in the gaps in the Prince of Persia troy between Sands of Time and Warrior Within, 
 with an engagin campaign as he tries to conquer the demons that chase him.
  The game turns are called hours, which are divided into phases where you play 1 card each. These 
 cards can be used for there special effects or for giving troops orders. You can customise each 
 deck with a variety of cards and effects. After being used, a unit can't be reused until the next 
 hour. However, a fair few of the cards on offer are duplicates, but it does add an extra layer 
 of depth to strategy and counter-strategy (e. g. going order heavy decks to rush, aura heavy decks 
 to keep units in blocks) , and the push backs, stuns and morales are nicely done , based on the 
 damage you do, to discourage players keeping units in one unstoppable clump.
  The combat system is also done in a fire-emblem style triangles (lare medium small large) with 
 different triangles for weapon types as well, which would've to interesting army-builds. This is 
 one of the games flaws. You don't get the opportunity to build an army from production buildings, 
 or even choose an army with a set gold limit. Instead, each army is based on the general you choose.
 
  The generals is also a nice touch to the gameplay, with each general having a command aura which 
 increases troops effectiveness, rallies troops, etc. Keeping your general too close to the combat, 
 even if he is your best fighter, isn't always good as you suffer huge penalties if he is lost. 
 However, differnet generals are good at different things (e. g. command aura, melee, range, number 
 of cards drawn per hour) , which would've increased depth if you could've chosen your army. Yu can't 
 even create a map to have a bit of variety.
  The graphics in this game are awful. Your units are represented by different types of symbols in 
 boxes. However, there is a semi nice unit picture when you select the unit. It would've been better 
 to have a smaller version of that along with the symbol. The combat graphics are pretty bland, 
 and quickly repitive. There is no voice acting, and the story scenes are around two paragraphs 
 of text.
  It supports hotseat play and wireless, multi card play. It could've had download play. The touch 
 screen is used nicely to drag your units, and the combat system is surpirsingly deep. It really 
 falls down on presentation, and a clunky deck-management system. Dual Masters for advance had a 
 good deck managent screen with cards aranged in order of what they are, and a separate screen devoted 
 to cards already in deck. Instead, here cards are added to the top of the list as you get them, 
 it is painful arranging a deck unless you completely redo it, and even then it isn't much better, 
 and it all seems as if it hasn't really been played much.
  Overall, a game which has a good strategy base to build on for a sequal. Improve the graphics, 
 give players a choice in what to field, improve the deck management system, improve graphics and 
 sounds, voice acting, maybe even a map editor, and it would've been a classic. If you want falshier 
 presentation and more depth, get Advance Wars : Dual Strike.
  
  http://spaces. msn. com/members/trolljackal
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Who was in charge of this game. Well who ever you are I want to give you a big slap for giving the 
 Prince of Persia a bad name. The storey picks up with some kind of war and it's up to the Prince 
 to stop it by killing all the army's with his. You'll get all the storey with text. Even if the 
 DS can have cut scenes your still stuck with text. So how do fights go down? With cards and taking 
 turns. It's like pre school all over. The fight scenes are a bore more like the GBA than the DS. 
 You can't more all your troops in one turn it's up to what card you pick. The cards are what you 
 seen before nothing new. As the game goes on you get bigger battles and better cards. In the end 
 this game can't be like advance wars it just fails short. Any one who played the Prince of Persia 
 on the Game Cube might not like this. Skip this and save your money. Now to find that guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroid02
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:18 am PT
Review:  ive been playing this game now roughly an hour and i must say its better than I expected
  by far better
  at the beginning it was pretty difficult to understand how to play this game but 
 after some time u get used to it
  it also gives you some very interesting backround info on before pop the sands of time and it goes 
 to as far as the beginning of warrior within
  sadly though the graphics were a bit disappointing but personaly i didnt buy this game cuz of the 
 graphics
  but its always fun to see your artilery kill some of the maharachas troops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CelestialZone
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  who knew the they would make a card based Prince of Persia? If u like strategy and card-based games, 
 then this game is for u. However, expect that it will be too easy and too repetitive after a lil 
 bit into it. Normally im a fan of turn-based games, but thats for like Final Fantasy or Dragon 
 Quest. This game took a big turn from intense action combat to dealing cards on a table. The computer 
 AI in this game is very slow. And i repeat, very slow. Prince of Persia was a great ADVENTURE game, 
 its just not meant for the turn-based action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geister2367
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 29, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Battles Of the Prince of Persia fills in the gap between the first POP and the Second with a series 
 of card based wars. NOw when i first heard this i thought "Cool that'll give me some answeres, 
 but card games suck". Curiousity got the best of me though and i went and got this game. Curiousity 
 served me well i have spent well over 40 hours on this game and stil havent beaten which means 
 this game is either incredibly long or i just suck.
  
  
  
  This game tears away from the normal action adventure genre that its siblings belong to and performs 
 battles in a card battle. You control your own army either the persians indians or Deavas. You 
 are the general of each and there are a few generals for each race. You start out a mission with 
 deploying your army by using the touch screen too drag and drop your "units" *troops* to whatever 
 shaded area you want to start at. Each unit has its own stats such as armor morale melee defense 
 move and command. All play a very important role in teh gameplay. There are also size and types 
 such as swordsmen, to archers, to pikemen. Your most powerful unity would be your general which 
 has special abilities and is very sturdy. Normally the objective of a mission to is destroy the 
 opposing general. 
  
  
  
  NOw the card strategy would have to be the most interesting part of the game because it is alot 
 like playing magic the gathering. YOu have cards that amp up your units melee stats but wont let 
 them move, and there are cards that simply let you let your units move towards wherever. You can 
 trade cards with your friends via lan. YOu win cards by completeing missions or beating your friends 
 over lan. 
  
  
  
  NOw of course what would a POP game be without a little action. Everytime you approach and enemy 
 unit's zone (the immediate surroundings) you go into a battle animation in which your units' "people" 
 move on the enemy and attack while the opponent defends or takes hits and attacks back. NOw before 
 you battle though YOu can see your chances ranging from Dreadful to overwhelming overwhelming meaning 
 your going to blow the crud outa them. You always have the choice to turn off the battles animations 
 in the options menu. 
  
  
  
  The games story is a lengthy 24 missions i am currently on the thirteenth and i must say it is 
 very hard at this point. Each mission has objectives ranging from defending your country to defeating 
 the general. Of course you can always defeat all the opposing units to get victory points. A set 
 limit of victory points is your goal. NOw i won't go and ruin the story for you. so you are just 
 going to have to buy it and find out. overall i love this game and will get alot of replay out 
 of it. 
  
  i truely reccomend this game to anyone and this coming from a guy who doesnt like card games.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EYEInferno
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 4:21 am PT
Review:  Looks can be deceiving, and that goes for BoPoP (Battle of Prince of Persia) .
  Why do you ask?
  Well BoPoP doesn't really show us graphics which the DS system is capable of 
 support, but the graphics aren't the point for this game being pretty good.
  
  Its extremely deep, it has a lot of elements, that keeps getting better.
  Like if a certain unit 
 of yours (for example an elephant) attacks a unit that is smaller (like a normal infantry unit) , 
 this benefits for you, size does matter!
  
  But not only that, also the direction from where you attack from, the amount of hit points left, 
 the quality of the weapons (ex. unit A has a big flashy sword, while unit B has a wooden dagger 
 (not that this exists in the game) , who would get an advantage?) , the terrain and extra advantages 
 like a boost that came with a card effect.
  
  Card.... effect?...
  Yes, at every beginning of your turn you can discard some cards in your hand to fill it up again, 
 you got 3 types of cards, the normal ones, with no picture on it, only a number, which you use 
 to move your units with, a "Discard" effect card, this gives, for example, extra attack to 1 or 
 more units, and the "Remove" card, this one has better effects then Discard cards, but are removed 
 from play when used.
  
  On the Discard and Remove cards, there are numbers like on normal cards, you can use Discard and 
 Remove cards just like normal cards if you wish too.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  If you like deep strategy games, with a lot of extra things, then buy this game NOW!! The graphics 
 aren't as bad as they seem, but could've been better. So if you like games like Hearts of Iron 
 2 (PC) or Advance Wars: DS, then this game is perfect for you!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leathelaoe
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 24, 2005 1:21 am PT
Review:  I like this game, I like games that will kill time sometimes, This is one of those games, like 
 advaced wars and MGS Ac! d, it's different from the PS version, but it had to be done to adjust 
 to the system hardware. DS has shown to make very good 2D games, and 3D games look ackward anyhow, 
 I'd rather they keep making good 2D games or maybe projects like Xedious, 2.5D I don't know if 
 this might work well, but I'm sure the DS can handle it. they should make more games that take 
 advantage of the touch screen, this is a great feature, very addictive - like castlevania's magic 
 craft circle drawing ( I don't know what the magic thing is called, just borrowed the game, MUST 
 HAVE btw.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonathanng1
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 21, 2005 3:26 am PT
Review:  This has different aspects to it. The good things about this game is the gameplay and the sound 
 of the game. This game makes use of the touch screen so it will be easier to control the game.
 
  
  The gameplay is actually ok. This took me about a few minutes to know how some of the basics card 
 work, but the other ones take longer to get use to because it's confusing in what they actually 
 do and when to take full advantage of the card. The idea of using the cards could get complicated 
 at times.
  
  The sound is actually good as the sound effects fits in to each action.
  
  The graphics is not all that good but i say it's good enough for the game. 
  
  Personally I 
 think I will recommend this game to any people who like the idea of card strategy games, but I 
 think this game is ok and it could have improved more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yayoyayo
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:41 am PT
Review:  the game at first was all right the grafics good sound good everything was pretty fine....
  no who am i kidding this game doesnt deserve to be called prince of persia.
  
  i have nothing 
 against the ds but every multiplataform game that reaches the ds just looks like cr@p! (just look 
 at burnout legends) i mean they change everything .
  i bet that if they had kept the game the way it is i would have been a little better ... i just 
 thak God i have a psp but anyway if you are a hardcore PoP fan you should get it .................. 
 i wouldnt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eshock113
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I love the concept, the graphics and sound are passible, but the AI is unforgivabley easy. Have 
 completed the first 11 battles (almost half of the game) using the cards almost strictly for their 
 move values (not their effects) . I have not lost one battle. In most cases, I come out with an 
 overwhelming win. I'm not a tactical genius. The game is just too easy. Then again, I define a 
 good strategy game by the number of times I curse and start over. I think thi8 would be an exellent 
 game if their was a difficulty level to make it more difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  Battalion Wars threw the 2D engine of Advance Wars out of the window and made a 3D game. This game 
 throws the 3D engine of Prince of Persia out of the window and makes a 2D game. Although, Battalion 
 wars kept the same genre as its previous game. This doesn't. The Prince of Persia games are Platformers/Puzzlers. 
 This is a strategy/RPG.
  
  This game plays pretty well. The Prince of Persia is the leader of your squad. This game is a card 
 RPG so the cards depend on how many moves you make and if you get any power ups during your turn. 
 This system works perfecty and is explained clearly.
  
  When you play the first mission the game tells you everything at once. How to play, the use of 
 the cards etc. Everythin that you need to know is told to you at the beginning of the game. You 
 think "How am I going to remember all of this!". But the good thing is that you do get used this 
 and very quickly too. By the second mission you will know exactly what you are doing.
  
  The graphics are usually plain and simple for when you are controlling your troops but the battle 
 scenes are nice and cell-shaded.
  
  This game offers a change to the normal Prince of Persia style and it succeeds too. RPG and strategy 
 fans go and get this game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 10, 2005 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Prince of Persia strikes again! This series is hitting every gaming console it can find. And every 
 game is absolutley incredible. The DS game Battles of Prince of Persia is one of the best in it's 
 series. The graphics and the gameplay are what made me want to buy it. When I played it @ my local 
 EB Games i thought it was incredible. Sure the value and sound could use some tweaking but besides 
 those feature this game is too good to be real. When you play campaign it reminds me of every story 
 mode in all the Prince of Persia games ever made so far. All the levels in this game is unbelievable. 
 The violent content is perfect and the move to take your enemies down are most excellent. If you 
 loved the Prince of Persia series than you will love this game. What makes it so cool is the double 
 screen feature. It's the ultimate Christmas gift for you or your child. Consider buying this intense 
 awesome game for the holidays. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katarn07
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Big Prince of Persia fan here. I loved Sands of Time and eagerly await The Two Thrones as my Xmas 
 gift. I didn't like Warrior Within much when I first tried it, but replaying it with lower expectations 
 it's quite good. Having nearly completed that, I was quite curious in Battles of Prince of Persia 
 not only for the franchise name, but because I like tactical games and let's face it.... us DS 
 owners don't get a lot of decent games made often.
  
  My biggest grip about WW is that the darkness is forced onto you. The Prince is the worst change 
 of all. But BoPP manages to show the change of that character we met in SoT and how he became the 
 seemingly selfish, dark brooding Prince of WW. He starts out much as we met him in SoT. An innocent 
 Prince who has yet to prove himself really on the battlefield. He narrates the tale and moves the 
 story along.
  
  Gameplay is decent enough. The card aspect is new to me and took some time to get used to. The 
 tactics of it all is simple enough and enjoyable. The AI is surprisingly difficult at times. This 
 is because I may not fully understand what I'm doing with those cards or it may be instead of leveling 
 up units and making them overly powerful like in some RPGs, the cards make everything equal and 
 it's the commander that determines the battle's outcome. Everything is done with the stylus and 
 D-Pad which is great.
  
  Graphics are decent enough. Animations are smooth as well. But still they leave a lot to be desired.
 
  
  Sound is the best part. It has music from SoT and sound effects appropriate for each action.
 
  
  The value of the game is great. The single player campaign has 20-some missions. Each is on a different 
 map with different terrain and obstacles. In addition to the campaign is skirmish/ versus. They're 
 essentially the same mode, only skirmish is against the computer and versus against another player. 
 In it you can choose from one of nine generals all with their own powers and abilities. You can 
 play on any of the maps from campaign mode and select from small or large army sizes. So even after 
 you beat the campaign once or twice, it'll last with the different factions and commanders you 
 play as. And lastly, the trading card ability is good for getting rid of rare cards you don't want 
 and getting rare cards you need. If you specialize in one faction, why hold onto other faction 
 cards when you can do some swapping with a friend? That'll probably be the key to building the 
 ultimate deck. Even without a friend to do trading, you do get some good additions to your deck 
 as you go through the campaign.
  
  All in all, it's a very good game. Could it have been better? Yes. Could it been worse? Most definately. 
 UbiSoft did a great job and I look foward to further genres for the PoP franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xanybox
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 8:06 am PT
Review:  I don't know why everyone is knocking this without playing it. It's actually a pretty novel game. 
 I've only played the first 3 levels but so-far it's quite entertaining. Sure, UBI maybe wanted 
 someting to compete with PSP MG-AC! D, but this game is unique by itself. First it is a 2D game 
 set in the PoP universe between PoP-SoT and PoP-WW. It fills the gap in the story. Pretty cool 
 by itself - enough said, but keep in mind there is some text to read because it is a good story 
 driven game. The gameplay is typical of a strategy wargame, moving troops around and making attacks. 
 The kicker with this game is that your genergal can only give so many orders per turn based on 
 the number on the card played for that turn. You have to think seriously about how many troops 
 you want to move so you don't run out of cards depending on how you've built your card deck. There 
 are also other cards besides order cards that have special effects for your troops or magical attacks. 
 This game is not just another MTG or Yu-gi-oh wanna be, it's someting totally hybrid. The battles 
 are structured on a triangle strength system like from Fire Emblem where swords archers, archers 
 pikes, pikes swords.
  Control-wise I thought the game was easy to pick up with a low learning curve. The game makes good 
 use of the touch-screen in a meaningful way as most of your control can be done there. This makes 
 moving troops, playing cards, and organizing your deck easier.
  The graphics are a little weak, but they are done in a charming PoP style. The battle animation 
 gets repetitive unless your doing magical or special attacks, but you can disable it.
  The sound is good and the music fits the PoP game perfectly. Value-wise, I wish the game had wi-fi 
 play, but the multiplayer options seem good as there is hot-seat with on cartridge. I haven't tried 
 this myself yet, and you can also trade cards via wireless-link.
  Tilt-wise, I'm gonna reccomend this game to anyone who likes card-based games. Furthermore, if 
 you like strategy war games this one may be for you. There are 9 generals to choose from (3 Persia, 
 3 India, 3 Daeva) and they all have different traits from melee, ranged, and magic combat. There 
 are also many different strength and different abilty units, with like 200 cards to collect... 
 And it's a strategy game so it's different every time you play due to the computer AI, which seems 
 pretty decent so far.
  Sure the game's a little different from other turn-based games you're use to (Advance Wars) but 
 it is very unique and something different. If you like card collecting and games that are driven 
 by a good story that you have control over through strategic battles, then at least rent BoPoP 
 to try it out. C'mon people, give it a chance! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
