-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Big Brain Academy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/gentlebrainexercises/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Addictive, easy-to-grasp minigames.
 Reasonably solid presentation.
 Budget price.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Suffers from a lack of variety.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.6, 50 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,364 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Edutainment
Date: Jun 5, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Big Brain Academy is a good, budget-priced collection of brainteasing minigames. 

  Big Brain Academy is a "brain training" game collection that picks up where Brain Age left off, 
 but the basic idea is the same. There are a bunch of brief, easy-to-understand minigames to play 
 and practice with, and then you can take a big test that gives you five of the games at random 
 and results in a score and a grade that is meant to correspond to how you think. It's definitely 
 light on the science -- you won't find any doctors endorsing Big Brain Academy right on the box, 
 like they did with Brain Age -- but Big Brain Academy's 15 exercises and three difficulty levels 
 are more than enough to justify the game's $20 price tag.  

          Big Brain Academy gives you some math, some logic -- a little bit of everything.     

 
  The 15 games in Big Brain Academy are broken up into five different categories meant to tax different 
 parts of your intelligence. The three games in the "compute" group are math-oriented, including 
 one called written math that asks you to solve simple math problems, but the questions are written 
 out in text rather than using numbers. The think group has you looking at objects on various scales 
 and attempting to deduce which item is the heaviest. Other games fall into identify, memorize, 
 and analyze. A graph in the center of the selection screen lets you know how well you've scored 
 in each category. Each game operates on a timer, and your goal is to successfully complete as many 
 problems in each game before time expires. At the end, you're given a "weight" for your performance, 
 with the theory being that these games are exercising your brain and making it heavier. Heavy. 

  There are three modes of play in Big Brain Academy, all of which merely chop up the game's 15 tasks 
 in different ways. The bulk of your time will probably be spent in practice mode. Here, you can 
 take on any of the games on one of three difficulty settings. At the end you're scored and the 
 game saves your highest score for each of the 15 games on each of the three difficulties. You're 
 also given a medal that corresponds to your performance.  

  While keeping track of each score is fine, if you  really  want to know how you're doing, the test 
 mode is what you're looking for. Here, one game from each of the five categories is chosen at random 
 and operates on sliding difficulty scale that increases as you perform. At the end, your score 
 for all five games is totaled up and you're also given a letter grade, as well as a label that's 
 meant to indicate what sort of brain you have, like engineer, museum curator, or Michelangelo. 
 You can take and retake the tests as often as you like.  

          The game's a little thin on the variety side, but it's not going for full price, either. 
     

  The third mode is a multiplayer mode that lets up to eight players compete using only one copy 
 of the game. In this mode, you pick one of the games and everyone gets the same tasks at the same 
 time. The player to finish first gets the lion's share of the points. You lose points for mistakes, 
 and you play to a set score. It's a worthwhile, though awfully basic, competition.  

  All in all, the game's friendly, colorful look and its easy-to-learn but reasonably addictive gameplay 
 make Big Brain Academy a decent collection. You'll run out of things to do relatively quickly, 
 but considering the game's budget price, it all adds up in the end.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (82 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 05mjones
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2009 8:28 am PT
Review:  Overall a cheap but challenging group of miningames that will stretch your brain to its capacity. 
 There are a variety of different activities in the game. These are identify, memorize, compute, 
 think and analyze. From the main menu you can opt for three things. First practice, where you aim 
 to improve your brain skills in the mentioned activities. Test, where your brain weight is calculated 
 to give you a rating after the previously mentioned activities. Finally there is versus where you 
 can challenge your friends. The highest grade I have received is B+ and i cannot see myself getting 
 any higher than this due to the challenging nature of this game. I would recommend this game to 
 people as a cheap value for money game but would advise that it will not occupy the attention for 
 long spans of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 13, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  This is a good, fun game for all ages. Here is the good and bad of this top-notch brainteaser:
 
  
  
  The Good:
  
  1. Good gameplay keeps you playing
  
  2. Not to hard and definetly not to easy
  
  3. Great graphics and how they made the stylus 
 the main tool of the game ---genuis
  
  4. Educational ----obviously
  
  The Bad:
  
  1. Lame multiplayer
  
  2. Has a few glitches in certain minigames
  
  So, as you can see 
 this game is good ------great actually. It's very addicting, and at the same time, its educational. 
 I'm not saying it's perfect, but it is a really impressive game. Well, that's it for today gaming 
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReviewKing
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 10:53 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry, this review is short cause this is a portable game and it has no stroyline. The only 
 reason why I'm making a review of a learning game is cause its like one of 2-5 learning games I 
 like. First off, its fun to be tested on your correct to wrong ratio and sometimes its like as 
 if you're not learning, you have more fun than you're learning. Its also good that you can practice 
 to help your brain score and earn medals while practicing to help boost your chances of getting 
 a good grade. Another good feature is playing against your friends and family, I never get tired 
 of beating my sister at that game. Also if someone dosen't have the game and you want to play it, 
 you can just send a demo game to them. All I'm saying is that its a good game and if you have nothing 
 to do or if you need help thinking more like during school even though some people are just looking 
 foward to playing games when they get games or just want to make-out behind the school, than this 
 is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 14td
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  When I got this game I was unaware that it would be this challenging and fun!!!! this game is well 
 worth it!! My current grade is B-... If you have a short temper DO NOT GET THIS GAME!!!!!! If you 
 are allergic to fun DO NOT GET THIS GAME!!!!! The directions are easy and the games make you think 
 in a way that you may not have let your brain exceed!!!!!! The graphics are cute and colorfull! 
 There are many diffrent games and categories!!! Plenty of veriety! They have diffrent diffuclty 
 settings so you can go at your own pace. Overall this game will make you think and use diffrent 
 parts of your brain. This game will knock your socks off, blast your pants off. Just don't be a 
 hothead!!!! If you are looking for fun I highly recommened this game to all challeng loving braniacs!!! 
 Go for the A+ grade try if you can!!!!! Go go go!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PwnMaster94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  In my mind, Big Brain Academy is a really cool game that's different from your everyday first person 
 shooter or RPG. Big Brain Academy is a game which challenges your brain in a fun way and it's a 
 lot better than going to school for seven hours. For instance, what would you rather do, play a 
 game or go to school. I'd rather play a game and if you think the opposite, you're just plain weird. 
 Big Brain Academy is a change from the violence of video games (I do love violent games) and it 
 makes adults think that what you play might be good or you. Although Big Brain Academy is great, 
 I do have to admit that once you've beaten every level (which doesn't take too long) , it can get 
 quite boring and after a while there's no more fun. But I do have to say, while Big Brain Academy 
 lasts, it's a great game and it's a game that you don't have to hide from your parents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathScape666
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  What Big Brain Academy does is make you realize whether or not your brain is in good shape. Most 
 people cannot tell if their brain is in good shape because there is no physical change that they 
 notice. This game also proves that not all video games need a colorful background to be good. 
 
  
  Playing Big Brain Academy is as simple as writing something with a pencil. The best part of it 
 is that you do not need to press any buttons. Even if you are new to video games, people will still 
 be able to learn how to play Big Brain Academy incredibly fast.
  
  No matter how young players are, they will still be able to beat people older than them. I was 
 playing against my older sister who claims that she is a genius, but according to our results, 
 I actually found out that I was smarter than her. Just playing against your friends and competing 
 for the highest score is fun. If Big Brain Academy was a real school, I would attend it every day.
 
  
  People may realize that they are very intelligent in some categories, and they may also realize 
 that they need work in other categories. Big Brain Academy allows you to train your brain in five 
 different categories. Each category features three mini games.
  
  Every time you play Big Brain Academy, Doctor Lobe will tell you a nice hint before you start the 
 video game. These hints are very useful in every day life, and I found myself trying to do some 
 of the things he suggested. Doctor Lobe has his own unique personality, and he has even made me 
 chuckle a few times. 
  
  Big Brain Academy is the best brain video game out there, and its multiplayer mode only strengthens 
 that statement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan_owns
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Learning is an activity that has a tendency to evoke a mixture of emotions. On one hand, people 
 view it as an elite exercise that is accompanied by success and intellect. On the other hand, people 
 also see it as a tedious task that is not worth the effort involved. It has been this way for millennia, 
 with advocates from each side voicing their opinions and occasionally switching positions depending 
 on the circumstances.
  
  Each side has valid arguments, but one reason the anti-learning clan has acquired so much power 
 is because learning frequently becomes boring for those who engage in it. Often times using your 
 mind is all about studying random facts or obscure equations. While that is important, learning 
 needs something more. It needs to not only be about what to think, but also how to think and how 
 to use your mind in a way that is both beneficial and entertaining.
  
  And that is what Big Brain Academy is all about. Instead of taking the traditional approach to 
 bolstering your brainpower, it uses a unique formula of mentally trying games blended with simplistic 
 amusements to make learning how to learn fun.
  
  Initially, it is easy to see differences between Big Brain Academy and the already prestigious 
 Brain Age. Brain Age has a refined, intelligent feel to it, while Big Brain Academy appears to 
 be geared towards youngsters from your local KinderCare. Yet when it comes to sickeningly difficult 
 challenges, both games are neck-and-neck.
  
  The area where you will spend most of your time in Big Brain Academy is Practice, which features 
 15 separate mini-games that cover the 5 areas of the brain: Identify, Think, Memorize, Compute, 
 and Analyze. Each category has 3 mini-games, and that makes for plenty of variety.
  
  Every single game is controlled by a 60 second time limit. Instead of trying to complete a set 
 number of problems as quickly as possible, you try to complete as many problems as you can in 60 
 seconds. This sometimes becomes annoying when the game stops you while you are working on something, 
 but overall it functions well. For each correct answer, your brain's weight increases, and for 
 each wrong answer it decreases. At the end of 60 seconds, Dr. Lobe -- the bodiless blob that guides 
 you through the game -- will announce your brain weight and will award you a medal.
  
  The medals make Big Brain Academy particularly interesting. Depending on your success, you will 
 receive a bronze, silver, or gold medal. The bronze and silver are fairly simple to earn, but it 
 will take some skill to acquire the gold. Since each mini-game has an easy, medium, and hard mode 
 that you can play through, there are a total of 45 gold medals that you can strive for.
  
  But of course, some exceptionally talented people might have little trouble earning all gold. Perhaps 
 you will be one of them. Fortunately, Dr. Lobe also has platinum medal, which is constructed with 
 a rare metal more valuable than gold. Because of its value, he will only part with the platinum 
 medal if you do astoundingly well on a challenge. Even on easy mode this medal is nearly impossible 
 to get, as you have to do each game virtually perfectly if you want to acquire it. Prepare for 
 dozens of retries.
  
  Since there are 45 platinum medals you can earn, and since each medal takes at least a minute to 
 earn, it will take you 45 minutes to play every game on Practice. But, when you consider the amount 
 of times you might have to play a specific game to earn the perfect medal, it is easy to see how 
 much value you can squeeze out of this game. It does not matter whether you are a master or a novice; 
 Big Brain Academy has enough difficulty to keep you on your toes for a lengthy period of time.
 
  
  To acquire the medals, you will have to play the mini-games. So what exactly are the mini-games? 
 Well, it would be too tedious to name all fifteen of them, but here are examples from each area. 
 In the Memorize section, one of the games is entitled Flash Memory, and in it you must memorize 
 a lengthy number as it flashes onto the screen. Once it disappears, you will have to input the 
 number into a keypad on the touch screen. You only have 60 seconds to do as many as possible, of 
 course, so you will be hard pressed to be rapidly accurate.
  
  Analyze offers another unique game called Missing Link. In this game, an image of several connected 
 dots will appear on the top screen, and some of the lines connecting the dots will be red. On the 
 lower screen, you have to draw those same lines. It starts off easy, but it quickly turns challenging 
 -- especially when the array of dots on the lower screen is rotated in comparison with the picture 
 on the top screen.
  
  If you like matching, Matchmaker in the Identify category should strike your fancy. All you do 
 in it is find pairs amongst an assortment of cards. As the number of cards you must look at and 
 the number of pairs you must locate becomes larger, it becomes increasingly difficulty to move 
 speedily from one problem to the next.
  
  When you are ready to put your basic match skills to work, Compute offers several activities that 
 deal with numbers. One of the more intense mini-games in that category is Written Math. In it, 
 math problems will appear in written form on the top screen, while a calculator keypad hogs the 
 touch screen. The goal: answer as many problems as you can before time runs out. While its varying 
 degrees of difficulty make it excellent for all people, it still offers a challenge for those who 
 want to receive a platinum medal on hard. Can you solve sixty-three times nine with only two seconds 
 remaining? You are about to find out.
  
  The final area, Think, has three unusual yet entertaining games. Heavyweight is perhaps one of 
 the most peculiar, as you have to look at a scale and determine which animal on the scale weighs 
 the most. At the beginning, it is really easy since there is only one scale. But when more scales 
 emerge onto the screen and multiple animals start cluttering a single scale, it can be quite taxing 
 on your mental abilities.
  
  Keep in mind that these are just a sampling of everything the Big Brain Academy offers. There are 
 many more games to explore, and all of them are chock full of quality fun. Once you have spent 
 some time in Practice, you will want try Test. Basically, Test is an extension of Practice. It 
 requires you to perform five random activities (one from each category) , and after you are done 
 the good doctor will announce your overall brain weight. Dr. Lobe will even give you a grade and 
 an occupation. While there is nothing scientific about any of the results, it is entertaining nonetheless.
 
  
  The game also features a versus mode, where you can compete with up to 8 other players to see who 
 has the biggest brain. Because it is download play, you only need one cartridge to get the game 
 going, and from there you can battle it out against your friends in the various mini-games.
  
  Beyond gameplay, there are also graphics. Honestly, they are terrible. The game designers spent 
 little time working on them, and it shows. Dr. Lobe is a humorously hapless blob, and most of the 
 animals are poorly drawn. True, the animation does add to the light mood of the game, but it is 
 still horrible. If you find the graphics amusing, that is great. However, if you were initially 
 turned away by the graphics, realize that they do not accurately represent the quality this game 
 provides.
  
  Music is another unique area of the game. It is well done, but it is definitely not outstanding. 
 Instead, it is casual, light-hearted, and very catchy. The music is delightful, but in a disturbing 
 sort of way. Since the music plays a minor role during the brain activities, it is not a major 
 concern in the game. Rather, it is more of something to please you as you browse the various menus.
 
  
  On the outside, Big Brain Academy looks like nothing more than another quirky DS title. On the 
 inside, it is nothing less than a gem. With a horde of innovative ways to increase your brainpower 
 and provide enjoyment, it is a unique find in the world of gaming. Combine that with its $20 price 
 tag, and Big Brain Academy is a steal.
  
  Now, many people have one burning question in regards to this game: Is it better than Brain Age? 
 Frankly, that's not an easy question to answer. Big Brain Academy and Brain Age are like the DS 
 and the PSP, both are good, but each one is good in its own way. Some people will find maximum 
 satisfaction in Brain Age's professional appearance, while others might prefer Big Brain Academy's 
 laid back approach. It would be best if you simply purchased both games!
  
  Controls: 8.7
  Gameplay: 9.3
  Graphics: 6.8
  Sound: 8.6
  Replay Value: 8.9
  Multiplayer: 
 8.1
  Overall: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painter015k
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy is yet another brain teasing game to hit the DS. The visuals are colorful and 
 the touchscreen controls are pulled off. Big Brain Academy starts out fun when first played, but 
 it REALLY boring after awhile and frustrating when the game will gives you the same score over 
 and over again. This game can become annoying fast after the little "ding" or "buzz" you hear after 
 getting stuff right/wrong, but the game's audio is still not all that bad. The brain teasers can 
 get old FAST. Eventually you're left doing the same questions over and over again. Big Brain Academy 
 can a VERY tedious game. Easy to control, but difficult to make it to the top. The replay value 
 isn't all that bad, but like I said, this game CAN get boring FAST. Big Brain Academy is a good 
 game, but it's best to play it when you have a few minutes to spare since this game isn't exactly 
 hardcore gamer friendly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke141eels
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  see how much your brain weighs can it work that is the question i was asked by a friend. asking 
 me can the big brain academy work do well i think it has lets take a look. big brain is one of those 
 games that you play for 20 minutes and leave it then pick it up again and again. why is that though 
 because it is a all right game filled with fun questions to answer and challenge your family because 
 that makes the game even better.
  
  does the game seem good to yet no? well you have to reed this then the game rates your score after 
 you do your test so you can rub it anyones face i got an a+ you god a d something around those 
 lines now it seems fun.
  
  the game is pretty good and if you want a game in the car for your holidays find it here big brain 
 acdemey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Final13
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Give your mind a workout at the Big Brain Academy, where you can train your brain in five different 
 catagories! Work your computing abilities by comparing stacks of coins to find the higher value! 
 Bulk up your analysis skills by quickly counting a huge stack of blocks! You can even outsmart 
 up to seven friends in the academy's multiplayer free-for-all. - back of game case. Well the game 
 first meantion the big part of the game, the catagories you test yourself in. There is think, memorize, 
 analyze, compute, and identify. In each of these catagories you test your self in three different 
 tests as stated on the back of the game case. In the game you have a few options to play from. 
 You can weigh your brain, you can practice, play a single game, or play multiplayer. The games 
 are fun and get even more fun the higher the difficulty. Playing with your friends is a blast too, 
 getting able to see who is smarter and faster. The good part about muliplayer is that you only 
 need one card to play all the games. Thanks you for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing wrong with BBA, but if you own Brain Age, or Brain Boost, you really already have 
 this game. Yes, it is different in presentation, but virtually the exact same game as these others.
 
  
  One major plus is the price. You can get this and similar games for about twenty bucks - new. If 
 you own an DS you should own one or two of these games. They're fun and different. However, if 
 you already own a similar game, spend your game money on something different!
  
  You'll find BBA a little less pretentious than Brain Age. Maybe I'm being too hard on it but BA 
 acts like this is some kind of scientific measure of your brain's health. This is nonsense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 11:34 am PT
Review:  this game trains your brain and its good but gets boring youll love it for a while but 
 
  could use some more tests the other ones get boring after a while
  if you want a brain training game this is goooood but maybe you would want to get brain age i havent 
 played it buts its much more popular
  i havent played it for a bit
  this game trains your brain and its good but gets boring youll love it for a while but 
 
  could use some more tests the other ones get boring after a while
  if you want a brain training game this is goooood but maybe you would want to get brain age i havent 
 played it buts its much more popular
  i havent played it for a bit
  check out my blog for funny family guy videos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MangoLlamas
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This game goes a little overboard, it tries to teach you, while giving puzzles meant for babies... 
 It tries to make you feel make you feel happy getting a C+, that it rates your brain size the size 
 of a calculator... Now, you dont need to be what we call smart nowadays to be succesful in life, 
 look at george bush... Tossing aside some of the negative comments, this game has you coming back 
 time and time again trying to improve, even with its short short length. Graphics aren't that great, 
 (wonder who drew 'em) , but i guess its simplicity is rewarding enough... What inspired the publisher? 
 Einstein or Bush? Going back to the baby puzzle theory, the game is FUN don't get me wrong, but 
 doesnt have the essentials that produce fans anywhere under the ages of 40.... (i hope :?) The 
 idea of baby puzzles is relevant, counting blocks, memory games, its just that its based on speed, 
 not skill... thats what makes the game challenging... While some games are EXACTLY like something, 
 big brain is too, in a negative way... For example: While animal crossing feels just like life, 
 we ask ourselves the same toggling question (what is the meaning of life?.) This game feels like 
 school... What a chore... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good, it could do with some better minigames but its alright...
  
  The good: - Cute characters- - Practice is kind of fun - -Good use of the touch screen - -Funny 
 music - - funny grading system - The bad: - Most of the minigames are boring - - No difficulty 
 select - - Getting a better grade than C+ is really hard - -Some minigames are just games of chance 
 - - doesnt have online play, only WI-FI - Can't pause during a test - - Trying to pause just ends 
 the test - In the end, it has more bad than good, its worth the price but it has a lot of defaults... 
 Meaning that it could be a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GuitarHero670
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 9, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy is a bit like a more cartoony version of Brain Training. The mini-games are simple 
 addictive and easy to grasp. You can practice one of these mini-games seperately in practice mode 
 to earn medals or you can play the main test to go for a big brain on the whole. The versus mode 
 is good it can have up to 8 players and only one person needs the actual game to play (thank you 
 DS Download Play!) . And that's about it it's pretty sad that this good of a brain trainer has a 
 short lifespan unless you have constant rivals or have a very strong patience it will begin to 
 gather dust. The graphics are mildly good it's cartoonish that's all you need to know. All in all 
 it's a good brain trainer while it lasts and that time isn't too long although it's fun multiplayer 
 and allowing up to 8 players with one game cart is one of it's more saving graces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  This game will get you thinking, and a lot of the thinking you have to do on your own. (Well actually 
 you do all of the thinking)
  
  But this game has everything your ever going to need to get smarter, what ever your best strength 
 is, there is a practice mode where you can, what else practice your skills till you know that you 
 can pass a test, but here is a description of every class.
  
  First off, if its adding numbers is what you like to do, then you would want to play the Compute 
 class, if you want to think what the answer is, then the Think class is for you, if you want to 
 memorize then the Memorize class is for you, if you want to identify shadows of objects, and put 
 puzzles together then Identify class is what you want to play, and if you want to analyze things 
 like drawing a line to one object to another, from what the computer ask, then Analyze class is 
 what you want to play.
  
  It come down to all of those classes, but if you really want to make it fun you should try the 
 Test Mode, after you get your practice in of course, but when you take the test Dr. Lobe puts you 
 in every class with one of the three skills in that class, so don't forget to practice.
  
  OK everyone put their pencils down, time for final say.
  
  All in all this game is fun, and 
 very addictive, so be careful not to work you brain to hard, and I must say with how inexpensive 
 this game is I wouldn't be surprised if five out of every four DS owners own this game it's so 
 much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herojoe1000
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 8, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy is another game in Nintendo's series of games that make you smarter in minutes 
 a day. Unlike Brain Training, this game is more oriented around picture challeges. Also, your brain 
 is weighed to tell how smart you are. There are five categories that you are tested in: Think, 
 Memorize, Analyze, Compute, and Identify. There are three different games that can show up for 
 each in test mode, or you can practice them all in practice mode. There is no problem with this 
 game if you are not a hardcore gamer who can play for hours at a time, but even if you are not, 
 you will probably do everything the game has to offer in a few minutes. So if you are not a hardcore 
 gamer, you will probably enjoy this game if you really only play it a few minutes each day. But 
 if you are hardcore, do not buy this game! You will get tired of it really fast. In terms of the 
 graphics and sound, neither are very amazing. The music is annoying in about five seconds. And 
 the graphics are just simple pictures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sykil
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  "Brain training" has become an unlikely craze, and Brain Age and Big Brain Academy are at the forefront 
 of that craze, as well as being largely responsible for it. Brain Age was first up to bat, followed 
 by Big Brain Academy. B. A. still sells better, and it seems to be the most widely accepted one. 
 However, I prefer B. B. A., and here's why:
  
  B. B. A.'s metrics for testing your brain seem more credible, and the game itself presents more of 
 a challenge. It has five test categories: Think, Memorize, Analyze, Compute, and Identify, which 
 test logic, memory, reasoning, mathematical skill, and visual acuity, respectively. There are three 
 games to each category, and it won't take but a few plays for owners to realize what games they 
 love and which don't come as easily to them.
  
  Also, the game's overall style is a lot more charming than B. A.'s. Warm colors, a consistent feel, 
 quirky menu theme, and Dr. Lobe make this game a joy to play and replay. It excels in what IGN 
 would wall "presentation" whereas B. A. does pretty poorly in that category.
  
  At the end of the test, Dr. Lobe will announce your brain weight (in grams, because smart people 
 use the metric system) and type, based on which categories you excelled in and which you... didn't. 
 You also get a grade (on the A-F scale) . The game's got great replay; it's pretty hard to make 
 an A. Heck, it's hard to make a B!
  
  Right now, I'm standing at 1579g with the brain of a diplomat (B+) . One of these days... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfireman1000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy is a fun game that can challenge even the smartest people. With the variety in 
 gameplay and an ever rising difficulty level BBA will be a game that you will not want to put down 
 until you get a perfect score. With it's variation and different approach to playing video games 
 this is the perfect game to give to some to start them playing or convince them that games are 
 fun and there is no harm in playing them. This game is the perfect choice for a nagging parent 
 or friends.
  This game plays out almost like a class with the option the take the Test to se how smart you are 
 without training at the beginning. After you find what you are good at and what you need to work 
 on you go to the practice mode. Work on the part of you brain that needs it then retake the test 
 to see your improvement. The only bad part of this game is the difficulty range. Starting the Test 
 game you will get a game that appears to be easy, but increases to very hard after a few right 
 answers. This could turn people off of playing this game or make them want to play for the challenge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robot_Vampire
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy is a sequel to the smash-hit game Brain Age. It follows the same basic principals 
 as it's predecessor by giving you an examination of your brain after completing various mini-games. 
 The game only contains 15 different mini-games for you to test your brain on, although fun they 
 do start to get repetitive after a while and this is the game's main fault.
  
  The games are used to test your brain and thus they are split up into 6 different sections. These 
 are; Thinking, Memorizing, Analyzing, Identifying and computing. Each has 3 mini-games that provide 
 a different challenge. Computing skills are basically you using numbers to solve problems, for 
 example, one challenge will give you two sets of coins and you'll have to figure out which selection 
 represents the higher amount. The others are basically what they say, memorizing games will have 
 remembering things, identifying games will have you figuring out what shape goes into the shadow 
 and such. Although the 3 mini-games are all different in context and give you new questions each 
 time you try them, they can get tedious and boring quickly.
  
  It features 3 different modes and these come in the form of Practice, Test and Versus. Practice 
 is where you'll hone your skills so you can do better in the test. The game gives you all 15 challenges 
 in the mode and supplies you with 3 different difficulties to try it on, this is where you'll be 
 spending most of your time throughout the game. The game kindly saves your scores for you and the 
 professor gives you a medal and a brain weight depending on how well you do.
  
  The test is where you'll find out how much your brain weighs, basically the higher score the score 
 you get the more your brain weighs. The test will challenge you in all 5 different sections and 
 give you a random mini-game to compete in. At the end of the test you'll be given a brain weight 
 judging on how well you got plus you'll also be given a grade. The grade (ranging from A-D) tells 
 you've what kind of brain you got, for example, a D is a Museum Curator. The game also features 
 a versus mode and this is where you compete against your friends in the mini-games using a single 
 game card so all your friends with a DS can play with you too. You all start with the same task 
 and race to the finish, you lose points for an incorrect answer and you gain more points if you 
 finish first. The mode albeit fun can also get boring after a while as the 15 games don't last 
 very long, once you've tried them all with your friends there'll only be a few that you come back 
 to.
  
  The graphics in the game are basic but they work with the simplistic approach the game is trying 
 to go for, so they're not good for the usual DS games but they suit the game well. The sound is 
 fairly simple, once again but unlike the graphics it gets repetitive and you soon won't want to 
 listen to it. However some of the mini-games require you to hear the sounds of the game so you 
 can correspond to them within the question.
  
  Overall the game is fun while it lasts. The graphics suit the game and the mini-games are fun but 
 the game is let down by a repetitive soundtrack and by it's long lasting value. Big Brain Academy 
 is a fun game and at a budget price it is worth it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coop_1717
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Not really but if you play it long enough you will be able to get a bit smarter. This game is a 
 good game to play if you have 30 mins to use up. The game is acually pretty fun for about 30 mins 
 every day. It is well worth the price though.. It has fun little mini games (better than brain 
 age) like memorize the sounds the animal makes and what weights more, ect. I wouild recomend this 
 game for anyone from 10-60 years old and whoever likes have some excercises for thier brain. 8.6/10 
 its a pretty good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  Well After the Brain Age another game came out and that is Big Brain Academy. This game is something 
 that has not really been done that much. Little Brain Teasers that will make you think. Now it 
 might not really give you a big brain but it will give you some fun. There are multiple different 
 areas you can improve on like memory, Math etc.. each one has multiple different mini test so you 
 have some differences and its not the same game over and over. The game is i think better then 
 Brian academy by a little bit its funner and it does not rely on your hand writing skills either. 
 The better you do in the game the higher grade you will get and then you will have a chart that 
 shows how good you are at certain things and what you need to get better at. Its a really easy 
 game to pick up and just start playing. and the low cost won't kill you either. Overall this game 
 is nothing to get exciting about. but it gives you a good game that is very fun and just about 
 anyone can play.
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: Simplistic and fun, will give gamers mini games that are fun
  Graphics: Nowhere near 
 the potential of the DS as in graphics but i guess they were not spending time on that part
  Sound: Above average sound with some memorable songs and sound effects
  Value: A very cheap and 
 good game for the DS
  Overall: I like this game its not trying to be the best game ever made just a fun game for a low 
 budget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyfanatic
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This is like a rip off of Brain Age. There is 15 activities to do and they get boring quickly. 
 You use the stylus only in this game. There is a variety in the games, like addition or block count. 
 Once you feel confident, you can do a test. After doing 5 random activities, you get a grade, depending 
 on how well you do. After a while, this will get boring and you will never play again.
  
  Graphics- not that good or bad.
  
  Sound- okay.
  
  Value- I can't see anyone playing this 
 game over 20 hours.
  
  So it is a fun game, it just isn't going to be worth your money with only a few activities to do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somini
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Brain training. That's a genre in gaming that I didn't even know i missed before getting a DS, 
 but now it's one of my favourites. It's the kind of games I can enjoy anywhere, anytime even if 
 I only have 5 minutes. The DS can off course be played anywhere no matter what game it is, but 
 to play a adventure game or a RPG on a train for example, just doesn't feel right to me. I don't 
 get immersed enough with that kind of games in that environment, but brain-training games work 
 for me where ever I am.
  
  I think Big Brain is the best brain-trainer for the DS. One of the reasons for this is that it's 
 really easy to pick up and play for fun, but it's deviously difficult to master. In practise mode, 
 you can choose any category in any class and you will receive medals for you're results. Bronze, 
 silver and gold medals are easy to get, but then we also have the finest medals, platinum. Platinum 
 medals are easy to get in some cases, but in many categories they are REALLY hard to get, if not 
 almost impossible. Sometimes you have to clear the test with no errors what so ever and also do 
 that extremely fast. If you're a perfectionist, like me, this can get really frustrating, but that 
 only makes the the reward seem even sweeter. So, this game can be played in a very casual way, 
 just fo fun, but it can also be played in hardcore-fashion if you want to receive all the platinum 
 medals.
  
  You can also take a test in the game to determine the weight of your brain, to see if you are a 
 worthy student at the Big Brain Academy. The test gives a random category in the games five different 
 classes, which are compute, identify, think, memorize and analyze. Finish the test as fast as possible 
 and with as few errors as possible to get a nice brain weight. It's quite easy to get a brain weight 
 between 1500-1800 grams, but you will probably have to practise for some time to reach a brain 
 weight of 2000 grams and beyond. The tests are really funny, especially if you do them with some 
 one else. Me and my sister have done these tasts hundreds of times, to determine who has the fattest 
 brain ( I lead for the moment, wohooo ) .
  
  If you have played any other brain-training games and liked them, but haven't play Big Brain Academy, 
 then I strongly recommend you to buy this game. To me this is one of the absolutely best titles 
 for the DS, any category. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyofone10
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  This game has many little games that test your brain weight. I found it fun to compete against 
 my friends and family. Although the game does lose its appeal after a month it was pretty fun while 
 it lasted. The variety of math equations, counting blocks, and other games were just overall fun 
 to play and you can always find a game you would like to master. Most importantly the game is only 
 a mere $20. I felt that if the game provides ample amount of playing time at that price it should 
 be considered. If you are debating to buy this game I would say buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomguy132
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy is another game for the DS which is meant to train your brain. This genre of 
 games made popular by Brain Age seeks to sharpen your senses by giving you exercises in different 
 aspects of your intelligence.
  
  The different aspects you can train in are: Identify, Think, Memorize, Analyze, and Compute. In 
 each of these sections, there are three training exercises. In the Practice section of Big Brain 
 Academy, youre able to perform these exercises at the three different difficulties; easy, normal, 
 and hard. Based on your performance, you are awarded different medals, and the game keeps track 
 of you best score. Your score is measured in grams. This is meant to be the mass of your brain, 
 in that if you are smarter, you have a bigger, more massive brain.
  
  For those of you who insist on getting perfect scores on every section of a game, this is perfect 
 for you. You may be doing really good, and getting gold medals on each game and feeling really 
 proud of yourself, but then all of the sudden you do extremely good on a section, and you get a 
 platinum medal. It hits you that you have to go back and get platinum medals on every section that 
 you only got a gold medal on before. This can keep you busy for hours, days, and even weeks.
  
  A second section of the game is Test. The game goes through each of the categories, randomly 
 selecting one game from each. At the end, the scores (masses) from each section are added up, youre 
 given a total, and youre given a letter based on that mass. Then you are shown a chart in the 
 shape of a pentagon which shows you the breakdown of which sections you did better or worse in. 
 It then compares your brain to an occupation based on the breakdown. For example, I apparently 
 have the brain of an investor. The multiplayer aspect of this game is very fun. Up to 8 players 
 can play with a single cartridge. The host of the game selects the first game to be played out 
 of the fifteen available games, and everyone plays the same question at the same time. Youre given 
 mass based on who submits the correct answers the fastest, and youre penalized for wrong answers. 
 You continue playing to a target mass, say 50g. Once someone reaches that point, whoever got last 
 place in that game chooses the next game. The game keeps track of your total weight, and then when 
 someone has reached 300g they win.
  
  Considering its bargain price at $20, this game is well worth the purchase. It has lot of replay 
 value, and is great for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdk74cdr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 1, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy is fun and it may (or may not) improve your brain.
  
  Having played DR K's brain training (including Soduku) to death I thought it about time I give 
 this one a go.
  
  Having handed the nice lady in Woolworths my &pound;20 I slapped the card straight in the DS and 
 got started.
  
  My immediate impression is that this 'BRAIN' game takes itself much less seriously than the afforementioned 
 'BRAIN TRAINING'. It is more colourful and fun based.
  
  Practice Mode
  -------------------
  
  The mini-games are split into five catagories each with 3 games, each 
 of these with 3 difficulty levels. By doing well you get medals, thus showing your progess.
  
  Brain Weight Check
  ---------------------------
  
  Having 'Practiced', you can then take 
 a test. This gives you a game from each section. Once 5 'TESTS' have been negotiated you recieve 
 a brain weight and (usually) a less than ideal career suggestion. This is all done in a fun light 
 hearted way.
  
  If the above two ideas get boring you can also compete with family and friends (assuming they have 
 DS's) .
  
  To sum up then, FUN for a while but you will in the end want something more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reptileszz
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  I asked for this game and Brain Age for Christmas. I only got Big Brain Academy. It is kind of 
 entertaining for a bit but did not hold my attention very long. After playing the various mini-games 
 for a few minutes I felt they got old pretty fast.
  
  I played it on and off for a month but then realized I was TRYING to like it and that didn't make 
 much sense to me so I traded it in for Brain Age which I like a lot more. and I never trade my 
 games in, giving them the benefit of the doubt for longer than I should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodzillaX8
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:47 am PT
Review:  I got this game as a Christmas present, otherwise I wouldn't have gotten it. I hate mini-game collections, 
 because they have no real substance. Once you've played each of the mini-games once, that's all 
 there is to it. This one contains 15 mini-games total, split up into 5 different categories. Each 
 mini-game varies from Click the button that answers the question to Draw a line that answers the 
 question for the most part. None of the mini-games really require any actual thought process, and 
 the ones that might, you don't have the time necessary to think (assuming you're going to try for 
 gold or platinum medals) so you have to rely on memorizing patterns. Thinking is especially hard 
 when you're on a timer, and I don't handle time limits very well, if you've read my review for 
 Dead Rising.
  
  If you really want to buy a collection of mini-games to waste a few minutes here and there, then 
 maybe this will be interesting to you. I personally find none of the mini-games to be very memorable, 
 or anything I'll ever want to pick up and play again at a later time, even to just kill some time.
 
  
  Also, don't buy this game expecting to get any smarter. If you want to get smarter, go read a book, 
 or play Scrabble, or Chess, or any countless other activities where you actually can take time 
 to think about things. This will just increase your short-term memory, at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerGirlPwnz
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Now, don't get me wrong but, Big Brain Academy just isn't what I expected it to be. Sometime during 
 the year 2006, brain games became most popular. Bringing out games like Suduku or Brain Age: Test 
 your brain in minutes a day ; but are these games really tools that will provide useful? I've played 
 Suduku before, and boy oh boy does it ever hurt (the brain, that is) ! And I got the same reaction 
 from the other games noted above. My real question here is, what do you think? Do you think that 
 this game will be awsome just because doctors and teachers recommend it; or will you be a rebel 
 and show them who's boss? Either way, you should still drill your way forward by saying your opinion! 
 That is why today, I have decided to write this review. Please remember that this is MY review, 
 my opinion can serve withever way to you; you can keep it in the back of your mind for the whole 
 day, or you read this over and over again, memorizing the words. Since I am writing about this 
 game, I guess I should mention a few things about it. First thing, the brain tesers. This is what 
 the whole game is about. Some of it is easy, and some isn't. My final grade was a B. Take it or 
 leave it, but I still consider myself a well educated citizen. And no, I'm not 30 years old writing 
 about how my life is a living hell; I'm actually 13 years old. Thats right, you heard me, or actually 
 you read my words. The brain games were hard, but they weren't hard enough that when you gave it 
 your all you couldn't win. So, you tell me, what do you think? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  There have been a lot of different brain training games quickly becoming avaliable for the Nintendo 
 DS. They're usually taxing, but mostly numerical in nature. I'd only used one of these prior to 
 this one, and I really didn't like it. It is because of this, that I was pleasantly surprised.
 
  
  Big Brain does the whole brain training thing in a completely new way. Instead of using generic 
 IQ test styled puzzles, it uses more innovative styled ones, designed to be solved quickly and 
 getting progressively harder. There are a total of 15 games, 3 in each of the five catergories, 
 consisting of Memory, Think, Compute, Identify and Analyse.
  Each of the games have things such as finding a path to counting a set of blocks, etc. The thing 
 about these games is that one would expect them to get boring, however they don't. In fact they 
 get more addictive. The reason they get more addictive is not only the fantastic presentation, 
 but also the idea of having a brain weight. The brain weight is measured in grams, and points scored 
 in the games contribute to the weight.
  
  You've also got practice mode so that people can practice the mini games. This is quite helpful, 
 since it shows how good you are after each attempt. It also has ranks that determine how good you 
 are. Most would say that gold is best, but there is a platinum mark, which I have achieved. You 
 also have a multiplayer, which determines which person has the bigger brain. Other wireless features 
 give those without the game a trial (one test thats half the time) . This is a good way of seeing 
 whether or not someone would like the game.
  
  Of the brain training games, this is the one I have had most fun with. The fresh games that don't 
 rely on numbers are a fresh change. Sure there is a desire for more games in the package, but the 
 originality and presentation of the game are superb. The novelty may cease after a while, like 
 when your brain exceeds 1500 grams, (Which is over the actual brain size!!!) but its a lot of fun 
 while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_darwich_hayes
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  When I watched the rating that gamespot gave to Big Brain Academy , I was so dissapointed. You 
 don't need characters with great customes, or a game that lasts 10000 hours to be good, and Big 
 Brain Academy definitely broke the mold. A friendly environment, great puzzles and easy to understand 
 games, you get a game that is worth the double: Entertaining and it increases your speed agility! 
 I can say that this game is a little bit better than Brain Age , but both are in the same zone. 
 Don't let gamespot's rating deceive you, it's a game that is worth trying and trust me, you won't 
 regret having a little bit more accuracy in your brain! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freddyjasonmyer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  The premise is similar to Brain Age, but this time, you'll discover you're Brain Weight , not your 
 Brain Age. There are three game modes, or classes as Professor Lobe calls them (he's your teacher) : 
 Practice, Test, and Versus. In practice, you can do all the activities all you want, and choose 
 the category and activity each time. Test mode has you doing one activity from each category (Think, 
 Identify, Memorize, Compute, and Analyze) chosen at random. After which you'll receive your Brain 
 Weight , along with a letter grade and either a career that would suit you, or a famous personality 
 your mind matches. Versus has got to be the best part of the whole game! You can choose to either 
 have everyone try to complete the activity before the timer runs out, or have the activity be over 
 once one person completes it. I prefer the timer because it's more intense with it making extreme 
 ticking noises once it gets to ten and below! Depending on how many people are playing, everyone 
 is awared a certain amount of grams (points) . The first to reach a set amount of grams wins. BBA 
 has a lot to offer if you don't wear it out in the first few days. If you do get it, I advise taking 
 the test once a day, then practicing each activity once in the category you did worst in. Then 
 be done for the day, or else you'll wear out the fun. I personally enjoy BBA more than Brain Age 
 because it's more colorful and just seems like it has more to offer. This is great software for 
 the DS. If you liked Brian Age, you'll love this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okami195
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  If there was ever a good excuse for getting a parent to buy their kid a video game console, the 
 Brain Age/Big Brain Academy series would be it. Big Brain Academy, the second in this series of 
 learning games, is a great title for all ages, offering challenging yet addicting puzzles and tests 
 that will keep players coming back time and time again. Learning's never been so fun...
  
  For the newcomers to this series of games, Big Brain Academy is the sequel to the ever successfuly 
 Brain Age, both of which are for Nintendo's DS console. The game offers a variety of puzzles at 
 various difficulties that players can challenge their minds with, complete with practice and test 
 modes to keep things entertaining. A scoring system will keep track of how well the player is doing, 
 with a challenging curve that will keep even the most intelligent of individuals coming back for 
 more.
  
  A few examples of puzzles this time around include counting various coins in two containers in 
 a matter of seconds to find which has the greater value, matching silhouettes to their full-color 
 counterparts, a pipe-type puzzle where the player must track a falling object across both screens 
 and choose the correct ending location, and many more. The catch to all of this is the grading 
 system and the friendly atmosphere to the challenges. The game never truly feels like you're being 
 forced to take a dreaded algebra test in a college level course, but rather offers a cute variety 
 of colorful graphics, sounds, and an interesting narrator character to pull you along through the 
 puzzles. Add to this unlockable puzzles so that players continue trying to increase their brain 
 power, and all in all the game has a nice amount of replayability.
  
  The graphics and sounds compliment each other well, which have all been completely overhauled since 
 the slighty-bland-looking prequel, Brain Age. It's almost recommended that players try out Big 
 Brain Academy on the Nintendo DS Lite due to the lush visuals, though owners of the original Nintendo 
 DS won't be disappointed. The whole game has a very cute, cartoon-like atmosphere to it, which 
 won't be for everyone, but is friendly enough without being overly corny that it will at least 
 be acceptable by most players.
  
  Finally, the game offers a few multiplayer puzzles over the wireless connectivity of the DS as 
 well, just in case you're ready to bring a friend into the action. While this too has been improved 
 over Brain Age's one multiplayer puzzle, it still feels like a last minute addition that wasn't 
 a main focus on the development of the game.
  
  Overall, Big Brain Academy offers a nice selection of things to do for players of all ages, and 
 keeps the routine fresh with its visuals, sounds, and unlockable content. The game won't be for 
 everyone, but most players will find a puzzle or two to their enjoyment, and, when complimented 
 with the first game, there's definitely enough to do to keep those brains busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EACHNAMEISTAKEN
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Game play:
  
  This game has 15 mini games on 3 difficulty levels. They all involve some sort of thought. You 
 can either play these games for fun every once in a while, or you can be like me and strive to 
 get a platinum medal (highest ranking) for all of them, in which case the game has decent length. 
 This ability to choose the length of the game allows the game to appeal to all sorts of people. 
 It appeals to me, a hardcore gamer, and it appeals to my little sister, who plays games like solitaire 
 and minesweeper. Multiplayer adds to the game's value. You can show your friends how much smarter 
 you are than them.
  
  Graphics:
  Strange, yet they were with the style.
  
  Sound:
  Quirky, reminiscent of Animal Crossing, it is what the game goes for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donaldo1989
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy, well it isn't what you would call your traditional game but it is more like 
 a collection of minigames.
  
  In this game , you're task is to gain enough practise to increase the weight of your brain. In 
 order to increase the size of your brain you will need to practice minigames and take the test 
 in order to see your improvement. You will be given a grade, given hints on how to improve and 
 you're suitable career.
  There are also up to 5 profiles so up to 5 people can keep track of their progress.
  
  Each 
 mini game is divided into 5 categories, (think, memorise etc.) where there are unfortunately only 
 3 minigames for each category which is a bit of a letdown.
  
  The minigames all have a time-limit where you have to solve as many intuitive puzzles/questions 
 as quickly as possible giving you a better score and the question get harder as you get more correct. 
 There is also an option of playing each minigame separately to gain practice and earn yourself 
 medals depending on your score and there is also a multiplayer mode for up to 8 players to play 
 against each other in a battle of wits.
  
  For a budget price this isn't too bad but once you have reached a high or decent score you may 
 find little reason to come back to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psyduck11
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun all together. Youre a student at Big Brain and of course a Teacher pretty much 
 quizzes you. The game might be evil, because if you think of any thing in this game you think I 
 am not going to buy this game because it has Quizzes, Test, Exams and other things. Yes it does 
 sound evil to make a video about school but the game makes it enjoyable. The teacher will give 
 you time to train and test. (The teacher is a blob thing so its funny) On tests if you do good 
 it will rank your brain. If you do study it will rank your brain but it is not your real grade. 
 I like the questions because the questions are surprisingly fun. I say to buy this game at any 
 cost! Also who has the biggest brain? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tak963
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I know Nintendo would never do this but I would probably name this game Common Sense Academy based 
 on what you're doing. But I must admit, it's not the easiest game. Your friend might ask you, Hey, 
 what's your grade on that game? and if they had played the game then they won't laugh but if they 
 haven't, they will probably laugh once they hear you say C or something. Still, the game really 
 can't have bad graphics, probably because you aren't really moving or any of that. Maybe the game 
 could have had more mini games and categories, but it all still fits in quite nicely. This was 
 my first DS game, and I think it's a great first for others as well. It will get you used to the 
 touch screen and how to use the stylus. Well, Big Brain Academy is a great game with great graphics 
 and is good as a first DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithguy1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is simply addictive. There are 5 different modes with 3 different games 
 to each of those. So there are a total of 15 games to play testing your logic, reasoning, memory, 
 math, and visual skills. There are a total of 3 modes featuring test, the main one where you test 
 how much your brain weighs, practice, enough said just trying to inprove your bad skills, and vs.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Theres not much to look at. Only like animals, forks, tvs, ect, ect.
  
  SOUND: Not much sound. Usally the only thing you hear is the comfurmation sounds and on the memory 
 game you have to do like a simon like game with people, animals, and vehicles.
  
  VALUE: The replay on this is amazing. You will be playing this one for hours at a time and if you 
 get a friend with just a DS then you can play with him/her.
  
  TILT: I had a lot of fun with this one and you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemakm3
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  A game all ages can enjoy. My children loved it and my wife (who rarely plays video games) can't 
 put it down. Very simplistic menu to start playing right out of the box. Must practice, practice, 
 practice to keep making your score go up. Graphics don't get in the way of the game. When games 
 are fun you don't have to worry about graphics. Game takes advantage of the dual screens and the 
 touch sensitivity. Sound is pleasant. Game can be played easily with sound turned off. Game excells 
 in replay value. You won't be able to put it down. Price of $19.99 is a good value. Game is highly 
 recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxmartin
Rating: 4.7
Date: Sep 12, 2006 3:45 am PT
Review:  Having played and still playing the Brain Training Game this offering seemed to be the logical 
 next step. How wrong I was this one feels more kiddie to use and in it's looks. There is a distinct 
 lack of challenge to the tasks provided and by the time you hit the hardest setting you will be 
 so bored with the repetative game play that it will be boxed up and filed away.
  
  The classic rainy day game that just does not find that rainy a day to be played.
  
  It is 
 OK for a week at best then you will be back with the more classic style puzzler or Brain Training.
 
  
  So save your money or rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 28, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  The first time I picked up Big Brain Academy and played it, I didn't put it down for at least three 
 hours. It all started with the test, and my brain weighing an interesting 1010 grams. My evaluation 
 stated (in not so harsh words) that I sucked at thinking, was doing exceptionally at memorizing, 
 and not so bad analyzing, identifying and computing. What does all this mean? Keep on reading and 
 find out.
  
  Big Brain Academy falls under the educational type of games. A bit like Brain Age, this Touch Generations 
 title lets you exercise your brain to improve your overall mental performance. What sets it apart 
 of Brain Age is that its mini-games are more varied, offering a variety of colors and shapes, and 
 they're a lot more entertaining to do.
  
  The activities in Big Brain Academy will test your brain in five specific areas: thinking, memorizing, 
 computing, analyzing and identifying. You begin by doing the initial test to see how your brain 
 fares in these areas. Doctor Lobe, your strange little host, will then tell you how much your brain 
 weighs, what career type or historic personality you correspond to, as well as giving you a grade 
 on a scale of F to A+. You then move on to the Practice tests to improve your abilities.
  
  Results are calculated by the amount of questions you answer within a time limit, and how many 
 correct answers you give. In Practice exercises, you are given medals (Platinum, Gold, Silver and 
 Bronze) according to your results. Doctor Lobe also makes you go over the wrong questions at the 
 end until you get the right answers.
  
  The game has a total of 15 activities, three for each category of "brain testing", and three levels 
 of difficulty for each. In the Think area, you have:
  - Heavyweight, where you guess which object is heavier by looking at a series of scales; - Pathfinder, 
 where you must draw a single line that will make the top animal find the bottom one; - Bone Yard, 
 which I find particularly complicated, involves placing a bone on the square the dog will eventually 
 move to on the grid.
  
  In the Memorize area (my personal favorite) , you can find: - Sound Bites, a memory game to play 
 the sounds in the order you hear them; - Memo-Random where you look at the top row and then find 
 the respective panel when one is covered; - Flash Memory, where a series of numbers and symbols 
 appear on the top screen and you have to repeat them on the bottom screen.
  
  The mini-games in Analyze include:
  - Missing Link, a connect-the-dots type of game that makes 
 you match the top image with the bottom one, sometimes rotating or inverting it;
  - Cube Game, where you have to count all the blocks in the image;
  - Animal Lines, which gives 
 you a pattern on the top screen that you must trace on the bottom screen.
  
  Computing involves:
  - Coin-Parison, with a series of coins in two panels to pick the highest 
 amount of money;
  - Written Math, where problems are given in text and you solve them by inputting the number;
 
  - Add Agency, which shows you a number of objects on the top screen and you must match the total 
 on the bottom screen.
  
  The Identify activities (another of my favorites) are:
  - Shadow Shift, where you must match the rotating, spinning and sliding shadows to the objects 
 below;
  - Matchmaker, an easy find-the-pair game;
  - Get In Shape, which gives you a bunch of geometric shapes to put together and form a certain 
 image.
  
  As you complete these games, your progress begins to show in the pentagram display. Your objective 
 is to improve on the areas you are not so good at and try to equalize all sides of the pentagram 
 for a "balanced" brain.
  
  Multiplayer feature is also available for versus competition with up to eight players. The goal 
 is to see who reaches a brain weight of 300 grams first by completing random activities. You can 
 change the goal weight and have the option to turn a timer on or off. Granted, it won't take too 
 long for you to play all the mini-games, and the replay value exists only if you want to keep trying 
 to improve your skills and beat your previous scores. I only wish that this title would track your 
 progress in the same fashion Brain Age does, but the only tracking available is in the form of 
 a high score (brain weight and medal) for each test. Other than that, Big Brain Academy is one 
 of those games for everyone. Its colorful presentation and fun, light-hearted games make sure it 
 appeals to people of all ages. It's very simple to learn and requires only the use of the stylus.
 
  
  With this and Brain Age, I'm well on my way to make my brain younger and heavier. Who knows, maybe 
 on the long run I can even become a genius!
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full review and screenshots at
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=bigbrainacademy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ass-shager
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  This game is fun, challenging, addictive..... and some other good things. if your a fan of the 
 mini game games, then you'll love this. this game takes dvantige of the touch screen very well. 
 some of the mini games are kinda hard. while others are really simple. you can practice and try 
 to get gold on every game on every difficulty or you could take the test and try to get theat precious 
 A. another fun fact about this game is that it tells you what you have the brain of. e. g. fashoin 
 stylist, investor, conductor. ots a very fun game. you should deffinatly buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy seems like a must have for the DS. It has a lot of appeal because of its variety 
 and cute interface. It's inexpensive, fun, and a joy to use. The touch pen is used to good effect 
 and the reinforcements the game gives in terms of feedback are much appreciated.
  
  Where the game fails is in keeping you intrigued. I can see it as a game I'll play in the future 
 when I'm bored but not a game that will keep me involved for long periods of time.
  
  I recommend Big Brain Academy to anyone who enjoys puzzles and brain games and is interested in 
 keeping the game for the long haul.
  
  Gord_Mose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PharaohsVizier
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 22, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  This is just another Brain Game riding on Brain Age's success. Although this game has descent reviews 
 according to Gamespot, I don't agree. 
  
  The start of this game was very annoying, just opening up a new account with "Dr. Lobe" (the guy 
 who is supposed to guide you through the game) was really annoying. Putting up dumb jokes and stupid 
 questions, opening the new account took longer than it had to. Although this is true fro Brain 
 Age as well, it was not quite as annoying in Brain Age.
  
  My second complaint comes from the graphics. The graphics look kiddie, very childish, and just 
 doesn't work. I'd much rather have a clean cut look like Brain Age. Also, in the game, there are 
 certain mini games that had really bad looks. In a game where you had to see which amount of coins 
 was worth more, the quarter and the nickel looked almost identical, and really ruined my record.
 
  
  The final complaint about this game is that it doesn't exactly do what it is supposed to. It measures 
 your brain at the start by playing the mini games. The mini games would have been great if only 
 there were more variety. After the test has been administered, it gives you how much your brain 
 weights (which I don't think is very accurate) . Then it tells you to keep playing to make your 
 brain bigger. The problem with this is, you keep playing the same mini games, that is why you are 
 getting better, you are not improving your brain or anything, you are just playing the same game 
 over and over.
  
  My conclusion is, if you are looking for a real brain game, and you are over the age of 10, you 
 should look at Brain Age instead. If you want a game for a little kid or a party game then this 
 is your pick. Big Brain Academy is nothing but lots of mini games that they say can help your brain. 
 And mini games are great for parties or little kids, but terrible for "brain training". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkLordAkuma
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  The first time I ever played this game was via download station a my local gamestop. When it told 
 me how much my braned weighed, [the first time]
  it told me that my brain was only 117g and I had the brain of a hair stylist. Form that day forward 
 I sought revenge. As soon as I got enough money to buy Big Brain I did. I continued to play simply 
 to show Dr Lobe that I'm smarter than he thinks. Slowly my brain grew then one day..... I TURNED 
 INTO A SUPER MUTANT THAT COULD MANIPULATE MATTER SIMPLY FROM THOUGHT!!!! 
  ... actullay I just made that part up.. umm anyways yeah so I continued playing and eventually I 
 showed that weird looking you know what shaped doctor up.
  My most recent Brain weight was 1784g. And well in my opinion, that's not bad at all. I'm gonna 
 continue to play and hopefully my brain will end up weighing 36756485743287504758972430g then I'll 
 drag my head on the floor. Anyways your probably wondering what cool stuff it has in it. Well my 
 friend/enemy it's just jam packed with fun for your brain. Play the demo if you want to know, don't 
 ask me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeonflux_453
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 18, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  This game is so much fun. Even though I am learning, ugh does that make me a nerd. The gameplay 
 does use the touch screen very well, i guess enough to make it a Touch Generation game. Of course 
 there is no way you can actually beat the game, maybe if you get an A+ but I can't get over C+. 
 lol. It plays very well, and the touch screen is very responsive. So there isn't anytime you feel 
 you are getting cheated by the game.
  If you are looking for a cheap and fun DS "puzzler" pick this one up, you won't be dissapointed. 
 
  Oh, and by the way, IT ISN'T ALL MATH LIKE BRAIN AGE!!! So it doesn't really feel like you are 
 learning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odysseycat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2006 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain is completely different from Brain Age, this game wieghts how heavy your brain is and 
 how smart you are. Their isn't very much games to play on it but it only focus on five categories 
 that you can in practic mode or in test mode tomakes your hours of playing on it worth your time. 
 You don't need to use the contoller to play this game at all you need to use is a stylus and that 
 it. The music isn't much but it does have a good tune to it. As for the Gaphics it's been oddly 
 been done but its decently well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  This game looks like it belongs to a first or second grader, but once you finally play the game 
 and experience the gameplay, you will find out this game has more to offer then the images shown 
 or the cover box to the game. It is a game everyone should own, because it is a fun learninfg game 
 that spreads great knowledge to people of many ages. I like the feature of how your teacher, Dr. 
 Lobe, can weigh how much you're brain is in grams and what grade your brain is from an F to an 
 A+. As many of you hear, the game really does get old after playing it too much. For each subject 
 it has, you get three different problems at random choice. The questions last a minute or so and 
 you put you're brain to the test as you have to figure this out ina small amount of time. I told 
 you it will get hard throughout the game. Also, if you have friends and or family, that have a 
 DS with them, put their brain to the ultimate test with the cool multi-card fetaure. I really enjoyed 
 this game and it left me playing for a long time. I will always play this game on the road and 
 challenge Dr. Lobe and master his skills. I recommend this game to anyone who wants to learn with 
 an exciting, fun twist to it. Or any DS owner should buy or rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmisImp
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 3, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy in my opinion, isn't that great. The game gets old fast. You pratice a little, 
 then take the test a few times, getting frusterated because you can't seem to get any better past 
 a certain point. Big Brain Academy may appeal to people who enjoy things like brain teasers and 
 puzzle solving, but thats about it. At the price of only 20$ though, its a good game to get if 
 you just recently spent all your money on a DS and only have enough for a game like this.
  
  Overall, its a game you might play for awhile, but when you get another game you're sure to 
 forget about this one fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 31, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is tons of fun. All the mini games are great and they challenge you regardless of how 
 'smart' you are. 
  
  I wish this game kept track of over time statistics, instead of just your top score in each game. 
 
  
  The key plus of this game is it can be played in spurts. Play it for 5-10 minutes and it is great. 
 You can't really just sit there and play it for an hour without getting bored and repeating some, 
 if not all, of the games. 
  
  If I did not love Brain Age as much as I do though, I would be playing this game more often. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansean20608
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I dont get why i love this game let alone play t for hours but it is good.  .  sad think is i worry 
 about myself because my 83 year old grandmother plays it more than me... think i need to slow down 
 on the growth process. But still I think that everyone should still at least try it out then complain. 
 its kind of annoying listenen to people complain yet they havent even tried the game.  .  i mean 
 come on now at least try it i promis that ull get a kick out of some of the challenges in this 
 game. 
  
  Should say If you like Challenges then tyou should play this game!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinofire
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 25, 2006 5:50 am PT
Review:  Its the culmination of many small parts that makes Big Brain Academy a nice little budget title. 
 The title is, at core, a collection of brain teaser mini-games. There are five categories of games, 
 each supposedly exercising a different part of your brain, with three games in each category, so 
 fifteen in total. The player has the option of playing about with each game individually (all unlocked 
 and playable from the start) in the Practice mode, or else of playing in the Test mode, in 
 which five of the mini games (one randomly chosen from each of five categories) is played in sequence.
 
  
  Each of the mini games briskly feeds you small, individually simple problems, often solved with 
 a single tap of the stylus, until the timer banks out. So, in one game youll find yourself listening 
 to a sequence of sounds, and then recreating that sequence by tapping on the bottom screen. In 
 another, youll add up two piles of coins, and click on the pile whose total comes to a greater 
 amount. Big Brain Academy places more emphasis on being able to solve many simple puzzles quickly, 
 than gradually solving more complex problems, and so the real challenge in each mini-game comes 
 from trying to correctly process a greater volume in less time.
  
  The mini-games are straight-forward, but enjoyable. The graphics for each game are simple, but 
 immensely charming, and the difficulty of the puzzles scales nicely, so the better youre doing, 
 the harder the problems you need to solve. Although you will no doubt find yourself wishing there 
 were a greater variety of games, whats there is quite good, and there isnt any single mini-game 
 that stands out overly as the mongrel of the litter.
  
  While its been a nice bit of fun so far, and being able to share multiple profiles means that 
 my girlfriend and I can compete at brain sizing without needing two DS, I cant see myself playing 
 this game for months to come. The gold medals that can be achieved in the practice mode are fairly 
 easily accessible (except that awful coin counting game  how am I expected to know what a penny, 
 quarter, or dime are worth?) , and there are only so many times youll want to play the test mode, 
 and have your brain comparatively likened to that of an art-dealer or poet. 
  
  There is a multiplayer mode, but its strictly local area, so dont expect to be comparing your 
 brain with AIBO programming Japanese kid geniuses. Happily, you can play against other DS with 
 only a single copy of the game (so says the back of my box) , so in theory if you had seven other 
 friends, you could all gang together and buy the game for a pittance. That said, I dont think 
 that multiplayer is this games great strength. The greater motivator for play is to beat your 
 own score, and if you spend all your time trying to get the gold medals in the compute category, 
 then youre bound to excel over any player who doesnt own their own copy of the game. And since 
 the multiplayer is comparative, rather than interactive between players, there just doesnt seem 
 to be much of a point to play wirelessly when you can just use different profiles on the same DS.
 
  
  Still, its an enjoyable enough diversion, especially at the budget price. And, since to a great 
 degree, this sort of quick puzzle solving game is the main reason I bought my DS, Im not at all 
 displeased with having spent a few dollars for the cart. 
  
  I just dont expect to be playing the game for very much longer than a few weeks.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: badass_gamer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Brain Age until it became repetitive after a few weeks. Big Brain Acedemy is a 
 very similar game, but with many more ways to test your brain skills.
  
  Each test is broken into five categories such as Identify, Memorize, Think, Analyze, and Compute. 
 Compute contains tests like mathematics. Memorize has you remembering symbols and patterns. It's 
 hard for me to describe some of the ways this game makes you think.
  
  You then get points in the way of brain weight. You can practice all you want on easy, normal, 
 and hard difficulties until you are ready to take the test that consists of one program from each 
 category randomly selected. Your brain weight is then added up from each category and then given 
 a letter grade.
  
  I feel that there is more variety to this game than Brain Age. So if you liked the first game. 
 You may like this game even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shonenjumpfan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is simply addictive. There are 5 different modes with 3 different games 
 to each of those. So there are a total of 15 games to play testing your logic, reasoning, memory, 
 math, and visual skills. There are a total of 3 modes featuring test, the main one where you test 
 how much your brain weighs, practice, enough said just trying to inprove your bad skills, and vs.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Theres not much to look at. Only like animals, forks, tvs, ect., ect.,
  
  SOUND: Not much sound. Usally the only thing you hear is the comfurmation sounds and on the memory 
 game you have to do like a simon like game with people, animals, and vehicles.
  
  VALUE: The replay on this is amazing. You will be playing this one for hours at a time and if you 
 get a friend with just a DS then you can play with him/her.
  
  TILT: I had a lot of fun with this one and you will too.
  
  THEGOOD: good selection of games, 
 lots of replay.
  
  THEBAD: Only 1 minute to do as good as you can, if you get a low score the game will make you feel 
 stupid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaLoY21
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 16, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  First and for most Big Brain: Academy is not really a game but a compilation of minigames based 
 on categories ranging from memorize, analyze, logic, to calculate. You can either choose to practice 
 and choose any minigame from any category and earn medals such as bronze and gold. But the real 
 joy of the game comes to play on the test mode wherin you're given a set of five test from all 
 categories and all of which is timed and mind numbing. These test sessions get intense when you 
 make a mistake and you start hating on yourself and scream foul words while on the comute. And 
 after each test you will be given a weigthed scale based on you're performance doing the answers 
 and the speed of which you answered them. More than likely when you recieve you're score you won't 
 be happy because the game will make you feel half as smart as you tought you were and this will 
 motivate you to get a higher score and continue playing. This game won't last you a very long time 
 if you play it on long stretches and will probably won't keep you interested towards the game after 
 you feel that you have gained the higest possible score you can get. But with that said this game 
 is a great buy for people who play on short bursts and are looking for something to test their 
 wits and with the $20 dollar price tag how can you refuse on such a deal??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plumbervspirate
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy, the game I never thought I would be playing, none the less by my own choice, 
 and even more shocking that I would enjoy it!!! As crazy as the idea is ( test the size of your 
 brain by putting the player through a series tests ) it seems to work. The game has a total of 
 five games...? Which are categorized into five different types, three games to each category. When 
 you take a test the game selects a game from each of the five categories, and then grades you on 
 you upon completion of the test. Your score is calculated and then show to you to give you a sort 
 of ball park guess of you intellegence. It gives you a weight ( the game states that the smarter 
 you are the more your brain will weigh, this is portrayed in grams ) tells you what you are most 
 like i. e. A Museam Curator, A Diplomat, A Caveman, and then gives you a letter grade. For the most 
 part BBA is extremely repetitive having the player repeat the same fifteen games over and over. 
 And the modes of game are very limited ( there is Versus, Test, and Practice... all making you do 
 the same things basically with different variations of approach ) . But for $20 your brain will 
 thank you. It's fun, certainly original, and a good game just in need of some more variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CursedmonkeY95
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 16, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  This is the type of game where it tests your brain in 5 different categories (Identify, Think, Analyze, 
 Memorize, and Compute) . I think it gets just a little bit boring after a month though. It's the 
 kind of game where you have to think. Still I think people should buy this game. This game could 
 be kind of tricky sometimes. This game could also get frustrating a lot. But on the other hand, 
 It could be fun. So I think you should buy this game. If your not the kind that does not like to 
 think and work your brain, you should not buy Big Brain Academy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jump_Man7
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy isn't that fun, which is what a video game is for. Instead it's to help your 
 brain with stuff. 15 mini-games is all you get. I got this because I didn't want my brain to rust 
 during the summer. Get it during the school year if you're going to get a hard test, and play it 
 before the test. meh
  
  The sound is good. The graphics are well, bad. It's in 2-D for most of the time. Only the cube 
 game is in 3-D. 
  
  If you want a "fun" game look somewhere else. If you want a "helpful" game get this. Only twenty 
 bucks, it's worth the buy if you want a little help on tests in school and stuff like that. Don't 
 get it if you're out of school. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy is a game offering 15 brain teaser mini games. The goal is to get a good grade 
 on the test that you take. When you first get the game, everything sounds fun, but the fun doesn't 
 last very long. At first it's fun, struggling with the Stylus in an attempt to get a high score 
 a mini game, but that's only fun for a day or so. There isn't much to do. The test is a challenge, 
 and it's hard to get a high score, but taking the test all the time isn't fun. There realy isn't 
 anything to do other than taking the test, unless you want to play the mini games trying to get 
 a high score. That's not really fun, it's flatout boring. Multiplayer against friends is fun, but 
 there's no Wifi mode of any sort, so you can only challenge rivals close by. The game's graphics 
 aren't that great, either. But the game is 20 dollars, so it's inexpensive, but it really isn't 
 that fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColossusKiller
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 8, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I think BBA is very quirky. The game focuses on 5 categories. You are tested, and a graph displays 
 your results for each category. The professor of Big Brain Academy is very weird. He is essencially 
 a blob with an arm. There are 3 modes. Practice, Test, and Versus mode. Practice, you practice 
 a specific game. In Test, you are tested by the Blob (Professor) . In Versus, you wirelessly compete 
 against another player to see whose brain is heaviest. Yes, they measuere your progress in GRAMS. 
 Why they use the metric system, who knows. Anyway, the games are quirky. They range from counting 
 change, to word problems, to patterns. Though the graphics are simplistic (aka kindergarden-like) , 
 with the shapes, letters, and numbers, BBA manages to imitate Brain Age pretty well. Sorry Sudoku 
 fans, no Sudoku included in Big Brain Academy. Anyone who wants their brain training shaken, not 
 stirred should go for Big Brain Academy. All else, Brain Age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flfylmnfish
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 7, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  While it may not be as scientifically accurate as Brain Age, Big Brain Academy certainly gives 
 your mind a good exercise, in a whimsical, light-hearted, and most certainly, addictive form.
 
  
  BBA consists of 15 brain exercises; each exercise being placed into five different categories: 
 Compute, Identify, Think, Memorize, and Analyze. 
  
  BBA doesn't actually TEACH you anything, but puts your basic knowledge to good use. From counting 
 blocks, to connecting the dots, to simple, mental math. BBA is almost definitely something you 
 have seen in your elementary years. Sounds easy, right? 
  
  Certainly anyone can count blocks, and match pictures to their silouettes, right? Try doing it 
 as fast as you can, and accurately at the same time. It takes a bit of practice. The more questions 
 you answer within the minute, the "more" your brain will "weigh," assuming you were also precise 
 with your answers.
  
  BBA calculates your knowledge, by "measuring" your brain in grams. Like I mentioned; BBA isn't 
 scientifically accurate, like its predecessor, Brain Age. So chances are, when Dr. Lobe compares 
 your mind to that of Michaelangelo, or Issac Newton, don't take it too seriously. Even when he 
 "weighs" your brain. There is no way you can complete each Test and come out with the same weight 
 every time. So here's how I see it: 
  
  Think of it, not as the weight of your brain, but the weight of your knowledge, of the activities 
 applied in BBA.
  
  As you continue to Practice, and take your Tests, the weight of your "knowledge" (to that applied 
 in BBA) will grow as well. Everyone will have their weaknesses (unless you're the 'King,' whom 
 even Dr. Lobe cannot surpass) . Practice, and improve in that category.
  
  So, is BBA fun? Yes. If BBA addicting? Yes. Does BBA actually make you smarter?
  
  I doubt 
 that BBA would actually make you "smarter", but given that BBA exercises your brain, it definitely 
 keeps your mind refreshed, and could certainly help before school, especially after a straight 
 10 hour, brain-zapping "Halo 2" party the night before. BBA refreshes your mind, and is nevertheless, 
 addicting.
  
  If you can apply the things you've improved upon in BBA, into real-life, then yes, it may help. 
 Though I truly feel that for most people, BBA is a simple brain exercise, and the benefits of playing 
 BBA daily (in my opinion) are as listed:
  
  - Refresh your mind. Good to try BBA after long hours of activity which require no thinking whatsoever. 
 Believe me. It IS refreshing to the brain.
  
  - Help you think quickly, yet accurately. That's all BBA is about, and can certainly help in real-life. 
 :)
  
  - Prepare you for situations in life, which require SOME thinking. Lets face it. It's 6:30am. You 
 have a Geometry test today. You last studied yesterday MORNING, and spent all afternoon and all 
 last night playing Mortal Kombat. Chances are, you won't be feeling very prepared. Take a few tests 
 at BBA, and it will get your brain in a working mood again.
  
  - Builds visual identification skills. BBA not only makes you use your brain, but your eyes as 
 well. 
  
  So you want to become a better thinker. What to buy... what to buy.... BBA, or Brain Age? Both games 
 work your mind, and though Brain Age may do this more efficiently, don't just leave BBA out. While 
 playing Brain Age daily, will improve your mind, BBA will help keep your mind active. Brain Age 
 works the mind, BBA keeps it working. By all means, get both of them. They're $20 each, and totally 
 worth it.
  
  Both are great, work well with each other, and lets face it... we all could improve on our thinking 
 skills. No hesitation. Get both BBA and Brain Age. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSP_Believer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  As soon as you get the hang of it, It starts to get boring and theres only 15 games to play. They 
 were supposed to make more satisfying games because, I got used to these simple 15 games. Not just 
 that, It doesnt really tell you the exact grams you have because, when you do it all over again you 
 receive random grams of your brain. But still, Its fun to battle others with your brain, but then 
 again Is like as if you were in school again. What kind of fun is this. Is it for better or for worse. Come 
 on, get real! When is there going to be a game where it has games you can get enough of? Especially 
 on a next brain game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyGameFr34k
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain is very original it has super addictive minigames that even my little sister is still 
 playing it at midnight (I had it for 4 weeks) .
  
  I love this game for many reasons,
  1 it is pretty cheep 
  2 Educational ( YA RIGHT) 
  3 A little addictive 
  4 The test shows 
 how much thinking power you used in the test in grams
  plus shows you what career you might do or be depend on your test.
  
  Over all this game lacks 
 variety so if you want to give your brain a workout with 15 addicitive minigames buy Big Brain 
 Academy noowowowow!
  I hope i didn't sound like a fricken sales man in a ad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Anger
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  i got this game as a gift from my girlfriend who plays my ds more than i do. the first time i played 
 i scored somewhere between 700 - 800. she got mad at me cuz her first score was around 350. then 
 my brother played and got around a 550. he got mad too. so i took it to work w/ me and some of 
 the guys scored around 650+. made it more fun. now i'm scoring around 1225+ and generally increasing 
 my scores. my girlfriend is all ready tired of it and nobody i know has scored over 1000 so they 
 don't like to play it much either, especially if i'm in the room. but, if you can find some smart 
 people to play against, this is a great mind game for competition and bragging rights. enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannyboi68
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  By now, you've probably played Brain Age, Nintendos first game in the brain training series, and 
 you probably feelsmart? Well, now your ready for the next one, and here it is!!! Be warned though, 
 Academys difficulty is pushed way higher than Ages was. 
  
  Academy uses a more visual approach to find out how heavy with knowledge your videogame-ravaged 
 brain is. The person with the heavier brain wins. Though the games puzzles are the same, (except 
 sudoku: R. I. P) they come in a more creative way. Sometimes youre punching numbers into a clock, 
 sometimes youre repeating the patterns of chirping birds and barking dogs. 
  
  Academys multiplayer mode definitely 1-ups Ages, beating up to eight other friends isnt only 
 intense, its also a great way to brag about your gaming skills, and the fact that youre smarter 
 than they are. 
  
  Even thought the game has a much simpler structure here than it did in Age, I found it much more 
 fun to play for long periods of time, but if you do play for a long time, let it be known that 
 that the game suffers from the same problem that Age had: its just too short. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 23, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  My review deck pretty much says it all. Everything is simple, just pick up your stylus and start 
 playing. The game is pretty addictive, and fun, and the adults in my house could care less when 
 they are doing the sound recognition game whether this game may have been intended for a younger 
 audience than Brain Age.
  It is worth $20, and is simple fun for anyone.
  There isn't much to the sound or graphics, but the value and gameplay lift it up. This game was 
 admittedly made in 4-5 months, but the controls are tight. They stylus works great, and I haven't 
 found any problems with the controls yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  So, after a great launch of Brain Age, Nintendo releases Big Brain Academy.
  
  Basically, BBA is very similar to BA. The only downfall, is BBA's presentation. It's a lot less 
 organized and goal oriented than BA.
  
  However BBA still gives your brain a great workout. The activities help you in five different areas. 
 Some of them include, thinking, analyzing as well as memory. There is also a demo mode you can 
 send to your friends.
  
  So although the look and feel of BBA isn't quite on par with BA, it's still worth the price of 
 admission. And I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually in fact aimed at a much younger audience than me. I should have done more 
 research before buying this game. But at 20 bucks Canadian it was a pretty good buy. 
  
  The game basically is a brain trainer for kids and maybe tweenies (God I hate that term!) but adults 
 like me can learn a thing or two from this as well. The game basically lets you test your brain 
 in 5 different categories offering you tons of practice before taking the actual tests. 
  
  The main thing I do not like about this game is the Professor Brain character. Come one! He looks 
 like the Pillsbury doughboys Mummified grandmother! Terrible TERRIBLE character design! It also 
 kind of creeps me out when he says how much he likes my brain because its so big makes me feel 
 kind of uncomfortable if you know what I mean. 
  
  Overall the puzzles and tests are no pushover. They are pretty difficult if you try to do them 
 from scratch. Practice is recommended unless you are already training your brain. The game however 
 is not bad in general. IT is definitely something I can play occasionally and it is entertaining. 
 But my Mario Kart and NSMB get a lot more attention.
  
  If you are an adult I would recommend the other game as that one looks like it was targeted at 
 an audience with no age limit where this one looks like it was designed for the Younguns.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hayaoji
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 19, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  I guess it can improve some of the basic skills you use daily. What really shines in this game 
 is the fact that you get a bunch of problems to deal with. They're not particurally hard, but it 
 helps you do them faster the next time you play it again.
  
  If you want a challenge this isn't the right game for you. It's just if you feel like you need 
 to give your brain a little workout. 
  
  What I don't like about this game is that some stuff are just like going back to school all over 
 again. I want to have more fun than work. I guess that's the point of the whole game anyways. If 
 you like to take on simple challenges every now and then, this is the right game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubalibres
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 26, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Well, There isn't much to it. You'r basically taping in the correct answer to a question, and sometimes 
 you even get to draw a line (connect the dots) .
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics in this game are not all that great, but I guess you don't need that much graphic 
 power to make a cube (don't get to excited now but you get to count them) . The only time that it 
 affects the game play is the change game. Were the nickels and quarters look the same, except the 
 nickle is maybe like one 10th of an inch smaller.
  
  Sound:
  
  No real speech involved, but there is the occasional meow, giggle, and few instrument sounds. They 
 come in the game in the remember the sound game. Basically a girl giggles then a cat meows in what 
 order did it happen.
  
  Value:
  
  OK WAIT $20 BUCKS... ya defiantly the reason i decided to buy the game. the single player in this 
 game blows. Only reason i would recommend playing it is because it helps you prepare for the multiplayer.
 
  
  Tilt: 
  
  I love any chance that i get to prove that im smarter than someone so the tilt is the fact of the 
 multi-player. If there wasn't any multi-player I wouldn't recomend the game for even $5 bucks. 
 I have played this game with 2,3,4, and 5 people at a time gotta find 3 more people with a ds cuz 
 i think (don't hold me to it) up to 8 people can play. 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  If you have someone to play this game with then buy it, if you don't then Don't waste you'r money. 
 MOM HATES VIDEO GAMES BUT SHE ASKS ME TO PLAY HER IN THIS ONE. GOOD FAMILY TIME I GUESS. 
  {reviewed by you'r [] D [] [] \/ [] [] D} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DZAPPER
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 16, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy is in every way better than Brain Age. Big Brain Academy has a much flashier 
 look to it where as Brain Age had a dull textbook kind of look to it. Also Big Brain Academy has 
 thrown out all of the frustrating Handwriting and voice recognition games that tanked Brain Age, 
 instead it has nice brain training games focused around tapping objects or drawing lines on the 
 touch screen. Also unlike in Brain Age where you could only do each activity once a day Big Brain 
 Academy is always open all day long. But there are some things missing in Big Brain Academy that 
 were Present in Brain Age. For one thing BA tracked your progress using a calender and different 
 graphs but BBA just keeps track of your high scores. Also BBA has no Sudoku Puzzles. But overall 
 this game is better than Brain Age. I feel like a normal Person Playing Big Brain Academy. But 
 when you play Brain Age you feel like a lab experiment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cirillo1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 16, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  I purchased this together with "Brain Age," and the combination serves as an extremely enjoyable 
 daily dose of "edutainment!" "Big Brain Academy" is more game-like than "Brain Age," - but that's 
 not a bad thing. In fact, where BA is more of a programmatic daily regimen of exercises, BBA is 
 more flexible in serving up challenging puzzles and mini-games anytime you want them. Once you 
 start playing, you'll become addicted as I have to playing and replaying exercises to better your 
 score and earn academic achievement metals that the on-screen "professor" bestows to you for reaching 
 certain scores.
  
  The categories and games are varied enough to keep you interest for quite a while. I've been playing 
 daily for a week, and still have not tried all the games.
  
  Don't know if it's Nintendo's intention, but with the introduction of the DS Lite and these two 
 games, they have a winning combination that is certain to appeal to an "adult" audience, and win 
 them over to the platform - even if they've never thought of buying a hand-held before! I count 
 myself in that demographic, and I'm addictively won over for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conbob21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy is a solid game that is great for any age. The mini games are simple, yet challenging 
 to anybody. The art style is an intresting choice, but I enjoy the little scribble of a professor. 
 The graphics are great, and the music is very bouncy and uprising. I find myself playing this game 
 over and over again. Though there is a lack of minigames, they are different every time. The multiplayer 
 is a blast, me and a friend spent at least an hour playing it earlier today! My final view on this 
 game is definetly a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgall80
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy points you in the same direction as Brain Age, but it offers a better experience 
 all together. In Brain Age you literally play for minutes a day, aside from quick training lessons. 
 Its interface is very plain, being there for only functional purposes, and the (non) game isn't 
 really fun as its more aimed to actually "train" your brain. It has a very cold and doctor's office 
 like aesthetic, which is fine but could get a little boring down the line. In BBA the design is 
 quite different. It's more quirky and light-hearted than Brain Age. BBA has more (read better) 
 variety of mini "games" than Brain Age. You can actually play it over and over and over again if 
 you wish and try to score the biggest brain out there. Where fun lacked in Brain Age, Academy shines. 
 The multi-player is actually quite good and fun, and doesn't feel like a test but more that of 
 Warioware-esque mini games. 2-8 players on one cart is a very nice feature as well as being able 
 to set brain weight parameters and changing difficulty level as well. BBA did everything good and 
 better than Brain Age, and for $20 its the better "game" to get. It is a good step in the right 
 direction for these brain exercising non-games and I can easily see why there are huge over in 
 Japan amongst people of all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheezyFrog
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 3:03 am PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy ( (BBA) ) is everything Brain Age ( (BA) ) wasn't. BBA focuses less on Math + Sudoku 
 & more on Brain Teasing Puzzles + Problem Solving.
  
  After registering your name into the roster you go directly to the Main Menu where you can Practice, 
 Test, or do Multi-Player. In Practice, Testing, & Multi there are Five Categories Identify [ing] , 
 Think [ing] , Memorize [ing] , Compute [ing] , and Analyze [ing] . 
  
  Each category has three unique games which offer three different levels of difficulty. When you 
 add up the sheer fun + the variety + the amazing multi-player it ='s a great funjucational master-piece.
 
  
  BBA will definitely last you awhile unlike BA which most quickly sold or quit playing after the 
 first two months! Overall BBA is everything BA wasn't & that's all there is to it. If you're looking 
 for a great funjucational game snatch up BBA it's only $19.99 so you can't go wrong! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dyaballikl
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jun 12, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy just feels like such a half-assed effort to me. I got both DS Brain games at 
 the same time, and love one, hate the other, guess which is which.
  
  Each day, you're supposed to take this test in Big Brain Academy. The test itself can be very confusing. 
 It's all on a timer, and you could be figuring out just what the hell you're supposed to be doing 
 while the clock is counting down. 
  
  You're tested on like 6 different areas, including memorization, "thought", and problem solving. 
 Like the SAT's, each area have a score that you get from them, and they add up in the end, equaling 
 your total brain weight. First off, how the hell can it calculate your brain weight based on how 
 you navigate this confusing interface? Second, it assigns you a letter grade, along with a title 
 that's supposed to be insulting, like museum curator.
  
  When you're done, it tells you the one thing you did best on and the one thing you most need work 
 on. So that's like 5 minutes into play. So, what now? You can't check your progress, there's no 
 charting of how you've been doing, all you can do in the "game" is take the test and play childish 
 mini games, it's like the retarded little brother of Mario Party.
  
  Basically, the minigames, or training, whatever they call them, are just the same stuff you'll 
 get in the test. As if taking the same confusing test over and over will make your brain heavier. 
 Simply put, there's no motivation what-so-ever to keep playing this game. I paid $17 American for 
 it and feel I was ripped off a bit. Please, for your sake, and your brain's, get Brain Age instead! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgurl
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Big Brain Academy is the kind of game that test your basic knowledge, the sharpness of your mind, and 
 many other things. The game is not complicated at all, and features a good but small variety of activities 
 to ease your boredom. 
  
  I purchased the game yesterday for under $20, which is an incredibly deal for a game like B. B. A. What 
 I enjoy about the game is how it does help improve your mind's reflexes and the quickness of your 
 mind. There is a good amount of activities to keep you entertained for long, including matching and 
 guessing amounts, etc.
  
  One of the major flaws is the small amount of activities. Mind you, there isn't an extremely miniscule 
 amount of things to do (15 total) , but after playing over and over, you do become a bit bored.
  
  Because of that, this isn't the kind of game you can pick up everyday expecting a fresh experience. You 
 can expect however a different kind of gaming experience that makes it worthwhile.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone willing to try something new. It's easy to pick up, and never gets 
 too complicated.
  
  How big is your brain? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerox0409
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  this game is not as concentrated on math skills as Brain Age was, in this installment of Nintendo's 
 fundjucational series, you play about 15 minigames designed to sharpen your memory, math skills, 
 ability to discern and pick out different objects, your ability to search the depth of objects 
 and to create pictures out of bits and pieces of nothing.
  
  the good: lots of fun minigames to play with, 15 in all, 3 in each category (categories are as 
 follows) Think, Memorize, Analyze, Compute and Identify.
  each of these are meant to exercise different areas of your brain, one of my favorite games is 
 one in the Identify section called "Get In Shape" in this game you touch the correct pieces on 
 the bottom screen to make the image on the top screen, these games can get pretty difficult if 
 you get faster on the questions thus making this a very fun game that won't get old any time soon.
 
  
  the multiplayer: is it better? in a word, YES!, in BBA you can take on friends and family (or foes) 
 on in heated 2-8 player battles to beat the clock... and competitors, the multiplayer has improved 
 great over Brain Age, in BBA you get to play ALL of the games over a wireless connection through 
 download play using only 1 cartridge!, this alone makes this game worth getting if you have some 
 people to play with. 
  
  the bad: not really anything bad in this, it's simply Fundjucational!.
  
  Overall a great game 
 if you didn't like-or just didn't want to get-Brain Age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jpatnaude04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 6, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Great game for the price! Easy to pick up, fun to play, I just wish there was more like online 
 play or scoreboards, maybe a few more games in each category. 
  There are five categories you will be tested in (think, memorize, analyze, compute, and identify) 
 at random. Depending on how well you do in each category you will have your brain "type" given 
 to you and the wieght of your brain along with a grade (b-) . 
  The training mode will go over all of the possible activities for the test. That is where all of 
 the game play is. 
  You will be able to see evrything Big Brain Academy has to offer in less than an hour but just 
 like Brain Age it is addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mtymar
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Well after plowing through Brain Age, you would think your well trained brain is ready for more 
 logic puzzles. Train hard, cause Big Brain Academy not only gives your brain a workout, it gives 
 it a heavyweight workout.
  
  The puzzles in this logic meets exercise game goes well beyond what was seen in Brain Age. These 
 puzzles are a lot more fast paced, and very intuitive. What may look like simple problems to solve 
 will become trickier and larger as you push yourself harder and hader just to get your gray matter 
 bigger.
  
  The puzzles do vary and are sorted into 5 major catagories. Think (which is heavier?) , Memorize 
 (what number was that?) , Idenitify (find the pairs) , Compute (which set of coins is more?) , and 
 Analyze (how many cubes are there?) . These may all sound very simple, but trying to do them all 
 as quickly as possible can be quite addicting. Something missing from Brain Age.
  
  Add a more user friendly Multiplayer mode which will compare up to 4 players' "brain weight" (age 
 in other game) , or you can link with up to 8 more DS units to really get a logic match going. 
 
  
  Sound, music, and graphics never were the strong point in games like these. For good reason, stopping 
 to stare at the pretty pictures can cost you precious time, which results in a small brain. So 
 the game shouldn't suffer on that end.
  
  The game is very easy to play, no real game skills are needed to share this one with friends, and 
 even family. Bragging rights on who's noggin is bigger is always a crowd talker.
  
  But as with much logic games like this, Big Brain Academy does suffer from some repetition once 
 you've mastered all the puzzles, and doesn't offer much challenge after that. So don't expect too 
 much fun after a month or so. Brain Age's sudoku's only keep you playing longer.
  
  For the budget price you get this one for, if Brain Age really got you goin, add this one to your 
 workout. If you haven't joined the many who have become to this new "genre" of games, this is definately 
 one to get you started. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo is helping you on test for a combined total of only $40 bucks! Which is cheaper than a 
 BRAND NEW Xbox 360 game! So if you're dum get a DS if you don't have one ( or wait till June 11th 
 and get a DS lite) get Brain Age or Big Brain Acadamey or both! For $150 not bad (including the 
 DS) !___
  
  My View: This game is more of a puzzle game than Brain Age it has a few minor flaws that Brain 
 Age didn't! The multiplayer on Brain Age if for 1-16 while on Big Brain Acadamey 1-8. Minor Flaw. 
 While the 5 modes to choose makes this a little better in the choices. Minor up! So if you wnat 
 a healthy brain get either. If you're wanting a fun brain training game get this. But if you're 
 serious about training your brain get Brain Age. Both games are only 20 bucks! Nice deal!!! 
  Now let's go to the review!
  
  Gameplay: BBA's gameplay is much like Brain Age's. only with 
 more modes.  identify. Games like Cubegame (hmm something about 
 that seems familiar) are really fun! Which I think compares to Brain Age's Head Count!
  
  Graphics: Everything is from PictoChat! Nice touch Nintendo!
  
  Sound: I love this game's music 
 I humming it right now! 
  
  Get this game!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
