-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Big Bang Mini
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/bigbangmini/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique, engaging control scheme.
 Fantastically diverse visuals and music.
 Accessible, yet challenging.
 Great variety of game modes.
 Bargain price tag.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Could have more competitive content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  6, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 7.9, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 185 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SouthPeak Games
Developer: Arkedo Studio
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date: Jan 21, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Beautiful visuals, great music, exciting gameplay, and an innovative control scheme make Big Bang 
 Mini one of the best DS games out there. 

  At first glance, Big Bang Mini doesn't seem like a traditional shoot-'em-up. Given that the genre 
 is best known for tiny spaceships blasting their way through thick fields of alien fire, you'd 
 be forgiven for wondering where fish skeletons, pirate snowmen, and fireworks fit in. But don't 
 let the charmingly oddball presentation fool you: Big Bang Mini is an evolutionary step forward 
 for the genre. Ship movement and shooting are completely independent of each other. You can launch 
 shots from anywhere on the touch screen, regardless of where your ship is positioned, and this 
 innovation breathes new life into the frantic action. The smooth learning curve makes the game 
 very accessible, but later levels and extra modes provide a tough test of your stylus mastery. 
 Bound together with wonderfully vibrant visuals and an infectious soundtrack, Big Bang Mini earns 
 its shoot-'em-up stripes and a place among the top games on the Nintendo DS.  

           Parachuting chef turtles are just one of your wacky targets.      

  The unique controls 
 are at the core of Big Bang Mini's appeal. Unlike traditional shoot-'em-ups in which projectiles 
 are fired from your ship, Big Bang Mini lets you launch fireworks from anywhere on the touch screen. 
 Simply flick the stylus as if you were lighting a match, and a shot will light out along that trajectory. 
 As your foes appear on the top screen, you are free to bombard them from any and all angles with 
 fireworks galore. Shots that destroy enemies will explode in a colorful spectacle; however, shots 
 that don't hit anything will explode when they hit the edge of the screen, raining down dangerous 
 debris on your vulnerable ship. This danger pushes you to make more accurate shots, a goal easily 
 accomplished thanks to the responsive and accurate stylus controls.  

  In fact, the controls are so responsive that errant strokes can get you into trouble. In addition 
 to launching fireworks, you control the position of your ship with the stylus: just touch it and 
 drag the stylus to move it wherever you like. If you try to launch a shot too close to your ship, 
 you may end up moving it inadvertently. Likewise, a desperate swipe to move your ship out of danger 
 can result in a badly aimed shot and a dangerous explosion. Big Bang Mini demands precision in 
 both firing and maneuvering, two separate but equally important tasks. And you won't just be moving 
 your ship to avoid danger: each destroyed enemy releases a falling star. If you collect enough 
 stars to fill up the meter, you pass the stage. Balancing the necessary firing, dodging, and collecting 
 is engaging and exciting. It can also be tricky, but fortunately the first few levels provide a 
 smooth ramp-up in difficulty, ensuring that Big Bang Mini doesn't have the difficult point of entry 
 that many of its genremates boast.  

  As you progress through the nine levels of the Arcade mode (each with nine stages and a boss) , 
 you'll encounter new power-ups and hazards. In one level, you can create a vortex that will absorb 
 enemy shots by swirling the stylus around, but stiff winds will affect the trajectory of your fireworks. 
 In another, you can lay down a reflective mirror shield with a horizontal swipe of the stylus, 
 but certain clouds (which normally absorb your shots) will reflect your own projectiles right back 
 at you. The beauty of these power-ups and hazards is that they are complementary, so as you become 
 more powerful, the level becomes more dangerous. Big Bang Mini gives more as it demands more, and 
 this makes each new level freshly challenging.  

           The nefarious alliance of laser sharks and preserved brains has gone unchecked for too 
 long!      

  In addition to new challenges, each level brings a new, wildly different presentation. From the 
 neon techno pixel landscape of the Egyptian-themed Luxor, to the bawdy colors and trippy musicians 
 of Rio de Janeiro, each level in Big Bang Mini is a treat for the eyes. Attractive backgrounds 
 scroll by smoothly, and the unique (often bizarre) enemies and explosions are a pleasure to look 
 at when you can spare a moment. Underscoring these impressive visuals are some excellent musical 
 tracks that range from snappy electric beats to mellow atmospheric melodies. The level of artistic 
 quality and variety in Big Bang Mini is truly impressive, and the presentation alone is reason 
 enough to recommend the game.  

  As if stellar presentation and exciting core gameplay weren't enough, Big Bang Mini offers a number 
 of extras to keep you interested. At the completion of each stage (bosses excluded) you'll get 
 the chance to complete a bonus stage. These are connect-the-dots minigames that will light up the 
 top screen with a firework constellation should you succeed. Each level features a different twist 
 (some quite clever) , making these bonuses a pleasant palate cleanser between stages. Completing 
 the Arcade mode is no easy feat, but doing so will earn you access to the Mission mode. This mode 
 imposes tough challenges on stages you've already played, so you might be charged with clearing 
 a certain stage within a time limit, using a certain number of shots, or never missing a shot. 
 These conditions force you to adapt your well-honed strategy, so even skilled players will find 
 a challenge here.  

           As if dodging projectiles wasn't enough to handle, now you've got to worry about breathing. 

  For those players who prefer to match their skills against human opponents, Big Bang Mini offers 
 two ways to do so. The Challenge mode harks back to Big Bang Mini's shoot-'em-up roots and is the 
 only mode in which you'll earn points. The core gameplay mechanics are the same, but the enemies, 
 visuals, and music are completely new. Once you perish, you can post your high scores to online 
 leaderboards and see how you stack up. If you prefer a more immediate competition, the Versus mode 
 lets you challenge another DS owner to a shoot-out with only one game card. In Versus, you hold 
 the DS sideways and shoot volleys of fireworks at your opponent on the other screen. Various power-ups 
 and environmental hazards spice things up, and battles can get very heated, especially given that 
 players can tap each other's projectiles to send them rocketing back where they came from. These 
 extra modes provide great opportunities to flex your competitive muscle, while the unlockable Relax 
 mode (watch and control fireworks displays) and Alarm Clock (actually cool, thanks to the stellar 
 music) offer fun rewards for dedicated single-player play.  

  Big Bang Mini is an excellent shooter with an innovative control scheme that will please newcomers 
 and veterans alike. To fully experience each level's uniquely awesome aesthetic and face the delightfully 
 clever end boss, you simply must play the game all the way through. Once you've done so, there 
 is plenty more to do whether you thrive on competition or just want to live it all again. Add it 
 all up, and you've got one of the most accessible, most entertaining, and most attractive DS games 
 in recent memory. Then consider the $19.99 price tag, and it's a no-brainer: Big Bang Mini is a 
 must-buy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ThatGameSpotGuy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 12:31 am PT
Review:  SouthPeak Games, in association with Arkedo Studio, have developed a revolutionary game for the 
 "Shoot 'Em Up" genre! This game is known as...
  
  "Big Bang Mini"
  
  Well..... There isn't much *TO* type about Big Bang Mini, besides the fact that it is an *EXTREMELY 
 ADDICTIVE*, and there is no exagerration on my part! However, it is also *EXTREMELY FUN*, again 
 no exagerration, for what it "delivers-to-the-table"! Big Bang Mini has a noticeably-attractive 
 on itself. Also, the game-play of Big Bang Mini is very easy to master, as basicallly you attempt 
 to proceed through each of the different levels in which you use beautifully extravagent fireworks 
 to destroy random enemies on the top screen of the Nintendo DS. Using your good 'ol "DS" stylus, 
 you .. Well.. sling, or fire, these, as I said, beautifully extravagent fireworks on the touch 
 screen of the Nintendo DS fireworks to the top in hopes of destroying these enemies and then attempting 
 to acquire.. Well.... Falling stars. However, the reminant of the fireworks you, the player, sling, 
 or fire, can travel back down and they may destroy you! BEWARE! That's a tip, from me to you, or 
 however, is reading this! And another thing, the "DS" stylus as well as slinging those beautifully 
 extravagent fireworks, it can invent certain other features. For example, when drawing a "swirl", 
 and creating "swirl" motion, it can create.. Well... Black hole of some-sort and it will ultimately 
 suck in all falling projectiles into it rendering your object safe from harm. Anyway, the overall 
 difficulty can vary from "easy" to "just-right". 
  
  Sounds kinda' simple right? 
  
  Well, just to clear something up, you are an somewhat obscure object! Now the reason I say that 
 is that you can vary from being that triangle thingy in the old arcade-game, "Asteriod"! Remeber 
 that game! Man, it takes me back! Anyway, you can also become a snow-ball, and "plain ball"! Just 
 to name a few! Each stage that the player progresses through contains a quirky addition of some-sort! 
 Anyway, vthere are 10 individual levels in each stage, all concluding with an intruiging "BOSS" 
 battle. For example, one "BOSS" battle includes the player, as a snow-ball by the way! Battling 
 a "FUNKY-WALRUS", no exaggeration! No lie! In my opinion, it is quite comical! However, it is an 
 intuitive idea, and the use of the beautifully extravagent fireworks as a "LETHAL" weapon is quite 
 good, without Big Bang Mini's simplicity and fun and also it's random "burst-out" moments, Big 
 Bang Mini would lack any positive any motivation to continue to play beyond the first few levels. 
 However, it redeems itself with those factors I've mentioned above.
  
  Overall, Big Bang Mini delivers a great "old-style" arcade-style feel to it, with a mixture of 
 great two-dimensional and three-dimensional effects. But still, a simple, yet good, presentation, 
 which is backed up by a great game-play which, as I mentioned, is very easy to master, gives Big 
 Bang Mini a nine-point-zero, or 9.0, rating in my opinion!
  
  This EXTENSIVE review was brought to you by;
  
  - ThatGameSpotGuy
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mruppel2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 10:52 pm PT
Review:  With amazing effects and excellent resources, Big Bang Mini is an innovative idea for Nintendo 
 DS. Simply and addictive.
  
  Big Bang Mini brings a feeling of arcade gaming. Lightning effects, colorful stages, challenging 
 levels. Good use of touch-screen. All of this turns this game very addictive. You can unlock new 
 modes.
  The game has good selection of levels. Some levels require much agility to pass. But after getting 
 the way, will become easier to pass.
  A bad thing, after playing a long time, you'll get tired, because Big Bang Mini is a casual game. 
 Well, it's good to spent time.
  
  The screen is side-scrolling, and 2D graphics.
  All that you need to do is protect your object from spikes and explosions, you have a shooting 
 ability, collect stars and get bonuses.
  
  
  
  Retro-games are reborn, if you like then you must play Big Bang Mini. Relax mode is less complex.
 
  
  
  Big Bang Mini is the kind of game you'll have to buy if you have a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Somedude812
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 8:58 am PT
Review:  An interesting arcade game.
  
  The gameplay consists of shooting fireworks at these bizarre enemies while moving your icon out 
 of the way of the schrapnol and enemy attacks, simple? Think again. This gets extremely frantic 
 at times when the game introduces new powers throughout the 10 different stages.
  
  Some upgrades that come into play in the game are power missiles, Shields, and Absorbers. 
  
 
  To get through a level you must collect enough stars dropped by enemies to fill your "star bar" 
 then you will move on to an absolutely pointless and fun bonus stage where you will move your icon 
 to numbers to make funny looking constellations for no clear reason.
  
  The boss battles can get pretty intense and usually have insane bosses that resemble a mix of the 
 stages previous enemies.
  
  This game is very addictive and will keep you entertained for a long time
  
  8.7 very good 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 10:04 am PT
Review:  The Shoot'em Up genre didn't develop a lot since the early eighties when games of this kind were 
 constantly among the biggest hits of arcade gaming, in fact Geometry Wars aside it is quite a challenge 
 to find at least a couple of games that tried to take the genre to new horizons, and did so successfully 
 in the past few years. For such a simple, fun and unexplored genre it is a major surprise we don't 
 see constant release of shoot'em ups as downloadable games on the current gen consoles.
  
  That is one of the reasons Big Bang Mini is such a refreshing and addicting addition to any Nintendo 
 DS collection. The game brings a whole new look on the genre that is usually limited to spaceships 
 and hordes of evil aliens. On Big Bang Mini you will take control of a triangle on the bottom screen 
 of the Nintendo DS while the enemies will fill up the upper screen, while sometimes going to the 
 bottom screen to perform close-ranged attacks.
  
  While on most regular shoot'em ups the direction of your shots depends on the position of your 
 ship, on Big Bang Mini there is no relation between the two. You can shoot at whatever direction 
 you feel like just by performing a straight movement with the stylus, and the fireworks will be 
 shot at the appointed direction.
  
  The main purpose of your ship is to simply avoid enemy fire, if it gets hit once the game over 
 screen will pop up and you will have to retry the level. In order to move the ship you simply touch 
 it with the stylus and drag it through enemy projectiles to a new location so that you can start 
 shooting again. Aside from avoiding enemy fire you will also have to mind the debris of your own 
 fireworks, since if you miss the shot they will fail to explode causing fiery particles to fall 
 down to the bottom screen.
  
  Not only does this add challenge and excitement to the game, since you will have much more things 
 to worry about when protecting your "ship", but it also protects the core gameplay by rewarding 
 accuracy, therefore heavily punishing players that simply want to shoot randomly hoping they hit 
 a target. Besides enemy fire and firework debris you will also have to collect fallen stars that 
 appear once you destroy enemies, by collecting those you fill a gauge on the left side of the screen, 
 once it is full you will have cleared the level.
  
  Big Bang Mini therefore gives little room to luck and other factors, focusing exclusively on skill. 
 In spite of that, the game remains extremely accessible to anyone who wants to play it. The controls 
 are simple and intuitive, and the game has a smooth learning curve, starting as a pretty easy game 
 on its first levels with enemies that are easy to take down and attacks that are a piece of cake 
 to avoid but gets harder as you advance with projectiles that will follow your ship and other creative 
 weapons.
  
  Speaking of the levels, those are easily the highlight of the game. Big Bang Mini features over 
 100 levels, all of them divided into over 10 worlds. Each world has 9 stages and a boss battle, 
 those are extremely challenging and inventive. What is so amazing about each of the worlds is how 
 different they are from each other.
  
  The visual changes are astonishing. Everything, from your "ship" to the enemies and scenario are 
 skinned with new designs as you go from Paris to New York or from Rio de Janeiro to a Savanna in 
 the middle of Africa. Not only are the scenarios and enemies visually impressive but the game also 
 stands out graphically due to its amazing variety of art and incredible songs and sound effects 
 that are also altered as you go from a world to another.
  
  For those who want replay value Big Bang Mini has a lot to offer. At the end of each stage you 
 will have a bonus game to play. Basically what you will have to do is to connect dots in the right 
 order to form a figure that represents an important sight on the location you are playing such 
 as the Eiffel Tower in Paris or a Rhinoceros in Africa. Needless to say, these Bonus stages while 
 maintaining its "connect the dots" core change from location to location, and present new challenges 
 such as connecting the dots with a certain rhythm in Rio de Janeiro or breaking the ice surrounding 
 the dots before connecting them on the North Pole.
  
  Besides there is also a Mission Mode, unlocked after you complete the regular Single Player Mode 
 that presents you with quite hard challenges to complete at each one of the stages. There is also 
 a Challenge Mode where you will be able to play some old-school shoot'em up as you will score points 
 until your ship is destroyed, your scores can later be uploaded to online leaderboards to compete 
 against other shoot'em up freaks.
  
  However, the game also has its share of shortcomings. The controls, while very intuitive, will 
 fail from time to time something that can get a little annoying since you will be restarting some 
 levels a couple of times due to control problems. The issue ism that the game requires too much 
 precision therefore if during a frantic wave of enemy attacks you don't touch your "ship" very 
 precisely before dragging it the game ay recognize that as a shooting motion which will fail to 
 move your ship causing it to get obliterated by enemy fire.
  
  Also, even though the game tries hard to offer the players tons of variety by changing as much 
 as possible during the playthrough, things can still get a little bit repetitive as you get closer 
 to the last levels. However this will only affects some players as others will just feel like keep 
 shooting enemies up until their DS battery runs out.
  
  Overall Big Bang Mini delivers a refreshing and exciting experience to DS owners looking for an 
 arcade game loaded with challenge. It is a brand new take on an almost forgotten genre, and it 
 shows many qualities that easily make you forget about its eventual shortcomings. Some levels may 
 be repetitive and annoying to the point of frustration, but the beautiful graphics and fireworks 
 will surely keep you playing it for long hours.
  
  Actual Score: 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siLVURcross
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 7:19 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much to say about Big Bang Mini but besides the fact that it's very addictive and fun 
 for what it offers. It has a very appealing charm to it, being very simple in terms of presentation. 
 It's gameplay is easy to pick up, and the game itself... well that's easy as well.
  
  To start, you go through levels in which you use fireworks to destroy random stuff on the top screen. 
 Using your trusty stylus, you "sling" on the touch screen fireworks to the top in hopes of destroying 
 them and collecting stars (What's with games and star collecting?...) . Sounds simple right? A little, 
 all at the same you're protecting a random object, a ball, a square, whatever. Whatever happens, 
 the sparks from the fireworks that fall must not touch this object, nor should enemy projectiles. 
 In a sense it's like a top down shooter with the objective is to collect stars.
  
  Each stage adds something new, there are 10 levels in each stage, all ending with a boss fight 
 of some sort. While it's intuitive idea of using fireworks as a weapon is good, it lacks any real 
 motivation to play beyond the first few levels. It's a game where it's fun to simply play in bursts 
 of moments, however trying to get too deep into it isn't very fun. It's simple, and that's all 
 there is to it. Nothing more, nothing less.
  
  The stylus as well can create other things such as a "swirl" motion can create a black hole that'll 
 suck in all falling projectiles into it rendering your object safe from harm.
  
  Overall, Big Bang Mini has a good arcade feel to it, simple, good presentation and good use of 
 the stylus however doesn't take you much beyond that and that's it's major downfall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zobi123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:37 pm PT
Review:  If obscure, niche games are what you're after, the DS is chock full of quality items, especially 
 if you're in the market for shmups. Shmups are one of the DS' strengths, and the touch screen ensures 
 accuracy; one would assume that the system would have plenty of shmups utilizing the hardware well, 
 right? Unfortunately not. While there are many different types of shmups on the humble handheld, 
 none have utilized the hardware nearly as well as they could. Big Bang Mini is the exception to 
 the rule -- and thanks to Arkedo's audacity, it plays wonderfully.
  
  If you aren't a grizzled veteran to the genre, Big Bang Mini will be tough; even if you are the 
 game presents a challenge, and for some the difficulty level will be a game breaker. If you think 
 you can handle the heat, though, Big Bang Mini's controls and design are fantastic.
  
  Big Bang Mini spans both DS screens, with enemies and debris mainly on the top screen. You control 
 a small ship on the bottom screen by touch and drag, similar to the Nanostray series (although 
 a bit more comfortable) . This is very accurate and allows for some truly jaw-dropping maneuvers 
 -- most of the time. Occasionally the game may misread a command, or just neglect it altogether. 
 The accurate shooting more than makes up for this, however. Flick upwards on the touch screen and 
 a bullet will go where you pointed. The easy-to-memorize controls are unique in that you cannot 
 move your ship and shoot at the same time, which ensures the player can't blindly spam bullets 
 while avoiding enemy fire to win.
  
  There are plenty of special moves to keep things interesting, though, even though some of them 
 are hard to control. The strokes to perform these special moves often aren't recognized by the 
 game, or sometimes are recognized even though you weren't trying to use them. It isn't frustrating, 
 but it makes the game a little harder.
  
  Big Bang Mini is a very portable game. Missions typically last a minute or two, and are addicting 
 whether you're at home or at work. Trying to top high scores in Challenge mode is awesome; besides, 
 just looking at the game is a joy.
  
  With 3D backgrounds and 2D art to represent your ship and enemies, Big Bang Mini is a beautiful 
 game on DS. The wacky art style is accompanied by detailed 3D, and the fireworks explosions are 
 beautiful by any standard; the technical aspects of games will be outdated in a few years, but 
 style will last forever, and this game is proof of that. The soundtrack isn't as appealing. There's 
 only one song for each world, making nine in total; and while they initially sound great and the 
 tunes are incredibly varied, some can get repetitive after awhile.
  
  Unlike most other shmups, Big Bang Mini also boasts longevity -- Challenge Modes, Relax, Online 
 Leaderboards, Multiplayer and an impressive 90 levels ensures you'll keep Big Bang Mini in your 
 pocket for dozens of hours to come -- if you're good at it. One design choice I feel was misguided 
 is that the player has to unlock everything by conquering the main mode. It takes awhile to do 
 this, and many players simply won't have the skill to do so (the final level is excruciatingly 
 dificult) .
  
  The DS has plenty of shooters of all shapes and sizes, but in my opinion Big Bang Mini is the best 
 one to grace the system yet. It takes full advantage of what makes a DS a DS, and in doing so is 
 a unique fusion of classic and new gameplay that should be played by any shmup fan. Plus, it's 
 $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marshallgarrett
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 10, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  You have to be a Super Stroker to play this! This game will make you stroke your DS faster then 
 any game out there! ... All the while, actually making you think quickly and manuver and defend 
 yourself. I have yet to play a game on my Nintendo DS that reminds me of old-school games like 
 R-Type and Rez but be so much diffrent and unique. I enjoy the way this game seems to incorperate 
 a suttle music making shooter feature, old-school shooter dodgeing, fire works, a bag of Skittles, 
 stylus stroking and a shlew of other things. 
  
  My main problem with this game is that I have a hard time holding the DS in my left hand, using 
 the stylus in my right hand, hitting the shoulder button with my finger and watching both screens... 
 It kind of is overwhellming...
  
  Overall, get it! It's a whole lot of fun and it's really challenging.... maybe a little to much 
 at times but for the most part, I think with some good practice, a lot of skill, a little luck, 
 people should be able to beat this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2009 1:17 am PT
Review:  When I started the game I really had mixed feelings for this release.
  It was somewhat over hyped for something that looked basic to me. Rather a childish game for me 
 I thought. The graphics are ok, but I didn't expect a fancy game design.
  
  After all I started playing this game on daily basis and I must say it has a very nice replay factor. 
 The graphics are original and fresh. The game play is new and has some action that is really addictive.
 
  Although this is very positive your addiction is of a short time because the levels get more difficult 
 and the aim of the game stays the same over and over. But maybe that's why I normally don't like 
 puzzle games. The point is getting to the next level and that's it. Not really amusing and interesting 
 to me.
  
  I think if you are a real puzzle freak you really going to like this release. I can say this is 
 a must have for every Nintendo DS fan.
  This game is not another release for a game console... this is a release especially for the DS 
 that proves it has some magical fun for a game console 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Fireworks are fun. They are flashy and mesmerizing, and they are set off to celebrate such holidays 
 and events as New Year's or Independence Day. They're even used to defeat enemies. Well, maybe 
 not in reality, but you'll definately be launching fireworks to save your life in Big Bang Mini.
 
  
  Shooters on the DS are a dime a dozen, but Big Bang Mini isn't your average shooter. For starters, 
 you launch fireworkers by stroking the stylus in the direction you want to fire. You'll want to 
 aim carefully, because if your fireworks miss, they detonate in the upper screen and rain down 
 debris into your lower screen. Your ship remains stationary until you actually drag it with the 
 stylus. In order to clear a level, you have a meter on the left that needs to be filled up, and 
 you do so by collecting stars distributed by defeated enemies. As things heat up, you'll find yourself 
 overwhelmed at times by trying to defeat enemies, dodge their bullets and the bullets coming back 
 to you from you missed shots, and collecting stars before they fall off the screen.
  
  Big Bang Mini starts out with just one mode, understandably the Tutorial. Finish that mode and 
 you're ready to play the Arcade Mode. In Arcade, you have nine worlds broken up into nine levels 
 with a boss level at the end of each world. As you progress throughout the game, you'll be given 
 upgrades that you can use to assist you in battle. Such upgrades include homing missles and devastating 
 ricocheting fireballs. Some worlds also have exclusive upgrades such as creating a vortex to absorb 
 enemy bullets, and being able to free time. Also, there is a bonus zone at the end of each level 
 that has you connecting dots to form a constellation, and each world has you doing something different 
 in each bonus zone. 
  
  Other modes unlock as you move forward through arcade. You'll get a challenge mode, which is a 
 non stop onslaught of cascading enemies that you can shoot down to tally up a score that you can 
 submit to a leaderboard via Wi-Fi. You'll get a mode called Relax, which is a very passive mode 
 that just displays fireworks, or lets you shoot them at your leisure with no enemies to worry about. 
 There's a versus mode that will work with one DS card, and a Mission Mode that has you meeting 
 certain criteria in order to pass levels. There's even one more mode after that which you can only 
 unlock after finishing Mission Mode.
  
  Visually, this game's beautiful. It has a unique style, and at times it can be brimming with colorful 
 effects. Neon bullets, explosions, beams. It's an assault on the senses. The enemy designs are 
 also terrific bringing with them their own sense of charm. It's such a quirky, zany game that you 
 just can't help looking at it. 
  
  Big Bang Mini is also accompanied with a great soundtrack. The music is catchy and can get in your 
 head, especially in some of the later worlds like Rio De Jenairo, where you're actually encouraged 
 to shoot based on the rhythm of the beat. The sound effects are arcady, even much more so when 
 the random retro stage surprises you, and the final boss stage of the game has a wonderful melody 
 of several arranges of well known pieces. 
  
  Big Bang Mini is an outstanding game. It's got that perfect pick and play feel to it. It's simple 
 to learn, yet difficult to master. You can play it in short bursts, or become addicted to it for 
 hours at a time. It has a great style and has interesting gameplay, and the best part of the game 
 is that it's only 19.99, yet doesn't feel like a budget title. It's definately going to be an overlooked 
 title in the DS's ever-growing library, so do yourself a favor and don't overlook Big Bang Mini. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: longtimegamerr
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 17, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  It really depends what kind of gamer you are if you are going to enjoy this or not. The graphics 
 are midly amusing and very colorful and they definately add to the charm of the game.
  
  You have to protect an icon which cannot move on its own. Stuff moves around it that can hit it; 
 thereby losing a life. So you use the stylus to move the icon while at the same time destroying 
 anything that might hit the icon. Its a cool idea for a simple game.
  
  So what's the problem?
  
  In order to keep the gameplay "new" in a relatively simply game, 
 the game's difficulty ramps up fast. Soon you'll be looking at both screens and moving and hitting 
 stuff as fast as you can. The problem is that no player can really sustain this for long and you 
 _will_ die. There's a randomness and luck factor which detracts from the game. 
  
  As casual games go, its fun for awhile. But there's a notable lack of meaningful strategy in this 
 game that other fast-paced casual games do have for example, meteos and lumines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Big Bang Mini is quite good, with nice controls and sweet graphics. 
  The premise is this: Shoot the bad guys that are on the top screen by flicking your stylus upwards 
 and aiming. But be careful, because if your shot misses, the debris will fall and you have to dodge 
 it. You switch between shooting at the baddies, dodging their attacks, and collecting the stars 
 to get to the next level. 
  
  There are also bonus levels to play at the end of each main level where you connect the dots. It's 
 not as easy as it sounds.
  The game is always fair, and it's not too easy or too hard for anyone to get into. A big plus is 
 the graphics, they have alot of flare.
  And it mixes things up every 10 levels. (there are 90 levels)
  
  For instance... in each world, 
 the art is very different. In one world you're underwater, so you have to catch bubbles to avoid 
 dying. There's lots of little differences like that that add alot to the game.
  
  If you are looking for a budget game, then you'll get plenty of bang for your buck with this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chin3se_Pride
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun, if you didn't play this game this is how it works. Basically you controll this 
 ball by dragging it with your stylus. The ball is your character and your goal is to not any thing 
 touch it. To shoot you simply swipe your stylus anywhere in the screen upward or angled and causing 
 bullets to come out where you swiped it. Then you recieve power ups time to time but basically 
 that's the core of the game.
  rating: 8.3
  Now this may seem a little weak but it's really not. Scenery and theme changes time to time so 
 it's really fun watching the game. Fireworks explode everytime you hit an enemy and you'll see 
 alot of these cool explosions without any slowdown. Really the graphics is what really made this 
 game to be good. It cuts reptitiveness by having different scenery time to time. Bosses at the 
 end of stage is really fun. 
  
  The disappointing thing about this is that the sound. It's get's tiring because it only changes 
 when you finish a stage, and there are ten levels in a stage. It kinda also got over hyped because 
 after reading gamespot with 9.0 rating i really expect more. It's a little disapointing but it 
 still worth the price. 20 bucks for this cool game is worth buying the game. 
  
  in conclusion this game is super addicting and fun, once you play it you will get hook into it 
 for a long time. This game is for everyone, but if your the kinda person that likes arcade shooting 
 game and just looking for fun then this will be the best 20 bucks ull ever spend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DenisDenis
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 12:36 am PT
Review:  At first when I heard about the game, it was in a very early stage. I really thought the idea of 
 "firework shooter" was goofy, considering the current offer on the NDS. Actually playing it made 
 me realize how much it was missing in the handheld portfolio! The game is fun, addictive, colorful 
 and you can see it was brooded for long months of careful development - not one of these cheap 
 4 months development scheme to satisfy a greedy publisher over one more license.
  Levels are plenty, bosses range from easy to hair pulling hard. The music is great and fits to 
 every environment.
  It is both challenging (you need to go through that learning curve to shoot and dodge quickly) 
 and casual (everybody loves fireworks) .
  I really had fun playing this game, so did my 8 year old son.
  Thanks for bringing this to us.
 
  Keep up the good work Arkedo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAIW
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  If obscure, niche games are what you're after, the DS is chock full of quality items, especially 
 if you're in the market for shmups. The genre is one of the DS' strengths, and the touch screen 
 ensures accuracy; one would assume that the system would have plenty of games in the genre utilizing 
 the hardware well, right? Unfortunately not. While there are many different types of top-down shooters 
 on the humble handheld, none have utilized the hardware nearly as well as they could. Big Bang 
 Mini is the exception to the rule -- and thanks to Arkedo's audacity, it plays wonderfully.
  
  If you aren't a grizzled veteran to the genre, Big Bang Mini will be tough; even if you are 
 the game presents a challenge, and for some the difficulty level will be a game breaker. If you 
 think you can handle the heat, though, Big Bang Mini's controls and design are fantastic.
  
  Big Bang Mini is a top-down shooter spanning both DS screens, with enemies and debris mainly 
 on the top screen. You control a small ship on the bottom screen by touch and drag, similar to 
 the Nanostray series (although a bit more comfortable) . This is very accurate and allows for some 
 truly jaw-dropping maneuvers -- most of the time. Occasionally the game may misread a command, 
 or just neglect it altogether. The accurate shooting more than makes up for this, however. Flick 
 upwards on the touch screen and a bullet will go where you pointed. The easy-to-memorize controls 
 are unique in that you cannot move your ship and shoot at the same time, which ensures the player 
 can't blindly spam bullets while avoiding enemy fire to win.
  
  It is a joy to play Big Bang Mini, and the engrossing control scheme breathes life into a genre 
 on life support. The overall style of play is similar to that of Space Invaders or one of its thousands 
 of copy-cats, but the fresh presentation, variety of modes and peerless control scheme ensure Big 
 Bang Mini stands out from the crowd.
  
  While the controls are simple, there are plenty of special moves to keep the game engaging. Homing 
 missles, shields, a Ditto-esque move that steals an enemy's attack, etc. -- Big Bang Mini has all 
 the standard spices and then some.
  
  Despite being an excellent game, Big Bang Mini also manages to be a very portable one -- a rare 
 accomplishment. Missions typically last a minute or two, and are addicting whether you're at home 
 or at work; the level of challenge certainly encouraged me to compete in Challenge Mode for quite 
 a few hours. Some boss fights you'll definitely want to revisit again and again. Perhaps most enticingly, 
 just looking at the game is reason enough to play.
  
  With 3D backgrounds and 2D art to represent your ship and enemies, Big Bang Mini is pure eye candy 
 by any standard. The wacky art style is accompanied by detailed 3D, and the fireworks explosions 
 are simply gorgeous; the technical aspects of games will be outdated in a few years, but style 
 will last forever, and this game is proof of that. The soundtrack is equally as appealing, boasting 
 a varied soundtrack that manages to sound great despite the low-quality DS speakers.
  
  Longevity may present a concern for those who have been burned by the short lives of other top-down 
 shooters, but once again Big Bang Mini prevails in this area -- Challenge Modes, Relax, Online 
 Leaderboards, Multiplayer and an impressive 90 levels ensures you'll keep Big Bang Mini in your 
 pocket for dozens of hours to come... If you are good at it. One design choice I feel was misguided 
 is that the player has to unlock everything by conquering the main mode. It takes awhile to do 
 this, and many players simply won't have the skill to do so (the final level is excruciatingly 
 dificult) .
  
  The DS has plenty of shooters of all shapes and sizes, but in my opinion Big Bang Mini is the best 
 one to grace the system yet. It takes full advantage of what makes a DS a DS, and in doing so is 
 a unique fusion of classic and new gameplay that should be played by any shmup fan. Plus, it's 
 $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2009 3:25 pm PT
Review:  early impressions...
  
  Shooting games ala Space Invaders isn't something that most of us would get excited about since 
 it probably wouldn't offer anything new to keep you playing for extended amount of hours. But there 
 are a few games out there that proves that if you do everything right, then a game such as this 
 one can still be addicting.
  
  The object of the game is really simple and it starts off with a useful and brief tutorial. It's 
 in my opinion a modified version of Space Invaders Extreme. Just transfer the baddies up on the 
 top screen and use the stylus to control your ship, and you'll get an idea how this game works. 
 The only other difference here is that your ship (or whatever that item is called) isn't the source 
 of your bullets. You can basically shoot from anywhere and at any upwards angle at the bottom of 
 the screen and just protect yourself from enemy bullets or even from your own. You see, everytime 
 you miss an enemy, debris will fall down once your fireworks explode. It's a good thing since it 
 will prevent players from simply shooting like crazy without worrying that it can come back and 
 hunt them down. 
  
  Enemies come out in batches at the top screen but some of 'em will dive or pop-up from the bottom 
 screen. A star falls down the screen with varying sizes (depending on the size of the enemy you 
 killed) that you need to catch to fill up a gauge on the left side of the touchscreen. You however 
 really don't need to stand directly at the bottom of the falling star since it acts as if its magnetized 
 and will attach itself to your ship once you get close to it. Once the bar (which also gets out 
 of the way when you get too close to it) is filled up, the stage will be cleared and you'll be 
 given a chance to unlock other stuff in the game in a form of a mini-game.
  
  There's a total of 90 stages in this game and if you include the other things that gets unlocked 
 once you're done with the arcade mode ... then you can just imagine how much time you can spend 
 with this title. And also as you progress, you'll get power-ups and things that will affect your 
 accuracy such as wind direction. 
  
  Graphically, the game looks well polished. The explosions are nice to look at with a pinch of noticeable 
 pixelation. The background is also animated like in Space Invaders Extreme. The enemies looks nice 
 as well, but some of them are too cartoonish for my taste.
  
  Sounds on the other hand is on the repetitive side. I'm guessing that there's only a total of 9 
 tracks here since it only changes every after levels. They do not sound flat or anything like that 
 but they're okay for the first few stages, but you'll probably end up listening to the same tune 
 for a good 30mins or so.
  
  Controls is like what I've mentioned is stylus based. It's hard for me to mention anything bad 
 about it except that there were times when I felt like my fireworks aren't going where I was intentionally 
 aiming them at. And yes, that was still in the early stages of the game where air resistance wasn't 
 yet a factor.
  
  All in all the game in my opinion is easily recommendable especially because of its price tag. 
 Add to that the ability to play local multiplayer on a single cartridge makes this title even more 
 attractive. I was actually having a dilemma of giving the game a 7.5 or an 8. But since the game 
 has minimal flaws, I have decided to stick with a great rating of 8.
  
  
  UPDATE:
  I just tried playing local multiplayer of this game yesterday and I was a bit disappointed. In 
 multiplayer mode you'll be holding your DS vertically (like a book) , and you'll have your ship 
 displayed on the touchscreen, while your opponent is on the other. So yes, you need to shoot sideways 
 as you try and hit the other player with your fireworks. And although they tried to add some power-ups 
 to it, you can only access them using the d-pad which is quite hard to reach. It isn't all that 
 fun and in my opinion, it could have been better if the players are just on top of each other. 
 But that is just probably me.
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoaNGx
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 30, 2009 9:03 am PT
Review:  I have to admit, I got this game on an impulse, and I'm glad that I did. It's the first shooter 
 of '09, and it didn't disappoint. This game utilizes both screens and is fully stylus based.
  
  Learning Curve ~ 10 minutes
  
  The game includes a well done tutorial that you are required 
 complete before doing anything else. The tutorial is always on the main menu in case you need a 
 refresher course.
  
  Gameplay ~ 8.5
  
  The gameplay is simply solid. The main single player mode alone has over 90 Stages. And after you 
 meet certain goals of the "Arcade" mode, you'll unlock more content, which is great. Every ten 
 stages, there's a new area and you'll use new abilities as you go on. The different abilities has 
 definitely put a refreshing feel on this "retro" style game.
  
  The goal of the game is simple : 
  Enemies are on the top screen, you're on the bottom screen. 
 You dodge bullets and shoot at the enemies, and when the enemy explodes, they drop a star, which 
 you must collect.
  
  Graphics ~ 8.9
  
  The screenshots of this game doesn't do it much justice. The only way to make sense of the screenshots 
 in to actually play the game itself. The graphics really do look a lot nicer in person than shown 
 in the screenshots section. It makes good use of vibrant colors.
  
  Sound ~ 7.0
  
  The soundtrack itself is very good, but the reason that I gave it a 7.0 is that it only changes 
 every 10 levels, so the music can often get annoying an repeptitive.
  
  Addictiveness ~ 9.5
  
  It's addicting. 'Nuff said.
  
  Overall - 8.3
  
  This game is 
 a must have for all casual gamers and shooter fans. It's simple gameplay formula is easy to learn 
 and pick up, yet it offers an exciting feel with it's bonus content.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazongo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 6:21 pm PT
Review:  The first 2d shooting game of the year is definitively one that shooter fans cant miss and even 
 the ones with a hunger for a new game to keep you well entertain for quite a while. Want to know 
 why, then continue reading.
  
  Gameplay 8.5
  
  This one is a unique one really. First thing to say its that they use both screens. In the upper 
 one you see your enemies and in the bottom one your on your own. You move with the stylus and you 
 also attack with it by sliding it upward toward your enemies above. Though you can only do 1 thing 
 at ones so you have to balance between attacking and moving to dodge the bullets which can keep 
 you at the edge of your seat.
  
  When you kill whatever is in the upper screen ( theres some really weird foes up there) they drop 
 stars, which fill a meter, and when its full you finish the level. O and shooting like crazy isn't 
 going to work as good as you may think cuz whenever you miss a shot, this one explodes into fireworks 
 that come down to kill you. In the later levels theres also special abilities, like stopping time 
 briefly, which keep the game interesting as you pass through the game. Yet all in all is a simple 
 game but a really fun one.
  
  Sound 8.0
  You get to hear electronic like music that really adds up to the game. Theres different tunes for 
 each place that you visit. You also get a alarm clock to wake you up with the music in the game.
 
  
  Graphics 8.0
  
  A great 2d graphics with plenty of stylized effects because of the on screen action. Lots of different 
 and weird enemies to kill and nice backgrounds for each place.
  
  Lasting appeal 8.5
  
  This game comes packed with 90 levels, each 2-3 minute long to beat to keep you entertain for quite 
 a while. Also theres some nice multiplayer modes and other game modes. In all it results a lengthy 
 game for a 2d shooter and even more for a game that only costs 20 bucks.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
