-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bionicle Heroes
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/bionicleheroes/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Another solid first-person shooter for the DS.
 Good variety of weapons and character abilities.
 CPU opponents don't just sit there.
 Sharp 3D graphics, and the frame rate is silky smooth.
 Touch-screen controls are responsive and precise.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't do much to break out of the typical FPS mold.
 Multiplayer is offline and requires everyone to have their own cartridge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.3, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 132 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Traveller's Tales
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Although it lacks online play, Bionicle Heroes is a surprisingly adept and enjoyable first-person 
 shooter. 

  Even though Bionicle Heroes for the Nintendo DS doesn't do anything that hasn't been done before 
 in other first-person shooters, it does present all of the familiar concepts in ways that fans 
 of the genre and fans of the Bionicle toy line should find appealing. You take on the role of a 
 heroic gun-toting robot and set out to blast away at the scores of enemy robots populating the 
 rooms, hallways, and arenas that make up the game's 37 different levels. Gunplay involves the usual 
 mix of jumping, strafing, and shooting typically found in these sorts of games, and the Bionicle 
 license has been levied to introduce new enemies and weapons, which are all based on Bionicle toys, 
 at regular intervals. The CPU-controlled enemies and bosses do a good job of keeping you on your 
 toes, but what's more impressive is that the developers managed to coax the attractive 3D visuals 
 and responsive controls necessary for a top-flight FPS out of the DS hardware, a feat that prior 
 to this game's release had only been accomplished by Nintendo with Metroid Prime: Hunters. It's 
 a shame that the multiplayer mode doesn't offer any sort of online component, because Bionicle 
 Heroes otherwise delivers everything else that you could want in a first-person shooter.  

          Bionicle fans can blast away at their favorite toys in this first-person shooter.     

 
  The game is loosely based on the Bionicle toy and comic book line produced by Lego. In the world 
 of Bionicle, the island of Voya Nui is populated by two races of sentient machines. On the one 
 side are the Toa, which possess powerful elemental abilities granted to them by masks they've handed 
 down for generations. On the other side are the Piraka, a race of evildoers that are constantly 
 trying to steal and misuse these masks. Instead of fleshing out characters or focusing on a particular 
 story, as the comics and toy booklets have done, the game merely shoehorns the basic aspects of 
 the franchise into the framework of a typical first-person shooter. The Piraka have stolen six 
 different elemental masks from the Toa, so it's up to you, as an anonymous hero, to travel to the 
 different temples scattered across Voya Nui, blast every Piraka minion in sight, and retrieve the 
 masks from the Piraka bosses. In turn, these masks unlock new weapons and abilities that you can 
 use to access secrets and to dispatch enemies more efficiently.  

  The gameplay has a lot of classic FPS elements. Most rooms and hallways are populated with enemy 
 robots that you need to destroy. Once you fixate the crosshair on another robot, it usually only 
 takes a few shots to blow them into Lego bits. However, if an enemy whacks you enough times, you'll 
 fall apart and have to restart from the last checkpoint. The CPU does a decent job of strafing 
 and dodging, and most areas involve multiple waves of spawning enemies, so battles tend to last 
 a while. Boss battles are especially fun because of all of the jump ramps and multitiered floors 
 incorporated into their custom arenas. As hectic as combat gets, the violence never feels overboard, 
 probably because all of the characters are bipedal or insectoid robots made out of Lego pieces. 
 You can tackle each of the six major environments in any order you like and return to previously 
 completed levels at anytime to gather whatever bolts and runes you still need to unlock the numerous 
 cheats and secrets in the bonus menu.  

  Besides fighting, you'll also have to hunt down switches and solve platform-jumping sections periodically. 
 Some of the Bionicle-inspired touches also add to the game's variety, such as the Lego gears that 
 you pick up for money and health and the loose piles of Lego parts that you can occasionally put 
 together to open a door or create a ramp. The small touches are nice, but what ultimately keeps 
 boredom at bay is that the game does a good job of introducing cool new weapons on a regular basis. 
 You start out with a basic sphere launcher that has unlimited ammo. Every two levels or so, though, 
 you'll gather a mask that will give you a new secondary weapon or piggyback onto a mask you already 
 have. The variety of weapons is great, particularly the lightning and sniper beams, and the abilities 
 you get for piggybacking masks are extremely fun and useful. The completed air Toa, for example, 
 lets you jump higher and hover, while the fire and stone Toa masks let you walk through lava or 
 blast through stone. Once you collect a few masks, you can pull off some really impressive aerial 
 acrobatics.  

  For most people, especially people that enjoy first-person shooters, the two main concerns going 
 in will be how responsive the controls are and how sexy the graphics look. After all, the DS's 
 touch screen tends to be hit or miss with some games, and the system isn't exactly a 3D powerhouse. 
 Thankfully, Bionicle Heroes delivers the accurate controls and complex 3D graphics that any good 
 FPS absolutely must have. Using the stylus to aim and the directional pad to walk and strafe quickly 
 becomes second nature. It takes a little more time to get used to swapping weapons by tapping their 
 spots on the touch screen, but you'll eventually be able to tap them from memory and keep your 
 gaze focused on the upper screen. Most important of all, the crosshair on the upper screen doesn't 
 seem to have any problem keeping up with fine stylus movements or sweeping slashes made on the 
 touch screen. A good FPS must have reliable, responsive controls, and Bionicle Heroes delivers. 

  Robot models In Bionicle Heroes are intricately detailed and animate smoothly. Rooms and arenas 
 tend to be ornate and have multiple floors, but the real kicker is that the textures are always 
 sharp and the view distance is always total no matter how big the area is. Many games on the DS 
 don't show everything that's off in the distance, or they resort to fog to limit how far you can 
 see. Bionicle Heroes just shows everything that you're supposed to see. On top of that, the frame 
 rate is always silky smooth, regardless of how many enemies are nearby or how large the area is. 
 The only aspects of the visuals the developers skimped on were the heads-up display and the player 
 gun graphics, which effectively convey all the necessary information but are otherwise very plain. 
 That's not a big deal, though, considering that you'll spend most of the time paying attention 
 to the surrounding environment and the aiming crosshair. The developer also skimped to some extent 
 with the audio. The dramatic music and various laser blast effects don't sound bad by any means, 
 but they often feel tacked on. Some recorded dialogue, particularly during boss battles, would 
 have gone a long way toward helping the audio match the same level of quality as the visuals.  
 

          The solo campaign is lengthy and the deathmatch mode is nice, but it's a shame that multiplayer 
 doesn't take advantage of Nintendo's WFC online service.     

  Besides the lengthy single-player campaign, the game also includes a multiplayer deathmatch mode 
 that supports as many as four players. This mode is wicked fun. Battles take place in any of six 
 multitiered arenas, which are similar to those found in the campaign mode's boss battles. That 
 means there are plenty of cubbies to duck into and bounce ramps to take advantage of. Fully upgraded 
 masks are situated throughout each arena, so weapon upgrades and abilities are relatively easy 
 to pick up. To keep things competitive, masks wear off over time, which seems to discourage camping 
 and encourages players to circulate and keep shooting at one another. The only downside to the 
 multiplayer mode is that you have to get people into the same room with you if you want to play 
 against them. That's fine if you actually know someone else locally that has the game, but it renders 
 the multiplayer mode worthless if you don't. Metroid Prime: Hunters lets you play over the Internet, 
 and it came out more than a year earlier. The absence of an online component in Bionicle Heroes 
 is a major disappointment, considering that Bionicle Heroes and Metroid Prime: Hunters are otherwise 
 very similar in terms of design and technical aspects.  

  Bionicle Heroes for the Nintendo DS is a solid first-person shooter, but the lack of any sort of 
 online capability ultimately limits its staying power. If you're a fan of the Bionicle franchise 
 or think you'd enjoy playing through a rousing single-player campaign in a technically impressive 
 first-person shooter, you should definitely check it out. However, if you absolutely require your 
 FPS games to offer online play, you should stick with Metroid Prime: Hunters for the time being. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Phazonix
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Lego has done it again. They have found a way to make their bionicle line of toys, another video 
 game. though this one isn't as hard as the GBA version of 'bionicle' it still is an enjoyable game........ 
 while it lasts...... which isn't long. it stars you, a brave matoran ( or toa, they never really 
 explain) as you try to get back the 6 toa inika's masks (the piraka stole them) . The game features 
 7 zones, each pertaining to an element (with one bonus) . You go along, playing the zone's 4 or 
 so levels, beat the boss, and repeat all over again.... for about 8 hours and then you beat the 
 game. 
  It has SOME replay value, like the fact that if you get certain letters, called runes, you can 
 unlock special features like a harder mode, or invincibility (hope that's spelled right)
  While Bionicle Heroes is a short game, its a blast while it lasts. (Hey, That Rhymes!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jangled
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Nothing spectacular. Just a good smooth solid shooter, with just enough extras to keep it interesting. 
 The control scheme takes some getting-used-to.
  But the aiming is reasonable and the movement is crisp. 
  You could ask for more, but on a hand-held, 
 you rarely get it.
  Graphics are above average, and a lot less dark than many of the genre.
  Some might find the 
 AI not too "I" but what else is new?
  I'd say this game compares favorably to the Metroids with better visibility. 
  It could use a 
 little more variety, but on the other hand it's not DEVOID of variety, either. The threat/goal/gain 
 factor (some call it "immersion", though on a portable, I think that's a myth) is just about right. 
 It needs a few tougher "bosses".
  Bottom line, I had a good time.
  What else is there? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesey11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is good but not great. It should of been much better. In this game you play as a different 
 bionicles in different levels. And in each level you get a new gun and mask. In each level there 
 is a boss that is pretty easy to beat and in each level there are five little levels that you have 
 to complete in order to beat the hole level. In this game you don't see the bionicle you just see 
 its arms. But you can see all of your enemy bionicles body.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  The gameplay in this game is nearly perfect but it still isn't ten out of ten yet.
  
  Graphics:9
 
  The graphics in this game are really good for DS.
  
  Sound:6
  The sound is fair and should of been a lot better.
  
  Value: 5
  This game is much to short 
 for my likeing
  
  Overall: 7.3
  Overall this game is pretty good but it should of been heaps better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toacosmo
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  LEGO's first attempt at making a game of their best-selling toy line BIONICLE was a mediocre 2-D 
 platformer for the GBA. From there, they did several more, including an incredibly disappointing 
 console platformer to coincide with the release of BIONICLE's first movie : Mask of Light. Now 
 LEGO has employed the talents of traveller's tales (the company that brought us LEGO Star Wars 
 ) to attempt making a game that actually satisfies fans. The game's story is convoluted, confusing, 
 and doesn't really have anything to do with the story the books and comics presented. I'll attempt 
 to explain it, but don't expect to understand it. Basically the toa Inika get captured and apparantly 
 Jaller (the red one) escapes and reverts back to matroan form (either that or they just got lazy 
 and used the Jaller sprites from Mask Of Light) he then finds a pool of liquid protodermis and 
 turns into a toa again. After getting a Zamor launcher (they never say it in the game, but that's 
 what it is.) he ventures off to rescue the other toa (and his toa self, apparantly)
  
  The game is divided up into six different element-based parts of the island, which in turn have 
 seven levels; 6 to get the first two mask evolutions (first Mata then Metru, for those of you who 
 are interested) and then a boss battle against the piraka of that particular element. The gameplay 
 itself is actually pretty good. You use the touch screen to aim and switch weapons, the D-pad to 
 move, R to shoot, and L to use a mask power (if applicable; some mask powers take effect through 
 immunity to something or being able to destroy barriers, sometimes both) . The controls are nice 
 and tight, and you can adjust for using your left hand.
  
  The graphics are pretty nice looking, but the environments are very repetitive. Usually it's not 
 such a big problem, but in the ice level, it can get pretty annoying. You have a nice selection 
 of enemies that span a large amount of the BIONICLE universe including Rahi, Bohrok, Rahkshi, Vahki, 
 Visorak, and, of course, Piraka.
  
  The difficulty and length are where it starts to fall apart. It really is a very easy game, and 
 obviously meant for younger children. If you die you just lose your current TOA bar (a sort of 
 super power that you can use to become invincible) and have to start another one. You'll be at 
 basically the same spot, perhaps a few steps back, with the same amount of enemies. This game will 
 probably take you five hours to complete, but there is surprising replay value. First: there are 
 BIONICLE runes that you can collect in order to unlock cheats. These include the usual invincibility 
 and unlimited ammo, plus some gimmicky stuff like a gun that shoots barnyard animals. You also 
 have some areas that you can't get to until you have a particular weapon i. e. you can't go under 
 water until you have the water TOA's mask.
  
  Overall this is a pretty fun game for fans of the toys, but falls a bit short when it comes to 
 wide appeal. If you're a BIONICLE fan, then i'd say it's probably the best BIONICLE game on the 
 market, but if you're just a casual gamer, then I suggest getting Metroid Prime: hunters instead. 
 (and as a side note: the game does have multiplayer, but it 's multicard, so I haven't gotten a 
 chance to check it out.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToaInikaJaller
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Edios is most known for games like Tomb raider and the Lego Star Wars Games. Previous Bionicle 
 games haven't been sogood- But Edios and TT Games have brought us The best Bionicle Game yet- Bionicle 
 Heroes. The Inika have been held prisoner by the Piraka. You play as a Matoran fighting to save 
 the Inika. This is indeed a First Person Shooter. It's very similar to Metroid, but No Wifi and 
 it's Multicard play. Grahpics look pretty nice, though not perfect, It's surely satifying, as i 
 was worrying it would have cruddy graphics.
  
  
  The sound is impressive. The shooting noise is pretty normal, and no sounds of enemies dying, of 
 course, as it would be a bit too graphic. Overall, this is a great game for FPS Fans, Bionicle 
 fans, or just people wanting a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle360
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Bionicle Heroes for the DS is a first person shooter game that does really well in copying Metroid 
 Prime Hunters for the DS. And whats amazing is that this game actually has a better gameplay in 
 the story than Metriod for the DS but thats because Metroid Prime Hunters' highlights weren't on 
 the story but more on the multiplayer. Bionicle Heroes is a really fun game and it actually bought 
 me more challenge than Metroid Prime Hunters because the enemies actually hit you when they throw 
 fire at so and you have to be moving a lot to dodge there attacts or else they'll hit you. Another 
 thing I like about this game is that the game's graphics are smooth and the controls might be a 
 little cricked for the touching settings but overall they're great. BTW, if you're good at Metroid 
 then this game will be easy for you because the controls are pretty much the same. When it comes 
 to multi-player, this game also does a really well job but it doesn't beat Metroid Prime Hunters 
 and one of the reasons is because you can't add robots or computers to a game. Overall, this game 
 copy Metroid for the DS and did better in story and although the multi-player is good, it doesn't 
 beat Metroid for the DS. So if you're looking for a first person shooter game for the DS, look 
 no more because here it is 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
