-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bleach: The Blade of Fate
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/bleachsoutennikakueruunmei/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's a solidly designed, deep fighting game with loads of characters.
 Nice 2D artwork and visual effects.
 Loads of character voices, and they're all the show's actual actors.
 Story mode and spirit deck construction will keep you occupied.
 So will the multiplayer mode, which supports online matchmaking.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Four-player online matches suffer from lag, especially if spirit cards are overused.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.4, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 991 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Treasure
Genre: 2D Fighting
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bleach: The Blade of Fate is a great fighting game that will appeal to fans of the show and general 
 fans of the fighting genre. 

  Bleach: The Blade of Fate for the Nintendo DS is a fighting game in the Street Fighter style that 
 lets you lock swords with the characters from the  Bleach  comic book and animated series. Fans 
 of the  Bleach  universe will be thrilled to discover that the game totally captures the characters' 
 personalities and their unique attack moves. However, Blade of Fate isn't strictly for the fans. 
 It's a superb fighting game in its own right and should appeal to anyone who enjoys the genre, 
 especially those who have fond memories of playing games like Samurai Shodown and The Last Blade 
 down at the local arcade.  

           The TV show is all about sword and soul powers. The game is no different.      

  There 
 are 28 characters to pick from, all taken from the first couple of years of the ongoing story. 
 Ichigo, Renji, Byakuya, and many other familiar faces are here, and their movements and attacks 
 are based on the techniques and spirit powers they've displayed in the comic or TV show. Seeing 
 those attacks in motion is sweet, not just because they're accompanied by flames and explosions, 
 but because the large characters and multilayered backdrops are put together with some of the finest 
 2D artwork yet witnessed on the DS. Fans of the comic will appreciate the hand-drawn character 
 portraits and bankai cutaway scenes, which are scrawled in the rough style of the comic. Meanwhile, 
 devoted viewers of the animated series will delight in hearing each character's numerous battle 
 cries, which were recorded from the English dub's voice actors. Even if none of that stuff matters 
 to you, the explosive sound effects and intricate techno musical snippets will make you want to 
 keep the volume cranked.  

  Underneath the hood, Bleach: The Blade of Fate is a solidly executed fighting game that beginners 
 and experts alike can sink their teeth into. Battles can involve as many as four people, and combat 
 takes place on a 2D plane. You would think it would be crowded with four characters crammed onto 
 a single screen, but Treasure, the game's developer, wisely made it possible for you to jump between 
 the foreground and the background. If a four-way free-for-all is too much for you, or you're getting 
 spanked in a double-team, you can escape to the other plane at the touch of a button.  

  The controls are easy enough to figure out. Movement is handled with the directional pad, while 
 your character's light, medium, and heavy attacks are bound to the main buttons. You can dash by 
 double-tapping the directional pad and perform an additional jump in midair by pressing up again 
 once you're airborne. Each press of a button unleashes a basic punch or slash that takes off a 
 slight amount of health when it connects. To dole out more damage, you can perform one of your 
 character's special moves or super attacks, which you do by keying in a command sequence that typically 
 involves a quarter-circle motion on the control pad and a quick button press. The remaining buttons 
 let you block, switch planes, or execute a  Bleach -inspired flash step move that lets you instantly 
 teleport across the screen.  

           When the characters are far apart, a scaling effect makes it look like the camera is pulling 
 backwards.      

  You can do a great deal simply by mashing the buttons. However, after you rack up a few matches, 
 you'll come to realize that the fighting system is actually rather deep. Basic attacks can be chained 
 together into combinations, some attacks can be interrupted by other attacks (and supers!) , and 
 the flash step teleport can be used in midair or during an attack to create some unique chains. 
 Meters for spirit power and spirit press limit how frequently you can change planes, use the flash 
 step teleport, or perform your character's super attacks. Other players can't just avoid you by 
 teleporting or switching planes all the time, because they get three "strikes" before they have 
 to wait for their spirit power meter to gradually refill. The spirit press meter mainly shows you 
 how many supers you can perform, though you can sacrifice one level to perform a canceling move 
 that lets you slip out of an opponent's multihit combination or super attack with only slight damage. 

  All of the action takes place on the upper screen. The touch screen functions as an extra set of 
 "buttons" and lets you perform special moves and activate spirit cards with just a single tap. 
 Performing special moves in this manner eats up a section of your spirit power meter, whereas keying 
 in the commands with the directional pad and buttons does not. Thus, this quick input method is 
 mainly for beginners who don't mind dipping into the same meter that limits flash steps and plane 
 swaps. The touch screen's main intended use is to let you activate spirit cards during the match. 
 In a nutshell, spirit cards are power-ups that can make you stronger, replenish your various meters, 
 or cause different calamities to befall your opponent. For example, if you use the "forced crouch" 
 card, your opponent will be stuck in the crouch position for a few seconds. Spirit cards inject 
 some extra excitement and strategy into matches without breaking the game's solid fundamentals. 
 Their effects tend to wear off quickly, and their use is also somewhat limited. You get only 10 
 chances per match to use them, and at any given moment your choice consists of two cards randomly 
 selected from one of the 15-card decks you've put together.  

  Among the many single-player modes, you'll probably spend most of your time going through the story 
 mode. Of the available characters, 23 of them have their own story path based on events that took 
 place during the second run of the comic and TV show. The opponents you'll face and the scenes 
 that play out vary depending on the character you've chosen. Sometimes opponents will issue you 
 a challenge to beat them in a certain way, and your success or failure in doing so will cause the 
 story to move in a specific direction. Additional spirit cards are given out after every win, while 
 completing a character's story will earn you tons of money that you can later spend in the shop 
 menu to buy more cards -- as well as player costumes, bonus artwork, and music for the sound gallery. 
 Besides the story mode, the game includes the usual sort of single-player modes you've come to 
 expect from games like this: arcade, training, survival, and challenge.  

           There are dozens of spirit cards to collect. Each of your five custom decks can contain 
 15 cards.      

  No fighting game is complete without a versus mode, and this one lets you get matches going wirelessly 
 with as many as four people, both online and off. You need only a single cartridge for local play, 
 although the pre-match loading times are significantly reduced if everyone has a cartridge. The 
 online mode lets you seek out opponents randomly or challenge the people you've exchanged friend 
 codes with. Two-person battles are generally seamless and free of lag. When you get four people 
 going in a match, lag is more of a problem, especially if players tend to frequently use spirit 
 cards. For best results, you'll want to stick to people on your friend code list or limit the matchmaking 
 search to your nearby region.  

  Good fighting games are a rarity on portable systems. Great ones come around less often than Haley's 
 Comet or a tolerable Wayans Brothers movie. Bleach: The Blade of Fate is definitely one of the 
 great ones. There are lots of characters to learn, the combat system is intuitive and deep, and 
 the multiplayer is well suited to local and online connections. Fans of the show shouldn't hesitate 
 to pick it up, nor should fans of the fighting genre who want to trade blows somewhere other than 
 on the couch or at the arcade.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (84 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: syaoranvee
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  This fighter genre game is one the best on the DS. It has a total of 28 characters in all (some 
 must be unlocked.) It has Story, Challenge, Survival, Time Attack Modes, which are great but where 
 this game really shines is the wi-fi multiplayer, you can get online and fight other people which 
 is much more fun then fighting the AI Opponents (the AI tend to be pushovers unless set at a high 
 level) . The only real problem is that the fighting system is a bit repetitive. You attack a opponent 
 until your spirit bars are filled up and then release a special move, usually a 'Ban-Kai', which 
 does massive damage. The card system is weak as most effects don't do all that much, you can plow 
 through the game without using cards.
  
  Otherwise, this is a great game and, with the release of it's sequel, should be a cheaper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KewlNormy
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Bleach the blade of fate is a nice game to play when you are bored. The story mode is good but 
 a bit too short. The wireless connection mode doesn't work for my game but i suppose it's really 
 good. I think there is no WI FI but meh, it's already good enough. This game is probably the best 
 fighting genre game for the nintendo DS up to date. There is heaps of unlockable characters in 
 this game, making it really fun. Good graphics of bankai and other moves. Easy to learn controls. 
 Arcade mode is sorta cool and the game has OK audio sounds. This game is worth your money if it's 
 cheap and will be a great game for your fighting genre collection. I bought this game for like 
 55 bucks aussie currency. I know it's expensive but the average price for a game here is Australia 
 is around 70 bucks. Thanks for reading my review and happy gaming, KewlNormy.
  
  P. S. Bleach is better than naruto by a big shot. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend002
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Good: Great roster for any fan of the anime, Great control scheme, Lag-less wifi matches
  
  Bad: The game is really easy even on the highest setting
  
  DS isn't really a system with solid 
 fighting games. That was until Bleach DS came out in Japan of the year 2006. Displaying solid controls 
 and a good lineup of playable characters. Now the 2-D fighter makes an appearance in North America 
 bring the same ambitious content with it. Treasure have really done a great job with this installment 
 to say the least.
  
  The audio for this game is above average. We get voice acting from the ones that does the show 
 with is authentic which is pretty cool for those who are big fans of the anime. The sound effects 
 are also well-done from spiritual moves to sword slashing. The music is really the only downfall 
 for Bleach: The Blade of Fate. None is really catchy are memorable of fits the mood of the game. 
 Don't get me wrong, it isn't bad just not very good. There is the opening theme that was used in 
 the anime. 
  
  Visuals is another solid point here. It is your normal 2-D fighter like Guilty Gear or Street. 
 Each characters like looks like their anime counterpart. Great art style was used here. Environment 
 are the highest outlook in the game. Every area looks great and really sets a mood to clash. The 
 story mood clip used images of the character instead of moving cinematic. Understandable because 
 of the DS cart size. Anime fans shouldn't be disappointed about the visuals nor should two dimensional 
 fans in general.
  
  The story for this title follows the anime completely. You play as a Ichigo, high school boy. Ichigo 
 was just wondering one day until he meets Rukia, a soul reapers with credible powers which she 
 transfers to Ichigo. Rukia is now taken from execution for breaking a forbidden law. Ichigo then 
 uses his new gained powers to try and save her. If you are playing this as a fan, nothing new here 
 at all. As a fighting, the story is great.
  
  Fighting games are nothing without even a decent controls and this delivered. There is basically 
 three buttons for attacks. A powerful weapon, a weapon attack and a bare hand attack. Like most 
 typical fighters, combing strains of attacks create combos. There is also some spiritual attacks 
 for each character making them all unique. "Bankai" is the ultimate move in the game. Some are 
 much stronger then others while some last longer. There's a bankai which puts you in unnatural 
 state of stat where you just get as many hits as possible before the time expire while one is a 
 auto used one hit damager which does major damage, obviously. Having many characters with different 
 moves creates strategy for each play.
  
  There is a card system implemented to the gameplay as well. They are basically cards that have 
 different effects. Varies does a force move making opponents crouch, jump, ect. for the time limit 
 of the card. There's some that increase you stats for those who like to go on the offense. This 
 system is very customizable as there is a built a deck mode. You built the style that best fits 
 you. It can be a defense deck, offensive deck or a bit of both.
  
  Online play for fighters are a must these days, even for a handheld. Treasure also hit the target 
 here. The wifi options are fairly deep. There is one where you play with a single player to reach 
 the top using a point system and there's an option to play for fun without any rank system. In 
 this option, you are able to play with up to four other players. Of course online play includes 
 a friend match. You play with people registered using a friend code here. Notable that wifi for 
 this title is lag less. While playing, I didn't really have a lag issue at all.
  
  Extras content available here are excellent. In a shop, you are able to but color custom, cards, 
 artworks and even voices using gold earn by playing arcade mode of some other single player mood. 
 Definitely a fan service here.
  
  Overall, Bleach: The Blade of Fate delivers on almost all main areas. The story mode nor the unlock-able 
 probably wouldn't last you very long but with the options will such as survival mood, time attack, 
 training, etc. Wifi is the obvious replay value of the game giving varies challenges from all over 
 the world. Hardcore fans of this genre or anime itself should check this game. You probably won't 
 regret doing so. This one that shouldn't be passed out on.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -BrokenChains-
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 17, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  eh, theres quite a few minner flaws, you could be flying though the game then get sent back cause 
 you didn't complete the task right? (hearing the same conflick over again is bothering) if you fail 
 twice it will take you though a diffrent story trail, till you meet up where you lost. That didn't 
 worry me to much (ah, why would i be worried?.) once beaten the game theres some charaters missing, and 
 lots of store goods to buy, (none are which charaters?) but you can buy nice new colors for your 
 charaters! (im lame anuff to play each charater in there new line of colors?-and i enjoyed it? so 
 after buying charater voice settings, some flashy outfits and more of those power boost card type 
 things that you already have tuns of (although some more usful then others) what do you do? (inclueding 
 finishing the sort storys) .. im still trying to finger that out myself??.... you could always do 
 it all again? (i would rather flush my cat) -ha, no-no that was just the frist thing to come to mind? 
 yeah im done.
  
  does anyone else see a face of a pug in the tex??
  (WARNING//I DID NOT SPELL-CHECK THIS and i don't plan to) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaku_Abumi118
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  Bleach was a game that i wasn't sure about getting a first. I watched the series, loved it but 
 still the game didn't look like my kind of thing. so one day in Stirling i picked it up for 10 
 and it was sooooo worth it.
  The gameplay is remarkably simple. You mash buttons in different combinations to perform special 
 attacks, these special combinations can be quite difficult to pull off so i'd recommend if your 
 just starting out you set it to auto, where you just have to touch the desired attack with the 
 stylus.
  The campaign comprises of about 20 "episodes" were you play as a different character fighting a 
 few battles that shouldn't take you too long to complete, the only exception is the Rescue Rukia 
 mission were you have to defeat certain enemies in certain ways to progress. this can get quite 
 annoying but makes the game last a bit longer.
  There are also you're standard fighting modes, versus, survival, time attack, arcade etc. There's 
 a massive amount of characters to unlock, each one being unique with their own special attacks. 
 on top of that there is a truly massive amount of extras you can by in the in-game shop, unlocking 
 all of these alone will take about a week. 
  This game is very playable, has great music and voice acting, a very good campaign mode and is 
 overall a must get for anyone into fighting games or anime, and anyone with a DS should definitely 
 check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shurikenfreak
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  As you probably know by now, Bleach: The Blade of Fate is based on a popular manga and anime series 
 titled Bleach by Tite Kubo. The game is set in one of the series' most popular story arcs, the 
 Soul Society arc, where Ichigo, along with Uryu, Orihme, Chad, and Yourichi, infriltrate the Soul 
 Society in order to save Rukia from her execution. This arc is probably the most reknown one, and 
 many fans will be glad to here that the game does a decent job of allowing the player to play through 
 the arc in a canoncal way.
  
  Well, most of the story modes have canon events, such as the last story mode "episode", where you 
 play through all major canon battles of the entire arc. However, some story modes, such as Rukia's, 
 have obvious non-canoncal events, such as the fact that she is in a Gigai in the Soul Society, 
 which makes no sense at all, and fights multiple opponents while in it in the Soul Society.
  
  The gameplay itself is pretty fun, but is way too easy for any fighting game veteran. The usage 
 of cards is a good addition, but I found myself just using the bottom screen to do my special and 
 super moves while fighting. The game's roster is I beleive 26 to 28 characters, most of which you 
 have to unlock. Unlock them all was way to easy, all you have to do is beat a certain story mode 
 "episode" and you unlock a new character and "episode". The characters run the gambit from distrubingly 
 weak, like Kon, who has no super attack, but will say "Bankai... Wait I can't do that!" which is 
 very annoying, to way to strong to fight with some characters, such as Ichigo (if you use his Bankai) 
 and Byakuya (if you use his Bankai, which depletes about half of your opponents health. However, 
 this is not so much a promblem as the majority of the characters are in the same grouping for power 
 and skills.
  
  Pros:
  1.) A fun game for fans and gamers alike.
  2.) Using the cards can make the game interesting.
  3.) A decent roster.
  4.) Lots of unlockable 
 art.
  5.) Not that hard to just dive into and play around with.
  6.) Very fun multiplayer.
  7.) Has Wi-Fi capability.
  
  Cons:
  1.) Way to easy.
  2.) 
 Unlockables are to easy to get also.
  3.) Can get way to monotonous after a while.
  4.) No arrancar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  Bleach is a Fighting game based on an anime series. Thus it looks a bit like a Street Fighter game, 
 but nevertheless the visual design is great although it might not be for everyone. Bleach: The 
 blade of fate delivers lots of nice drawn characters who have different moves and weapons. Some 
 do have big swords, bows or are just fightng with their fists. 
  
  Never having played a fighting game before this is not difficult to handle at first because it 
 offers three difficulties, easy normal and hard. You are able to control your character either 
 by learning the combos with the buttons or by toughing the certain attack on the touchscreen. That 
 makes the game easy to learn at first as you donnt know every combo at the start of the 
 game. 
  
  The graphics, as I said, reminded me of Street Fighter, but as this game is based on an anime it 
 just works out very well. As you progress within the game you may encounter new characters and 
 therefore new attacks which look all different. Somehow it reminded me of Little Fighter, too. 
 Anyway, this game looks good because of nice effects and colorful environments. 
  
  The sound effects and voices are utterly amazing as they used the same voices they have in the 
 anime series. Thus every single character has its own specific voice. 
  
  As I said before the gameplay may be easy to handle at first as button mashing lets you perform 
 great attacks randomly. However, you will realize that the system is rather deep and you will beat 
 every button masher if you know what you are doing. 
  Furthermore some attacks can be interupted, which is quite helpful at times. Another feature Bleach 
 TboF offers is the card system which provides your characters with attack/defence upgrades or harms 
 the foes mobility and many more. This is also realized by choosing a card from the touchscreen. 
 So all the action takes place on the upper screen.
  
  Bleach: The Blade of Fate has a huge amount of single player modes. But at start you will be spending 
 most of the time with unlocking characters, which is done in Story mode. This mode delivers a short 
 Storyline for every character you can choose from. The multiplayer mode offers battles with upto 
 four characters at the same time (2vs.2) which can be really fun and keeps you playing this game 
 for many times.
  
  Not having played any good fighting game on handhelds this game is a true enrichment for this genre 
 as you can enjoy it on the go, too. And you can't deny that games based on series or films etc. 
 provide you with a great gaming experience like this game does, can you?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wehuntjoe
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 24, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Bleach the blade of fate was completely disappointing. The game controls are to hard and the touch 
 screen are too easy. The story lines are really short and it is just to easy to unlock everything. 
 It takes at most 3 hours to beat. The 2D animation is just awful and it is just really disappointing. 
 The characters voices are pretty good but there is nothing in thing in this game at all that can 
 just blow us away. Like i mentioned the 2D action really upset me since we should be in 3D generation 
 and the fact that 2D action only worked for street fighter. Tho the game is decently fun if you 
 have a long drive and need something to do, then i do recommend this, but that is all it is good 
 for. This came would be a little more fun for the fans of the manga but I say wait for a few more 
 bleach games.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REgrl4life
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Lets start off by saying, Bleach fans will be quit at home here with this game. Bleach, if anyone 
 doesn't know, is an Anime serious that is popular in both the US and Japan. It has been made into 
 many video games, but this one, I have to say, is the best one ever made.
  
  
  Story: SPOILERS FOR ANIME/GAME. In Bleach: Blade of fates, you play as a Soul Reaper named Ichigo. 
 His friend, who is also a Soul-reaper, Rukia, is captured and sentenced to Death in 21 days. Ichigo 
 gets his friends, Orihimay, Chad, and ururu, and sets off to find and save Rukia. Their, they must 
 travel to different places. (Symbolized as levels in the game.) Ichigo goes off and fights many 
 different soul-reapers to help him find his way to Rukia before she is exacuted.
  
  
  Art Design: 8/10- Nice Anime style characters, all or all the same as the Anime. The different 
 outfits don't really mean anything other a splash of new color to the character.
  
  Sound affects: 10/10- This is one of the best sound affects I have seen in any Bleach game. They 
 have the real Anime voice actors for the game, and the music and weapon sounds sound even better.
 
  
  Levels: 9/10- Nice different level designs, taken right from the Anime serious and into the video 
 game. Amazing color in it, some added affects are nice.
  
  different modes: 10/10- This game features a wide range of modes. From the soul reapers shop, to 
 the arcade, and the story mode. It also supports some neat Wi-fi.
  
  Wi-Fi: 9/10- This game has some amazing Wi-fi. ut, through it all. $ player wi-fi might lead to 
 some un welcome lag. But other then that, its a ncie way to show off your Bleach skills.
  
  Extras: 10/10- This game has some nice extras. From extra costumes and different pieces of art 
 work from the anime and the game. A sweet edition to anyone who likes both.
  
  
  Ending Comments: This game will satisfy any Bleach-hungry fan or any 2-D fighter fan of all ages. 
 This game is amazing in art styles, and fighting styles, I hope everyone who buys this game will 
 Enjoy it, like I did, and get hooked on Bleach forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireboost11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  I usually dont really like games that are based on a japanese manga series (i. e. dragonball z, 
 naruto, one piece) since they usually arent very fun, challenging, and entertaining, but bleach: 
 the blade of fate, was surprisingly different and better. 
  
  graphics- the graphics are pretty good some of the characters like ichigo could use some work but 
 the character animations (every bankai and alot of the super moves) are very good
  
  difficulty- since you can control the difficulty level and the cpu AI level, you can basically 
 determine your difficulty level. once you get really good and can releash those 250 hit combos 
 try it on hard.
  
  story- the main story is pretty easy and fun, and so are the other 22 stories, each with their 
 own main character.
  
  controls- the controls are simple three attack buttons and your guard, flash step, and d-pad, plus 
 the touch screen power ups and special and super attack shortcuts.
  
  other stuff- the unlockable cards and the other game modes will give you a lot of fun but after 
 a while it kinda gets boring, after you've gotten everything.
  
  overall its a very fun game with a lot of entertainment.
  
  my favorite character is yachiru 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sajjed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Bleach blade of fate is so far one of the best fighting games you can get on the DS and will grip 
 you to it with no problem whatsoever. The game may have its flaws but is still a great game... no 
 a Amazing game yes, this game is a must have for Fans who watch the show and for people who just 
 like playing fighting games. So i assure you this game is worth all the money in your pocket (well 
 not all your money of course) and will serve you good. Another great feature in this game is its 
 WI FI. A feature that allows you to face other fighters around the world in friendly match's, ranking 
 match's and special Na'a'bout match's also you can do a verses up to 4 players via wireless download, 
 exchanging of friend codes or by each of you having a game each (i prefer doing the Wireless download 
 method and exchanging friend codes method) . So if your looking for a good fighting game than this 
 is the one for you! So i recommend this game for Fans of the show, Fighter addicts and just Plain 
 gamers. I advise you to get this game soon or it'll be out of stock before you know it.
  
  Strengths
  Good Multiplayer 
  Great WI FI
  Good gameplay
  Easy to understand
  Lots of 
 characters
  Good Story
  
  Flaws
  Uneven/unfair advantages because of cards
  Auto block and Auto combo makes The fighting a bit unfair
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seker456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game that bleach lovers should play. It has a lot of action and gets to the 
 main point of the game saving Rukia. This has plenty of characters in the game and only about 3 
 spoilers if ur not that far in the series.
  I recommend this game for a long car ride also cus there is 23 stories to beat and if u wanna unlock 
 more spirit cards ( Used to make specile stuff happen) do arcade mode on all characters. This game 
 is also a great Nintendo wi fi game. It also has ranked fights.
  
  Strengths
  
  The game keeps u busy for a while 
  Really fun game that has great characters
  Nintendo Wi 
 Fi
  Great Story Modes
  Fun Button Mashing game
  Easy game to Play
  
  Flaws
  Gets frustrating sometimes when u die when computer cheats
  should have more characters because 
 there were a lot of characters that fought in the show but didn't show up in the game like Ikukku
 
  This one is not there fault but a lot of cheaters in Wi FI ( Spam attacks)
  
  I hope i helped u to find a great game to play ( as u can see the flaws arent that bad)
  
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pro_acer
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Bleach: The Blade of Fate, is my favorite fighting game on the DS by far. I was and still am a 
 big fan of the show when I started playing this. When I first saw the game's box in my local Game 
 stop, it immediately looked very appealing to me, even though I hadn't heard of it before. When 
 I took it home and played for a little bit, I button-mashed for most of my battles because I didn't 
 know the game that well. Eventually though, I just dreamed up my own combos to use, which, when 
 I tried them out, actually worked! Although the graphics look simple at first glance, it really 
 does look impressive when you see every fighter's special attack at once in a four-way battle. 
 The sound is great and gives the game an exciting feel. The gameplay is probably the best part 
 of the game, since it's easy to learn but hard to really master. The use of spirit cards as a strategy 
 to make yourself harder to beat is a good addition to the game. The game lasts a very long time, 
 and even though I already unlocked all there is to unlock in the game, I still pick it up and play 
 from time to time, and it's still as fun now as it was when I first got it. Playing on wi-fi is 
 also fun, unless you run into the occasional spammer who abuses a certain move for a cheap win. 
 For me, the worst part of the game was probably the story mode. Apart from the first one, each 
 character's storyline felt too rushed and was over too quickly. Thankfully, this did not detract 
 from the whole experience very much at all.
  
  I would recommend this game to any fan of the Bleach series, as well as to any DS gamer out there 
 who is looking for a great fighting game for the DS. This is a must-own for fans of the Bleach 
 series.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bleachfreak7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Bleach: Blade of Fate is my favorite DS game and there's no doubt about it. Most games made after 
 an anime suck (in my opinion) . Bleach, on the other hand, is the greatest game ive ever played 
 on my DS. It's highly addictive and has great multiplayer. You can earn money called Kan. You use 
 the Kan to buy spirit cards to power up characters or weaken enemies. You can buy sounds and pictures 
 for the gallery too. There is about 800 total sounds and pictures. 
  The graphics are just like the show. The action is quick and not glitchy at all and the characters 
 talk too! How cool is that! When Byakuya uses scatter you can hear him say, "Scatter..." 
  I've played this game for a long time because ut's so addictive and fun. It's truly an amazing 
 game!
  This is also a combo game. If you're good enough you can learn combos that will defeat your enemy 
 without them even getting a chance to move! The characters aren't overpowered or underpowered either. 
 The damage calculation is perfect. The difficulty level is just right! You can button mash but 
 button mashing probably won't get you past easy mode so you need to learn the moves :P 
  The story is great. It isn't like 4 volumes of episodes like the other anime games. I think Bleach 
 uses the forst 21 volumes! The game isn't really long but u have so many other unlockables to get! 
 You have everything in the shop that I mentioned earlier. There's all the characters too.
  You can also do more than story mode. You start with Story Mode, Arcade Mode, Options, Urahara 
 shop, Deck Construction, and gallery. You can unlock: Time Attack, Challenge Mode, and Survival 
 mode. 
  It has it's similarities and differences from other fighting games. Some of the similarities are: 
 Fighting (obviously) , special attacks, combos, cheats, secret moves, and of course... a strategy. 
 Some differences are: Spirirt cards, gallery, shop, air combos, Very fast moving combos. 
  The wifi is good too. It slows down a tiny bit on wifi but it doesn't make a difference really 
 and it doesn't get glitchy either. Well... on wifi you get to be any character you want. You can 
 use your spirit cards and anything else. Wifi includes: 2 player no rules, 4 players no rules, 
 and you can set some basic rules if you want to. 
  The game has great back-round music and sound effects too. I love the theme song. 
  
  So... 
 anyway... If you ask me, this game is worth buying 100%. It's a must buy!
  
  And that's my review. Enjoy the game!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KumoTL
Rating: 8
Date: May 29, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Bleach: Blade of Fate is a fighting game for the DS. It is based on the Bleach anime and goes up 
 to the end of the Soul Society arc, but there are things in it that are outside of the SS arc (like 
 Rukia's shikai) .
  
  The game features 28 characters from the series, but it's actually 27 because Komamura unmasked 
 is counted as a completely different character. I'll take this opportunity to talk about the characters. 
 Every character has special moves and super moves. The special moves are usually something that 
 corporate the character's abilities. Super moves are stronger moves that cost spiritual pressure.
 
  
  The game features 7 modes: Story Mode, Arcade Mode, Versus Mode, Training Mode, Time Attack Mode, 
 Survival Mode, and Challenge Mode.
  
  Story Mode is probably what you think it is. You play through what that character did during the 
 SS arc, generally. There are characters whose story mode is a non-canon tournament or some other 
 random sort of adventure. For example, Ganju's story is simply him running around trying to find 
 his hog Bonnie.
  
  Arcade Mode is a string of eight fights in a row. You gain your health back after each fight. 
 
  
  Versus Mode is a normal fighting mode. You can fight the computer, do download play with a friend, 
 do multi-card play with a friend, or play on Wi-Fi. Every fight in versus mode can have a maximum 
 of 4 players.
  
  Training Mode is self-explanatory. You can test out the different characters, their moves, and 
 combos.
  
  Time Attack Mode is a mode where you try to defeat 20 opponents as fast as you can.
  
  Survival 
 Mode is where you continually fight opponents. You do not get your health back after each fight 
 and your spiritual pressure carries over each fight. This mode is the best way to get money.
  
  Challenge Mode is a mode where you must do certain combos with characters.
  
  The game's 
 replay value: On a scale of 1 to 10, I'd say this game has a replay value of 8. You can play online, 
 although there aren't too many people online (but then again, it depends on what time of day you 
 get online) , and try to buy all the stuff in the Urahara shop. If you're not a fan of Bleach and 
 you're considering getting the game, you should probably rent it first.
  
  Well, that's it. Thanks for reading my first review. :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodbyethumbs
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  For starters even though it's a game focused on a TV series you don't really need to know anything 
 about the series to play the game, it stands on its own two feet without so much as a twitch.
 
  The character roster is immense, almost thirty characters, some available straight away, others 
 need unlocking.
  The gameplay is almost flawless, it's your standard fighter control system but Bleach also incorporates 
 the touch screen so some special moves are as simple as tapping the screen. There is also a card 
 system that augments your character with improved stats for a short period of time during gameplay. 
 This is a nice feature because it helps give the gameplay that little bit of uniqueness that changes 
 the game from a typical fighter to a truly individual fighting game.
  One issue i had with the control system was that using the touch screen and fighting at the same 
 time is difficult and at first begginners will probably get slightly stressed but once your used 
 to it it's all good.
  The graphics are bright and colourful and the sound quality is crystal.
  There are several little 
 bonus features unlockable through the game, new characters, sound and image galleries and a couple 
 of new game modes to unlock which provides the game with plenty of hours of fun.
  This is a game that you can pick up and play anytime, one that lasts a long time and will leave 
 few gamers dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheExiled280
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Bleach BOF is a great game and is true to the bleach series. In my oppion Bleach BOF is the best 
 game I own. Bleach Blade Of Fate is a fighting game that mainly tells the story of Ichigo and his 
 friends as they try to rescue a girl named Rukia from being killed in a spirtural world known as 
 the Soul Society. Even though the main story is circled around Ichigo and his friends their are 
 23 others story arcs to play. Their are also lots of different modes to play such as arcade, versus, 
 training, time attack survival and challenge mode. In total their are 28 charaters so it will take 
 a while to completely beat Bleach BOF. Finally Bleach BOF has a Wi-Fi mode so you can fight people 
 from all across the country. As you can see Bleach Blade Of Fate is a great game and if you play 
 it and like then you should look forward to Bleach Dark Souls for the DS which will include a bigger 
 roster of charaters and a different story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9
Date: May 27, 2008 12:16 am PT
Review:  Face the reality: Bleach: Blade of Fate is a great- the greatest- anime fighter in the DS, or maybe 
 ever.
  
  Everyone has the impression that anime-inspired licensed fighters are either crappy or boring, 
 and for good reason. But this one breaks the stereotype and Treasure dishes out a really, really 
 great game.
  
  There are solid controls and combos you can typically see in a typical hardcore fighter, however, 
 it also gets to appeal to other people to the point that you can actually pick it up and play. 
 Why? Well, that's because the game also makes it a point to put attack commands in the touch screen 
 for better access, and that's all for the good.
  
  A twist made on the standard fighting formula, however, is the presence of status-changing cards. 
 Those cards either make you stronger, or your defense stronger, or your enemies' weaker. And like 
 a few other fighters, it also utilizes a foreground-background kind of system so as to let four 
 players fight (although all of them can fight in just the foreground simultaneously) .
  
  As for the multiplayer aspect, single-card play is definitely really, really slow, but as for multi-card... 
 well, frankly, I don't know. But if you have the patience to endure single-card play's agonizing 
 loading times, it's fun too.
  
  But for replay value, you get to unlock different characters, buy cards and explore the game's 
 plethora of modes. And the game, at 30 dollars, is probably enough bang for your buck.
  
  To put it simply, Bleach: Blade of Fate is a really great fighter, and if you're looking for a 
 fighter for the DS, look no where else- especially not the Wii version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  I'll tell you right now, I haven't seen more than the first half of the first season of the show. 
 I really enjoyed it, but just never had the time to continue. When I heard they were making a fighting 
 game for the DS, I figured it would be another lame, washed out anime-based game. Well I stuck 
 around, read a lot of reviews and discovered it might actually be decent. I found a used copy at 
 my local Gamestop and picked it up. I must say, I have been impressed, especially since I'm not 
 the biggest of fighting game fans.
  
  The story is simple enough. You are Ichigo and must invade the Seiretei (spelling?) in order to 
 save Rukia. On the way you will face all sorts of people who will stand in your way, and you must 
 fight them. That is the initial story but essentially there are 22 stories to play through, each 
 for different characters and revealing more and more of the bigger picture. Finally, when you complete 
 the 22 stories (besides Ichigo's story, the rest are actually fairly short with only a couple of 
 battles each usually) you will unlock a 23rd story. This one basically puts everything together 
 and walks you through the whole story from beginning to end, with a couple of battles to keep your 
 attention and then an epic final battle. It is simple enough, but allows you to play through every 
 character (so that you unlock everybody) and find who is your best. Most fighting games have each 
 character either have his/her own irrelevant story or they all have the same story, so having them 
 all interwoven was a definate plus.
  
  The other game modes are Arcade mode (standard fighting) , VS (computer or humans, online or local) , 
 Challenge mode (basically teaches you various combos for each character, really great feature) , 
 Time Attack (unlockable... you fight every fighter as fast as you can) , Survival (unlockable... you 
 fight every fighter but don't recover health between battles, so see how many opponents you can 
 defeat before you get taken down) and Training (self-explanatory) . This adds a lot to do and go 
 through which is great.
  
  The game itself plays great. There is a light attack, medium attack, heavy attack (ground and air 
 each) , flash step (which basically uses one of your 3 bars of energy, which eventually recharge, 
 to do a quick teleport to your enemy) , double-jump, dash, guard and line jump (let's you jump between 
 the two battlefields) . There are a decent amount of combos and special attacks, along with a couple 
 super attacks that you need to charge up over the course of the battle to be able to use. You can 
 also do upgraded special attacks by using your heavy attack to perform the move and it uses up 
 one of your 3 energy bars (that recharge slowly over time, the rate of recharge depends on how 
 powerful the attack) . There are some advanced techniques as well like Guard Cancel, that adds quite 
 a bit of depth to this little game. I honestly wish there were more than a max of 5 special attacks 
 and sometimes the combos feel limited, but I must admit for a portable fighting game, this feels 
 pretty darn complete as is.
  
  The twist to this game though, are the Spirit Cards. On the touch screen you can activate cards 
 that do different things (raise attack, raise defense, etc.) to compliment your fighting style. 
 You can also perform special attacks on the touch screen with ease in case you have trouble with 
 the button combinations (great for beginners, though never used by better players) . It really is 
 a fantastic system that adds a little spice to an otherwise traditional fighting game.
  
  The sound effects are standard, with minimal voice acting (though pretty decent) , and the music 
 is mostly good.
  
  The game looks absolutely great though, with decent character animations, great looking sprites 
 and pretty nicely done backgrounds.
  
  To help you come back for more are tons of unlockables. As you beat portions of the story or just 
 fight in different modes, you will obtain money which you can use in the Uruhara Shop to buy clothing 
 colors for each character, a LOT of artwork, music and sound effects (plus you can buy different 
 narrators) and best of all a whole bunch of Spirit Cards. On top of that, playing through the game 
 will net you a handful of Spirit Cards and will allow you to unlock characters, making the max 
 number 28. Yes, 28 fighters in a DS fighting game. It is glorious. Most of the fighers are fairly 
 unique too so you will find it fun to play with each character.
  
  There is single-pak multiplayer that takes a while to load but is a great way to convince a friend 
 to buy it. The Local Wireless works great with up to 4 players per battle, and the online play 
 is almost lag free which is great (even with 4 players) . You can do friend matches, ranked matches 
 or just random play which really makes this a game you will be playing for a long time (well, until 
 all the players move on to the sequel) .
  
  In the end, this is a loaded fighting game that has great online functionality, a reasonable number 
 of things to do in singleplayer and a creative use of a great anime license. Bleach fan or not, 
 if you enjoy fighting games, you must have this for your DS. Enjoy.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Value: 10/10
  
  OVERALL: 8.5/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tpkfreak
Rating: 10
Date: May 2, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  okay! Bleach: The Blade Of Fate is an awsome ds game!. it was a roster of 28 characters!, I bunch 
 of modes!,4 player battle!!!, and a story mode for all the characters!
  
  The olnt complaint about the characters is that some of them are just there to take up space... For 
 example you have someone with a mask and without a mask.... DOSE IT MAKE A DIFFERENCE!!
  
  Now lets get on to the combat.. at first when you play this game you might just be mashing buttons 
 together but in fact that combat system is alot more deeper than that. you have light attacks, medium 
 attacks, and heavy attacks which you can follow up by jmping up and unleashing another mid air combo 
 then finish with on of the awsome specials!
  
  Now speaking off specials lets go on to the specials.
  
  specials are special techniques that 
 everyone has. the specials varie based on the character. At times you may think that the specials 
 are cool and such and do I good amount of damage, and it does! but usually youll end up fighting 
 and opponent who spamms with the specials completly attacking you with giving you a chance to breathe.
 
  
  But despite that this game is pretty good!, the computer AI is at a good difficulty that will put 
 even experts to shame. and there are a bunch of modes that will surley keep you occupied for a very 
 long time.
  
  This Game gets A 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ash73
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  BLEACH BLADE OF FATE is a very good anime rpg 2d fighting i myslef bought the game and i wasnt 
 sure if it wouid be good i was extremley pleased with my purchase the game has roughly 28 characters 
 from there also roughly from the 1st 60 episodes of bleach there is many unlockables like kon the 
 stuffed teddy the game is fairly easy and after doing it with the first character the other characters 
 storys are extremley short how ever the excellent graphics and battle system makes up for all the 
 bad things the wifi battleing system is good how ever some times does lag but that is more or else 
 depending on the location of your opponent but this game is worth every penny spent on buying it 
 especially if tou are a fan of the anime but if not the game is still worth it but it just might 
 be more apealing to the anime fans or just rpg fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok, usually anime games get poor scores on gamespot (see Naruto) but gamespot gave this game a 
 great score and now i know y. ITS AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  The Good: I luv the opening movie, its so freakin' cool and the music is awesome!!!!!!!!-Great sound 
 effects-Awesome battles-Wifi-TONS of characters-A pretty long story-Lots of different game modes-Great 
 extras-DS download play (WOOHOO) -They dont push the graphics so much to make it look like crap 
 (see Naruto Ninja Destiny) 
  
  The Bad: Kon is so Freakin' annoying in this game its not even funny-You cant play as Hollows (with 
 the exception of Hollow Ichigo) -Ganju and Kurotsuchi say bastard too much -_- 
  
  Final Comments: This game owns and my friend code is 1891-1361-9136. I highly recommend this to 
 fans of Bleach and even non fans, its a truly awesome fighting experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strikerfan116
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 20, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Bleach: The blade of Fate was made way before a game lots of us know, Shattered blade. We also know 
 that Shattered blade sucks. So this game had to clean up it's failure, and it did a wonderful job 
 at it! It brought menacingly good graphics and 2D fighting together, not to mention, BLEACH! Although 
 it won't keep you occupied for more than a week (2 days for me) it is still and awesome game, and 
 if you're getting bored, why not play it with your friends! The great multiplayer will extend the 
 life of this game alot! Anyway, I almost did the mistake of getting Shattered Blade. I'm lucky 
 I didn't. They say that new owns the old, that's not true. With over 28 characters, and some new 
 ones you might have not seen in the T. V show, The Blade of Fate will keep you occupied, atleast 
 for a time... Well that's all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReggieWhite2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Haven't read the manga or seen the anime to Bleach? You don't know what you're missing. Its an 
 awesome show about sword-wielding Soul Reapers (death gods) who pass judgment on on sinister creatures 
 called Hollows. They also help lingering spirits find peace by sending them to the Soul Society, 
 a world where the deceased dwell. Sounds like Soul Reapers live nice, peaceful lives, huh? Well 
 nothing is perfect and even Soul Reapers can come to blows over disagreements. When one of their 
 own is given the death penalty, things get pretty chaotic in the Soul Society but it does make 
 for a really sweet concept for a video game. Bleach: The Blade of Fate, developed by Treasure not 
 only does the Bleach name justice, but is a killer fighting game to boot.
  
  The game centers around the Soul Society story arc. Ichigo Kurosaki, the series main protagonist, 
 has infiltrated the Soul Society along with his friends to save the life of Rukia Kuchiki, a Soul 
 Reaper who gave Ichigo her powers so he could save his family. Rukia has been sentenced to death 
 for giving her powers to Ichigo and if he wants to keep her among the living, he'll have to fight 
 his way through a horde of Soul Reapers. 
  
  Blade of Fate, like most fighting games has the usual heavy, medium and light attacks, but Soul 
 Reapers can't live by merely three methods of attack. Along with special moves, you'll also have 
 access to the Flash Step technique, a move that allows you to move at super speed. The Flash Step 
 move is really useful for evading oncoming attacks, getting out of corners and all round screwing 
 with your opponent. You can also use Flash Steps with double jumps. Flash Steps do require the 
 use of one bar of spiritual power so you may not wanna get too crazy when using them. There's also 
 the explosive Bankai, a move that is basically a Soul Reaper's ultimate weapon. Not every Soul 
 Reaper has Bankai, but most Captains posses this move and even a few Assistant Captains (Renji 
 Abari) can use Bankai. 
  
  If Bankai wasn't enough to tip the odds of battle in your favor, you also have spirit cards. Spirit 
 cards have many varying effects such as increasing your attack power, or give you full spiritual 
 pressure right away. Up to eight spiritual cards can be stocked in your deck and you can select 
 what cards you want in, filtering out the cards you feel are less useful. More spirit cards can 
 be earned by finishing the game's different modes with different characters or buying them in the 
 Urahara shop.
  
  Just about every character that's been in combat in the series is playable, along with some characters 
 you may not expect like Kon and Bonnie, Ganju's boar. None of the characters feel like clones of 
 each other and some characters have far less defense than others so unless you really like a challenge, 
 you may want to refrain from using a character like Tatsuki.
  
  When you finish unlocking all the characters in story mode, there's also time attack, survival, 
 challenge, arcade and versus mode to keep you busy. Versus mode lets three other players join the 
 fight using a single DS game card, even if it is a bit limited without DS wireless connection and 
 four player online brawls suffer from lag.
  
  Thankfully the game is as fun to look at as it is to play. If you're familiar with anime/manga, 
 you'll instantly recognize the background arenas and the character sprites look fantastic. Since 
 most of the music in the anime is rock based, it doesn't come as much of a surprise that you'll 
 hear a lot of rock music in Blade of Fate. None of the songs grate on your nerves and the anime's 
 third opening song, Ichirin no Hana is also present and accounted for.
  
  If you want a Bleach title that does the source material justice, you really can't go wrong with 
 the Blade of Fate. The fights are fast and fluid, the visuals are sexy, and the soundtrack rocks 
 hard. This one is well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a huge fan of anime -- the furthest extent of my dabbling in Japanese art and animation 
 is pretty much with Ruroni Kenshin manga as well as the manga and anime of the brilliant Case Closed. 
 Aside from that, however, I'm not a huge fan, and I'm therefore greatly confused by such series 
 as Naruto or, the topic at hand, Bleach. That didn't keep my from renting Bleach: Blade of Fate, 
 however, just because I've lately been really yankering for a DS fighter. 
  
  There are a number of modes to tinker around with in Bleach: The Blade of Fate, but hardcore fans 
 of the series will most likely begin with the Story Mode. I can't speak very authoritatively on 
 the subject, naturally, but from what I've gathered, the main character, Ishigo, has to enter some 
 shielded world to save a girl who's given him the power of a Soul Reaper (her name is Rukia) . You've 
 got to defeat 13 guards and along the way you'll participate in several other battles in your quest 
 to save Rukia. I suppose it might be interesting to any hardcore fans of Bleach, but to be honest 
 I had a tough time getting into the storyline and instead focused more on the gameplay itself. 
 
  
  Bleach: The Blade of Fate is, at its core, a really hardcore fighting title. The control pad will 
 direct your character's movement, as well as crouching and jumping. The B button allows you to 
 slide around, with the Y, X, and A buttons executing certain attacks. But of course, a good fighter 
 is not a button-masher, and that's certainly the case with The Blade of Fate. Simply hitting the 
 Y, X, and A buttons in varying orders probably won't net you a win: what you'll need to do is master 
 the game's really impressive combos and special moves.
  
  But just as The Blade of Fate is hardcore in that it expects you to know tons of characters and 
 background info, it's equally hardcore in that it's a really tough game with one of the steepest 
 learning curves of any DS game I've played. At the beginning of the game you're given a quick tutorial 
 in which a mountain of information is tossed your way, and you're very much expected to remember 
 it all. You're given the complex button inputs for all the special moves, information on the many 
 different meters in the game and what they represent, and descriptions of several statuses. In 
 about five minutes. Your tutor then spouts out some crap like, "It's actually pretty easy," and 
 you're left worried that you should have maybe taken notes. 
  
  And aside from the intense learning curve, the game itself is fairly tough. The AI is well-done 
 you're never winning effortlessly nor getting your butt handed to you time and time again. There 
 are several facets for you to practice and get really good at the fighting mechanic. You can play 
 VS. matches against computer players or access the training mode, which essentially features a 
 solitary character upon which you can practice combinations. And once you've mastered the combat 
 system, Bleach: The Blade of Fate is a really satisfying game. For those that don't want to commit 
 to memory the half-dozen or so special moves, you can also map them to the touch screen and activate 
 them simply by tapping them. 
  
  As I already mentioned, effectively mastering the complex combat that is the bulk of The Blade 
 of Fate is a really satisfying achievement. And I'll lay it down right now: if you have the patience 
 and ability to get that far, then you rock and you need to own this game. If, however, you're like 
 me and suck at most games and/or tend to rent them and don't have the patience the master a game 
 then you're going to be underwhelmed by this title. That said, chaining together special moves, 
 jumping back and forth between planes of combat, and seeing your combo count soar up into the 40s 
 all makes for a fairly exhilarating experience. 
  
  Outside of local battles, there's also an impressive online offering to be found with Bleach: The 
 Blade of Fate. However, if you get online you're going to need to be good, because the core community 
 of online players are insanely good, and will combo the crap out of you if you don't know what 
 you're doing. Online battles are fun and run quite smoothly and without lag -- that no doubt has 
 something to do with the fact that the game runs in 2D. Also, this brings up the game's visuals: 
 the battle graphics are really nice-looking and obviously anime-inspired. However, the conversations 
 that take place in between battles in story mode are done with basic 2D pre-renders of characters. 
 
  
  ?It's tough for me to either recommend or not recommend this game just because of the fact that 
 it really is a mixed bag. If you do decide to purchase it, however, keep in mind that The Blade 
 of Fate is hardcore in every way possible. Bleach fans will appreciate it for the slew of characters 
 and the somewhat-lengthy story mode, and fighter fans will love it for the really deep and rewarding 
 combat system. But if you don't fall into either (or both) of those two categories, it's honestly 
 pretty tough for me to recommend this. It's a tough game that's not for casual gamers and will 
 take a while to get into. But once you do, you're going to have a lot of fun with this quality 
 DS fighting game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SS5Goten
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Bleach the blade of fate is by far the best fighting game on the DS (as of April 10, 2008) . Dont 
 judge the game by the screenshots. This game is amazing! The story is almost exactly like the show. 
 They have a story for a lot of people. They even have Hollow Ichigo as a playable character! He 
 barely made an appearance in the show by then. This game even has online fighting! It also has 
 a spirit card system where you buy and customize a deck of cards that give you power ups and advantages. 
 You activate the cards by touching them via touch screen. Even if your not a Bleach fan or not 
 even a fan of anime at all, you have to get this game. Most characters ave 4 to 5 special moves 
 and 3 to 4 ultimate moves. And if youre playing with Ukitake and Kyoraku on a team, you can a combo 
 ultimate move if just one of u has a full energy gauge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICEMAN9800
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Bleach is one my favorite anime and manga out there so when they announced a Bleach fighting game 
 on the DS I was "Oh Great another Cash in" how wrong I was. Let's get one thing out of the way 
 Bleach the Blade of fate is the best fighting game you can get on any handheld, yes it's that good. 
 One of the best things of Bleach TBOF is the simple and deep combat system if a move is too hard 
 to pull of you can use the touch screen to engage the moves, further more if you are skilled enough 
 you chain a series of specials moves into some pretty wicked combos. It's obvious that Bleach TBOF 
 main influence is the Marvel V. S. Capcom series as its combat is really fast and frenetic. You 
 can even engage super moves like MVC. What makes Bleach TBOF unique is the sprit cards, special 
 assist cards that aid you during battle and can even turn the tide of a fight, you can buy cards 
 or trade with friends and build decks to your liking it's really flexible and adds to the replay 
 value of the game. The roster is filled up with a unique cast from the anime and manga and each 
 of them is really fun to play with. The online aspect of Bleach TBOF is very enjoyable but a bit 
 laggy but not so much that it hampers the experience. The graphics looks amazing for a DS game 
 the way character animate are simply the best on the handheld the specials moves look great. The 
 sound effects and music sound incredible for DS. If you have a DS and like fighting games buy this 
 game don't let the fact that it's based on an anime hamper this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilwakka
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say this straight; this game was a surprise. Bleach: The Blade of Fate is a DS fighting 
 game based around a very popular anime show of the same name, minus the subtitle. The first time 
 I played this game, I was not familiar with the show, or indeed watched any of it. I was simply 
 fulfilling a recommendation from a few of my friends, and I was a bit cynical about this long running 
 show, I mean, Naruto got old after the first hundred or so episodes, and the games aren't all that 
 great either. This on the other hand is one of the most solid and most enjoyable fighters I've 
 ever played, let me go into detail.
  
  Beware; the explanation may go into a fair amount of detail.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The gameplay 
 in this game is very fluid and responsive, but also very simple. Your basic fighting mechanics 
 are; the Y, X and A buttons act as your light, medium and heavy attacks respectively, left and 
 right on the d-pad control your movement in the respective direction, up jumps, down crouches, 
 and by hitting any direction whilst you're in the air will send you moving in that direction. 
 
  In its most basic form, that's how you play the game, but there's more to it. There are three 
 gauges that you should try to keep your eye on. The health gauge is pretty self explanatory, under 
 your health however is the second meter - your "Spirit pressure" gauge, when the bar fills, you 
 will create a reserve of power which you use to perform your most powerful techniques. The third 
 is in the bottom left of your screen and is named the "S-Power" gauge it is split into three sections, 
 and has a few uses which I will go into more detail as they come up.
  The bottom screen of the DS contains some "shortcut" buttons which you can use to perform special 
 attacks without the button presses, this may seem slightly cheap as you or your opponent can do 
 specials at the drop of a hat, but continued use of these specials make them easier to dodge, and 
 it's difficult to abuse the system. The "S-Power" I mentioned is linked to special attacks, you 
 can perform them without any power in the bar, but they'll be weaker if you do so.
  The other use of the bottom screen is for your "S-Cards", which serve a variety of purposes from 
 boosting your attack strength for a brief period, weakening your opponent's defences, or giving 
 your spirit gauges a little boost. They are a nice feature, and your deck of cards can be reconstructed 
 to suit your personal fighting style, so a degree of depth is added with this system.
  As for the battle mechanics, it's a simple 2D fighting game with a small twist  most of the arenas 
 you battle in contain two playing fields, a top one and a bottom one. This gives the illusion of 
 3 dimensions and the boundaries between the two can be traversed (or more simply, jumped over) 
 by sacrificing a little of your "S-Power".
  The modes that you can play are of common fighting game tradition; Story, Arcade, Time Attack, 
 Training and Survival, but by beating these modes, you earn money, which you can spend at the shop 
 on better S-Cards, the sound test, more costumes, and other bonus content.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  This game doesn't exactly push the boundaries of what the DS can do. The sprites 
 are 2D, their movements are fairly simplistic, and a few of the arenas lack imagination. But on 
 the flip side, the sprites are well detailed, and while the moves are simplistic, some very bright 
 and mesmerizing effects are created when special moves are performed. Some of the environments 
 are very slightly destructible, mostly when you line jump in a particular place, but it's nothing 
 really special.
  
  The main criticisms I have with the games visuals and engine, is when playing with three or four 
 players, lag starts to build, and the fast paced gameplay that I adore in this game slows down 
 dramatically. I have no idea what causes this, because the graphics aren't busy all of the time, 
 and this slowdown happens even when the action isn't even intense.
  What am I saying, the lag isn't TOO bad, it's still a very enjoyable multiplayer experience, and 
 up to -four- players can play on a single cartridge. That's a feature that should become a staple 
 in DS games from now on (at least the ones that support four players) , the only problem with this 
 however, is that the load times are agonising when three people are leeching off of one cartridge, 
 but hey, more of a reason to buy the game!
  
  Audio: 8/10
  There are very little criticisms to be made about the sound quality, the English voice actors from 
 the show are present and do a bang-up job in my opinion, there is no option to change the audio 
 cues from English to Japanese like I've seen in a few anime style games, but that doesn't ruin 
 the experience for me, the English voices are great and everyone should agree, damnit!
  The music ranges from sad little piano ditties when the story gets heavy, some rockin' metal riffs 
 when it isn't, and energetic, and sometimes silly sounding tunes when you enter a match. The music, 
 however, never sounds out of place and really sets the mood at times. When you buy the privilege, 
 make sure you check out the sound test.
  
  Story: 8/10
  What can I say here? The story in this videogame is basically ripped from one of the earlier arcs 
 of the show, and is almost completely canon, there's no really cheesy dialogue (or should I say 
 text, no audio cues in the storyline sequences) but at any rate, if you want to skip the story 
 or already know how it goes, you can just hit the start button and go straight to the action, as 
 simple as that.
  
  Use of the stylus: 5/10
  Stylus seems a bit inadequate here. Sure, you can use the actual stylus to choose your character 
 (a feat more instinctively done through the d-pad) , but when you're in battle you'll be hitting 
 the special, super and S-cards with your thumb  there's too much action to be clutching a stylus 
 at the same time, trust me. All in all, you'll be using the touch screen liberally in battles unless 
 you've memorized the button combos, and even then you'll be using your S-Cards, so the amount of 
 usage is fairly predictable of a game of this genre. 
  
  
  Summary: Me/10
  Again, the score I've given is not an average, more of a score that justifies my opinion. And my 
 opinion is this  if you're a serious fighting enthusiast, pick this game up. It's simple enough 
 for casual gamers to become competent at, and deep enough for pros to get their fill, this is a 
 massive recommendation from me.
  Oh, one more thing. As great as this game is, it has a brother called Bleach: Shattered Blade on 
 the Nintendo Wii. It comes nowhere NEAR to the greatness of this game. You want a review? Watch 
 this space, it may be coming soon.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmcheetor82
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I'd almost call this the poor mans fighting game. Considering if you aren't in the mood to bottom 
 mash you can simply use the bottom screen to do all the dirty work. Therer are some down falls 
 to playing the game this way but it changes things up nicely. 
  
  Now if you still like to button mash they left you the option with comobo list avalible from the 
 pause menu. Personally I prefer the touch screen it's so much simplier. The down falll to this 
 is you lose "spirit power" and aren't able to pull certaint things off like falsh step.
  
  I love the anime and I'm not a big fan of fighting games but going on Gamespots suggestion and 
 the fact that it got a pretty good rating over all I bought it. And I must say I'm very very pleased. 
 All the dub voices are in it for the charactors playable. And done well.
  
  They even put in Bankai Super Moves at a simple push of the bottom screen. And once you got the 
 flow of the game the whole spirit card thing comes rather naturally. Hell you can even play as 
 KON! What more could you want. 
  
  The fact that you can play this up to 4 player off one cart is a very nice feature the load times 
 suck but still very nice indeed. And will about 23 different charactors to play as it has really 
 good replay value. 
  
  This game by far is the best DS fighter out there right now. So if you're looking for a fighting 
 game or you really like the anime, or you just wanna try something new. I'd recommend picking this 
 up. It's a heck of a lot of fun and really easy to get into.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cantius
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Now everybody knows what Bleach is, right? Of course you do! If you don't, I highly recommend it to 
 any anime fans out there. But anyway, Bleach is a popular anime in Japan, and has produced 13 games 
 already, and most are which are decent games. Bleach: Blade of Fate for the DS, however, is one of the 
 most enjoyed games out of those 13. Why? You can play online on it, and fight people from around the 
 world. It also has a bunch of characters for you to master, well, not all, but some. But, it is required 
 to practice with atleast one character to handle Wi-Fi battles. However, I've never gotten online 
 and fought on Wi-Fi, which is the reason why I gave this game an 8.0.
  
  Story [6/10]
  It's about the main character, Ichigo Kurosaki, that absorbs a shinigami's power. But unfortunately 
 for that Shinigami, Ruikia Kuchiki, it is against the law of Soul Society to do such things. This 
 of course, nets her an execution by the court in Soul Society. To save Rukia, Ichigo Kurosaki and 
 his friends go on a journey to Soul Society to save her and fight powerful enemies along the way.
 
  
  The Story mode in this game, is pretty long, considering that there are 22 character stories in it, including 
 23, which is pretty much the real story mode, and it also tells you about the soul society arc of 
 Bleach.
  
  For me, the story mode wasn't really all that fun, considering the amount of dialouge there is, and 
 how some of them are repeated throughout each character's story mode. Even though it may sound bad, it 
 isn't really, since what's a fighting game without a story? The story modes altogether would absorb 
 about more than 10 or 15 hours of your life, which is good if you don't have Wi-Fi, like me.
  
  Graphics [9/10]
  Ah, yes, the graphics. The graphics in this game are awsome, including lush 
 2-D graphics, and everything about it. Each character is fully detailed, and thier attack animations 
 are done very nicely.
  
  Gameplay [9/10]
  Now, this is pretty much the highlight of the game. You can fight with 2,3, or even 4 people on screen, which 
 can get pretty intense on Wi-Fi, or with the computers. The game also uses the touch screen, such 
 as quick acess to special moves or attacks, for racking up combos, and it is also used for these 
 cards that you can use on battle. These cards can give you the advantage, such has improved defense 
 or restrict jump. This game is mostly about combos and variations of your character's special attacks. Each 
 character is balanced very well, and aren't that hard to get used to.
  
  Music/Sound [7/10]
  I thought that the music could've improved a little bit in this game, but it 
 still pumps your blood up when you fight. From techno to whatever the music genre in this game has, it's 
 decent. The sound is top-notch in this game, and whenever you hear "Bankai", you know your in for 
 a fight! You can go to the options however, and turn the sound volume off if your disgusted with 
 the voice acting. I, for once, like the voice acting in this game. I don't know how people say it's 
 annoying, but it adds depth to the gameplay of the game for me.
  
  Overall [8/10]
  Don't let the lone 8.0 score scare you. I would've rated much higher if I played on Wi-Fi. This game 
 is definately worth playing to any fighter fans out there, or bleach fans. The game features plenty 
 of characters and battles for you to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjata123
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Bleach. An anime featuring, Ichigo Kurosaki, a human who aquired Soul Reaper powers from a fallen 
 Soul Reaper. Then aquired his own to go save that fallen Soul Reaper, Rukia.
  
  If you are not familiar with Bleach, don't worry. Most of the people who haven't heard of Bleach, 
 actually liked this game.
  
  Bleach the Blade of Fate, is a DS fighting game. You can play as many different Soul Reapers and 
 Humans. All with unique abilitys and attacks.
  
  Story mode is not very long. The longest story mode is Ichigos. Everyone elses can take less than 
 five to ten minutes to complete.
  
  After you complete story mode you should be very familiar with the game. So you can take on Time 
 Attack Mode, or Battle people on the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection.
  
  You can earn some cash by doing other modes, and then you can buy cards, or graphics or character 
 sounds. So you can 100% the game, which some people like to do.
  
  The only problem with this game is that it's very short overall, and can get a little boring after 
 a while.
  
  If you pick up this game, try not to beat it all at once, beat some story, go play some Time Attack, 
 if your already pretty good at the game, take on people on Wi-Fi. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dazbot_
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  Ok, ill be honest with you, im not the biggest anime fan, ive seen it before and i used to watch 
 dragon ball z and pokemon when i was a kid, but i never watch it now, in fact i think anime is 
 kinda the gay, epically when you have to read subtitles... So anyways my DS had just been collecting 
 dust for the last 5 months or so. Then when i decided i wanted a new game i looked at some of the 
 reviews and this game looked like a lot of fun and had a nice review so i went out and got it. 
 It was cheaper than most games like $29.99 which was nice, but its the game not the price.
  
  Graphics:
  So your first impression when you turn on the game is this clean sleek feel. The 
 graphics seem like there right out of the cartoon and all the characters look really great. The 
 closest thing the graphics reminded me of was Street Fighter and Marvel vs Capcom. All of the characters 
 have very nicely animated special attacks while most of them are unique, there are a couple of 
 repeats that you see in some of the other characters. The most visually satisfying part of the 
 game has to be the 'super' attacks. All of them look really cool and are fun to use. With a couple 
 of the character you get a nice little cut scene when you activate their best super move. The only 
 bad things about the fighting animations is that each character only has a light medium and hard 
 attack, and there is only one animation for each, this dosent look as good as it could when you 
 use one type attack right after you just used that attack. Another great thing they did with the 
 graphics is the zooming camera. It does a really good job of keeping up with the action and letting 
 you get a view of the fighting. The last thing to note is the stages themselves look really good 
 too but none of them have an effect on the gameplay... they are all just for looks
  
  Sound
  Im not going to say to much about the sound except that im pretty sure they have all the 
 voice actors from the American version of the show, and the sounds are all nice and really satisfying. 
 Personally i like the music too you get some nice variety. From guitar solos to classic fighting 
 music that will make you think your playing street fighter
  
  Gameplay
  The biggest problem i have with most fighting games is that there isnt alot of single player to 
 keep you interested. Well you'd be happy to know that Bleach has solid single player modes that 
 will keep you interested for a while. You got you classic arcade mode, where you just play through 
 5 consecutive fights with a character. Then theres story mode which has you playing through a story 
 as a character. To beat all stories and reading the stories will take up to 6 hours. theres also 
 a challenge mode and training mode, and unlockable survival mode and time attack mode. These probably 
 wont take up to much time though. The biggest draw is verse mode. Essentially you are doing the 
 same thing in story mode and arcade, but the verse is just alot of fun. One of the really innovative 
 things that have been added to the game is the card system. Essentially you build a deck of cards 
 that enhance your fighter in some way. There is a good variety and it adds an extra level of depth 
 to the game. Speaking of a extra level of depth, in the extremely intense 4 player battles, the 
 game allows you to jump in to the background, where you cannot be hit by the people in the foreground. 
 It really keeps the 4 player battles from getting too crazy. The multiplayer is really fun especially 
 over the WI-FI (which works great and has an indepth ranking system) , or over the single card or 
 multi card play. The game has a really nice skill level where players can learn difficult combos 
 or make a great build. This is the best competitive multiplayer there is on the DS and the best 
 2D fighting game i have played in a very long time.
  
  Overall
  If you dont hate fighting games or despise anime buy this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomoto5
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  Ok these is my review for the game Bleach the blade of fate.
  For the begining i say these is not very cool because these not many personaje like the second 
 i wait for the second ine english .
  For my review i say these habe a great gamplay cools powers great song and cools scenarios and 
 for a fan of bleach these game isreally cool the personaje playables are a couple of the best but 
 unfortuny there no many to select : ( 
  the multiplayer is realy cool you can play download ,wirles, and wifi i play in wifi and it habe 
 a great contrincants to battle. the urahara shop is not so cool the colors yu can buy are very shabby 
 bt the image are awsom .
  the pasword i really dont know how can but really yes i know is with a sticker you can buy in stores 
 .Then we habe the bankais the bankais are really grat for a portable game ,the super powers are 
 really cool like the serie. OK i thing these is all i dont put a 10 or a 9.5 because these dont 
 habe all great personaje of bleach and because the story mode is not so long and really easy 
 
  BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sasukefanx12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
   Great Choice of Characters.
   Wide Varity of attacks and combos
   Keeps you occupied for HOURS/DAYS after you beat the main storymode.
   Wi-Fi 
 battling 
   Spirit Cards make for endless strategies.
   SFX are out of this world 
   Just an overall Solid Gameplay experience
   
 Download Play barely has any differences from normal multiplayer 
  
  Cons:
   Only 10 spirit cards allowed per deck
   Download play is slower than sh**
 
   Wi-Fi matches could suffer from lag.
  
  Bleach: The Blade Of Fate; is an extremely solid fighting game, currently the best out there for 
 the DS. There are many many many things to do long after you've completed each characters storymode 
 (which really isn't that hard) , some including; Wi-Fi matches nation wide to test your skills, 
 spirit card building, Item unlocking and more! On top of that, each character has a very unique 
 set of attacks, with convenient, changeable controls. Just like any good fighting game, strategy 
 is a huge part in this game, you have no strategy, you're gunna get fried. Now, say you're like 
 me and you have more than one favorite character and they each need different boosts and power-ups, 
 what do you do? Well, luckily; you can make up to 5 different spirit card decks, which is this 
 games power-up system. Not only is this game fun, but its definitely worth it, you can spend months 
 just hooked on this game, that's how good it is (put it this way, I got it for x-mass, and I'm 
 still playin it now on Feb. 23) . To sum it up, if you're looking for a good fighting game and you're 
 a Bleach fan, this is most definitely the game for you! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoparAddict
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. Whether or not you are a fan of the Bleach anime an manga, you 
 should really check this game out. The moment I started to play this game I was hooked. If you 
 watch Bleach this game follows the series without a flaw. The controls are relatively easy to use. 
 A=heavy attack, B=flash step, X=medium attack, and Y=light attack. For some of the characters you 
 can use their "bankai" or super finishing move. Every character has a number of special moves, 
 like Special A through D. They also have Super Moves A through C, A being weak, and C being the 
 characters "bankai." Bankai delivers a heavy amount of damage to the opponent and is also very 
 cool. The modes in the game are as follows: Story Mode - Play through different characters secenarios. 
 Arcade Mode - Pick a character and score points. Training Mode - Pick a character and practice 
 their moves. Challenge Mode - Perform button combos and recieve kan. (The money in the game.) Survival 
 Mode - Pick a character and beat as many enemies as possible before being defeated. Time Attack 
 Mode - Defeat all enemies as fast as possible. There is also a shop where you can buy pictures, 
 music, sound effects, and character costumes. This game allows for DS download play with up to 
 4 people, which is very good. It also has wi-fi, which at times lags, but rarely for me. Overall, 
 this game is a must buy for Bleach fans, or if your a fan of the fighting genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spidey608
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  This game is really amazing, and I need to spend a few moments talking about it's greatest aspect, 
 the multiplayer. I have seen a few Bleach games with four player multiplayer before and it always 
 turns out to be amazing. If you are looking for a game that you and your friends can play, I suggest 
 you get this one. Four player free-for-all and team playe make the four player multiplayer groundbreaking 
 for the Nintendo DS. I would also like to add that you can share this game with others meaning 
 another friend doesn't have to have the game to play. 
  
  As far as the solo play goes, this game is pretty good. It's worth getting/playing. The "card" 
 system is pretty interesting in this game since their really just a sidenote. The handling is average 
 and it really doesn't bring anything new to the system. Mostly it just brings the great Bleach 
 storyline with some good gameplay to the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leruw
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Ever since the NDS started circulating my eyes started poking around for 2d fighting games, and 
 I am pleased to say that Bleach definitely made my day.
  
  The gameplay is very interesting, with a sum of 3 buttons to attack, a third to dodge and the d-pad 
 for moving, Bleach: The Blade of Fate brings an interesting and quick-to-learn control setup. There's 
 also a deck of cards, that you may build, with a couple of boosting or de-boosting effects, present, 
 that adds a little twist to it. However, learning to manipulate the game buttons while using the 
 stylus to select them feels quite odd, to say the least.
  
  The multiple game styles also are something to look onto. There are the typical Versus Mode, Practice 
 Mode, a well made Story Mode, Survival Mode, but also a Challenge Mode - where you can test your 
 skills in a series of combo challenges that vary with the character of your choice, a Multiplayer 
 Mode and several other ones, including a shop, where you can buy new
  cards, artwork to be seen in the gallery, other system voices - yes, actually you can hear any 
 of the characters of the game saying out loud the name of the mode you are choosing! - and several 
 other goodies.
  
  There are several characters to chose from, by the way. You start out with the small number of 
 main characters of the series - Ichigo, Chad, and so - but as the time goes by, and you complete 
 more of the Story Mode, you start unlocking the Captains and a few other fighters - whom I'm not 
 gonna talk about not to ruin the fun of it ;] .
  
  Basically Bleach has everything a fighting game gotta have. A decent fighting gameplay, no button-mashing 
 whatsoever, no cranky sounds, excellent art, and a good replay. The only thing that fails a bit 
 on this one is the way to use the cards, it feels really insecure at the beginning, and it doesn't 
 get much different as you learn the game. A hell of a good game to anyone who loves the style - 
 specially the fanboys. ;]
  
  A great score for a top notch game - that even made me watch the series! - hope they do better 
 on the cards next time though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordmaster33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2008 10:19 am PT
Review:  Finally bleach has been released in English..
  
  Game play: You can play with almost everyone in the soul society ARC including kon, bonnie, Yoruichi 
 and others. The controls are very simple and straight forward. There are two styles of game play 
 auto mode ( for those who are new) and manual. You can use bankai with some characters and special 
 kiddo which hasn't been seen in the anime plus you can create your own card deck which enables 
 you to increase power or defense, mobility, etc.
  
  Story: The same as the anime but when your playing with anyone else besides Ichigo or soul reaper 
 chronicles THE STORY IS ALL WRONG which is very disappointing.
  
  Sound: Excellent i was impressed they added ichirin no hana as an opening theme for the game.
 
  
  Value: I highly recommend this game to people who love bleach or fight-arcade games like street 
 fighter. It is also Wi-Fi and there are loads of other options in the game like arcade, training 
 time-attack mode.
  
  thanks for reading
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvtheMan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Bleach the Blade of Fate is based off the hit Manga/Anime series known as Bleach. It takes place 
 after Ichigo and co. all enter the soul society to rescue Rukia Kuchiki. You first start out as 
 playing Ichigo, a basic character with his own unique abilities and style that mirrors the Manga/Anime. 
 The one player aspect of the game is C+, however it gets better when after you beat Ichigo's story 
 you unlock other characters stories. From those stories you end up unlocking even more characters 
 for a total of 28 characters and 23 story lines. 
  
  All of the characters in this game are all represented by the original voice actors from the english 
 Anime, and all act exactly how they would in the Manga/Anime. The great thing about the characters 
 is how unique each one is, especially their Bankai. All of the Bankai from the show is included 
 in this game and all are used in a fashion that works well in the game and isn't too unbalanced. 
 Some of the characters included are: the 13 squad captains including Aizen and an extra version 
 of Komamura, as well as a couple lieutenants, Renji and Hinamori. You also get to play as Chad, 
 Orihime, Uryu, Yoirichi, Rukia, Hollow Ichigo, Tatsuki, Ganju, Bonnie (Ganju's Boar) and Kon. You 
 don't get to play every single character's story, but you play all of the ones involved in the 
 soul society. 
  
  The multiplayer aspect of the game is where it truly shines. You have your option to play wireless 
 games with other cartridge users as well as a download option. Then you also have a Wi-Fi multiplayer 
 as well. I myself have spent many hours playing against other people throughout the nation and 
 have a truly great experience. The only flaw in the multiplayer aspect is that sometimes there 
 may be fps drops when multiple people are using spirit cards (cards that can enhance you or cripple 
 your enemy) but it isn't too noticeable. The other pain is that if you are playing against a really 
 laggy player you cannot quit in ranked mode unless you want to risk losing 1,500 points that may 
 have taken you over an hour to achieve.
  
  This game is a really crisp looking game that is enjoyable to fans as well as any person who is 
 looking for a fighting game on the DS. All of the voices in the game are from the original voice 
 actors from the anime and the visual representation makes this game great. This is clearly the 
 best fighting game on the DS and will be hard to top for a very long time. If you are looking for 
 a new game that has hours and hours of re-playability, then this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRxMADxMONKEY
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  I'll point out the few flaws first.
  Some of the characters moves weren't thought out all that well, so from time to time you'll run 
 into people over Nintendo Wi-Fi connection who abuse a certain combo again and again, which is 
 somehow unable to be blocked or countered in any way.
  
  28 characters is always a plus, however you'll find yourself wishing they had either given more 
 moves to, or completely replaced, characters such as Kon, Tatsuki, Bonnie, Nemu, and Yachiru. These 
 characters simply aren't fun to be or to fight. Also there's Komamura - two of him. One with his 
 helmet, one without, but both have the same moves.
  
  The game also lacks any challenge whatsoever and the story modes are short.
  
  However the 
 other characters are very nice, the only problem is there aren't any hollows, and one of my favorite 
 characters, Urahara, is missing.
  
  Now on to the good things...
  22 very cool characters:
  Yamamoto
  Komamura
  Ukitake
  Yoruichi
  Soi Fon
  Rukia
  
 Tosen
  Kyoraku
  Chad
  Ichigo
  Renji
  Kenpachi
  Ganju
  Ichimaru
  Hitsugaya
  Momo
  Byakuya
  Orihime
  Uryu
  Mayuri
  Hollow Ichigo
  Aizen
  
  Each character has 
 his or her own unique moves.
  
  LOTS of modes:
  Story Mode
  Arcade Mode
  Versus Mode
  Training Mode
  Time Attack Mode
  Survival Mode
  Challenge Mode
  
  When 
 completeing fights in each mode, you earn money, which you may use in the Urahara Shop to buy Spirit 
 Cards (more on these in a minute) , costumes, event graphics, character graphics, bonus graphics, 
 background music, sound effects, and character voices.
  
  Spirit Cards you buy can be put into your deck, which you use during a fight to give you advantages 
 or put other players at a disadvantage for a certain amount of time. Some examples are: Boost S-Power 
 (on self) , Boost Attack (on self) , Lower S-Power (on all enemies) , Restrict Jump (on all enemies) , 
 and Swap S-Power (with an enemy) . The Spirit Cards fall in one of 4 categories: Reinforce, Attack, 
 Action, or Other.
  You may have 5 decks.
  
  The one thing I can't stand, but might not bother some people, and other people may absolutely 
 love, is the fact that each characters special and super attacks can be preformed either with the 
 right button combinations (quite a lot like Street Fighter) OR by simply taping Sp. A, Sp. B, Sp. C, 
 Sp. D, Sp. E, SuperA, SuperB, SuperC on the touch screen ~ NOTE: this is the most Special and Super 
 attacks any one character can have, most characters have less, such as Kon who has only a Sp. A, 
 SuperA, SuperB, SuperC, and Bonnie who only has a Sp. A, Sp. B - which can only be used while jumping 
 or in the middle of Sp. A - Sp. C, and SuperA.
  
  So for some this may come as a disappointment, because the point of a fighting game is learning 
 the moves - but for others this may be a great feature, and it's certainly great for younger gamers. 
 But it's not all just tapping the touch screen, you also have normal attacks assigned to the Y, 
 X, & A buttons, B which uses your Flash Step, and right trigger for blocking.
  
  The game has 4 player single card play, and all players may use all the characters and play all 
 the levels, the only problem is the long loading times.
  
  The game also has 4 player multicard play which has little to no loading time.
  
  Over Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi Connection you may choose:
  FRIEND BOUT
  Players: Two Player / Four Player
  Rules: Free / Fixed
  Deathmatch / Point Match
  Spirit Cards / No Spirit Cards
  
  NAT'L 
 BOUT
  Players: Two Player / Four Player
  Rules: Free / Fixed
  Deathmatch / Point Match
  Spirit Cards / No Spirit Cards
  
  SS RANK BOUT
  
  So in the end, this is the game to get 
 if your looking for a great fighter on the Nintendo DS, and fans of Bleach will appreciate it even 
 more. This is, in my opinion, a 'Must Own' game for all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stinky17
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Bleach: Blade Of Fate was one of the first fighting games for the DS that i bought. It is ok but 
 there are people that just spam low kick low kick low kick low kick flash step low kick low kick 
 low kick low kick flash step and you get locked in it and its hard to block low attacks. Also character 
 balance... There are only really about 10 characters that you can play as that will surivive, the 
 rest dont have a chance even if ur best player in world because they dont have enough.. Like some 
 characters have 2 skills and others have 6 skills. Some characters have 1 super special.. others 
 have 3 super specials... its not balanced character wise.. But its fun for a little while i guess 
 the Wi-Fi is good but 4 player lags and 2 player laggers and spammers (auto) which does combos 
 automaticcaly that is another bad feature... u just push square over and over and u will do a combo 
 that would take hours to master manually. Its not fair. Overall the game is pretty fun but can 
 get boring after a week or two. The cards arent really a good feature they just imbalance it. If 
 uh ave higher lvl cards u have the advantage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bandallarian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  I must say that I am impressed, which I am quite rarely : This game is awesome! Many characters, 
 many modes, many unlockables, and a Wi-Fi section for online battling. What more is it that you 
 can ask for a Handheld 2d fighting game? Personally, I'd like more characters, but, what can I 
 say, this game came out at a certain point of the anime, in which most characters were yet to be 
 announced, except if you read the manga.
  
  Now, I have came before one default : the Wi-Fi play. It will run smoothly, most of the time. But, 
 sometimes, it's going to be horrible. Either will it be FPS lag or simple Internet connection lag, 
 it's lag whatsoever, and it's pretty annoying.
  
  Apart from that, the game's really well made, considering it's made from an anime. Most of the 
 shikai's and bankai's were all seen in the manga, apart maybe from Byakuya's Bankai and other characters 
 who don't fight often.
  
  Finally, I believe that this game will be adored not only by fans of Bleach, but also anyone that 
 likes 2d fighting games; those are pretty rare on the DS and this one's definitely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicUSMC
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Bleach Blade of Fate is a fun fighting game with easy controls to learn. The game modes in the 
 game are like moct in anime based games. A Story, traning, Arcade, and all the outhear ones.
  The story mode covears all the majoir caharacters but most of them are lame and are not that good. 
 But the good part is rhey are the voice actors from the Anime (the warning I have for this game 
 is if you are watching the anime you may spolid with story mode) . The veasures mode has WiFi so 
 you can battle people in the states sadleay you can not play people in outher countries. Arcade 
 mode is what is says like in every outher game you just do 6 battles and the get cash and outher 
 stuff for bitting it.
  For the playable caharacters they go from all of the 13 court gaurds, Rukia rescue team to Kon 
 and Bonnie (Ganju bore that only apears 1 time in the Anime) . Using a combo is easy you can eather 
 toch the touch screen or do the combo. The outher use for the touch screen is sprite cards to change 
 the battle up with giving more damge to your attacks or screw up your oppent.
  The outher game modes are not that inportent so they do not need to be notice I give this game 
 a 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicthemegaman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Most anime games are bad but, Bleach is surprisingly different. All the characters have well balance 
 attacks and attributes. There are plenty of game modes including wi-fi. The AI is just right posing 
 a challenge but, not being unbeatable. It has great sound and great value.
  
  Characters range from Ichigo to soul society characters like Ukitake and Komamura. Some characters 
 have more defensive play styles while characters like Soi Fon have super attacks that take out 
 the enemy in one hit if the attack makes contact. No matter how strong or fast, no one is the "best" 
 character in the game. Characters like Orihime can heal but, can't dodge attacks with flash step 
 while characters like Komamura are very strong but, are on the slow side. There are gimmick characters 
 like Kon who aren't very good but, they're just for show and there are only four of them. The character 
 balance pretty spot on.
  
  Game modes branch from story mode, challenge mode, and even on-line multi-player. Challenge mode 
 is great for learning combos and new moves (don't worry, the damage and guard cancel techniques 
 stop infinites from happening) . Story mode of course follows the anime's story line but, ironically 
 goes farther than the English version on Adult Swim. You can also play on-line as well but, over 
 using spirit cards (abilities like attack boost and soul boost that you collect throughout the 
 game) may create slowdown so find a good connection. With these and other options, there is definitely 
 plenty to do here.
  
  The production quality is also good. AI is challenging but, fair and won't hesitate to use super 
 attacks. The sound effects and music are great and capture the feel of the show. The game has great 
 replay value to keep you coming back. This is one game an amine fan should have and I'm not even 
 one of them. Trust me, that means something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeaderKilla
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  Bleach: Blade of Fate gives hours of good gameplay, with more than 20 episodes to play out of. 
 Also, deck construction in a fighting game is somewhat original. The difficulty settings can be 
 just right, very easy, or very, VERY, hard. Authentic vocies from the anime are crammed into the 
 DS version. Characters are pretty good, and unlocking them is pretty fun as you move through story 
 modes. The graphics are amazing for the DS, making the characters look just the same as in the 
 anime. Special moves can be hard to execute, so thats why they gave you automatic mode so you can 
 just touch the touch screen for the special moves. Stages are just ordinary, some of the stages 
 I don't even remember from the anime. The only problem with this game is that the 4 player Wi-Fi 
 games are full of lag. Not really much of a problem. So, I give this game a 8.5 out of 10 score 
 (Pretty surprising for SEGA....) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midway7c
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game is just to good to pass up with about 30 characters and with the stunning graphics the 
 game is a must have. I think this is one of the best games for the DS if not the best! Each character 
 has a decent amount of special attacks with 6 moves being the minimum number you can tell there 
 is enogh. The online play is fun along with giving you an chance to climb the ranks to be a captain 
 by beating other people online. The four player mode can be fun but I like one on one to show off 
 my skills to people. This game feels like a PS2 game because of all the modes you can choose from 
 and the graphics are just as good as some fighting games for the PS2. The voices for the characters 
 are the ones by the actual people from the show so you can beat up the character and hear them 
 whine about it too. This game is fun on and offline so you will not regret buying this game it 
 is well worth the 30 dollars. So to sum up this spectacular game in one word would be AWESOME! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MidNiteX
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  Awesome game. 
  
  Gameplay
  It's fun. The controls are simple. IT has different difficulty settings which is like cool... it 
 would suck if t didn't because then like you couldn't play on hard mode. I'll admit, it gets repetitive... 
 so it's not perfect.
  
  Graphics
  It's a DS game. The graphics are cool I guess. It's a 2D fighter. Is it even possible to complain 
 about this games graphics!?
  
  Sound
  Bleach music. You like Bleach? No? The gamplay music is alright I guess. It's not like I can complain 
 about it. 
  
  Overall
  It's a fun game. I like playing it all the time. They should have made it for the PSP too. Before 
 you choke me let me explain myself. I have a bulky DS and a slim PSP. Which would I rather have 
 in my pocket all the time? ... 
  Ok, maybe I went too far saying it shoulda been made for the PSP. Maybe I just need to get a DS 
 Lite. My bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkcomments
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay, 9/10
  Graphic, 9/10
  Control, 8/10
  Sound, 9/10
  This game has a good introduction, but if you get into it, it becomes fun. Beefore I go on, I am 
 a fan of side-scrolling-fighting-games, ok there you have it! Now, I don't like the anime, so I 
 think anyone that hasn't watched the show will find this game great. The graphics are great. The 
 control can be learned with practice. The audio Is great. This game is great all over great-land. 
 Touch screen are used in this game too. This game has wifi, so that's awsome, well not that awesome. 
 You can battle online, that's cool, it's like battling a stranger in an arcade, but the battle 
 can get messed up with lag, and/or if both of you start firing with spirit card, and that's just 
 it. The hard part I found was unlocking all the character. Well that's it for my review, if you 
 are a fan of side scroll fighting games, then try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SavageDeathwolf
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  Bleach: The Blade of Fate, is the first Bleach game that I played besides Bleach: Blade Battlers 
 at school during lunch.
  
  I was kinda happy/impressed of how the gameplay was set up. It reminded me greatly of how old school 
 fighting games were played (ex. SNES) , except that there is a touch screen involved. How is the 
 touch screen used in this game you asked? Well, you can use specials or supers that way. You can 
 also use regular combinations of buttons to use specials or supers thas way but using the touch 
 screen is way easier. Next to the supers & specials are cards. They boost several stats at once 
 such as mobility for a period of time.
  The game has the 3rd opening of Bleach, "Ichirin no Hana", before the title screen. The game itself 
 has 7 game modes in total. Which includes Story, Arcade, Versus, Training, Time Attack, Survival 
 & Challenge mode. There is also Deck Construction, Urahara Shop, Gallery, & Options right under 
 that. There is a total number of 28 characters in the game. Yes, 28 characters, sounds fun, eh?
 
  
  Story mode
  There are actually 23 story modes called "Episodes". Each story is based on one single character. 
 Some of the characters that are in the Soul Society stories are based in a tournament. Ichigo's 
 Story is the only one which you will have to pay extra attention to what your are doing in order 
 to pass it. The 23rd "Episode" is where you will unlock the final character to your selection, 
 Hollow Ichigo.
  
  Arcade Mode
  You can pick any character you want in this. It's 6 one-on-one fights.
  
  Versus mode
  I'm 
 not so sure about this mode really. I only played this mode a couple of times with a friend of 
 mine at school. You can play with a friend & double team a single opponent or you can challenge 
 your friends at a 1 on 3 battle.
  
  Time Attack mode
  Whoa, 20 one on one attacks in this one!
  
  Overall, I think this game is highly addictive 
 but after a while, it could get a bit....
  Other then that, buy the game if you haven't already or if you're looking for a great fighting 
 game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefanatic544
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  Bleach: The Blade of Fate is an amazing game that has the voice actors from the actual anime. It 
 also has almost every character in the anime too, including; Ichigo, Orihime, Rukia, Kon, Bonnie, 
 and much much more. The gameplay is also good as it has multiple types of attacks. These attacks 
 are light, medium, and heavy. You can also use special attacks that you can use manually by pushing 
 an amount of buttons or by pushing the buttons on the touch screen. The gameplay also let's you 
 use special cards called spirit cards that help you inside gameplay some of these cards are; Boost 
 S-Power, Boost S-Pres, + Poison, Boost attack, and more. These cards can be organized into different 
 deck that you can choose before you begin a match. Although you start with a default deck at the 
 beginning of the game, you will want to purchase them at the Urahara Shop, giving you access to 
 the useful cards in the game. Overall Bleach: The Blade of Fate is an amazing game that will keep 
 you playing to no end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EaterOfFood
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  There haven't been many outstanding fighters for the DS, and many people, including me, have been 
 crying for a good title, finally, our prayers have been answered. Bleach: The Blade of Fate is 
 a fantastic title that you shouldn't write off as "just another anime game".
  
  Pros
  -Good fighting system
  -Good sound and graphics
  -Good online play
  -Is great game for both 
 fans of the series and people who aren't
  -Characters are all generally well balanced
  
  Cons
  -If you have no way of accessing the internet and have no friends with DS, will not get 
 as much out of the game.
  -May experience brief slowdowns
  -Some fans of the series will be disappointed that not all of their favorite characters are playable.
 
  
  Gameplay - 8.5/10
  
  The fighting system is really solid. If you have ever played any other fighting game such as Tekken 
 or any of the like, you will feel right at home playing Bleach. With a variety of combos for each 
 character, you can constantly figure out new ways to destroy your enemy. It can sometimes feel 
 repetetive fighting against the AI, but it isn't too much of a problem as you can always find new 
 combos to kill them. With 28 characters in all, although one of them is a clone, you can keep on 
 playing for a long time. And if you do happen to get bored with the AI, there is always the online 
 mode!
  
  The game is also extremely easy to pick up for beginners and this is a plus for when you take advantage 
 of the download play with your friends who don't own the game. The game provides shortcuts to do 
 the special moves on each character, and it helps immensely for the people who have a hard time 
 remembering all the button combinations (like me!)
  
  Lastly, the game also offers slight customization of your character through the use of "Spirit 
 Cards", which are basically cards that you can use in battle to help your character or hinder your 
 opponents. These tie in very well to the formation of a strategy and are very useful.
  
  Story
  
  Well, cant really give a rating to this. The game's story mode follows the Soul Society 
 Arc from the anime. For the most part, it stays true to the anime, with the exception of a few 
 of the chapters involving a tournament between the characters and certain parts of the story that 
 were overly simplified. It can serve as a nice refresher to people who have watched the anime and 
 also provides a decent story for people who had always thought bleach was just a household cleaning 
 product.
  
  Sound - 8/10
  
  The sound system for the game is... amazing. On the highest level of volume, it is really, really, 
 loud. The songs and sound effects are all clear and the songs and tunes are enjoyable. The game 
 contains minimal voice acting with the characters having a few phrases for the start of the battle 
 and the end. I'm a sub watcher of the anime so i can't comment on whether the voices are the same 
 as the English dub but I find that they're bearable.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  
  The graphics are very well done, with the sprites achieving a very good look of all the characters. 
 The Bankai sequences are nicely done and the attacks are fairly detailed. The frame rate is generally 
 ok although in those hectic 4 player battles you might experience a slowdown if everybody releases 
 a flashy special attack at around the same time, but otherwise you shouldn't have a problem.
  
  Online Functionality
  
  The game's online mode is where it really shines. It supports download 
 play for up to 4 people, local wireless play as well as online play. When you play online, you 
 can either play with people you know using the friend code system, or play with a random person 
 of around your skill level, or a completely random person. You might experience minor lag but it 
 is generally manageable.
  
  Replay Value - 8/10
  
  You can finish the game's story mode and unlock all the characters in a matter of a few hours, 
 but there are other modes such as arcade mode, survival, time attack that will continue to keep 
 you busy, as well as unlocking all the other things such as sound tests and bonus pictures. And 
 of course, the wi-fi mode means that the game will almost never get old.
  
  
  Bottom Line
  
  Bleach: The Blade of Fate is a great fighter for the DS and even people who 
 aren't fans of the series will enjoy it a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majadamus
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I stay away from TV anime based games because quite frankly a lot of them suck. I've bought a few 
 good ones, but Bleach: Blade of Fate is one of those rare anime games that makes you go, "Wtf? 
 I can't believe it..." 
  
  SOUND: The game has music from the anime series, and it's own original tracks. The voice work is 
 in English if you have the NA released version, and it's pretty good. Some will prefer it in Japanese, 
 but those who aren't Japanophiles, purists, and/or really anal will enjoy the voice talent. The 
 BGM is okay. The music is pretty much all techno and rock. Some of the music is kind of weird like 
 in Ganju's stage. The last two stages have decent music though. If you're able to get to them, 
 they're pretty enjoyable to hear. Some of the BGM is probably put in their for a comedic effect, 
 but some of it sounds out of place. Like the Bankai theme... I didn't know if I was in a battle 
 or a rave. 
  
  GRAPHICS: Backgrounds are really nice although some of the stages look kind of bland, the sprites 
 are well animated and capture the look of the characters very well. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Surprisingly, this is one of the best 2D fighters I've played in a while. I didn't think 
 it would be with the possibility of having four players fighting on the screen at once, but it 
 works out fine. It still does get confusing sometimes with a lot of action on the screen The game 
 controls nicely . Some of the moves are a bit too easy to pull off or the controls are just too 
 sensitive. "Whoops I did my Bankai by mistake again..." The cards are a nice add-on. Something 
 you probably won't see in any other figthter off the DS. It does take a while to get used to. Having 
 to switch from the d-pad to the touch pad will feel very awkward at first. You also have to time 
 it because your fighter will be annihilated if you don't. Once you get the hang of it this game 
 will be a lot of fun. 
  
  There's many different types of modes in the game. There are other modes, passwords, artwork, BGM 
 for sound tests, etc. to unlock. This game offers a lot of replayability. If you grow tired playing 
 against the computer you can also play against human opponents via Wi-Fi. 
  
  BOTTOM-LINE: If you're looking for a fighter that fits the DS control scheme almost perfectly, 
 this is it. The controls aren't too complicated, and it offers tons of replayability. This is a 
 must buy for Bleach fans. If you're a Bleach fan and don't have a DS, this might be reason enough 
 to go out and buy one. Another solid game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_sovereign
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Just WOW... that was some of the first things i said when i powered up this awesome fighter!!! Bleach, 
 first off, is based off of an extremely popular animation called "BLEACH" hence the title. the 
 tv series is an incredible one and is almost as addictive as its games counterpart. if your a bleach 
 fan, like i am, then hot DAMNNN... u found the holy grail!! this game follows accurately close to 
 how the events transpire in the series... so its kinda refreshing to see the story blossoming on 
 your ds as your progress!!!
  
  the first thing you always notice when you play a game ofcourse is its graphical content. and bleach 
 delivers successfully. the animation are fluid and lucid so your always gonna see what your character 
 is doing or what some other character is doing to you. and if you can release some of the characters 
 stonger powers... such as the BANKIA (yea its in here fans) only then will you be treated to some 
 of the best of the graphical candy.... mmmmmm sweet. overall bleach looks above average, but the 
 best news is that the graphics are not the greatest thing about bleach only a mere supporter
  
  gameplay is the prima donna on this pint-sized-power-house. the action is fast paced, over 
 the top, and satisfyingly difficult O_O!! like in any fighter... you have to inhabit some quick 
 fingers and a little dexterity if you wanna truly be called a soul reaper! the game kinda sugar 
 coats the inadaquete players giving them the ability to unleash otherwise difficult hand combination, 
 by simply pushing a button on the touchscreen... booooo... i think thats generally for novice players 
 or player that arent nimble enough to push several buttons. but this is the diamond of this title... the 
 gameplay shines well beyond any other aspect. the multiplayer functionality is OFF THE WALL goodness. 
 you can spend hours in a day just playing random people online or if your friend has a ds- go ahead 
 and do some download play which is a great alternative to wifi playing. just amazing execution 
 of gameplay on the ds!!
  
  sound is pretty flippin' sweet also!! when you first power up the system and go through the intro... they 
 actually play the intro song to season one of bleach. thats ofcourse is an awesome edition if you 
 watch the series. the smacks, explosions, grunts, are all welcomed and some sound systhesized are 
 garbled... its nice to hear all the character voices also... kinda makes it feel like your not even 
 playing on a handheld device... but you are!!! 
  
  ultimately bleach is the most amazing fighter on the ds... truly uncompared to any other game on 
 this platform. if you decide to get it you will not be regretful, as this games trult delivers 
 non-stop action and high-octane-addiction, plus a cohesive thread to its tv counterpart... awesome 
 game... please get this, so i can meet you online for a real challenge...
  
  Red Sovereign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devil_Vergil
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  This game was given to me for free so as some know me I never turn down a free game I am also not 
 a HUGE DS fan all I use my DS for is pokemon but this game made me realize that there is more to 
 the DS' engine than meets the eye this game has me hooked for a DS fighter there is a HUGE amount 
 of characters you can choose to fight with all with special attacks and abilitties all to your 
 power by the touch of a button this game has to be one of the greatest fighters on the DS' lap 
 as of the moment I sugest that anyone play this game give it a shot and if you are a Bleach fan 
 like myself well then I wouldn't be surprised if you loved it as much as I do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zatchbell101
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Lots of people have been complaining about the lack of good fighters on the Ds. Well shut up and 
 go buy Bleach The Blade of Fate. It is really worth it. 
  
  Story: Is the meat of the game it is where you beat there story. Almost each character has a stroy 
 to beat. The only one that confused me was Ichigo's . But besides that there perfect even though 
 some stories are really short. 
  
  Sound: The sound is great but could barley hear it while they are fighting . It has some sound 
 from the show and some they just made up which is really good.
  
  Graphics: Are geat like little sprites. And when they realease there ultimate move it's beutiful. 
 It's like 2d graphics which is alright.
  
  Wifi: Is the best part when you get to show off your real powerful combos and moves. You can fight 
 against 3 people. Whcih is fun.
  
  Deck Construction: Is where you make your own deck of cards that help and some of them had down 
 affects for your opponent and you. I dont really use them much.
  
  Shop: Is where you buy Spirit cards ,pictures, sound affects and differnt colors for your character. 
 
  
  Options: You can change the background of the menu choose the character voices for the menu and 
 other stuff.
  
  There lots more you can do in this game but I dont have time to write it. If you truley love fighting 
 game regardless if you like Bleach or not go pick up this awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinCamp24
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Bleach: The Blade of Fate is an awesome 2D fighting game for the Nintendo DS. No matter who you 
 are, this is a great buy for the DS if you have one.
  
  The first part of the game you will most likely play is Story Mode, which has 23 different versions 
 of it. But you will start out with the story of the protagonist Ichigo, who enters the Soul Society 
 trying to save a Soul Reaper (Rukia) who had saved his family.
  
  There are many modes to play other then Story Mode, such as Arcade Mode and Training Mode. These 
 different modes will earn you money, which you can spend at the Urahara Shop, to buy Spirit Cards, 
 Art, and Sound.
  
  The gameplay is 2d fighting between 2-4 people or computers in a certain backround chosen by the 
 game. Your attacks are also separated into three groups: Low, Medium and High. You also have your 
 special attacks and your super attacks, which can be activated by pressing buttons in a certain 
 order, or tapping an icon on the Touch Screen.
  
  Spirit Cards are another aspect of fighting, since they can restore health, boost stats and even 
 restrict the enemy's movements. There are different levels of the spirit cards, the higher the 
 number, the more effective the card will be.
  
  Some characters will also have a super attack that is unique, called Bankai. They have different 
 effects, but are extremely useful during battle.
  
  Bleach: The Blade of Fate is a very addictive game, good for anyone who has a Nintendo DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SNGreymonRM
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  pretty much the best fighting game ive ever played on the ds and im not jst saying that because 
 bleach is awesome. i really liked this game because fighting games are awesome and i like the way 
 they say the attacks and that the attacks are in their names from the show. when i saw that there 
 was a bleach game coming to the ds i was stoked and couldn't wait until it came out and i bought 
 a day or two after it came out because i either coudn't go out or gamestop had to wait on shipping. 
 i really like this game and i hope other peple will to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c00lb1u3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  BLEACH: The Blade of Fate is wonderful game to go out and by for only thirty dollars. The Fighting: 
 You can play as one of 28 characters from BLEACH, from two to four players. Each character has 
 his/her own moves in which they can use normal, special, and super attacks. Normal attacks are 
 performed by using the A, X, and Y buttons. Special attacks can be used by activating them with 
 the touch screen, or activating them with special combos. Super Attacks are the most powerful and 
 definitely the coolest. Use the B button plus the direction you want to move to flash step. There 
 are 10 modes of play.
  
  Story Mode: This is the focal point of the game if you are just starting out. You play as Ichigo 
 as you try to save Rukia, the Soul Reaper who lends her powers to Ichigo. Once you beat Ichigo's 
 story mode, others will unlock for a total of twenty three story modes in all. The story mode is 
 very entertaining with many glimpses of the real anime, and many facial expressions as the story 
 is played out. The last story mode is called Soul Reaper Chronicle which will be a more in depth 
 story mode of the real anime.
  
  Arcade mode: Play as one of 28 characters as you beat up a selected number of cp's.
  
  Versus 
 Mode: This is a mode where you can vs. a cpu, DS wireless play, DS Download Play up to four players, 
 and best of all, WiFi. Wifi makes BLEACH is an everlasting game in which you can always get better 
 and defeat players from all around the world.
  
  Training Mode: Build your skills as you go against a computer dummy. This is a great way to experiment 
 new moves without your opponent getting in the way.
  
  Time Attack mode: Beat your opponent as quickly as possible.
  
  Challenge mode: Complete hard 
 combos that the game gives you. This mode helps you combine your attacks and generally improve 
 your skill.
  
  Deck Construction: As you fight, you get a deck of cards that help you win, by either increasing 
 your abilities, or decreasing your opponents abilities. Here is where you costumize your deck.
 
  
  Urahara shop: Anytime you accomplish anything, even as to win a single battle, you earn money. 
 You can spend it here at the Urahara shop. You can buy character sound boards, professional artwork, 
 spirit cards, and colors. Buying everything will be a challenge.
  
  Gallery: This is where you can look at all of the sounds and art you've bought from the Urahara 
 shop. Pros: The story mode, gameplay, and wiFi. The graphics are very good for 2D fighting.
  
  Cons: NONE
  
  In conclusion, BLEACH: The Blade of Fate is a very accurate game compared 
 to the Anime is a must for regular gamers and hardcore BLEACH fans alike. Buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkiirraa99
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Bleach a very good and thrilling Anime and I'm here to say that this game is like the Anime in 
 every way it's very good. This game does have bad points also but mostly it has good points.
  
  Here are the things that make this game good one the graphics are very good for a 2d fighter 
 In my opinion they could easily become entirely 3d. The story is very good and interesting it follows 
 the actuall anime very closely from the point that rukia gets arrested and sentenced to execution. 
 But i think the best part is the wifi the wifi on this game is so very fun. and it has wireless 
 multiplayer whic is also very fun i think that the multiplayer functions are the best feature of 
 this game. Also the special attack execution system is like the naruto one but i think this one 
 is better because if you don't like using the touch screen you can use button combinations as well. 
 this game gives about maybe 15 hours of gameplay at the most for story mode only.
  
  Now for the bad stuff in this section there isn't really that much i can say because the game was 
 so good. one complaint is the story mode doesn't go in chronological order it skips around a bit 
 .Also i wish that the normal attacks linked together better to form combos but they don't really 
 link that well. one more thing when you switch lines when you are fighting with more then one person 
 is kind of slow and annoying because you might get hit if you are using that to evade attacks.
 
  
  So yeah you can kind of see the bad things are minorities compared to the good things because the 
 bad things are just things that could be made just a tad bit better and the game is still good 
 even with those problems. And yes i would definitely reccomend this game to anyone who likes fighter 
 games and bleach fans will love it if you haven't read the anime the story might be a little confusing 
 if you haven't read the beginning of the anime because the story doesn't start from the very beginning 
 but when rukia gets arrested as i have said before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Bleach. A traditional, great, and successful mark of fighting games that Japan received has finally 
 hit the US shores. We test the translation, and not to mention, the fighting style and game play 
 itself!
  
  Graphic-wise, this game is played in practically full 2D, but the animations and fighting quick 
 gameplay looks very well done. I like the style they made on the characters, very anime like, traditional 
 of a Japanese game. 8/10 here.
  
  Sound is quite appealing, with each character possessing its own effects in-battle, and some catchy 
 tunes in the menu. Nothing too special, though, which is a little letdown. 7/10 here.
  
  Gameplay is where the main core of the game resides. It has tons of modes, and I find the Story 
 Mode to be a little confusing, because you have all these Japanese name thrown in and the story 
 isn't too coherent. I prefer the arcade and vs. modes, because that's where all the action really 
 happens. You basically only need story to unlock some characters, and to get into the game, if 
 you don't know already what it is about. The in-battle gameplay is nice and smooth, with attacks 
 being executed with a simple touch of the stylus. And each character has its special moves, that 
 are frequently executed when you power up your meter and/or deal sufficient hits. A nice 8/10 here.
 
  
  Replay Value - Tons of features. It's one of the most packed games ever, and it lives up to its 
 name. Nintendo WiFi is naturally present, with surprisingly no lag for such a paced game when playing 
 overseas with Japanese players! It has story, arcade, vs (download play, multiplayer and WFC) , 
 a shop, gallery, etc. You name it. It never gets boring, trust me. I can't give less than 10/10 
 here. Simply great!
  
  Resuming, Bleach: The Blade of Fate is a game which lives up to its name, and despite its translation 
 not being exactly top-notch, it's easily the best fighting styled game on the DS, not to mention 
 the combination of marvelous replay value, great graphics, sound, and gameplay. Fans will love 
 it, and non-fans will too, because this game really is addictive. I advise all to try it out. Recommended! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantomedge59
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'll let you know that I am not a very big bleach fan, thouhg i have seen a few episodes 
 and enjoyed them. After all the great reviews of this game, i decided to buy it. For 30 bucks, 
 i do not regret purchasing this game, so far ive played it a lot and i have to say its a surprisingly 
 well made game, compared to some other anime games like naruto, it seems the developers have put 
 in a lot of hard work and time into this game.
  
  Gameplay: 9 very fun and frantic, but could get a bit reppetive at times, and some characters like 
 Renji are broken. Insanely fun and easy to pick up and play multiplayer. ONline works reasonably 
 well too.
  
  Sound: 8 good music, doesnt get annoying, i can actually listen to it without turing the sound 
 down in the heat of gameplay. Voices tend to get repetetive and slightly annoying though.
  
  Graphics: 8.5 very good 2D graphics, though in four player battles the quality goes down a 
 lot.
  
  Overall: I will probably be playing this game for a good long time, and there is enough to keep 
 you busy.
  
  if you like fighting games/ bleach or both, i would definitely reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack-shinobi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Bleach Blade of Fate:
  
  Is indeed an awesome game! It is a fighting game in which you try to defeat the opponent [s] to 
 go to the next level or just for fun!
  
  You start out with actually quite a few characters, you can unlock more though as you progress 
 through the games story modes [almost every character has a story for story mode.]
  
  All together there is 28 characters you can unlock and use in battle.
  
  Bleach The Blade of 
 Fate also has multiple multiplayer modes in which you can battle in.
  
  There is Wi-fi in which you can battle others in the world wirelessly.
  
  Then there is wireless 
 play in which you need to be close to your opponent to battle them.
  
  And finally there is Download play. In which you could have the game and someone else [near you,] 
 would not need the game to battle you they would just need to go to download play in the ds's main 
 menu.
  
  This game is really great, and I think anyone who likes Bleach should get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siebe9
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:59 am PT
Review:  I never heard of bleach before but this game is really cool.
  And if you completed the first story in which you have to save rukia.
  Then you can still complete 
 the stories of the other characters.
  and over characters spoken there are i guess 20 characters ,All with unique powers and attacks. However 
 you can do special
  attacks with the buttons but you can also easily press a button on your touchscreen
  .Because 
 of that the game is too easy. And that is really a mojor problem. The Game Is Too Easy! And there 
 are also cards .If you touch a card then the effect will affect your enemies, yourself or your party.
 
  The computer is sometimes a little dumb because they stand on the other side of the field (where 
 they can't hit you) And then they stay attacking there.
  There are many other things than story mode like Arcade mode, time attack mode, challenge mode and 
 other things.
  Some characters also have Bankai that is one of the strongest attack of that characters. If you 
 play Tosen (character) his bankai is funny because he says: Ban.... Kai Lol.
  This is a game that can't be overlooked and probably the best fighting game on ds ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Playerss5
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2007 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I will have to admit i was unsure of how good it was going to be before i bought it but now that 
 i have it i think i was worth every bit of the money i spent on it the game is great and soon i 
 shell see how good the Wii one is i just hope its as good if not better then this one amazing game 
 not much more can be said just a really good fighter for the DS something every handheld system 
 need to have and a bleach title at that anyone who has not played this yet pick it up its well 
 worth the 29.99 price tag trust me its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruff_edgz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Good: Character design is wonderful | Moves are not complex | Interesting Story Mode that will 
 keep you playing | Spirit Cards add something new when fighting | Gain money to buy extra features 
 to the game
  
  Bad: Character voices | Story Mode can get a bit confusing | Online play can be a bit laggy
  
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  In Japan, Bleach has been a growing phenomenon since 2001 (when the manga was released then) and 
 was recently released as a cartoon series in the US on Sept. 2006 by Adult Swim [CartoonNetwork] . 
 The series has been out in Japan since early 2004 and many games have come out for the PSP, Gamecube, 
 DS and many more but none of them were in English... until now.
  
  Bleach starts off with some simple menu options to choose from: Story Mode, Arcade Mode, Versus 
 Mode, Training Mode, Challenge Mode, Deck Construction (more about this later) , Urahara Shop, Gallery 
 and Options. Story Mode is pretty basic at first as you are Ichigo and you start off at a time 
 in the series when a good friend of his, Rukia, was taken back to Soul Society for her crime of 
 giving Ichigo her powers (might have to read or see the first episode to understand) . From there, 
 once you beat it with Ichigo, you will open up a menu with 24 other episodes that you play to gain 
 more points, characters and other things along the way. Arcade is just an arcade style of the game 
 and at the end, your score is recorded for others to try and beat. Versus has an option of facing 
 the computer, DS link, DS Wi-Fi, or DS Download. Training is a great way to get to know other characters 
 and their moves. Just like other fighting games, you can look at the command list, use the moves 
 as the opponent stands still or have some AI sparing. Challenge Mode is a great way to learn some 
 good combo moves but will get hard as you go farther into each characters challenge. Deck Construction 
 is a way to set up card decks for battle. The cards that you have in your deck can help you or 
 hurt other opponents during the game. In this mode, you can just go into certain decks and organize 
 them to fit what you want for a battle or for many others (up to 5 different decks can be set up) . 
 Urahara Shop is a way to use the money you gain from the battles and get extra stuff that isn't 
 unlocked in the beginning. They very from some graphics to colors for characters you play as in 
 other modes. Gallery is to very the items you bought in Urahara Shop like pictures, sound effects 
 and music. Options are to help you change setting for the game.
  
  Gamplay: The game play will remind you of Guilty Gears or King of Fighters as you can play a basic 
 1 on 1 game or a 4 person brawl. The top screen is used to see the fighting while the bottom touch 
 screen is used to hold the cards. If you want to use a card, just touch the screen with your finger 
 and it will be activated but you can not activate a card while fighting. You have to find a time 
 when you are not being hit or hitting another player before using the card. When fighting a player, 
 you can use the four buttons on the DS plus the right trigger for blocking. Y is for a light attack, 
 X is for a medium attack, A is for a heavy attack while B is for a flash step (usually to step 
 away from an attack of behind the enemy) . The controls are simple enough that anyone who hasn't 
 seen Bleach could pick it up and understand it within a few minutes. The game can get a bit fast 
 pace if the computer is on hard or normal but not bad on easy.
  
  Graphics: I was amazed how well the graphics were when I first started playing. The developers 
 took full advantage of the Bleach images and DS graphics to make a stellar game while playing or 
 watching a but scene. The cut scenes are nothing special as its a character talking with their 
 sketched image of an emotion (normal, angry, upset... etc) on the screen with what they are saying 
 below on the bottom touch screen (when in story mode) . Still, the game is well done with the graphics 
 for a DS game and for a fighter on the DS.
  
  Sound: The music and sound effects are ok but the sound of the characters are a bit annoying. These 
 voices might be from the original US series (I don't know since I watch the series in Japanese 
 with English subtitles) but each characters voice doesn't feel like it belongs with them. This 
 is a small part of the game and shouldn't effect how the game is played.
  
  My Thoughts: I do enjoy the game a lot and would suggest this game to anyone who enjoys the series 
 or fighting games. I give Sega &amp; Shonen Jump some props for bring this game to the US and succeeding. 
 I noticed that Japan has a 2nd one out already and I can't wait to see that here. Even though I 
 completed the story mode in about a day, the gameplay will keep you going trying to master one 
 or multiple character's skills before facing off online or with others. Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theentitymike
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  bleach: blade of fate is quite the piece of work im a rpg fan and very few fighters ever catch my 
 eye but since im a bleach fan i picked it up i kinda thought before hand i should just return it 
 and get some thing else but when i played it was a shock an indepth story mode smooth playiblity 
 and fun multi player the only problems i can see with it is that the auto setting makes it way 
 to easy and multiplayer seems to lag quite abit but the most annoying is how addictive this game 
 is so if you have any free time and you play this your free time will be nomore so i still say 
 play or die 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilkeem
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  First off the games graphics are great amazing colors and also sound is great. The game play is 
 fast paced and very well done. 4 way fights make this game amazing especially when played on multi 
 player with your friends. Trust me i don't even watch the show and after playing this game mad 
 me want to actually watch it! If your a fan of the show you need to buy this and if your not a 
 fan of the show believe me its still good. If you liked games like DBZ SS Warriors 2 then this 
 game is even better. The game uses the touch screen to activate specials and different moves but 
 if your more comfortable using the buttons u can just do the moves with the buttons. There are 
 around 30 different characters and each one have unique skills and abilities. The story mode in 
 the game is ok to me. I don't watch the show so i'm not very sure whats happening but after beating 
 the game i understood well enough. When this game is played with friend using multi player its 
 just amazing. This game is great and you wont be mad you bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TENTHROW2
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  This is actually a suprising little game. And at first when i heard about it, i was just like, 
 bleh another port of a popular anime series that will be crap.
  
  However, much to my suprise, this is actually a really good fighting game. The controls feel nice, 
 the combat modes are good, and the backstories are great.
  
  I feel like there coulda been more to be sure, but as it is, it's definetly worth it for fans of 
 bleach or fighting games in general. While bleach fans will get more out of it, anyone can enjoy 
 this game.
  
  I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yasihiko
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Now it's all just fun and games, but it seems like the only games that come out of the Bleach franchise 
 seem to be fighting games. Sure there were the ones on the PS2 that were sort of RPGs, but pretty 
 much 90% of the Bleach franchise is fighting games. But then again, can you blame them? The fighting 
 game genre has been blessed by Capcoms introduction of fluid gameplay mechanics in such classic 
 games as Marvel Vs Capcom and X-Men Vs. Street Fighter. Well now we can have that same type of 
 combo fighting, air stringing action on the DS with most of our favorite Bleach characters. The 
 Roster in Bleach DS Souten ni Kakeru Unmei is actually quite extensive, although there are a few 
 Vice Captains missing and some quite strange character entries, the overall lineup is quite extensive 
 in terms of story.
  
  The story takes place between episodes 20 to about episode 60 with various alterations between 
 the characters for the story mode. The main story mode with Ichigo seems to be the most faithful 
 to the anime/manga story as you follow the group through the infiltration of the Soul Society all 
 the way to the achievement of Ichigo's Bankai. The gameplay in Bleach DS is what you would expect 
 out of a classic Capcom style fighing game. Attacks are separated into Weak, Medium, and Strong 
 attacks. There is a separate button that has been mapped to the Shunpo ability or Flash Step. This 
 changes things up with the speed of the gameplay as this allows for your character to temporarily 
 avoid damage and zip to another part of the battlefield. If you were a little lazy you could also 
 tap the bottom screen for the special moves and super moves, if you don't want to perform the button 
 combinations. As well as that the game also introduces character cards which range from additional 
 speed to your character to raising all players' special meter to the third level. If you get bored 
 of playing against the computer, you can kick it out online using the WiFi capabilities for a 4 
 player match up using the Infrastructure mode. Overall if you are indeed a Bleach fan and own a 
 DS, you really do owe it to yourself to check out this game. High recommendations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaykho213
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 4:06 am PT
Review:  Bleach Souten Ni kakeroru Unmei is awesome.. it's one of my favorite fighting game in DS.. so many 
 characters to choose from and has some different story's for every character. specially kon.. ha 
 ha he's so funny i can even smile while playing him hehehe... nice game play battle, nice graphics.. 
 what can you ask for.. the game modes are not bad.. to many secret characters.. but i'm disappointed 
 a little because some few characters here are missing, i mean there here but not playable.. but 
 thats ok some of them may appear at the second game.. if your a bleach fan and have a DS, then 
 this fighting game is for you.. i'm really impressed because i'm a bleach fan my self.. it rocks!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpeternelson
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Bleach ds is a straight up fighter, no gimmicks, quarks or any of that crap. you use combos, specials, 
 and all sorts of goodies in your fight against the other people from the show. It is deep, containing 
 over 15+hours of gameplay to get all of the unlockables, a strong and deep story mode, import friendly, 
 and to put it frankly one damn good multiplayer. You can download play in case your friends don't 
 import, play over wifi, or just 1v1v1v1 (or teams) against the computer. Bleach ds is great, don't 
 let the fact that a 2nd one comes out within two months and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TH3oHellAz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  This game is a great fighting game that has a very good fighting system and really works on the 
 DS. Bleach DS is one of the fighting games that you can talk about to fighting fans and they will 
 agree it is a good game.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is solid and works very well on the DS. You never have a problem doing special moves or 
 any other sort of moves.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are ok. Nothing really special about them. You know.. 2d stuff.. but works well with fighting 
 games.. like this one. It has a street fighter style. there just rite. but I love the introductions 
 and special moves which are full of animations and makes bleach and non bleach fans say 'wow'. 
 Sound:
  The sound in the game is cool. Really fits the mood and is really fighting style and bleachy.
 
  
  Value:
  The game is very worth it. i got mine for &pound;40 at my nearest import shop. but is worth it 
 with the amount of modes and extras. There are loads seriously. arcade, story, training, shop, 
 card mode, vs. mode, single and multicard multiplayer.... etc. AND wifi.
  
  Difficulty:
  the game is not that difficult but the higher you put the computers level the more fast pace it 
 becomes. BUT.... if you play online you will see the amount of skills and combos people can pull 
 off and you in the future. you can get up to 500 hits if you keep your combos up and higher, but 
 by that time they would be dead. http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=j8vQqh4x8b8
  
  Time spent:
  this game lasts for ever and the game pushes you to find more ways of making your 
 combos better and with the crazy amount of modes you wont put this game down.
  
  Learning curve:
  the game doesnt take that long to learn all the special moves and basics. but 
 it does take long to find and string in those long and amazing combos.
  
  Import friendly:
  For the guys that dont have import shops that sell the game or what ever.. 
 it is still worth buying it from lik sang or play Asia and all that. There is a lot of Japanese 
 in it.. but ichigos voice in the background talks broken up English when you select and mode from 
 the main menu. SSEEEGA.
  You find it hard at first but when you play the game for a while you can test to see what each 
 of the selections is and then there should be no problems. it is about 78% Japanese. Bleach 2nd... Is 
 coming out.. But if youre a fan of bleach definitely get the 1st one and if youre a fan of solid 
 fighting games or even if youre looking for a good game on the DS it is worth it. The 2nd one 
 probably wont be that much of a difference anyway...
  
  Naruto DS...
  The new naruto DS game is also coming out that is fully 3D. Again if your a fan of bleach still 
 stick with bleach and if your a fan of solid fighting games or even if your looking for a good 
 game on the DS it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleJosh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Right off the bat let me state that I NEVER BUY IMPORTS! I'm one of those neurotic gamers who likes 
 to read the game manual before I play so having to try to figure out what is going on, on the fly, 
 is not fun for me. Add on top of that the Japanese text or speech that I don't understand and you 
 can see why I shy away from them. Besides, most games I want to play will be coming to the U. S. 
 eventually so I'm content to wait it out. That being said, I was itching for a really good fighter 
 for my DS and nothing released here was scratching said itch. Thats when I started reading about 
 Bleach DS. According to what I read, not only was it a good fighter, but it wasnt difficult to 
 figure out. And since it doesnt look like its coming stateside anytime soon, I thought Id give 
 this import a try. I just received my copy yesterday and I have no idea what is being said or done 
 and, quite frankly, I DONT CARE! This is without a doubt the best fighting game Ive played on 
 the DS and is one of the best Ive played on any system (note.. I did write one of the best) . 
 Even though 95% of the game is Japanese, there is English text sprinkled throuh out that helps 
 decipher where you are. Also, on the main menu, there is spoken text that uses broken English so 
 if you listen closely it tells you what each section is. For things I couldnt figure out on my 
 own, I was able to locate several FAQ sheets online that helped me.
  
  Did I mention it was the best fighting game Ive played on the DS? Well, it is! Hands down! Not 
 only is the game fairly easy to understand, it's even better to play. As much as I like fighting 
 games, it always takes me awhile to get all the special moves. Not a problem for Bleach DS. With 
 a touch, it maps out all the special moves to the touch screen. It even color codes them. Blue 
 borders are regular specials and red is super specials.
  
  If I didn't state earlier, I know diddly-squat (is that a word?) about the anime' this game is 
 based on so I don't know the correct terminology regarding what the specials or super specials 
 are actually called but it doesn't matter. This is a great fighting game that anyone can pick up 
 and play. It's even WiFi enabled! How cool is that?
  
  The only reason I'm not giving it a '10' is because I'm disgusted that it won't be coming to the 
 U. S. Get on the ball Nintendo! GIVE US OUR BLEACH DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siddarth0605
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Bleach DS is an amazing game for the DS. It currently stands as my favorite DS game so far which 
 is saying a lot when compared to big titles such as Mario Kart and Advanced Wars. The menus are 
 very easy to navigate and from what I have played so far it is very import friendly. The only exception 
 is the story which is heavily text driven, but for those who follow the anime it doesnt really 
 matter. Heres how it did:
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay is perfect. This is probably one of the only DS games that uses every button 
 of the DS the entire time. The gameplay is extremely fast paced. It plays similar to Street Fighter 
 in that you have a light, medium, and heavy attack buttons. There is also a button to perform a 
 flash step as well as a button to block. Also you can perform special and super attacks either 
 by using the touch screen or performing a combination.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very crisp for the DS. Sega decided to stick to a 2-D fighting game 
 and in return the characters and all the moves look very slick and very detailed. Some supers such 
 as Genryuusais fire attack may look a little pixilated but this in no way diminishes the look 
 of the game. Also in the gallery they have pictures from the game that use up both screens and 
 looks very cool
  
  Sound: Usually I dont give a review for sound but this game deserves one because it is very vital 
 to the game. The sound in this game is amazing. All the voices seem to be from the original voices 
 of the anime. Things even as subtle as how characters call out their bankai is perfectly represented. 
 For example ichigo yells out bankai but tousen kind of says it quietly and the game matches it 
 up exactly. 
  
  Overall: Overall this game is great. I would definitely recommend this to every bleach fan out 
 there that owns a DS and even fans of fighting games will enjoy this as well. This is a game that 
 will most likely satisfy your crave for a solid, well rounded, and fun DS game for a long time.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g0t12ic3
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2006 3:07 pm PT
Review:  WOW! This has been a long time since I have ever seen a game this great for any anime. For those 
 with a DS and are a fan of Bleach buy this right now. For the rest of you consider this Bleach 
 has Wifi multiplayer for unlimited replayability which makes this one of the greatest Wifi games 
 to come to the Nintendo DS. The controls are great and thanks to the DS d-pad it is easy to pull 
 off those tricky diagnals unlike the PSP. This game also plays to the DS's strenghts and use them 
 greatly and simple. The touch screen is used to pull of special moves and to use these cards that 
 help you during battle and the top screen displays all the crazy action that ensues. If that isn't 
 good enough for you this game has a robust story mode with full on dialog that follows everything 
 from the anime up to the Shiningami story. This game supports up to 4 players which can have teams 
 or 3 on 1 or 2 on 1 anything really. Has many stages has a great soundtrack taken from the anime 
 and a few originals and has every character featured in the anime. (Which at this point of time 
 and writing is still in the stupid fillers) For those of you who can wait for the sequel that will 
 come out sometime later this year or early this year it's ok to buy this great title as few will 
 surpass this suprising balance between it. Also for those that is their first time importing don't 
 worry as this is very import friendly and translation guides can be found at gamefaqs. HAve fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kplord
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I hate to say that I haven't been into fighting games the last couple of years like I used to be, 
 but after playing this game it has brought me back some if not a lot. SEGA has finally done something 
 spectacular in recent times. The people who made this game know what they are doing and I hope 
 to see more from them. This game is a "must have" for DS users who like fighting games. It's worth 
 the effort of buying in my eyes. The gameplay, graphics, sound, replay value, features: all of 
 these make the game worth playing. Scrape around your house for money, save up, and buy this game 
 where ever possible. It's worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borris_1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  *thinks of an opening sentence*
  ...
  *fails to come up with a good one*
  ...
  WOW!
  I've been playing Street Fighter for an age, not only is Bleach vastly superior gameplay wise, 
 but it also adds more content.
  Firstly, the game is fast. Not as fast as Sonic (god bless the old ones) , but fast none the less. 
 I can't come to up with a good way to convey the speed. Hmm.... imagine Street Fighter. Now, make 
 Ryu and Ken flash step to try and hit one another. Then make them pull off enormous combos. That's 
 somewhere along the lines of Bleach. Also, your chosen character has 3 different types of attack:
 
  Weak hit (X)
  Medium hit (Y)
  Strong hit (A)
  
  Not very original, but they work none the less. You can hit whilst crouching, which can (with some 
 characters; other require a direction) cause your opponent to go flying into the air. Vulnerable! 
 You jump and hit them with seven weak hits before smashing to the ground your strong hit. Although 
 it may seem that the enemy is defensless, you can perform a 'guard block' (by pressing one of the 
 cards on the bottom screen) which cancels the enemies attack, allowing you to repay the intended 
 damage with interest (thanks Rome: TW :P)
  
  The content is phenominal. Truly. All 13 captains are playable, along with all your other favourites 
 (bar Urahara) . If you like a particular character from the anime/manga, it's almost gauranteed 
 you'll be able to play as them in the game. Well, I'm lying a bit. I say all 13 captains - I mean 
 bar that lady with the wierd manta bankia. I'll kill you.... with transport!!! But no one likes 
 here anyway, right?
  During the character selection, you can play against upto 3 opponents. These can be CPU, LAN or 
 Wifi. CPUs have 8 difficulty levels, 8 is fairly difficult, but nothing spectacular. You also have 
 the option to remove any CPUs from the game by moving their box to the big 'N'. Helpful if you're 
 more into one on ones. Furthermore, each fighter has a selection of specialised moves. As Byakuya 
 is my favourite (^^) , I will use him as an example.
  
  L = Left ; R = Right ; D = Down ; U = Up ; face buttons = as shown
  
  Move A: L --&gt; D --&gt; 
 R --&gt; X/Y/A This breaks his soul slayer into the imfamous petals and sends them in the direction 
 you want.
  
  Move B: D ---&gt; D ---&gt; X/Y/A
  Remember when Rukia is taken away by Byakuya and Renji? And Byak slides past Ichigo, stabbing him 
 faster than the eye can see. This is that move. Not as cool, but a nice addition none the less 
 - Very handy.
  
  *skips many attacks*
  
  Move A2: D --&gt; L --&gt; D --&gt; R --&gt; X/Y/A
  Creates the funky purple soul slayers in 
 the background and sends them into the enemy. Easily blocked to the delay at the beginning, but 
 the block can be easily cancelled with the 'stop move' (holds the enemy in place)
  
  Move C2 (bankai) : R --&gt; L --&gt; D --&gt; R --&gt; X/Y/A
  Creates the big blue thing seen 
 once in the anime. Pretty powerful, but you have to have 3 stock in your riatsu (spelling) . To 
 sum up. Buy it. I suppose if you don't like Street Fighter you should avoid it, but anyone else 
 should pick it up. The language barrier is practically not existant, and there are plenty of translation 
 guides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trunkz_Jr
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I do not buy or play alot of Fighter games, but because I am a huge anime fan and Love 
 the anime Bleach, I decided that this was a must-get-game for me. I'm gonna simply break down this 
 game into sections the way most reviews should to give people the best info about the game that 
 they need. This game may be in Japanese, but getting through the menus is very eazy, and if you 
 already have watched the show, you don't really need to know what their saying since you already 
 have an idea of what is being said. Someone was compiling about Practice mode being hard to get 
 by, guess he didn't know you can press Select and just Skip it :) 
  
  Graphics: Compared to JS, this game blows it away when compared in Graphics, they were really well 
 done. As for the Animation of the attacks, and the Bankai's, they fire off pretty smooth. Not much 
 else to say, if you've seen pics, or vids, i'm sure you'll know how great it looks already. 
  
  Gameplay: Besides we already know about this game being a Fighter, this game has some great 
 features that make it even better then others. Being able to have some 2v2 games (Yes, you CAN 
 Co-op with a friend if he has it also against 2 CPU's) is really great. The Story mode lets you 
 play as a character, and playing his/her part in the series (Example, Playing as Zaraki, you will 
 of course be fighting against Ichigo, Tossen, etc..) The game is very fast paced, so you won't 
 have slow long battles, nor short ones either. They are 1 round fights with strong HP, so don't 
 expect to die from a Bankai in 1 shot (cept Soifons, using Bankai twice = Auto death) and for the 
 people that wanna know how Tossens Bankai works, Yes you do go into that dark world, and yes you 
 cannot see Tossen, nor hit him since of course you cannot see, hear, etc. And if your playing as 
 Tossen, you course will see the enemy, and he cannot do anything :) Not every Captain has their 
 Bankai since it would be a spoiler, but their Large attacks make up for it (about 7/13 captains 
 have it) This game also features a card system, which allows to you to + your stats during battle 
 or Decrease your Enemy's, and so on making the game even more interesting. This game also has a 
 Total of about 29 characters.
  
  Sound: I was very surprised to hear that Every character has their actual voice (its funny to hear 
 rukia at the end of a battle going "bwhahaha", and sounds of attacks and everything else is just 
 amazing, even using the same music of the show. The Intro at the beginning, plays the same song 
 as the 3rd Opening from the Anime. Even more surprised is the actual "Bankai!!!" they shout out 
 is the very same voice "like tossen saying it quietly, or Renji yelling it out) You may not know 
 japanese, but because of the use of Voice, you put the cursor over a menu at the beginning, Ichigo 
 (for example) will say "Arcade modea" and "Versea modea" so its not to hard to work your way around. 
 
  
  Value: I gave this a good Value because not only can you play Co-op with a friend, but this game 
 also Features Wi-Fi. So your able to battle with other people all around, and being able to have 
 a 4 player battle makes it all the more fun. 
  
  Final Review: I 100% Recommend this game to ALL Bleach fans, as Anime fans as well. As for people 
 that just enjoy a good fighter game, this is probably one of the best DS fighters out, so it would 
 be worth playing also. I wouldn't bother waiting for the English version, since it's probably gonna 
 take some time to come out (Probably sometime in 2007 Q2 or even Q3)
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thx4datips
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 28, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Bleach DS is an awesome fighter, whether or not you watch it or not. I also would like to note 
 it is, in my opinion, the best fighter for the DS (although, there isnt much compition) . I like 
 the game alot, and I say its one of my most played games between Metroid, Jump Superstars, and 
 Mario Kart. It is really challenging, and, well awesome. Just ask my good buddy (in R. L) k10kemorr 
 (which I believe made a review on this as well) . I cant say it has the best graphics in the world, 
 but they did incorporate some new tactics (such as flash stepping) , and different special attacks, 
 and Reifu and Reiraku gauges. Overall, its a pretty good game. It got me into watching bleach. 
 Im a really reserved person, so I wont continue to speak too much. Good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k10kemorr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  Story: Well the story is all about the manga and Anime Bleach. The basic storyline is that one 
 teen named Ichigo Kurusaki gets spiritual powers from a spirit who needs to transfer all of its 
 energy, and blah blah blah. I dont read the manga or the anime so I wouldn [t know too much about 
 it. Anyways its a good game.... lets move on shall we?
  
  Gameplay: The is honestly the best part of this game.... obviously. In case you didn't know, Bleach 
 DS is a 2D fighting game similar to the Marvel vs. Capcom games. This game has very tight controls 
 and is almost euphoric to play "oh yeah, yeah thats the spot, ooooooooooh" *cough*cough* sorry... 
 I went a little too far there. Anyway the game responds to every button press. This game is not 
 just your typical button masher though, there are a series of combos and super combos that take 
 up special meters. These special attacks are pulled off by a certain button combination, or can 
 be activated by the touchscreen with an easy press of your thumb. It takes tactics and skills to 
 master this game, and be assured, it is not a pushover game (that is unless you are on easy mode... duh) . 
 On with the review....
  
  Graphics: This game has a very nice 2D animated look. It isn't the best and you can't really make 
 out the faces of the characters onscreen unless you look really well. It does not push the DS's 
 graphical capabilities all that much although the character drawings in the title screen and cutscenes 
 are very well drawn and are not pixelated at all.
  
  Sound: The character attacks are all from the japanese character voices and are a nice touch. The 
 attacks each have their own specific sound also. The background music is a bit.... how do you put 
 it..... stereophonic. Maybe my expectations are just too high though. There is also a nice little 
 touch on the main selection screen because whenever you highlight the japanese option, someone 
 on screen says the option you are trying to choose like for arcade mode the speaker would say "arrrrrcayduh 
 mow doooooh!" (those last quotes were spoken in a japanese accent if you didn't know...)
  
  Value: This game has a really good length and learning curve. The story mode takes a good while 
 too complete and it teaches you the basics. You will spend many hours trying to unlock all of the 
 characters. The arcade mode is also very fun and will also take quite some time to finish for all 
 of the characters to get all of the level 2, 3, and 4 level cards. You can also construct decks 
 which isn't really that excitiing but... well... it is something to do when there is absolutely nothing 
 left to do. This probably won't be the case though because Bleach DS is online, yes thats right, 
 ONLINE! This is what makes the game even longer although when you are matched up it might not always 
 be an equal matching considering newcomers may have a lot of really good cards that would give 
 them a very high advantage. Having a battle without cards is better in my opinion. This game also 
 supports sing card multiplayer.
  
  Overall: Awesome game, really good story (if you can read english) , great cutscene pics, awesome 
 multiplayer, and everything else you could ask for in a really good 2D fighter for the DS. In conclusion, 
 BUY IT, BUY IT, BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quain-chi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 16, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  Having never watched the anime, i cant comment on how well it represents it but i have been following 
 the progress of the game for sometime and with only gba versions of street fighter and king of 
 fighters to statisfy my 2d beat em up hunger to play on the go, Bleach seemed like the perfect 
 game to take the place in my DS collection that has so far been absent. Not knowing when or if 
 it would be released in the U. K. i decided to order the game of playasia. 
  Being a japanese copy there are the obvious limitations if you dont speak jap, but fortunatly when 
 you pick an option the ds shouts out what mode you have picked in english, which is handy. Also 
 slighty amusing like on the japanese version of sonic jam, when the guy yells 'SONIC JAM'. Back 
 to the game, the only real problems from it being in jap lie in the story mode, where it asks you 
 to preform different moves so you just have to keep playing around till you get it and within the 
 options menu as you dont know what your altering, so its best left on default. But hey these problems 
 only are there if you get the jap version and cant read jap. 
  Once you get into the arcade mode though you soon realise why you purchased the game. Firstly it 
 moves and looks amazing, second of all the fighting itself is incredible best described as a cross 
 of street fighter and soul calibur. Using the familar super and special moves that are in street 
 fighter but mixing it up with the majority of characters using weapons to fight, some of my favourites 
 is the character that uses bow and arrows and the guy with a similar sword to Ivy from soul calibur. 
 The fights only last one round but luckly the rounds last for some time as the characters have 
 large energy bars, which makes it last abit longer, than say around of dead or alive, which can 
 be over in seconds.
  I havent been able to give the multiplayer ago yet ever but im sure if its as good as the rest 
 of the package then it'll be awsome.
  The game also has a killer soundtrack, featuring the theme tune from the series too during the 
 intro. Its not quite as metal as the soundtrack in guilty gear but we cant fault it for that.
 
  Overal, Bleach DS is an incredible game and shows that there is life in the 2d beat em up genre 
 to boot, it also looks far more interesting than the psp and console versions which has gone for 
 3d. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hipno_Toad
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 25, 2006 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best I have ver seen, 20+ characters including Ichigo, Orihime, Chad, and 
 joke characters (Ganju's boar Bessie is a character!) wifi and other diffrent things in this game 
 make it a game you will NOT want to pass up. Import from ebay or any other store you can use! Only 
 reason I rated learning curve like I did was the fact it took a bit to figure out everything. 
 
  In game the map the sprites are on are cut in two, the player can hop between these two platforms 
 and gain ground in a fight by doing so, although for me my fights tend to bunch up in a corner. 
 Each character has a special attack that can be activated during the fight such as Ishida (the 
 bowman of the group) shoots arrow in the sky and they rain down on opponents causing damage. You 
 can choose to fight team matches or battle royals, use bankai (a special ability of soul reapers, 
 such as Renji's sword turns into a giant snake like thing.) and more. I recommend this game for 
 any bleach head or fan of fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfilosophy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I may be a little biased since Im a huge Bleach fan, but then why else would you consider importing 
 this game? That said, I thought the PS2 Bleach games werent very good at all but this fighting 
 game for the DS is utterly superb!
  
  The game is a lot like Guilty Gear Isuka in which 4 players can fight on one 2D map at the same 
 time, with two tiers which you can hop to and fro. No button pressing for turning eliminates back-back-forward-ish 
 moves and makes for fighting 3 other people at the same time less hassle than it could be and was 
 with Isuka. The fighting is hectic and deep. I mean, I had a 4 player battle where everyone played 
 as Kon and it was crazy. You wouldnt expect a fight with 4 tiny stuffed lions to be fantastic, 
 but it was. Fast as hell, violent, easy to control, and loads of fun.
  
  The graphics serve their purpose  no trying to outdo anyone and ending up looking like Granstream 
 Saga  and look good in and out of battle. The story modes for almost every single playable character 
 (lots of chapters) play out like simplified episodes of the series from different points of view, 
 especially when you unlock the last episode: Digest of Death, in which you fight as many characters 
 and simplifiy almost all of that particular arc in Bleachs story. Ichigos story mode was the 
 only slightly annoying one because I dont know any Japanese and you have to win fights with certain 
 conditions. Fight him for the 5th time and have this much life left or whatever. The walkthrough 
 is on GameFAQs for anyone who needs it, like I did, so thats not really a problem, but I tried 
 it myself and spent about 20+ rounds going WHY AM I FIGHTING RENJI AGAIN!? You could see how 
 itd become frustrating.
  
  Also, because of the not understanding Japanese, I cant WiFi battle with anyone and that makes 
 me sad, but I have initiated Demo Download to other DSs and its sick. The fighting is fast paced 
 and fun, the moves range from simple SFII to complex SNK, and you can use cards to boost your stats 
 or slow down some other dudes. You get these cards (and other playable characters) from completing 
 story and arcade modes as well as purchasing them in Uraharas Shop. Obtain, organize, and equip 
 these decks and you can use them in battle by simply pressing the card you want to use with the 
 stylus or a quick finger tap. No Yu-Gi-Oh stuff, just simple move finger to press Tatsukis head 
 and go back to fighting normally. Voila.
  
  The sound effects are great, there's loads of voice acting, and the encoding of HIGH and MIGHTY 
 COLOR's "Ichirin no Hana" sounds good. With graphics that look good and work, awesome sound, fluid 
 and fun gameplay, something for all challenge groups, unlockable art and sounds and characters, 
 and the inclusion of some unlikely playable characters (Aizen vs. Bonnie?) , Bleach fans should 
 get this game first and foremost but all fighting game lovers would do themselves justice to really 
 check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sushibot12
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  First off: For those of you who watch the anime and/or read the Bleach Manga, go out NOW and buy 
 a DS and this game. IT will definitely not disappoint. 
  
  Pros:
  
  There are tons of characters, from which you can choose from. All 13 Captains, as well as the standards 
 characters, such as Ichigo, Rukia, and others. And for those of you who know this, this game DOES 
 HAVE BANKAI!!!!!!!!!
  
  There are the standard unlockables; many characters to unlock, picture galleries, sound test, and 
 challenge mode.
  
  This game is very easy to pick up, but also hard to master.
  
  The game is very fast paced, it can get very chaotic, especially when 4 players go head on.
  
 
  The animations are smooth, though choppy at times, and the music is directly from the Anime.
 
  
  The voice acting is directly from the Anime.
  
  This game supports 4 player single cart play, with all the features in tact, as well as the ability 
 to connect with Nintendo Online Wi-Fi.
  
  The menu is very easy to navigate, because the game calls out each mode. and these modes are very 
 obvious: "Akeido Mode = Arcade Mode, Taimu Attaku = Time Attack, etc...."
  
  Cons:
  
  To those of you who haven't watched the anime or read the Manga, this will just be another fighting 
 game, however the best fighter for the DS to date.
  
  There is some level of Japanese required in order to play the game. It wouldn't affect time attack 
 or arcade modes, however it would become a hassle in story mode, where specific objectives must 
 be met in order to proceed. 
  
  Sometimes the voice acting gets repetitive.
  
  The game begins to lag a little when there are too many things going on.
  
  OVERALL:
  
 
  SOUND: 9.0/10
  GRAPHICS: 9.0/10
  GAMEPLAY: 9.5/10
  
  I say, you like the Anime or enjoy fighting games, this is your game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
