-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Blue Dragon Plus
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/bluedragon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The summoned shadows look really cool.
 Good story, highlighted by excellent cinematics.
 A fun variety of spells and items to mess around with.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat gets monotonous.
 Constant story interruptions mess with the pace of battles.
 A bunch of interface and control quirks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 16, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.3, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 42 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ignition Entertainment
Developer: Brownie Brown
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Feb 19, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Blue Dragon franchise's penchant for blandness continues in this adequate but uninspired sequel. 
 

  Blue Dragon's mouthy Marumaro is one of the most annoying characters to ever appear in a role-playing 
 game. He returns in Blue Dragon Plus, though his squeals have been tamed, which makes his noisy 
 enthusiasm more charming than grating. In fact, this sequel to the Xbox 360 RPG offers a much better 
 narrative in general, warmed with heartfelt character interactions and a few honest surprises. 
 Sadly, the half-baked blend of RPG and real-time strategy elements is just as frustrating as it 
 is fun, and though the game gets off to a good start, it eventually becomes bland and tedious. 
 Like its predecessor, Blue Dragon Plus gets the job done, in a generic sort of way.  

           Shu and his can-do attitude are back, but less annoying than before.      

  Marumaro 
 isn't the only returning personality. Blue Dragon Plus throws every main and bit character into 
 a blender, which ultimately works to the game's benefit. You'll spend less time with the ever-zealous 
 Shu and his nondescript pals, and more time exploring other relationships, old and new alike. There 
 are some new additions, but the most emotional and unexpected moments involve familiar faces, a 
 fact that lends gravity to the game's ending sequences. The plot itself is less spectacular; it 
 sends this motley crew through a cube world as they chase after an evil dragon called Balaur. However, 
 it is brought to life in a series of lovely cinematics and sweeping orchestral cues. Unfortunately, 
 one of Blue Dragon Plus's primary contrivances doesn't work so well from a story perspective: Almost 
 everybody and their brothers can now summon a shadow. These shadows are the titular blue creatures, 
 and in the Xbox 360 original, the ability to control one was an extraordinary talent. In Blue Dragon 
 Plus, practically every character possesses one, yet Shu and company seem perpetually surprised 
 when they encounter yet another shadow user. Their ubiquitous presence doesn't just make shadows 
 old hat, but is practically a mockery of one of the original's few unique qualities.  

  This surplus of shadows may annoy Blue Dragon fans, but it serves the gameplay. You control up 
 to four parties of four characters each as you slowly make your way across the cube and fight the 
 various enemies that you encounter there. Yet though Blue Dragon featured rather traditional turn-based 
 battles, combat in Blue Dragon Plus functions like a real-time strategy game in which you lead 
 your units by selecting them and then choosing a target to attack or a spot to occupy. Other games 
 on the DS, such as Heroes of Mana and Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings, have embraced similar 
 mechanics to varying degrees of success. Unlike in those games, however, you control only up to 
 four units at a time in Blue Dragon Plus, and you micromanage each character's skills and items 
 during the course of the battle.  

  On one hand, this smaller group of characters diminishes some of the frustrations those other games 
 have wrought. Blue Dragon Plus's pathfinding works like that of Heroes of Mana: The map consists 
 of an invisible grid of squares that character sprites must navigate as they move from one point 
 to another, rather than freely moving from one location to another. This can make moving your heroes 
 into the desired position occasionally frustrating, and the mediocre pathfinding means you have 
 to keep a close eye on every character because party members can't always be trusted to follow 
 your movement orders efficiently. Luckily, the limited party size keeps these frustrations at a 
 minimum, and most maps are large enough to allow you room to maneuver.  

  On the other hand, the small party size and large maps lead to tedium over time. You lead your 
 party across the level, unleashing various special attacks and buffs, most of which involve summoning 
 an impressive-looking blue shadow. The shadows look terrific, and they are easily the visual highlight 
 of this generally attractive game. At first, it's fun to manage skills and items and watch shadows 
 in action, but over time, the repetitive nature of battle wears thin. Small groups of foes may 
 be scattered across the map, and once you defeat one cluster, you make your way to the next, a 
 pace-breaking design element that's made all the more dull by the slow movement speed of even your 
 fastest units. Furthermore, some battles are interrupted over and over again by story exposition, 
 which breaks any sense of flow that may have accumulated. The best levels avoid these pitfalls 
 by pitting you against boss characters, which are fun to fight because you must be more conscious 
 of unit position and proper use of spells and items, especially if the boss is immune to one type 
 of attack while susceptible to another. Most of the time, you move from one small pocket of enemies 
 to the next with only the occasional additional objective to mix things up. It's a shallow and 
 predictable framework, and it grows old long before the game comes to an end.  

  Leading your party around is simple enough using the stylus, and though the touch controls generally 
 work well enough, a few interface improvements could have made it a whole lot better. Whenever 
 you issue an order, the units that you had selected are then deselected, an avoidable issue that 
 serves as one of Blue Dragon Plus's chief aggravations. If you lead your entire party to a location 
 and want to issue another order once they arrive, you'll need to select them all again before you 
 can issue that order. This is a break from standard RTS control methods, and it comes with absolutely 
 no benefit. Thanks to crisp unit sprites, selecting an individual unit is usually simple, and it 
 won't take you long to remember which one possesses which skills. However, choosing a unit when 
 the screen gets cluttered with enemies, or when facing a large boss, can be more difficult. You 
 can use a selection icon to scroll through your four characters easily, but icons representing 
 each unit would have been even more welcome.  

           You know you want to summon a shadow. All the cool kids are doing it.      

  Even 
 with the limited variety in basic combat design and scattered design issues, the array of skills 
 and items at your disposal can make for some enjoyable battles. Eventually, you will have four 
 different parties exploring the cube simultaneously, and though parties have some mandatory members, 
 you can mix and match for some fun combinations. As each character levels, he or she will earn 
 new spells, and the items that you find or purchase are equipped on an individual basis, so you'll 
 need to put thought into how each character is equipped. The role-playing elements are light, but 
 each party member's distinctive abilities make it fun to swap characters around, and the various 
 accessories and items that you can find and equip make the time you spend within menus more enjoyable 
 than the time spent during battle.  

  It has its ups and downs, but Blue Dragon Plus is ultimately a game that you will neither love 
 nor hate. Although its gameplay is quite different from that of its console predecessor, it is 
 equally unimaginative, doing nothing to stand out on a platform overflowing with quality games. 
 Blue Dragon enthusiasts will welcome the opportunity to spend time with some old friends, and even 
 newcomers will garner a few hours of enjoyment from the simple combat. Nevertheless, it's too shallow 
 to remain novel for long, and though the story is good, it simply can't support the weight of a 
 25-hour game alone.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Auroni
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:23 am PT
Review:  As a huge fan of the original, I was eager to pick up Blue Dragon Plus. Almost every single character 
 from the original worth mentioning also reappears in this game. 
  
  The story continues a year after the first game. Theres this cube that Shu and friends land on 
 and you eventually find out that its linked to Nene who is regaining power. Slowly you'll get more 
 and more characters in your party which grows to about 15 people which is insane. 
  
  The graphics I thought worked well. The cutscenes were amazing for a DS game and I had no complaints 
 with the gameplay graphics. All the amazing orchestrated music from the original game makes a reappearance 
 in this one. I love the music so much that I leave the menu on when you turn on the game just to 
 listen to some awesome music.
  
  The gameplay is pretty addictive but I can see how it can get repetitive. Its kind of like Final 
 Fantasy Tactics but you dont have turns. You just press a character, the ALL button, or a button 
 where you can draw a circle and everyone in the circle will be move or attack whomever you'd like. 
 
  
  Now the game makes things simple. Each character has a Blue Dragon now which I find fascinating 
 because near the end of the first game we established that you dont need one of those blue orbs 
 to have a dragon, it comes from your soul. So each character has unique attacks which are all still 
 from the first one. Jiro is still the healer and Kluke is still the magic attack person. Everyone 
 still has all their main attacks. 
  
  Overall, Blue Dragon Plus was a worthwhile game. I got about 14 hours of gameplay in just doing 
 the story and thats not even attempting any sidequests. If your a fan of Blue Dragon for a 360 
 this is a must have and it gives you a pretty unique experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I was fairly impressed with Blue Dragon for the Xbox 360, and when I heard another game in the 
 series was coming out I had to pick it up. 
  
  This game is very similar to Final Fantasy XII: Revenant Wings. Its a RTS game with some RPG elements. 
 The game starts out with Shu and his friends a year after they defeated Nene. This time around 
 it seems like one of the cubes is being attacked by mecha robos. Immediately Shu and his friends 
 think its Nene again. I dont want to spoil the story anymore, but it does get very interesting 
 throughout the rest of the game. It does come to a very happy conclusion at the end for all the 
 parties involved. If you were a fan of Blue Dragon, then play this game for the story. It is very 
 well put together and even somewhat better than the original's story. 
  
  The music in this game is also very amazing. It is done by no other than Nobuo Uematsu, a musical 
 genius. Most of the music is rehashed from Blue Dragon, but it still sounds so good. There are 
 some new songs in the game that are really moving. The piano ballads are especially notable!
  
  The in game graphics are pretty average, but this game has many CG scenes that are very impressive. 
 These scenes are mainly used during the beginning and end of the game. The scenes are beautifully 
 created and great to watch. (No voice overs in the game unfortunately...) .
  
  There were some things that obviously kept this game from being perfect. The main element in video 
 games is the gameplay. A game can have a great story, graphics, and music, but if the gameplay 
 is broken then so is most of the game. Unfortunately the gameplay in this game fell flat. As I 
 mention this game plays like FF XII: Revenant Wings, but not as well. Your characters are incredibly 
 slow moving on the battle field. There are only 2 characters that can move at a decent pace. There 
 are many times when I felt like I had to sit and wait for all my characters to come together so 
 they could all fight a difficult enemy or boss at once. 
  
  Also the A. I. in this game is completely stupid. If you tell a character to move to a certain position, 
 the character will usually take the long way there, or instead of walking in a straight line to 
 the designated position they will purposefully walk in zig-zags or by an enemy and start a battle 
 all by themselves. The A. I. in this game caused lost missions and the loss of important characters 
 during missions. 
  
  Now the gameplay isn't a total hindrance to the game. It takes awhile and you kind of learn tricks 
 to move your characters successfully. You want to move your characters one at time, and make them 
 walk short distances and not across the whole battle field. Moving all the characters at once makes 
 things a mess. Characters cant walk through another character, so if you have 10 characters walking 
 in a narrow hallway and a slow character is in the front then everyone moves at the pace of the 
 slow character. Even though I found ways to work around the broken gameplay, it still kept them 
 game from being superb, and it will ultimately keep people from playing the game. 
  
  If you played Blue Dragon, I strongly suggest playing the game. It continues the story beautifully, 
 and the great music is back. The game can last you about 25-30 hours if you do all the sidequests. 
 Playing straight through the 1-player campaign is about 18-20 hours... maybe a little less. If you 
 can stand the difficult gameplay then you will find a lot of enjoyment through the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meiaman
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 8, 2009 5:52 am PT
Review:  Quick review about Blue Dragon Plus.
  
  Blue Dragon Plus is a real time strategy game with role-playing elements.
  
  The game has a 
 good presentantion and use a great number of cutscenes. The in-game graphics are just plain, nothing 
 special through.
  
  The music is great and awe-inspiring, believe it or not, the music may and will be the main reason 
 for the enjoyment factor, it just fits in perfectly.
  
  Storyline is a bit weak, it has an original start, but the main theme of it, the shadows, is now 
 banalized. The shadows are a source of power that exists inside some people, the story suggest 
 that previously, only a few people could get it, either from hardworking to awake the shadow or 
 from other special method, now everyone has a shadow, you blink, you can use the shadow, rocks 
 have shadows, even your keyboard can use a shadow.
  
  Don't expect the storyline to be epic or something, the main character looks like a fisherman's 
 son, don't inspires courage or anything, just a boy who happened to be there at the wrong time 
 and get involved at all of this.
  
  Gameplay is basically like any real-time strategy on Nintendo DS with some rpg twists, a watered 
 down style of real time strategy games that works simply by selecting units and sending them to 
 attack while you wait for the dumb AI to not make dumb moves or lure a strong enemy that you're 
 not supposed to fight yet. (while it sometimes does, it can correct his wrong move in a few seconds.)
 
  
  Blue Dragon Plus is a fun game, you might like it, expend a few hours playing, but after finishing 
 you will possibly set it aside, good for some mindless fun through.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazongo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:44 pm PT
Review:  Blue dragon is a great rts for the ds. Its a sequel from the 360 blue dragon game that wasn't too 
 well received but for the ds is a total different affair. I never played the 360 one so cant tell 
 you much about the story but i can tell you it is not necessary to play the first one to enjoy 
 this one even though they don't do their best to recap the story but it is nothing to worry about. 
 But its basic, a group of heroes trying to save the world, obviously not as simple as that but 
 not to far away from it too.
  
  Gameplay 8.0
  To start of, this is a rts game with some rpg elements added into the mixture. It feels similar 
 to FF12, but if you haven't played that one this it how it works. You control everything with the 
 stylus, which you use to move units in real time, so forget about taking turns in this one, and 
 attack by simple tapping enemies. Though thats the simple part. 
  
  Different units have different abilities, like cure and special attacks, and strengths and weaknesses 
 just like a normal rpg. So if you wanna select your healer to go on front, he will most likely 
 die in a horribly way. Some units are good for taking hits others are good for giving hits and 
 some are better used for using spells or running as fast as they can to get treasures before a 
 troublesome rat like monsters steals it from you. You level up and equip items to your units when 
 you are in the map just before battle. Everything pretty normal, nothing really new but everything 
 works. So if your a fan of strategy this one will feel just like home.
  
  Even though it all works there are things that are not as good as they could have, like managing 
 your units. There no a easy way to grab the ones you want and put them to fight. The only way is 
 either grabbing all ( theres an icon for this) or with stopping everything with other icon and 
 grab with a circle the ones you need. This last one works well but stopping every now and then 
 to grab certain units can be a pain especially in the middle of the heat of battle. Also enemy 
 al can act very weird, like just running towards nowhere passing right by you. I even attack and 
 they still go the other way , not always happens but when it does it is weird . Lastly is unit 
 movement, say if you grab a unit or two and then try to attack an enemy with a skill, sometime 
 the enemy moves and you cant attack it, so you have to repeat. Yeah sure with magic attacks like 
 flare it doesnt happen but with fire sword it happens very often. All of the above don't ruin the 
 overall experience but it leaves space for improvement
  
  Sound 8.0
  Music is brought by Nobuo Uematsu, known for its many contributions with the FF franchise, which 
 bring some nice music and sounds to the table, though all being midi, nothing orchestrated and 
 plenty of the music feels very similar to other FF games, not the same but similar. If you have 
 played the snes games you will know what i meant but still great overall. No VO anywhere to be 
 find.
  
  Graphics 8.0
  
  Everything looks easy on the eyes, character designs were made by Akira Toriyama, pretty well known 
 for him being the creator of Dragon Ball. Even though there is no VO, theres like an hour of cinematics 
 scattered throughout your adventure which is a nice addition. Sprites look good and theres lot 
 of on screen action, but special attacks could have been done better.
  
  
  Lasting appeal 7.5
  
  This adventure can take you about 20-25 hours to beat which is a good 
 amount of time. No multiplayer though.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naomz
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2009 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I know Blue Dragon had a lot of haters. I agree that it didn't appeal to most. But I was a very 
 solid and good JRPG for the Xbox 360. 
  And Now there is a new game in the Blue Dragon series for the DS. 
  Im gonna say what I like 
 first of all. I liked the characters, all the same ones are back and many more are added. They 
 each have there own unique type of ability and shadow.
  I also like dhow this game was alot more challenging than the 1st. I think the transition from 
 turn based to strategy RPG is a good one. Lets you know your not playing the same game over again, 
 and that its just not like the 1st one.
  I know that it didn't get the best reviews so far, and I understand. I agree that at times that 
 there is too much going on on screen and its hard to see whats going on. But Final Fantasy XII 
 Revenent Wings (DS) had the same issues. And that doesnt bother me a bit. In my opinion all of 
 those kinds of strategy games end up in a jumbled mess. Hehe.
  But anyway, its not a bad game and fans of the first gme should give it a try. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
