-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bolt
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/bolt/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Bolt is adorable.
 Lovely still art.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lousy camera.
 Uninspired story.
 Repetitive gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.9, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 20 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Disney Interactive Studios
Developer: Avalanche Software
Genre: Adventure
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Bolt's superpowers can't save anyone from a poor camera and dull gameplay. 

  Bolt is the ideal canine companion: He's loyal, intelligent, obedient, and can shoot lasers from 
 his eyes. Unfortunately, this superdog doesn't get the superstar treatment that he deserves on 
 the Nintendo DS. The shallow plot makes it hard to care about the story's outcome and the repetitive 
 gameplay sucks all the substance out of the action. It's a shame that Bolt doesn't use his talents 
 more, because this pound puppy is incredibly cute. However, not even his laser beam vision can 
 solder these crummy parts into something worth playing.  

           The dynamic duo are off to rescue Penny's dad from the evil Calico.      

  It's probably 
 for the best that Bolt on the DS doesn't follow the movie's storyline. In the movie, Bolt doesn't 
 actually have superpowers; he's merely an actor on a television show. Instead, the DS game is one 
 of the action-packed episodes in which Penny, Bolt's owner, must save her father from the sinister, 
 green-eyed Calico. You'll travel to five exotic locations, taking out along the way what seems 
 like an army of cloned henchmen, until your final showdown with Calico. The story is told with 
 still images and minimal dialogue, none of which is voice acted. These sequences feel more like 
 a PowerPoint presentation whose sole purpose is to break up the monotonous gameplay.  

  Through the game's 30 missions, you'll rotate between playing as Penny and Bolt, neither of whom 
 is particularly exciting. Penny swings her wheel bar, a device that also lets her scale walls and 
 use a zip line, and Bolt bashes enemies with his forehead. Using the X and Y buttons, you can attack 
 and do various combos, but you'll never need to know more than one combo. Energy atoms can be collected 
 by breaking crates and by fighting the limited assortment of bad guys. Atoms are so plentiful, 
 you'll max out your four-legged friend's abilities well before the ending credits. The ability 
 to customize and enhance your characters is a great feature, except once you're capped out, you 
 have no reason to fight or explore anymore.  

  Though the majority of the gameplay is button-mashing, you do spend time with some brief minigames. 
 The brave young Penny has the ability to hack computers, represented by a quick but mildly entertaining 
 minigame in which you draw lines to connect symbols to match the pattern in the top screen. Unfortunately, 
 this is the most exciting action Penny has in her repertoire. She's a clever girl, but walking 
 from one end of the map to the other, clobbering enemies, and jumping over gaps gets old really 
 fast. Bolt, on the other hand, is able to use his laser vision when the situation calls for it. 
 An arrow pops up on the touch screen for you to trace. These are scripted moments, which is disappointing 
 because it would have been nice to use this ability at your leisure to mow down an entire row of 
 Calico's followers.  

  The biggest problem with Bolt is the camera, which zooms in much too close at the most inconvenient 
 angle, making it difficult to see what's around you. It's not even worth using the L and R buttons 
 to rotate the camera, because it not only doesn't pan far enough, it abruptly pauses the action 
 as well. In light of the awkward camera, you'll often find that if you don't line up Bolt and Penny 
 carefully, your attacks will miss their target completely. Bolt fares a bit better because he jumps 
 in the air, which sometimes lets the camera back off enough for you to get a better view. The top 
 screen can be switched to an overhead map on which you can view the enemy's location. This makes 
 battles slightly less frustrating, but you have to hit select to switch to this screen several 
 times in a level because the game automatically goes back to the mission display every time a brief 
 cutscene occurs. It's annoying having to hit select to keep the map visible, given that it's the 
 best way to scout enemies before they're on top of you. Even with these issues, you'll never find 
 yourself in danger of losing. The game is so incredibly easy that you have to go out of your way 
 to fail a mission.  

  The storyboards that detail Penny and Bolt's adventure are well drawn and able to convey some of 
 the story's emotions. Other than the nicely drawn still art, Bolt's visuals in some areas are very 
 bland, and the level designs aren't that creative, either. Whether you're in Russia or China, the 
 environments may look different, but because you're doing the same thing over and over again, they 
 all feel the same. The music will alter slightly, and it does a decent job of setting the mood, 
 but there aren't any memorable melodies. There are no distinct sounds when you hit the generic 
 enemies, which makes it difficult to know whether or not you've made contact.  

           Bolt is a good dog. He head-butts bad guys.      

  As you progress through the game, 
 you unlock a number of items (mainly outfits) that can be accessed via DGamer, Disney's social-networking 
 service for its DS games. This may be worth it for those who play Disney DS games and want to expand 
 their online wardrobe. There are a couple of multiplayer features, which include the hacking game 
 that can be played against a friend, and you can also go through a small handful of missions together 
 in the Battle Arena mode. Banding together as Bolt and Penny to take on Calico's henchmen is a 
 good idea, but you can complete the levels within 15 minutes and there's no reason to want to do 
 it again. Not to be forgotten is Rhino the hamster, who gets his share of the spotlight as the 
 star of his own side game. With a setup similar to Super Monkey Ball, you tilt the level to roll 
 the encapsulated Rhino to the finish line. But due to stiff controls and repetitious level design, 
 this side game -- like the main dish -- feels like a missed opportunity.  

  Clumsy controls, lackluster story, and a bad camera make Bolt difficult to recommend. The game 
 is limited in every aspect, which doesn't make it fun for very long; young gamers can find much 
 better alternatives. The sweet, adorable, snow-white German shepherd is a great new addition to 
 Disney's animated cast, but his talents are much better suited on the silver screen.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  early impressions...
  
  This is my second movie based game review. The first of which received a score of 8.0 and to be 
 honest, no one was more surprised than that but me. When I heard about this game, my first impression 
 was the same as usual: "this game is probably not worth playing". And after spending some time 
 with this game, I'm afraid that this is just your typical movie based game that is not all that 
 fun to play.
  
  The game starts with the usual slideshow with subtitles to give you an idea about the story. In 
 my opinion, a video clip would have been a much better idea especially because this game is based 
 from a movie. But this kind of thing is no longer a surprise for most DS users. The first few levels 
 of the game will give you instructions on how to perform basic moves. It does that by pausing the 
 game with a pop-up at the bottom of the screen. 
  
  The lady character (Penny) is the first one that you can control. The game will then later enable 
 you to use Bolt. Both of them have the ability to perform combos, and use light or heavy attacks. 
 You can pickup items from jars, boxes, etc that will enable you to refill your health, energy bar, 
 or points to upgrade your strength (which will also unlock new combo moves) , defense, and speed. 
 Reading this might make you think that there's quite a lot on offer in this game, but that is just 
 the tip of the iceberg.
  
  There are issues with this game that prevented it from being fun to play. First problem that you're 
 probably going to notice is trying to figure out where to go since the camera switches from third 
 person, to side-scrolling, to top view numerous times in the game. And when the camera is in 3rd 
 person view, stuff like walls, floors, and other things get in the way. Not to mention that if 
 you try and walk the other direction, the camera is not going to change direction and follow you, 
 but it moves backwards instead. Yes there is a map and a couple of arrows pointing you to where 
 you should go, but that is only a sign that the game developers knew that getting lost in this 
 game is indeed an issue.
  
  You duke it out with ninjas (at least that's what they looked like) that can usually be beaten 
 by bashing one of the two attack buttons. And that totally defeats the need to upgrade your character 
 because it will just look like the additional combos that you can unlock is only for show but something 
 that is not a necessity to defeat the bad guys. There are also some issues with the AI wherein 
 you'll sometimes run past an enemy and he'll respond by chasing you. But when you try and walk 
 back thinking that you're being followed, you might find him walking around patrolling as if he 
 didn't see you just a few seconds ago. 
  
  Penny's ability to use her wheel-bar to move on rails and climb up buildings is fun for the first 
 few times. But the game kinda overused that move and it quickly gets boring. The challenge as to 
 when and where you should use it has been completely removed because the game gives you an icon 
 to where exactly you should use the device.
  
  There's an extra mini-game here called "Rhino's Mission" wherein you guide a hamster in a bubble 
 across a maze ala Super Monkey Ball. You collect items and try not to get killed by obstacles like 
 cats and cannons. To be honest I actually had more fun playing this mini-game than the actual main 
 game itself.
  
  The graphics looks nice and its in full 3d. Some might look a bit grainy but is quite impressive 
 for a DS game. The sound on the other hand is just okay. There are no VOs here whatsoever though.
 
  
  The game uses the buttons, touchscreen, and mic. Moves are performed by using the buttons but you 
 can also touch your character to perform special moves. While blowing on the mic enables you to 
 use things like throwing stun grenades. I however found it easier to place my finger on the mic 
 and give it a rub. You also use the touchscreen on some mini-games like trying to hack a computer, 
 or trying to rotate a disc etc etc. Everything could have been done by using only the buttons, 
 but the use of the touchscreen and mic is not as frustrating when compared with other games.
  
  Overall the game might be fun if you're a fan of the movie. Given of course that you can forgive 
 the game's clunky camera and at the same time is a fan of button bashing games. The game's real 
 challenge is trying to find out where you should go next, or just trying to find where your character 
 is when it gets blocked by stuff in the environment. The extra mini-game is nice, but not good 
 enough for the game to get a score higher than 5.5
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
