-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bomberman Story DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/bombermanstoryds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Battle mode is a blast.
 Nintendo WFC for four-player battles.
 Decent multiplayer mode with single-card play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weak story mode.
 Multiplayer mode isn't radically different to those in previous titles.
 Minigames aren't fun and only occasionally make sense.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 29, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.5, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 34 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hudson
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Mar 21, 2007 (JP)

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The RPG portion of Bomberman Story is bland and its multiplayer battle mode does little that's new. 
 

  Bomberman first appeared in the mid-'80s on consoles such as the Nintendo Entertainment System, 
 and through numerous guises and off-shoots the series has continued to this day. The explosive-obsessed 
 titular character has already appeared on the DS in Bomberman and Bomberman Land Touch, neither 
 of which mess with the original formula too much -- though the latter did include a number of additional 
 minigames. Bomberman Story DS, though, is a departure for the series as it places Bomberman into 
 his very own role-playing game. While the RPG component of Bomberman Story DS attempts to try something 
 new with the series, it's ultimately let down by the fact that the story itself is weak and hard 
 to follow. Oodles of lame dialogue and largely forgettable characters result in an experience that 
 is neither compelling nor engrossing.  

           The story mode is a bland adventure comprised largely of uninspired minigames.      

 
  You fill the shoes of Justice Department special agent Cheerful White, who is sent on a mission 
 to recover valuable stolen research. You are accompanied by five other agents on an intergalactic 
 journey, and it's your job to uncover clues and help solve the crime along the way. Throughout 
 your quest you'll be supported by the department's resident uberscientist Dr. Ein, who will give 
 you advice when there is danger ahead (which is inevitably resolved through a minigame) , or when 
 you discover new weapons. The other agents who accompany you on your quest prove to be more of 
 a hindrance than a help and will need to be rescued on more than one occasion. Thankfully, in doing 
 so you'll bump into bosses, thereby advancing the story and providing information on who's behind 
 the stolen data.  

  While Bomberman Story DS largely relies on buttons to deploy your trusty bombs and dispose of the 
 various enemies, every so often you'll encounter a minigame requiring your stylus skills. Once 
 passed, you'll be able to replay each game at any time via the main menu, though to get there from 
 the story mode you'll have to reset your DS. Some minigames fit into the context of the story, 
 such as "Log Bridge," which requires you to throw bombs at logs floating down a river. Landing 
 a bomb successfully causes the log to spin sideways -- spin them all and you'll be able to cross 
 the river and move on. Another minigame uses bombs to propel a boat through water, allowing White 
 to get from one area to the next.  

  While these particular games are fun, other minigames prove to be more arbitrary and completely 
 unrelated to the ongoing story. One such game requires you to throw bombs into a basket while balancing 
 on a spinning platform. Another requires you to throw bombs into a slot machine, thereby revealing 
 three hidden numbers on the rollers that comprise the combination you need to pass the game. By 
 doing this you'll open a path to the next area, but quite why anyone would use a slot machine as 
 a security measure in the middle of a desert is a mystery.  

  The controls work reasonably well and, when you're not playing the minigames, rely exclusively 
 on the D pad and buttons. You can drop, throw, or kick a variety of bombs to defeat enemies or 
 remove obstacles, and along the way you acquire eight different types of bombs with different characteristics. 
 At times these bombs come in handy, but they're limited in number and rarely of any significant 
 benefit. Using standard bombs -- of which you have an infinite supply -- will be easier on most occasions. 

  Bomberman Story DS's adventure mode isn't too challenging for the most part, although there were 
 a few situations and battles that we had to repeat several times before being successful. Enemies 
 are generally pretty easy to dispose of with a well-placed bomb, but sometimes their behaviour 
 can be a bit unpredictable and erratic. The game also doesn't always give you enough clues about 
 how to proceed to the next part of your quest, though through trial and error you'll be able to 
 figure out some of the more cryptic parts. Generally it involves talking to townsfolk who'll send 
 you on a side quest that must be performed before gaining access to a new area, although some of 
 these aren't explained very well.  

  The battle mode comes off as the stronger experience of the two modes. This tried-and-tested game 
 has been featured in the previous Bomberman DS games, so its inclusion isn't a great surprise. 
 But if you're thinking of buying Bomberman Story DS on the strength of this alone, it's probably 
 better to buy one of the previous titles that already include it as a core component.  

  Battle mode lets you duke it out with up to seven other competitors in 20 unique arenas. Bomberman 
 Story DS supports four-player online play and eight-player local games, with single-card download 
 play giving you access to all of the options, so you'll only need one copy. The artificial intelligence 
 competitors are prone to doing slightly illogical things on occasion, such as standing around idly 
 in a corner, so it's best to find real competitors if possible.  

  In the multiplayer game, arenas are populated by soft blocks. By blasting these blocks apart you'll 
 be able to move around as well as uncover a number of items that will increase -- or decrease -- your 
 speed, firepower, and number of bombs you can set. The old-school death-match-style Bomberman stage 
 makes a comeback, and the other arenas are essentially just variations of this. Some have pipes 
 to hide in, conveyor belts, spiked floors, or trapdoors to warp through. Others change the goal 
 of the game and require you to collect the most stars, claim territory using your bombs' explosions, 
 find a key and door hidden under bricks, or collect the crown jewels to win the match.  

           Battle mode, including the classic Bomberman game, makes a comeback.      

  The graphics 
 in Bomberman Story DS look a bit rough around the edges but still match the game's cartoony style 
 with bright, cheery colours. The music is generally well-placed and suits the overall mood of the 
 game, though at times it can get a bit repetitive. Sound effects consist mostly of bomb explosions 
 or other noises here and there when attacking or being attacked.  

  Bomberman Story DS is marred by a weak and mostly uninteresting RPG experience. The multiplayer 
 battle mode is fun, but similar offerings have already appeared in previous Bomberman games on 
 the DS. There are certainly better adventures available on the handheld, and fans of the series 
 will likely feel let down by the unrewarding experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ravencr0w
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 7, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The concept is highly promising - you play as Cheerful White and you are guided through the story 
 mode by a series of typical save-the-world type missions on various planets in the Bomberman universe. 
 Dungeons are filled with inanimate objects and creatures for you to blow up. You'll also get to 
 carry a couple of different varieties of bombs for use, and this is probably an attempt at trying 
 to be "tactical". There's typical Bomberman items to collect as you go along too - speed ups and 
 downs, fire-up pills, etc. There are also puzzles which you will encounter and must solve in order 
 to move on.
  
  It all sounds very good. The problem with Bomberman Story is that it seems to want to achieve all 
 the above and yet fails to come through.
  
  The dungeons are too simple, too spacious (that it feels empty) . The enemies are sparse, rather 
 mild most of the time; feel like I'm blowing up a grazing animal rather than a monster at times. 
 Some of the aggressive ones can be rather unfair. Even in the early parts of the game, I've encountered 
 monsters appearing suddenly next to me, or shooting at me from off screen before I can even see 
 them. Most of the time it doesn't kill you but it is annoying.
  
  The puzzles included within are either ridiculously easy or stupidly frustrating. The problem with 
 them is that they break the rhythm of game. One minute you are happily running through a map, the 
 next moment you seem to have gone to Bomberman Land Mini-games Reject Center.
  
  The story and characters in the game are uninteresting and perfectly ignorable.
  
  As for controls, 
 you will be using the buttons for most of the 'dungeon-crawling' parts, and stylus control for 
 some of the puzzles.
  
  As with Bomberman game packages, it comes with classic Bomberman included which you can solo or 
 play with your friends. 
  
  It's low on the fun scale, it's not a fulfilling gaming experience, not addictive and entirely 
 forgettable. Maybe younger or less experienced gamers will like this game. But in conclusion, as 
 an RPG, this game is severely lacking. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
