-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bomberman Land Touch!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/bombermanland/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Classic battle mode is a party when three or more people are involved.
 Minigames are diverse and fun.
 Eight players offline with only one copy of the game, four players online.
 Only takes a couple button presses to jump into an online match.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Battle mode can be played online, but the minigames can't.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 19, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.1
Critic Score: 7.9, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 289 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Hudson
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Nov 7, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The highlight of Bomberman Land Touch! is the excellent battle mode that supports as many as four 
 players online and as many as eight offline. 

  When Bomberman DS was released in the summer of 2005, Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connect service wasn't yet 
 up and running. If you wanted to get a multiplayer game going, you had to invite people over and 
 cram them into the same room. While that might have been fine for people with plenty of friends 
 and large homes, it certainly wasn't optimal for loners, apartment dwellers, or anyone that desired 
 to compete against people outside their local area. Thankfully, Wi-Fi Connect is going strong now, 
 and Atlus and Hudson have responded by publishing a Bomberman game that takes advantage of the 
 service. With Bomberman Land Touch!, you no longer have to organize meet ups to get in a few rounds 
 of explosive goodness. Instead, you can use your Internet connection to seek out opponents in mere 
 seconds and flaunt your bomb battling skills anytime you want.  

          Wi-Fi Connect lets you enjoy classic Bomberman battles against people over the Internet. 
     

  Bomberman Land Touch! is actually two games in one. There's the classic battle mode, of course, 
 but also residing on the cartridge is a collection of 36 different minigames that primarily use 
 the touch screen. If you've ever played any of Nintendo's Mario Party games, then the shoot-outs, 
 races, dance challenges, and puzzles here will all seem very familiar to you. You can experience 
 these Bomberman-themed party games by playing through the story mode's role-playing quest, or you 
 can access them individually from the main menu, which offers the additional benefit of multiplayer 
 play. Minigames can't be played online, but as many as four players situated in the same room can 
 participate using only a single copy of the game. These brief minigames are fun when friends are 
 involved, and it probably won't take much effort to cajole spectating bystanders into a game, since 
 the controls only involve dragging and tapping with the stylus.  

  Even though the minigames are genuinely fun, the main draw for most people will be the classic 
 battle mode, where up to eight players can fight it out in any of 20 top-down arenas. Using the 
 directional pad and buttons, each player can move his or her bomber dude (or dudette) around the 
 arena and place bombs that explode after a few seconds. Arenas span both screens and incorporate 
 tunnels, trap doors, and conveyor belts. The general idea is to blow up your friends and be the 
 last bomber standing, although some arenas introduce rules that change the conditions for victory 
 from outright survival to capturing the most territory or racking up the most kills. During a match, 
 soft bricks in the arena can be blown up to reveal any of a half dozen power-up items. Most have 
 beneficial side effects, such as increasing your bomb capacity and elongating your bombs' blast 
 radius, but you also have to keep an eye out for downgrades that have the opposite effect. Longtime 
 fans may be disappointed that Hudson left out the boxing glove and remote detonator items that 
 were included in the mid-1990s Bomberman games, but their removal doesn't really hurt the game 
 or ratchet down the intensity level whatsoever. Just using the standard assortment of items, things 
 get pretty crazy when there are at least three or four people involved.  

  Bomberman DS offered a similar multiplayer battle mode, but you had to get everyone into the same 
 room to take advantage of it. Bomberman Land Touch! eliminates that logistical nightmare, because 
 its battle mode allows online matchmaking through Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connect service. As long as 
 you have an Internet connection and a wireless router, you can easily get together with your friends 
 or challenge random strangers to matches, without having to leave the house or worrying about "stranger 
 danger." On the whole, the severity of lag you'll encounter in online matches is roughly in line 
 with other WFC titles. Some matches start quickly and go smoothly, while in others the lag is so 
 bad that characters will move in fits or you'll be disconnected from the server before the match 
 ends. It all depends on how far away you are from the other players and how solid individual players' 
 connections are. For example, there's rarely any lag at all when everyone on the server is located 
 in neighboring cities. The main drawback to online play is that Internet matches are limited to 
 four players, whereas local multiplayer matches can involve as many as eight players. That's a 
 mild bummer, for sure, but it's easily offset by the realization that you can now play Bomberman 
 against other people without cleaning your room, bathing, or leaving the house.  

          Touch-screen minigames are the main focus of the story mode.     

  As for the graphics 
 and audio, Bomberman Land Touch! sticks to the franchise's old-school roots. The 2D character sprites 
 and tiled arenas in the battle mode are colorful and charming, but they don't push the hardware 
 at all. The theme park world in the story mode is packed with cute details and animation effects, 
 while all of the minigames are put together with hand-drawn backgrounds and objects that reflect 
 a Japanese manga inspiration. Sound effects primarily consist of explosions and the associated 
 noises of objects blowing up. Meanwhile, the music reflects a carnival-style atmosphere that is 
 both upbeat and memorable.  

  If you already own the first Bomberman DS or have no way of taking advantage of this newer game's 
 online features, then you probably don't need Bomberman Land Touch!. On the other hand, if you 
 do have a compatible router or Wi-Fi adapter and you enjoy multiplayer gaming, then you should 
 make it a point to add this game to your collection. The battle mode is as fun as ever, and now, 
 thanks to the implementation of online play, the process of setting up matches and finding opponents 
 is much less of a hassle.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: divinenanny
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  The mini games range from easy to a bit hard, and most use the stylus. You can always go back and 
 play the mini games again. Only flaw is that it won't mark the game as complete as there is no 
 save point after defeat of the end boss. Other than that fun to play and play again, and not too 
 hard. The mini games are based on speed and skill, so training yourself helps in beating the game. 
 A bit of puzzling is involved, but not too much.
  A good buy to kill a couple of hours. It took me about 15 hours to beat the game, more skilled 
 players will have an easier time. It has good replay value in the mini games. The graphics are 
 good, the characters are fun, and it is nice to have a story that gives background to the action. 
 Classic Bomberman is also included, however I haven't played it since I am no fan of Bomberman. 
 
  I recommend this game, as well as its sequel, Bomberman Land Touch 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romperstomper74
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  I used to have a version bomberman for the PC years ago so when I heard about this one it was one 
 of the titles I just had to get! When I got it it kept me entertained for about a week whilst playing 
 it everyday for a couple of hours you never got tired of this game it is that good.
  
  The graphics in this game are alright for the system that it was made for, they are not spectacular 
 but they are not exactly crap neither. They do work well for the nintendo ds.
  
  The story is easy to follow you are never lost with it from what I can remember of playing this 
 game as it was a long time ago when I played this one. But its alright to follow, you get to travel 
 between 4 different worlds to start off with and then a secret one when you have managed to complete 
 all 4 starting worlds off.
  
  You have to collect items in order to get to the secret world and you have to have so many items 
 to unlock the next world, you get to play little mini games to get these items and you never get 
 bored of them, you can keep playing them over and over to try and beat your previous attempt at 
 them. I find this game to be a brilliant one especially for young children as it is self explanitory 
 and not that difficult to learn for the younger mind and you can also use the stylus to play it 
 so there isnt that many button presses.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mancub_col
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Bomerman Land Touch is a fun game in the earily stages of the game, the mini-games are the funniest 
 part of the game. The way to get around the different part of the maps are well thought out of 
 and are fun to do but the missions durning the campaign can be a bit slow and if you are watching 
 and reading carefully then you dont the missions right and have to start over and that might not 
 be suck a good idea. The different versions of Battle mode are be really quick and fun and or boring 
 or they can be long and kind of hard/boring or fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSkirbi
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  this game has a good single player mode; and mini games in the single player mode are good but.
 
  in multiplayer mode their heads have grew and it is not like the game is a south park game the 
 first one they had normal sied body and head but in this they have skinny bodys and big heads and 
 in wi-fi mode it is too slow while your playing the game is this the matrix no i did not think 
 soo bomber man has let us down here lets hope he don't le down the wii. don't think i hate the 
 game i love the game the onlt thing that lets the game down is that stupid multiplayer mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kilgore1987
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  ok, i'll make this short and sweet.
  
  the tasks given to you in singleplayer are short and simple, most give you the odd reward which 
 allows to advance further into the game, this makes you feel as though you've accomplished something 
 even though you may have only played for 5 minutes.
  
  the touchscreen games in this game are only comparable to those of Warioware Touched, they are 
 varied and challenging. (that and the touchscreen works extremely, extremely well in all of them!)
 
  
  i haven't even started talking about the original bomberman game where it's you versus 3 others 
 in the ring. your goal? to eliminate the competition. this game works single and multicart and 
 is fully compatible with nintendo wifi. seriously, if you want value for money then give this game 
 a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonHunter54
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 13, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  Recently most bomberman games have attempted to make an RPG style game from Bomberman but often 
 this ends up as a mediocre game with a pokemon style element tacked on. Bomberman Land Touch is 
 a refreshing change from the format with several high quality minigames and an average puzzle solving 
 element. Admittedly most puzzels are as simple as equipping the most recently found item but it 
 is still an interesting addition.
  
  Sadly not all of the game is as good. The graphics and music are sufficient but hardly push the 
 consoles power and the storyline is pretty much no existent. The true bomberman part of the game 
 is still as fast and fun as ever but many stages and items from previous games have been cut out.
 
  
  The storyline suggests that the game is aimed at a younger audience but at times some of the minigames 
 can get down right frustrating. The music mini game against the pink bomber and the statue cleaning 
 game can easily thwart even a good gamer and many of the levels on hard mode become almost impossible.
 
  
  If your looking for a game true to the origional bomberman format complete with an abundance of 
 powerups, modes and stages this is not the game for you. If however you are interested in online 
 bomberman at a fairly basic level with a good set of minigames added on then this is the bomberman 
 game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgehog_bhoy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Bomberman Land Touch!
  
  This is the first time I have ever played any of the Bomberman games and this one totally rocks! 
 The single-player is fun, with plenty of mini-games for you to try and complete, but the multiplayer 
 is excellent. Bomberman is known for its legendary multiplayer on the games but I think the story 
 mode in Bomberman Land Touch! is just as good. This game was recommended by a friend, and I've 
 got to say thank you to him for persuading me to buy it! Bomberman Land Touch! is actually one 
 of the best games I've played in a while. The mini-games are really fun, but can get frustrating 
 at times, but what game dosen't? Overall, Bomberman Land Touch! is an amazing game and the developers, 
 Hudson Soft. should be proud of themselves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_speed06
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 5:12 am PT
Review:  Bomberman land touch is the latest addition to the critcily acclaimed bomberman land series. Bomerman 
 is back to his orignal looks instead of the chibi-style used in bomberman ds.
  Bomberman is known thanks to his amazing multiplayer batlles BUT now minigames are part of the 
 fun. In story mode the game is viewed through 2.5d exploration and as you progress you find new 
 minigames pieces of spade heart and club cards. Now why is this game is so good? because the minigames 
 are very creative and superb minigames start simple but gradually get more and more complex. Now 
 on to classic bomberman on the last ds outing there were some new bomb power-ups added but honestly 
 we all just wanted classic bomberman action well we get it in this class version of the classic 
 multiplayer legand. Friends or family not good enough thats not a problem because wi-fi multiplayer 
 is supported so you are able to take on the world. The gameplay plays as smooth as download play 
 supporting up to 4 players online and a massive 8 players local.
  Overall bomberman land touch is a super entry to the bomberman universe and proves that bomerman 
 games are not just about the multiplayer.
  A great improvement on the other ds game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 17, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  After the huge failure of Act Zero (I am sure it is fun in its own way, but really, all it really 
 has going for it is OK online multiplayer) , I seriously thought that Hudson was losing its touch 
 with a series that shouldn't be too hard to make fun. Well luckily, Bomberman Land Touch! redeemed 
 them in my eyes. Read on.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : Instead of going the classic route of making a single-player adventure that revolves 
 around the same simple concepts that the multiplayer involves, this game actually adds quite a 
 bit of variety. The single-player is essentially a collection of 37 mini-games (that is only around 
 10 less than the console Mario Party games offer...) . You are sent to this amusement park island 
 where you have to go around solving simple puzzles to get to attractions (which are the mini-games) . 
 You then beat the mini-game for an item that you will use to move on. It is fairly simple and as 
 far as 100% completion goes you will likely not have much of a problem finding everything you need 
 to. With that being said, that does not mean the game is not challenging and is not fun. The mini-games 
 themselves are overall very well thought out and are quite creative and fun. One mini-game will 
 have you sliding the stylus back and forth on the screen as you try to make Bomberman run as fast 
 as he can, while another might require you to draw a line from a certain fuse its matching bomb. 
 There is enough variety here to keep you entertained and luckily exploring the world isn't all 
 too dull thanks to a certain level of variety in environments AND a relateively simple layout. 
 Now the single-player is played only with the stylus and really it works perfectly. The game is 
 darn fun just for the mini-games itself, but Hudson didn't stop there.
  
  As usual, the multiplayer is where these games tend to shine the most. Not only can you play all 
 the mini-games in multiplayer with others, but you also have the classic 'run around and try to 
 blow your opponent up' mode for up to 8 players local and 4 players online. The best part is for 
 a lot of the stuff you only need one game pak which makes it even better. There are a good amount 
 of options for the classic mode and the stages are pretty well made so that you likely won't get 
 bored of it very fast. Being able to play online is an added bonus and there is no problem of complicated 
 options. It is as simple as connecting to Wi-Fi then pressing a button and then automatically finding 
 opponents to play against. Now this means that you don't always get to choose who you play against 
 (meaning against friends) unless you talk to 3 people ahead of time and hope that none of your 
 other friends are trying to play as well, but as I will describe later, that shouldn't be too much 
 of a problem for now. The main problem that prevents this game from getting a 10 is the major lag 
 online. If you are playing somebody outside of your country you are almost guaranteed horrible 
 lag and if it is within the country then you will still generally get slight lag. This is sad because 
 I don't understand how hard it is to make such a simple game work online, whereas Metroid Prime 
 Hunters (which I am sure is a lot more taxing on the DS AND internet) works almost flawlessly online. 
 This is a problem, though you can get used to it since it effects everybody (meaning nobody will 
 really have an advantage so it is almost like playing like normal) . Otherwise this is really a 
 fun game that has a lot going for it.
  
  Graphics (8/10) : In all modes they are done simplisticly and get the job done quite well. You will 
 find nothing amazing or jaw-dropping here, but due to the simplicity everything is crisp and very 
 vibrant. For this type of a game, this works quite well.
  
  Sound (7/10) : The music isn't the best out there. It gets the job done and nothing more. It is 
 not memorable but it is not painful to the ears either. If they had at least made a larger variety 
 of themes it would be nice. Mainly if they had a seperate musical score for each mini-game. That 
 is ok though because that just means you don't necessarily need sound to enjoy this game to the 
 fullest. Speaking of sound, the sound effects aren't that great either. They are very basic and 
 nothing to write home about. Once again, not painful to the ears, but don't be surprised if you 
 find yourself playing this without sound sometimes.
  
  Value (9/10) : A wonderful single-player that will likely last you 10-12 hours at the most. A highly 
 addictive multiplayer that offers both online and offline play. What more could one ask for? Well 
 there is more.
  
  As you play the mini-games you unlock the ability to play them seperately for high-scores, which 
 is always good. Also after you beat the game you gain access to an intensive version of one of 
 the mini-games which will likely seem impossible to complete (I currently have a score of 52 out 
 of 999) . Not only that though, there is a hard mode to unlock after you beat it. This is actually 
 very good since the mini-games are so fun it is worth going through again with a nice challenge. 
 Also since you will know where to find all the overworld items, you will be able to run back and 
 forth between the mini-games without having to spend too much time exploring, meaning there is 
 little down-time the second time through.
  
  The multiplayer is of course something that will last a while and really makes this game a lasting 
 gem, especially with up to 8 players locally. There are two problems with the online mode though 
 that really take away that last point here. First is the previously mentioned lag problem. Second 
 is the problem of not enough people owning this game. This has been out since November and I still 
 find it almost impossible to find people to play with online. This isn't a gameplay or development 
 issue but it is an issue because you likely won't find much fun out of the online multiplaer until 
 more people get this game.
  
  Nonetheless overall this is a very fun game and if you like mini-games and hectic but simple fun 
 out of your multiplayer, this game is most definately worth a purchase. In fact, I urge you to 
 buy this game so that I have more people to play online! In all honesty though, this is one of 
 the best of its kind on the DS right now and is worth the money for both casual gamers and hardcore 
 gamers. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 15, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Well I think that we all hate the game Bomberman act zero i wish that game was never made. The 
 screwed up the great bomberman we all love. Back to this game. This is a new new game that is a 
 lot like Mario Party and Wario ware etc... its a game soley on minigames. the story mode is where 
 you go to different islands and different doors to play mini games. once you beat it you get the 
 symbols collect them all and you beat that area. The story mode it self is not that great its dealing 
 with pirates and what not but a lot of the mini games are surprisingly fun and well made. some 
 of them can be very addictting! Overall the storyline is meaningless but the mini games are fun 
 unlike some games that came out (crash DS) its shows that Hudson has not given up on the little 
 white bomber. On a sidenote i really think he would be good in smash bros brawl he would be really 
 good....
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: all about multiplayer very fun and very fun mini games
  Graphics: Simple and could 
 be a lot better but its not about the graphics
  Sound: Not the greatest music we have seen
  Value: You get a great game with tons to do
  Overall: Pick this game i know it has not been that 
 popular and its a very good game all ds owners should at least consider buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doreensum
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 11, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  My impression of bomberman is just endless setting bombs and running away from them. New versions 
 add on gadgets for stuff to do with the bombs and new characters. However, this version made the 
 game into a theme park with lots of mini games. For someone who enjoys games that doesnt require 
 me to sit down for long periods of time, this is great. There is a storyline (unlike in wario) 
 and yet you are free to do which ever game you wanna try. But, because of that, you are never too 
 sure on how to go about the themepark.
  Thank goodness for emails that the other characters send you to tell you where else to collect 
 tokens and pieces to go through the gates. However, I do feel kinda lost from time to time
  
  Playing the theme park mode makes you miss the usual bomb and run mode. this game includes 
 that too!
  
  On the whole, this is a great game if you are looking for short burst of activities and cute graphics 
 plus a small dose of nostalgic.
  
  Note: theme park mode uses stylus only whilst the other uses the buttons only 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Generic_Dude
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Only one year has passed since the release of the last Bomberman game, but by taking advantage 
 of the DS's wi-fi capabilities, Bomberman Land Touch! renders its predecessor obsolete.
  
  In lieu of the standard-issue Bomberman single player mode, Bomberman Land Touch! includes Story 
 Mode, where you -- as Cheerful White -- play minigames resembling those of another popular Hudson 
 property... Mario Party. The minigames vary in difficulty, as well as quality, but there are certainly 
 some winners included and with the included Attraction Mode you can handpick them from the bunch. 
 Story Mode makes Bomberman Land Touch! a unique Bomberman experience and is certainly a step up 
 from the standard single player modes included in other Bomberman games, which tend to be a bit 
 boring.
  
  The REAL meat and potatoes of the game is the Battle Mode, which gives us the Bomberman action 
 that gave the series its legendary status. Like it's predecessor, this release includes several 
 modes and offers the option to play against bots or local players (a maximum of four, with only 
 one game pack required) , but also throws in a wireless multiplayer mode to compete against up to 
 eight players from around the world.
  
  An unconventional and unique, but generally fun, single player experience, along with a phenomenal 
 Battle Mode featuring worldwide multiplayer makes Bomberman Land Touch! a must-own game for fans 
 of the series and/or those looking for a fantastic DS multiplayer experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevenSorrows
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  If you like Bomberman, you might like this game. I suggest that if you own the first Bomberman 
 for the DS that you rent this game first. Think of it as Mario Party meets Bomberman. Bomberman 
 Land: Touch has three modes: Story, Battle Pack, and Attraction. In the story mode, you play as 
 Cheerful White (AKA White Bomber) at an amusement park. The amusement park has 5 different zones 
 you can explore, each with its own attractions , or mini games. The mini games are hit or miss. 
 Some mini games can be fun, and some mini games can be so frustrating, they make you want to smash 
 something. Scattered around the amusement park are gates, and to open them you will need to have 
 the required number of pieces from the zone indicated. The pieces can be earned by playing mini 
 games in their respective zones. For example, if you beat a mini game in the Spade zone, you will 
 get a Spade piece. By beating the same attraction twice you can earn tokens, which can buy you 
 items and characters for attraction mode. In order to complete story mode, you'll need to use different 
 bombs, wear different costumes, and put on different head gear, which can all be earned in mini 
 games, bought with tokens, or found in chests. The control in story mode is all with the stylus. 
 EVERYTHING. To open chests, move around, etc., which isn't a bad thing. All the mini games use 
 the stylus too, and some even use the microphone. The stylus works well in most mini games, but 
 causes the frustration in the others because of poor control.
  
  Here's where Bomberman Land: Touch will disappoint you. The Bomberman Battle Pack mode features 
 the same Bomberman multiplayer from Bomberman DS, except it's missing a lot. First off, if you 
 have the first Bomberman for the DS, you'll notice the lack of items. Bomberman DS had around 15 
 items (not counting power-downs) , and Bomberman Land: Touch! has 4 (not counting power-downs) . 
 Because of the lack of items, quite a few levels and modes are missing from the first. Also, the 
 Battle Pack doesn't use the stylus or the microphone, so that also contributes to the loss of levels. 
 The Battle Pack does however can use single card or multi-card download, which is good. The Battle 
 Pack also has wi-fi, but unfortunately, it disappoints. The frame rate drops to a really slow pace, 
 which can ruin a match by itself. The Battle Pack really brings this game down, if it had the same 
 content in the first Bomberman DS, this would've been a better game.
  
  Bomberman Land Touch!'s third mode is attraction mode, where you can replay all the mini games 
 you've completed in the story mode by yourself or with up to three friends. Attraction mode can 
 be played with single or multi-card play. The only problem with single card download play is that 
 every time you want to play a different mini game, you'll have to reconnect with your friend (s) 
 for each different mini game you play. Bomberman Land: Touch! is a solid game, but a disappointing 
 multiplayer and some frustrating mini games bring this game down to what could've been a great 
 game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
