-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bomberman
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/bomberman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Eight players with only one copy of the game.
 Multiplayer is as strong as ever.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Single-player is long, but uninteresting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 24, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.6, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 847 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Hudson Soft
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Jun 21, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're a Bomberman fan, you already know exactly what to expect, but this is also a good game 
 for anyone yet to be acquainted with Hudson's long-running series. 

  Bomberman is everywhere. He's been everywhere, and he'll continue to be everywhere. He's been on 
 TurboGrafx-16. He's done the Saturn. In fact, we're even pretty sure that he's hiding under your 
 desk  right now . So be cool, and don't make any sudden moves. Bomberman's travels have taken him 
 directly onto the Nintendo DS. If you've been around the block a few times and can't see yourself 
 getting excited about Bomberman all over again, or if you're the type of snob that thinks the only 
  real  Bomberman game is Saturn Bomberman, it might be easy to overlook this new handheld edition, 
 because by and large, there are few things here that you haven't seen before. However, the formula 
 still works just fine, and with support for eight players using only one copy of the game, this 
 is a fine choice for anyone interested in a strong multiplayer game.  

          The single-player mode is functional, but not all that great.     

  There are two modes 
 to Bomberman, but really, there's only one that matters. The single-player mode, as in most Bomberman 
 games, pits you against a collection of fairly pattern-driven, easy-to-defeat foes. It has 100 
 stages in all, complete with bonus stages and boss fights. The twist to the game this time around 
 is that collecting power-ups doesn't automatically activate them. Instead, the power-ups appear 
 on the bottom screen, so you can use the touch screen to activate them whenever they're needed. 
 With its large collection of stages, the single-player mode can definitely be time consuming, but 
 aside from the boss fights, it's not really all that exciting.  

  As has been the case since Bomberman's early days, the battle mode is what you're really interested 
 in. Here, up to eight players or computer-controlled bombermen face off. The object of the game 
 is to drop bombs that blow up your opponents, while getting out of range of all of those explosions 
 to keep yourself alive. You'll grab power-ups that let you drop more bombs simultaneously, enhance 
 the length of your explosions, give you the ability to detonate bombs at will instead of waiting 
 for their regular timed blast, and so on. All of these items make the game move pretty quickly, 
 but each match tends to start a little slowly as the players blast away rubble in hopes of uncovering 
 the items.  

  The action in Bomberman's multiplayer mode takes place on both screens, with a series of tunnels 
 that connect them together. But there's a wide array of stages available, and some of them have 
 a reduced number of tunnels, which creates crazy choke points for especially destructive tactics. 
 Aside from changing the tunnel count, some of the other stages add teleporters, conveyor belts, 
 zombie panels that can bring players back from the dead, and more. One starts you out with full 
 bomb power, making the action frantic right from the start. Two settings even take advantage of 
 the DS's microphone, forcing you to make noise to drop bombs or detonate others. The variety is 
 definitely one of the best things about Bomberman, but at the same time, there's something to be 
 said for just playing in classic mode, which strips the game down to its decade-old roots.  

  Eight players is a good number of people for the two-screen game, but even if you can't find 
 seven other DS owners to play with, the computer-controlled opponents are pretty good. You can 
 choose between three different difficulty levels for each entrant, though the normal setting is 
 smart enough for most players. Obviously, playing against real people is preferable, and the game's 
 support for single-card multiplayer is one of its strongest features.  

          It may not have changed all that much over the years, but that doesn't make battle mode 
 any less awesome.     

  Bomberman's look hasn't changed that much over the years. He's gotten a little lankier, and the 
 enemies look a little more complicated than they did when the game first hit the NES and TG-16. 
 But, for the most part, it's still a good-looking, though also basic-looking, game. The sound effects 
 are high-pitched and filled with shrieks, as the announcer scratches that poppy, Japanese-sounding 
 itch very well. You might find it incredibly annoying, but combined with the super-upbeat music, 
 it's a cohesive sound that works well in the context of the game.  

  The single-player probably won't win you over, but if you're on the lookout for a solid multiplayer 
 DS game, Bomberman is exactly that. It has a lot of options, which include letting you play with 
 only one copy of the game, as well as letting you fill in the blanks with computer-controlled players 
 if you're missing a few people. If you're a Bomberman fan, you already know exactly what to expect, 
 but this is also a good game for anyone yet to be acquainted with Hudson's long-running series. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: I1yodsyo1I
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: I'm reviewing the Japanese version of this game, so there should be some changes...
  
  Bombrerman is a very simple concept: plant bombs and eliminate other players. Hudson keeps 
 trying to change the formula, which can lead to disaster (See: Bomberman Act Zero for the Xbox 
 360) . Bomberman should stick to what it does best: two dimensional, top-down play. It works well 
 with this game.
  
  Story mode is a pretty big disappointment. You can save, but it creates a temporary file. If I 
 accidentally shut off the DS without saving the temporary data, then I have to restart where I 
 left off last time. Which is a pain in the butt when you consider the uninspired enemies in this 
 game. Single Player mode is a total snoozefest, ful of crap and boredom.
  
  Multiplayer, as anyone expects, is where this game shines, and takes the darkness from single-player 
 away. Its has over 15 different levels, and you can edit the basic stuff, like random slots, # 
 of wins needed to win, and so forth. All battles also go on in two screens, so that in most levels 
 they are connected by tunnels, which I thought was better then having one gigantic arena in which 
 you don't know if a bomb was placed in the "dead space" on your DS. Best part is the single card 
 multi-play, so I can have up to 7 other buddies (which I always do at school lunch) and kick all 
 their asses, because, I do own the game. Some of the modes come straight from the other games (such 
 as the cones level) , and some are new, such as the mic and shield level, where you have to blow 
 your mic to shield yourself from bomb blasts. One level got me really upset, which was the one 
 where you have rwemote controlled bombs, and to blow them, you have to, well, blow on the mic. 
 Which sucks, comparing to the fact that everyone around you is talking, and the mic is sometimes 
 so sensitive that I kill myself on that level.
  
  Overall, its a great experience, and very fun to play over and over again. I some places, I see 
 this game for $10 (which is the best price, considering the hellish story mode) , so this game isn't 
 such a bad investment. Buy it cheap, and you'll leave satisfied.
  
  Score: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariosonic91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Bomberman Ds is the classic old school bomberman many fans have come to know and love, but is it 
 really worth another go? or does get to repetitive? It may be bomberman but its small and unique 
 charms bring it away from its repetitiveness of the past.
  
  
  Story 7/10: The story is quite simple, a large crystal shining at the highest point explodes and 
 each shard lands in the different worlds. The nice clean environments from buildings to volcanos 
 and even pyramids seem to be wrecked after the shards land. Its up to bomberman to restore the 
 crystal. Its old school instantly but with no dialogue or reason for the crystal it just feels 
 slightly unnecessary.
  
  Gamplay 9/10: You will through 100 levels of bomb-exploding action. There numbered as in 1-1 or 
 1-5 or 2-3. Your goal is to kill all the enimes on the board and every 10th stage a boss. The stage 
 layouts consist of enemies, blocks, Items, and an exit to complete the level. In the begining you 
 will start off kinda slow or weak but as you blow up blocks, some will contian items that will 
 increase the number of bombs you can lay, or your flame will spread out farther. Some of these 
 get really unique like landmines or being able to kick your bomb or even wall though the blocks. 
 All of these power you up but you dont have to use them right away. On the top screen is the level, 
 on the bottom screen is a whole library of items. It shows each one and how many of that item you 
 have picked up. Just tap with the stylus to apply the item or items of your choice. It becomes 
 really fun as you can make a large variety of what items you will use for which levels and this 
 is also useful to save the really good items for harder situations ( like a boss) . The further 
 you progess: the more eniemes will come, the more challenging they will be to kill, like all games 
 it gets harder as you go but more fun too. Every 5 stages you run across a bonus stage. You must 
 kill all the enemies and once you do you can to a room filled with upgrades. All of this is time 
 limited but its surely helpful. After the bonus stage the game will save automatically. The game 
 is capable of saving every 5 stages automatically. You can save in between through a quick save 
 but once you resume it off the menu it will not be there again (unless you save again) otherwise 
 you go back to either a ?-0 or after a ?-5 bonus stage. There is one big flaw that can happen, 
 when you die you lose all your equipped power ups so you must re-apply power ups you had. This 
 isnt good espically when you are using the last of one particluar item. The bigger problem is when 
 you lose all your lifes get a GAME OVER. Not only do you lose your equipped items but all of them 
 in your inventory as well. This becomes frustrating for the later part of the game but you earn 
 enough experience from the previous levels so this should be a problem often.
  
  Multiplayer 9/10: The multiplayer is extremely fun. You can gather up to 8 freinds with only one 
 cartalidge and that is already a big plus. It allows those who have it to play and those who just 
 wanna quick fight. The multiplayer offers a very large amount of variety. You can set up the game 
 just as you like with number of lives, time limiet and even if you want computers. The stage variety 
 is even better from you average board to weird gimicks like tredmills on the stage or some were 
 items are already aquired
  Example: one stage has your bomb-exploding rage already at maximum capacity.
  The only 2 stages 
 not recommended are the microphone stages, becasue they dont tell you what to say to make the bomb 
 explode. ( Is it BOMB? or EXPLODE? or blowing into the microphone?)
  The game play like story mode only this time your blowing up your freinds. Even after you die you 
 can sit along the sidelines throwing bombs at surviving players. So even if you dont win, you can 
 still play and have some fun.
  
  Bomberman Ds is a great game and one that doesnt stray to far from the series's lovable formula. 
 I can recommend this to either long time fans or newcomers because either way its alot of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shiekern
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  I was so flippin happy when I got this game! I always loved bomberman ever since I played it on 
 the n64. To the review!
  
  Gameplay: Seriously old-school.... but wth is wrong with that? I played bomberman world and loved 
 it and this just brings back those great memories! The multiplayer is great and there are many 
 stages to choose from. You can even play by yourself! And finally, there is no wi-fi, BUT! you 
 can play with other people with 7 other people when only you have the game cartridge!!! Awesome! 
 You can become a revenge bomber to say You killed me? Fine now I kill you! I LOVE THIS GAME!!!!!!!
 
  
  Graphics: I think that they are a nice blend of 2d 3d graphics. I wish they were like the beggining 
 movie but we can't have everything! They have good fire effects, smooth movements, and good arenas.
 
  
  Story: Well..... there really isn't one... a crystal gets destroyed and you gotta go get em... 
 yeh not really very deep, but the story mode doesn't really last long, but that is what the multiplayer 
 is for.
  
  Value: A lot of u got friends or just like blowing the living $#!&amp; outta everything.
  
 
  Replay Value: None, the story once done is done. (Multiplayer lasts long for me.... IT PWNS)
 
  
  Closing Statements: I have to say this brings back the retro style of bomberman and I feel that 
 the magic is still there. All the aspects of the game are there and the mutliplayer gives the game 
 its great value even though the story is well... pointless. Go get this game and play your heart 
 out! BOMBERMAN FOREVER!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepsychox247
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  This game never gets old. you can play it for hours on end by yourself and you can still have fun 
 every game. there are many different gametypes and some you even have to use the microphone in 
 the ds to play with. the story mode is fun and easy and will leave you wanting a harder experience. 
 but multiplayer makes up for that. it is extremely fun being able to play bomberman with up to 
 8 people per game, and you can also make teams of up to 4. you can also change the difficulty level, 
 i never put my teammates on hard because they accually go out of their way in order to kill ME, 
 not the enemy, me. my score: 9.5/10. believe me, play it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hipppvix
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  It is a lot like the old ones. There is a single player and there are levels and everything, but 
 I'm not sure if there is a story or not. In the single player there is big room with a buch of 
 explodable things that are blocking your way from the enemies. So then you lay down your bombs, 
 which you have infinate of, and then you blow up all the walls and put bombs next to the enemies.
 
  
  There are a bunch of power ups for this game. From water bombs to larger exploding bombs. Or there 
 are power ups where you can kick bombs and many other things.
  
  There is a multiplayer that you can acess through your WiFi connection and play with people all 
 over. Or if there is nobody to play with you can play with the computers. And there are lots of 
 settings to customize.
  
  I don't think that this particular Bomberman was anything special so if you have it for another 
 system and don't need it handheld I wouldn't get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dakirbydude
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Bomberman DS is certainly a good game, but the Bomberman series has better to offer. The 1 player 
 is good, but it's not super-amazing. It's fun, but certainly not the best. (Bomberman Max 2 and 
 Super Bomberman 2 had better...) Also, the battle mode was great, but I under-valued it having 
 played Touch before it. Touch does a slightly better job with basically the same elements and even 
 has wifi. While the game has some cool things in the battle mode that you won't find in Touch (such 
 as classic power ups like the Power Bomb) it just is missing something that touch had. What I'm 
 saying is the game is good, but if you have played Bomberman Land: Touch previously, you will probally 
 under-value this game. It's good, but Touch is a better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shining_Blade
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 22, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Bomberman for the Nintendo DS is the classic verison of Bomberman but improved to make the gameplay 
 more fun, balance out the difficulty, and take advantage of some new touch screen features specific 
 to the handheld version. The single player adventure is just like the original Bomberman but it 
 has a series of more difficult levels of different places. You wipe out the playing field and find 
 the hidden exit, you can move on to the next round. The challenge is to plant bombs and getting 
 the heck out of the way of the explosion, as well as avoiding the enemies moving throughout the 
 level. Most of the single-player levels you play with the upper screen with the touch screen pick 
 the power ups you want. In the past single-player Bomberman games you would lose all your powers 
 ups when you die, but in this new game you only lose the power ups that you put into to the bomerman 
 and rest are still are there in your inventory. This game also has an multiplayer option where you 
 can battle your friends in many different places also the multiplayer opition has an weapons pick 
 option where you can pick what kind of weapons you want. well That is it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Hi this Poe Tokoro again giving you the review of Bomberman for the Nintendo DS!
  
  Gameplay: The controls as usual for 2-D games are easy to master. Bomberman's singleplayer is waste 
 of time. The Bomb Crystal needs your help and your the unlucky white box head who has to help it. 
 The controls for the modes are way to linear. up down left right, that's it.
  
  Graphics: Don't let the intro movie deceive you, the game is purely 2-D. Not an ounce of 3-D in 
 this game not even at the end credits. The characters are all to simple to like. The game is a 
 complete failure to DS games except in one area.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is excellent. The bright tunes fit well with the levels. The voice 
 overs are annoying because BombeMAN sounds like a girl.
  
  Value: This game currently costs $20, The multiplayer is absolute fun! And because it use Download 
 Play you don't to go on a scavenger hunt to see who has it.
  
  Overall: I say buy it. the multi player is worth it and your DS friends will want to play it all 
 the time. But if one of your friends has it I say don't buy it.
  
  -Poe Tokoro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liverpoolraj
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  Basicly if you dont no this game it is a little man who can plant bombs to blow up. This is the 
 aim too blow wierd looking creatures up. This is a old game and could have been a bit more altered 
 for the DS. It still has its old fun but it is another age of gaming and we want to see better 
 graphics, more items and still the old same fun. it is a bit too easy and not much of a story line 
 at all. But it is bomber man and he is still good so hopefuly they will make a seaquel just more 
 improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gage666
Rating: 3.3
Date: Oct 15, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  This game was the worse bomberman made.... only good thing bout it is the multiplayer game.... The 
 lvls r ummm set up so you pull out your hair instead of enjoying it.... For instance lvl 1-1 the 
 1st three blocks u blow up contain nothing but the warp gate.... good? nah you have to wipe out 
 the other monsters but u have very small bombs can only lay 1 and move like a snail... ok now these 
 rolling mobs that move 5 x faster then u and can go through blocks come out of the portal.... u 
 die restart try again.... and if u make it to the boss but die u now have to beat the boss with 
 very small bombs and only able to lay one..... and since there r no blocks u can't get bigger bombs.... restart 
 from lvl 1 and try again... waist of time thoe playing with friends is very fun single player is 
 just a waist thoe.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpblu
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 24, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Bomberman, Bomberman! Anyways, Bomberman has always offered an unimpressive single-player exprience. 
 But recently... its Battle Modes have been the whole reasons to pick these things up! Generation 
 offered pretty nice battle modes, Jetters offered different characters and thus more fun. Here... 
 it offers a HUGE load of battle options ranging from classic battle arenas to using the mic to 
 detonate bombs, rush for a crown, and even battle with enemies on the loose!
  
  The single-player is interesting... to say the least. But it doesn't hold up. The bosses are ridicously 
 easy. And some of the enemies, especially in later worlds, are ANNOYING! The knights, bomb enemies 
 that can set themselves, and enemies that phase through blocks... its enough to drive you crazy. 
 Luckily, you get a whole load of items to help. Collect as many as possible, as these will help 
 you burn through later stages and bosses. Also, the lack of saves in the game kinda bring its down. 
 You have to go through 5 levels without saving. If you keep dying... that's not a good thing.
 
  
  Battle Mode, even if you're playing by yourself, is very fun. Even with one card, 8 players can 
 go at it. That's a rare treat to find in DS, so take advantage. There's 20+ different things in 
 every arena, ranging from see-saws to spikes. As with past battle modes, settings can be changed 
 to your liking. You've played battles in the past, right? Only having 3 opponents to worry about. 
 Well, now you have 7 to worry about, and that's a LOAD of bombs to avoid. Your true skills will 
 be put to the test, whether it be CPUs or human minds.
  
  Some people find this game boring. I don't... but maybe that's because I find the Battle Mode VERY 
 well done. Again, single-player could've been a lot better... maybe why some people don't exactly 
 like this game. But give Battle Mode a chance and you'll see where this game truely shines. To 
 be honest, there's no reason to play Single-Player at all. It doesn't unlock anything. I know... 
 I beat it. Disappointing, ain't it? Still... the real reason to buy this is to go bomb-to-bomb 
 against 7 equally crazy Bombers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I had this game for a long time and never brought it out. Its single player sucked. My friends 
 came over with their DS's once and we ran out of good games, so we popped in BomberMan DS, and 
 what do you know, the multiplayer was awesome.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The game is just like the old bomberman games. Walk around in a maze, drop bombs, pick up powerups 
 and drop more bombs. The Single player doesn't even consist of multiplayer games with bots, it 
 actually makes you fight lame enemies that are no fun over too many levels. I played maybe five 
 levels in before quitting, I try not to be a bad gamer and not give a game a chance, I made that 
 mistake once before and have been trying not to make it again, but it seemed the gameplay had no 
 chance of being better.
  
  Multiplayer though, even with just bots is fun for a while. With 8 players and teams or without... 
 it is an utter blast. People screaming and ghosts getting revenge. Its fun in its simplest form. 
 On the plus side you only need ONE cartridge to play multiplayer with everyone, great value.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Blocky 3D intro looks good, and the sprites in game are colorful, but their 
 is just not enough graphics. You play over the same levels over and over with the same sprites. 
 If the graphics were mind blowingly great I could understand, but they are no where near average 
 even.
  
  SOUND
  
  I really admit I muted this game quite quickly. The music wasn't bad, its that there was only one 
 short repeating track in the entire gameplay section of the game. Their are some voices for when 
 you powerup and stuff, but other than that there is a lot of the same explosion sound. Average 
 sound for a DS game I guess.
  
  VALUE
  
  I guess the single player game is supposed to be really long, because after five levels I was still 
 fighting the same enemies as in level one, but I doubt even the most devoted bomberman fans can 
 enjoy every last level of the single player. Dual screened levels do add some variety, but not 
 enough. Multiplayer may be fun for a couple of hours over a few days, but after that the lack of 
 variety gives in.
  
  TILT
  
  I usually rate tilt by how the games story immersed me into the world of the game. I don't remember 
 the story, but I think their was something about a castle. Anywho the game was so devoid of fun 
 it doesn't matter. I give tilt a six because the multiplayer is a ton of fun for a while.
  
  Overall, if you have 8 friends with DSs and can organize them to buy one bomberman cartridge 
 and have a party day, the game will more than be worht it. Other wise, stay far away from this 
 game.
  
  The game should have a warning on it. "Bomberman DS: 1-8 Players. friends not included" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THStrackrunner
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 29, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  what a boring game. there was nothing to it, just blown blocks up. the only good thing this game 
 was good for was the multiplayer. multiplayer was fun, but since this game had no wifi, you had 
 to find another person with a ds. i didnt really expect this game to be great, but still bought 
 it with high hopes, but was dissapointed. oh well, i guess i learned my lesson, don't buy old games 
 that are remakes, cause they usually aren't good. take pacman and frogger for example. do me a favor, 
 save the money that you were thinking about spending on this, and buy yourself mario kart ds. you'll 
 get alot more playing time out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 11, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I have a soft spot in my heart for Bomberman. It's always good for a cheap action-puzzler thrill, 
 blowing up cute little men and monsters for the sake of glory. This game is, simply put, Bomberman 
 Nostalgia 101... it was made for those of us who just got the hankerin' for some classic grid-based 
 demolition mayhem. If you've never played Bomberman before, first of all... how'd you manage? Secondly, 
 this one's as good as they come. Just wait until you see the rediculously-cute intro. You'll be 
 convinced.
  
  The graphics are simple enough. You're treated to some 3D on the title screen, but the action is 
 all 2D, in a true 16-bit era sprite style. Music is as stupidly happy as ever. Sadly, they've also 
 thrown in some cheesy high-pitched voiceovers that announce the powerups you collect and various 
 other things. It would have been nicer if they were slightly less grating, like maybe the Cow-and-Chicken- (the 
 cartoon) -esque voices from Atomic Bomberman.
  
  The game plays pretty simply. You are Bomberman, scurrying about in a field divided up into a grid. 
 Populating this grid are two types of blocks, hard and soft. By pushing A, you deploy a bomb into 
 the square where you are standing. After a second or two, it will explode into flames in the shape 
 of a cross, filling the spaces in the cardinal directions around it with fire. This fire will destroy 
 any soft blocks, enemies or you's that are touched by it. In the beginning, you will only be able 
 to lay one such bomb at a time, and it's flame will only reach one square in each direction. As 
 you might expect, blowing up bricks could yield powerups that increase your stock of bombs, lengthen 
 your flame, increase your speed, and a variety of other things. Bomberman's been around a while, 
 and it's been a while since I played one, so to me it seems there are a great many powerups in 
 all, some I didn't immediately recognize. Most of them are pretty cool. Well... that's the entire 
 game. No real minigames, go-kart sequences or plot. Just bombing.
  
  There are two play modes... and yes, they are singleplayer and multiplayer.
  
  The singleplayer 
 game follows the formula of previous Bombermans pretty much exactly. There are a handful of areas 
 in the game, each divided up into ten stages. A stage consists of a field with blocks and monsters 
 in it. You start in the top corner, and must blast your way to the enemies and murder them with 
 your bombs. It feels like murder, anyway... most of them are quite cute. O. o The last stage contains 
 a boss monster which is quite large and takes several blasts to defeat. One unique thing about 
 this game is that when you pick up a powerup, you don't use it right away. You instead stock it, 
 and activate it by selecting it from the bottom menu. Most of the powerups only last a single level, 
 so you'll want to save them for when it counts. Unfortunetly, you have to use the touch screen 
 to select and use the powerup, which is kind of clumsy. If you're in a pinch, you can pause the 
 game to select the proper item. Pausing to use the Heart powerup has saved my life a few times 
 when I got too excited. ^_^ It's worth noting also that like most other Bombermans... the singleplayer 
 mode is quite easy. Most of the enemies are slow and take only a blast or two to destroy. It becomes 
 quite routine to bait and trap them if you're clever. An experienced Bomberman player could sit 
 down with this game and beat the singleplayer game in a few hours. Then again, the experienced 
 Bomberman player is probably expecting that. There really isn't that much else to the singleplayer 
 game. It plays a lot like Super Bomberman for SNES.
  
  Multiplayer Bomberman has always been where it's at, and that's where this package delivers. You 
 can start up a frantic 8-player match with just a single cartridge, which is an awesome feature. 
 There are plenty of stages and multiplayer options, and a lot of them are interesting. It's not 
 as full-featured as, say, Atomic Bomberman for PC, but all the basic stuff is there. Thankfully, 
 the stocking system was removed for multiplayer. This game truly shines with a handful of guys 
 blazing around at top speed, punching and kicking bombs, setting of triggers and filling the screen 
 with massive fire. If you are lonely, you can fill in with PCs... just be sure to turn up the difficulty 
 a little if you want a decent challenge. There are a few features from previous Bomberman games 
 I would have liked to see in this though... like maybe a map creator or some different rule sets, 
 or powerup frequency controls. The multiplayer, again, plays a lot like Super Bomberman for SNES.
 
  
  The Verdict:
  
  This isn't the first Bomberman ever, even for portable systems, but it is probably the best handheld 
 version you can get. The dual-screen can make for some pretty big maps, and the 8-player single-cart 
 wireless just sells the package. This game is cheap too... definently pick it up if you and your 
 buddies are looking for a decent multiplayer game. Admittedly, the complete lack of variety and 
 singleplayer challenge might kill the deal for people who don't find the gameplay addicting. If 
 you've already played a Bomberman game semi-recently, there's little here you haven't already seen. 
 You probably won't end up playing this game for months on end... for someone revisiting an old 
 classic on their DS, it simply won't hold the collective attention of you and your friends as long 
 as it did years ago. Bomberman fans and puzzle fans shouldn't pass this one up, though! Bomberman 
 is always good entertainment for a night or two at the very least... alone making it worth the 
 cheap ticket price.
  
  Pros:
  +It's Bomberman in classic SNES style
  +It's only $15
  +8-players with just one cartridge
  +Somehow rediculously intense and absorbing, as usual
  
 
  Cons:
  -Singleplayer is way too easy, as usual
  -Multiplayer could have had a few more features
  -Stocking system is slightly clumsy
  -Navigating 
 menus can be a hassle sometimes without the stylus
  -If you've played a previous Bomberman, there's virtually nothing new this time around 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxc911
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  This game is BRILLIANT. 
  
  The good: Ameswome multiplayer; very good singleplayer; great music;
  TONS of replay value.
 
  
  The bad: NOTHING is bad about this game ( That's just not a bad thing, it's a good thing.) .
  
 
  Gameplay: 
  
  The gameplay is great. You must lay down bombs to destroy enemies and blocks. In the blocks you 
 can find power-ups, such as fire up, glasses, and speed up. You can also find the way out, you 
 should end up there if you have destroyed all enemies.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  The graphics are very good. They are 2D, but great.
  
  Sound:
  
  The music is brilliant. 
 I get happy from the music, so when I am depressed, I start up bomberman and I get happy.
  
  Value:
  
  There are 100 levels, and when you have beat them all, there is also single-card 
 multiplayer, so this game never gets boring.
  
  Overall:
  
  This game is brilliant. Buy it, it will never regrets you.
  
  Thank you for reading this. zxc911. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmorey01
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, the only good thing is the multiplayer. If you don't have friends to play this with, 
 skip this game. The single player is horrible, and mind numbing. So if you have friends who a DS 
 get it. If you don't have friends with DS's, SKIP THIS GAME! I cannot stress this enough the music 
 is boring and repetitive. And the single player levels are easy having only a few monsters on screen 
 and once and it doesn't help that the AI is very dumb. And who needs auto activating powers? apperantly 
 not bomberman DS. They want you to tap the screen everytime you get a power up bringing you out 
 of the already dull gameplay. SO skip the single player please. But, since this is a game from 
 a long running series, there is some value if you recongize bomberman form the other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  I am a HUGE bomberman fan and i couldent wait for this to come out , but when it did i was slightly 
 dissapointed. I think they could have done better.
  
  The graphics wernt great this time round and thought they could have added some more detail to 
 the explotions and stuff , including bomberman himself , he just looks like a bunch of pixels thrown 
 together , not much detail there at all.
  
  The gameplay is good with 1 or 2 really challenging lvl's , quite pleased with that . The multiplayer 
 is the best part of the game for sure ! Up to 8 players with just 1 card , i had great fun with 
 this ! The gameplay is really fun for about 3-5 weeks depending how far you get , but does get 
 very repetetive and boring after that . Its just the same thing no real story line at all. 
  
  The sound is fun and enjoyable , also quite funny at times aswell. 
  
  Overall a good game 
 while it lasts, i think you should rent this game for 2 weeks coz theres not much 2 it after that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Does this seem familiar to you? It should, like most Bomberman games Bomberman feels like a port, 
 actually i think this is. Bomberman just feels like more of the same like most Bomberman games 
 are. The single player mode is boring and just stupid, however multiplayer really makes this game. 
 It offers various game modes and is fun to get down with a bunch of your pals and play it. The 
 dual screen games are also a great no transition into the game. Dont buy this hoping for amazing 
 single player action, it's only worth it's multiplayer, which is nothing compared to all the better 
 Ds games out there. A great game for Bomberman fans but for those looking for something new, Bomberman 
 is just more of the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeyg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  This was the frist and most addictive ds game i have played. The coulors and charceters look great 
 for the ds and will look even better on the lite. I have played and owned many bomber man games 
 and some better than others, this one is the best because it is portable and looks great. I played 
 agenst my friend on the ds and yelling bomb into the speakers at school was not the best idea but 
 very fun. This is the kind of game that you can play for 30 min or for 2 hours. I really liked 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divb
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Bomberman is great, I can't say much more. The bosses get harder every new world, the multiplayer 
 is awesome, and the story mode is just the perfect challenge when you're bored and you want to 
 do something. If you hate this game, then you either need to play the game once more and re-evaluate 
 it, or you're just plain out of your mind.
  
  This game is also great because you can't really get bored with it. I turned it on for the first 
 time, sat down, and played for about five hours. One problem about this game though is that you 
 may end up normally playing one mode and get attached to it, and then you rarely ever play the 
 other mode. That happened to me. Now I always play battle mode, and I rarely use story mode, and 
 that can get to be a real problem.
  
  But other than that, I don't think this game could improve. They did a great job, unlike Grand 
 Theft Auto, that game sucks. Au Revoir. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaxex
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 9:36 am PT
Review:  Bomberman Ds is a follow-on from the popular bomberman series and has lost none of the appeal of 
 the previous games. This one is the first on the Nintendo Ds and is a two-dimensional game. It's 
 a sort of puzzle action game that being 2d only helps the system. 
  
  In bomberman you go around either one or two screens placing bombs, these destroy blocks and clear 
 your way to your enemies, which are defeated with bombs as well. The areas cmmonly have blocks 
 in the middle of each small group of free squares, which gives a place to hide from bombs blasts. 
 
  
  Through the game you'll find loads of power ups which can: Increase your speed, increase the length 
 of your bomb's flame, allow you to lay more bombs at a time, get full-strengh bombs, detonators, 
 bouncy bombs, kick bombs throw bombs and more. This adds a decent level of variety to the game.
 
  
  The game has tow modes mutli-player and single-player. In single player you go through various 
 stages tryign to defeat the enemies there, each eneie has it's own AI or pattern which can be learnt 
 easily and exploited. You progress though the series of stages and then fight the boss using whatever 
 items you managed to acquire throug previous stages, you loose them if you've got them equipped 
 and die, it does however, allow you to save them rather then equiping them.
  
  In multi-player you select which sort of game to play varying from normal stages, block-free stages, 
 crown stages, cature the block and more. You cna wirelessly and with only one game play with up 
 to seven friends. If you loose in a mutli-player game you'll be able to use a touch-screen cannon 
 to try and redeem your demise and come abck to play again, this feature cna be enabled or disabled 
 when you're choosng what gameto play and the rules for them.
  
  The game has the graphics of the modern Pokemon games and uses them well. The game hasn't got so 
 much freedom as some would like but it is certainly an entertaining game and can keep you playign 
 for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadyoc
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Bomberman is an extremely addictive retro game which keeps you happy for a while. The graphics 
 are medicore and the sound is really annoying but if you are a fan of the old bomberman games, 
 then i would recommend this game to you. 
  
  The best bit is easily the multiplayer, which can be played against up to 8 players with only 1 
 game cartridge. Multiplayer is just classic and is an outstanding mode for the game. 
  
  If you like Bomberman games than get it, if you do'nt or have never tried them then it is up to 
 you. But i enjoyed it and love playing multiplayer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: regulesblade
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Bomberman for the Nintendo DS takes bomberman back to his roots that we haven't seen for quite 
 a long time. It is now back to the games where you are placed within a square battlefield and you 
 have to duke it out with friends and enemies. Bombs explode in a + like pattern and it is your 
 job to avoid them while placing them in traps that will remove your opponents from the battlefield. 
 On the nintendo DS this game is quite effective as it boasts dual screens in terms of designs that 
 allow users to get a better feel of the game. There are certain sequences where the dual screens 
 are used as a means of showing two different pictures that are connected to each other. In the 
 game play mode it allows for battlefields to be expanded even more to give the game a more complex 
 feel to it. Overall I would sya that this is a decent same, but I wouldn't be all that hyped about 
 it as with the technology that we have today it would be better to stick with the Bomberman 64 
 or second attack formulas. The old school design is nice, but couldn't it have at least appeared 
 on the GC or something else? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonely188
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is insane for multiplayer. With only one cartridge 8 people can play on download play 
 and there are 30 different gameplay modes to choose from. Teams can be made up however you like 
 and handicaps can be applied such as giving out powerups to each player before the game begins. 
 If you enjoyed bomberman on SNES then this is a must get because having bomberman mobile is pretty 
 awesome. And if you encounter anyone with a DS, they don't have to own the game for you to connect 
 and play multiplayer. Such an amazing multiplayer game for only $20 and the singleplayer isn't 
 bad either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oxjames
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game's gameplay fits it perfect the ones on N64 where stupid no way as fun as the 
 ones on snes and this one. I was amazed by this.
  Graphics: This games graphics fit it perfect i loved it. They did a great job. I got to give them 
 there props.
  Sound: the sound was ok i guess . the bombs exploding was ok.
  Value: This game is awsome if you have a bunch of people to play it with be cause the multi player 
 is sooo fun and the one player is fun but really hard.
  Reviewers tilt: I liked this game i think most people will like it if you played multi player first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_loser15
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 14, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Well I got introduced to this game by a mate of mine and I played a download play match, which 
 I enjoyed but after 10 times of the same old boredom and similar level's and outcomes I asked If 
 I could borrow it for the weekend.
  
  So I did and the one player disappointed me but i was not too shocked because one player is never 
 strong for bomberman, the story is VERY weak.
  
  Never mind what i was expecting from bomberman DS was great control's to make multiplayer insanely 
 fun. But it's all done with buttons *Sigh*. Game's Like this are not good for the Ds we need more 
 original stuff, and if the game is going to be played in a classical style then at least make it 
 GOOD!!! Not some lazy repackaging
  
  Not bad but pick it up cheap in the bargain bin for a cheap thrill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy_Gent1234
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  this wuz onestly the best multiplayer i hav played 2 date. when i went 2 england in the summer 
 it is all i played with my bro. fun multiplayer but the campaign mode isnt that hard at all. the 
 bosses r easy but it might take u a few times 2 beat them. i havent beat the campaign mode kuz 
 i got some other games when i got back (like nintendogs now that is a fun game) but i plan 2 finish 
 the game be4 i get the psp ( i dont know if i will kuz not good games coming out or is out but 
 still) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Review: Bomberman DS
  
  Bomberman has been a multiplayer blast since the SNES days and has been a hit game since the NES 
 days, the series has stretched to the PC and most modern consoles, but can the formula work well 
 on the DS, and what is more important can it bring something new to Nintendo's newest little handheld 
 video game system?
  
  Story:
  Well you are Bomberman a man on a mission to restore 8 damaged crystals that are wreaking havoc 
 on the world, and how do you do it by blowing up as much as possible before you blow yourself up.. 
 Ok this game is NOT one of those games you buy for its original story
  
  
  Graphics:
  Hudson decided to use the look used by the 2D look used in the SNES game, which is disappointing 
 because even my PC version that I have had since 1997 used 3D characters, and what is more the 
 intro is using fully 3d characters. Still as 2D graphics go the game looks good each character 
 looks good, and the stages look good.
  
  
  Music:
  The Music is original but can get annoying, and the same can be said for the voices in the game. 
 But the sound is dead on and really when we think of Bomberman the sounds of bombs going off is 
 what really matters.
  
  
  Control:
  Bomberman's controls are easy to learn and fun to play, you will find your self playing for hours. 
 Still the second screen is practically useless because all you do there is manage and use your 
 inventory on the screen until boss fights come around, then the battle field switches to both screens.
 
  
  
  Game play:
  Bomberman plays like a Bomberman game should, fast and frenzied, while trying to avoid your own 
 bomb blasts and the enemies on screen. But where this game shines is multiplayer, where there are 
 more that 10 different online types, 10 different game styles, and 10+ different levels, and what 
 is more you only need one copy of this game for yourself and 8 of your friends to play till the 
 cows come home.
  
  
  Design:
  Well the game is designed but to be quite honest all of the design that I can see went to the multiplayer 
 portion of this game, but as with many of the games released for the DS, Bomberman DS seems like 
 an upgraded GBA Game with a few new bells and whistles, but after playing multiplayer you will 
 not care much about that.
  
  Well what can I say, if you plan to play multiplayer with a bunch of friends then by all means 
 run out and buy this game but in all honesty I can not recommend this game for purchase for any 
 other reason.
  
  Bomberman DS:
  
  Pros:
  Good Boss Fights
  Multiplayer Madness
  Fun Action for everyone using only one game pack
  
  Cons:
  Graphics are disappointing
  
 Music is bad
  Sound is annoying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiwiSlice
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2005 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Since i am a DS owner, i try to play as many game as i can, but this one is probably the best purchase 
 that i've made. It's all about the multiplayer mode which offers enough different mode to easily 
 play an entire evening without getting bored of doing the same thing. The voice detonated bomb 
 mode is really funny when you're 2 or 3 in the same room. The bombs are exploding when you say 
 it but like every players are saying the same thing, you often get your own explosions in your 
 face. There's too many mode to talk about them all so i'll let you discover them.
  
  If you are like me a DS owner but not yet a Bomberman owner, you should run at the store and buy 
 it, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 3:21 am PT
Review:  I was really hoping for this game to create wonders. The bomberman game for the GBA was a classic. 
 Not only was there bombing battling action, but a stroy to follow through-out. With little "pokemon" 
 type critters for you to tag along with.
  But this lacks everything. Yes, it's bomberman, 3D bombing throwing doolally, but to be honest, 
 we really need more.
  We have ALL played bomberman and had a bag of fun, but it begins to drag when hudson's contunes 
 to produce the same game, but for a different platform.
  The game holds a story, but it dosn't absorb. Don't get me wrong, this game is fun for a while, 
 but you won't be playing it for long.
  
  I just hope the next bomberman, is a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owner211
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 18, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This new bomberman game can be called one of the best multiplayers on the DS. A dissapointment 
 in the game is it's story mode. It's really long, but each new level is almost the exact same as 
 the others, but there just more enemies and its bigger. But by all means, with the new touch screen 
 it is one of the best bomberman games to date. I recomend to anyone who wants a  
 even if your not a bomberman fan. The game also falls more into more of the old retro kind of bomberman 
 games, not the new 3-d world ones on the gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigmandoo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 6:05 am PT
Review:  Bomberman Ds is een spel met min punten en plus punten ,waar bij de plus punten meer zijn. Een 
 van de min punten zijn de grapihcs en een van de plus punten is de gameplay. De Graphics betreft 
 is het een 2Dimensionaal spel. 
  Er zijn twee modes de''Normal''mode (dit is net zo iets als een story mode) en de ''Battle''mode 
 zoals je al kan raden moet je hier battlen tegen CPU's en/of andere DS'n. 
  Bij de batlle mode kan je op het begin kiezen voor het aantal deelnemers of het maken van een team.. 
 als je daar mee klaar bent ga je naar ''stage select'' en daar heb je ongeveer 30 stage's om te 
 kiezen ,zo heb je bijvoorbeeld normal, classic of levels waar bij je in de microfoon moet blazen 
 en dan leg je een bom of laat je een bom ontploffen en haal je de spiegel te voorschijn om het 
 vuur terug te kaatsen. En vandaar kan je in ''Handi'' daar bepaal je de handicap van een speler 
 je geeft iemand extra snelheid of vuurkracht etc. en als je daarmee klaar bent kom je bij de laatste 
 scherm ''Rule settings'' hier bepaal je de spelduur het aantal sets of er een ''Tiebreak'' is of 
 niet etc. en dan begint het spel ''Ready voor Rumble'' .
  De ''Normal'' mode is gewoon de mode waar je het spel kan uitspelen dus van level naar level van 
 eindbaas naar eindbaas tot dat je bij 100% en het is afgelopen. Bij nomal mode kan je 3 file's 
 creren fila A, B en C . Er zijn 10 area's elk area heeft 10 stage's waarbij de laatste een eindbaas 
 is zo zijn er dus 100 levels. Ik zelf heb het spel in minder dan 3 uur uitgespeeld maar heb wel 
 veel lol gehad ,want op een of andere manier is het gewoon leuk en verslafend. 
  Het spel maakt opzich weinig gebruik van de touch screen aleen in de menus. Van de microfoon maakt 
 die wel een beetje gebruik van maar ook niet zo erg veel alleen in drie stage's van de Battle mode 
 ,maar het is Jammer dat het niet 3D is gemaakt.
  
  Bomberman DS is een leuk spel ook al heb je het snel uitgespeeld het is gewoon leuk om in de battle 
 mode te battlen..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s2w
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  fantastic. bomberman is a ds game that uses both screens but not the stylus. the gameplay is addictive 
 (you start seeing your little bomberman running around when you close your eyes-a sure sign of 
 a good puzzle game) . lots of weapons/modifications from which to choose, but i only needed about 
 5 or 6 of them.
  
  graphics are adequate. sound also. background music is derivative, but catchy. little bit of loading 
 between levels.
  
  i never got to play mulitplayer (none of my friends have a ds, and i'd rather be online listening 
 to music than playing a game) , so i can't rate that part, although x-play states that it is the 
 most interesting part of the game.
  
  timing is key: the explosions of the different kinds of bombs versus the speed of the different 
 monsters. i finished the main game levels and put it down. finito. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 28, 2005 6:08 pm PT
Review:  The actual game seems to be the same as it has been a decade ago. There are a few little naks they 
 added here and there. I love bomberman, no doubt, otherwise i wouldnt have bought it. 
  
  The main thing is its great multiplayer fun. If you can get a group together than go at it - you 
 will have some laughs. Game itself is just good enough for a long bus trip. 
  
  Unfortunately the touch pad wasnt utilized very much at all. If you die you can still throw the 
 occasional bomb from the sidelines to try and get back in the game - thats one of the only uses 
 of the touch pad in the game. 
  
  I gave this game a low score mainly due to the fact that developers today are getting quite good 
 at re-releasing games we have all played a million times over. Im somewhat getting fed up with 
 it. If your going to create a bomberman for the DS, at least utilize the system the way it was 
 ment to be. 
  
  Graphic wise this game belongs on the GBA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimD73
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 27, 2005 4:40 am PT
Review:  Bomberman has a special little place in my gaming mind as the first true game to me waste countless 
 hours doing nothing but repeat the same multiplayer over and over again. Thats what Bomberman 
 64 did for me, and Ive been trying to follow Bomberman as much I could since. Of course, the way 
 it ended up, Bomberman 64 is the only Bomberman game currently in my collection, aside from this 
 newest of releases for Nintendos flourishing DS system, which I wasted no time picking up since 
 I was in need of something to put my new handheld to use. So, how good is this new portable version 
 of Bomberman?
  
  The game opens with a scene which may be enthralling for some, foreboding for others. This scene 
 consists of a bunch of bombermen of different colours running around to the tune of what can only 
 be called ultra-peppy carnival music. The one thing that is to be said about this sequence is that 
 it will be the only time 3D graphics will be used in the entire game, and be prepared to watch 
 it over and over, as it cannot be skipped and will replay every time the game is turned on.
  
  Once the scene is over, you can go into the Normal mode or Battle mode. For simplicitys sake, 
 well start off by covering the single player mode, Normal.
  
  First off, the single player mode has essentially no story. Sure, there is something about a shattered 
 bomb crystal that couldnt feel more generic, but that is something you really only find out by 
 reading the instructions. Basically, all you need to know about single player mode is how it plays, 
 which is the same way as previous non-3D entries in the series.
  
  The controls for the game are what is expected. The button layout is fine, though you may occasionally 
 forget or mix up the X and Y buttons (which operate some of the pickups such as line bomb or shield) . 
 The only other problem lies with Bombermans speed, which is tanklike without power-ups, but since 
 at full power the speed is blindingly fast, it levels itself out.
  
  
  The goal of almost every level is to defeat every enemy in the area and find the exit. The levels 
 are all laid out in the same fashion, with two different kinds of blocks, hard and soft. Soft blocks 
 can be cleared by dropping bombs, but hard blocks are impervious. Most enemies cannot go through 
 the blocks (some can bypass soft blocks) , and only with a power up can you have a bomb that goes 
 through the blocks, so the only way to reach them is to set them loose and trap them from there.
 
  
  The best thing to say about these levels is that they are plentiful. There are 100 levels in total, 
 and 90 of them are the regular ones as explained above. It does eventually become a little tedious 
 and repetitive, especially since only one or two of the 9 in each area shake things up by using 
 strategy in the placement of soft blocks and enemies (such as having a very small arena covered 
 in blocks) , so the single player game works best as something to just leave alone and pick up every 
 now and then, slowly chipping away at the single player mode.
  
  After each of the nine regular levels in each of the ten different areas, a boss fight will ensue. 
 Most of these are simple bomb-and-run style, and only occasionally do they differ from that formula. 
 Despite that fact, they still wind up being the highlights of the single player, mainly because 
 they are a welcome break from the more relaxed levels, introducing a much faster paced, dangerous 
 enemy, even if they are repetitive.
  
  The key difference between the DS version and previous iterations of Bomberman is the use of the 
 touch screen. In the single player mode, instead of automatically using an item, they will be stored 
 in the inventory on the bottom screen. This means that, if you die, you will only lose the items 
 you were currently using, and get to keep anything in your inventory. Also, aside from the stat 
 increases for amount of bombs you can drop at once, speed at which you move and the range of your 
 bombs, the items only last for one stage or an even shorter period of time, so you are allowed 
 to stockpile items for when you need them, handy if you want to save stuff like remote bombs or 
 an extra heart for boss stages. Its a good addition, though it does lead to stockpiling items 
 to an absurd amount, where when it comes time to fight the final boss you may have a bunch of items 
 you have never used.
  
  While the single player mode is decent enough for burst playing, it alone is not worth paying for 
 the package. The true heart of Bomberman has always been the battle modes, and the DS version is 
 no different. No matter how much you may be able to get out of the single player, its battle mode 
 that will keep the cart playing.
  
  One of the most notable changes from single player is that, like the boss stages, the screen is 
 stretched over both the bottom and top of the DS as opposed to a mini-stage. This means that stockpiling 
 items is no longer an option, but considering the pace of battle, this is a blessing. The items 
 are instead automatically activated. It may get somewhat annoying when your remote bomb is replaced 
 with a power bomb when you already had full fire, but it is a worthwhile tradeoff. The two screens 
 are connected via tunnels, which make for great ambush points. In all, the two screen idea works 
 well.
  
  There are three basic modes of battle. The first, most basic and best is a simple deathmatch, where 
 the goal is to be the last man standing. Of course, this is a much more tasking chore than one 
 would think, as it is fairly difficult to simply plant a bomb in front of an enemy and expect him 
 not to move out of the way. The way to take care of an enemy is to trap them in between the soft 
 blocks or a bomb and another bomb, or create enough confusion that they accidentally run into a 
 flame. Of course, at the same time, while trying to trap others you may walk into a trap yourself. 
 It all leads to frantic, fun gameplay.
  
  The deathmatch mode takes up 23 of the 29 preset stages, and two other modes make up three each 
 of the remaining six. The better of the two is blocks, which has every block your flame goes over 
 turn your colour, and the winner at the end of the time limit is the one with the most blocks. 
 In one variation of it, you come back to life after being killed, but lose all your previously 
 coloured blocks. While not as fun as deathmatch, this is a fun diversion if you want a change of 
 pace.
  
  The last mode of the three is crown battle, where you must be the first to blast through the soft 
 blocks to reach the crown at the top of the stage. The changes made in the different stages are 
 minute, being putting the crown on a small conveyor belt and having the players start out full 
 power. Unlike blocks, this one is really hard to like, so dont expect this to be the crowning 
 achievement of the game (pun very much intended) .
  
  As stated above, while block and crown mode have three stages apiece, regular battle has 23 different 
 variations. Many of these are fairly simple, such as having the players start out with full speed 
 or making all pick up items mystery items, but some are more clever, such as taking away the bottom 
 screen to make a one-screen melee or having single player enemies patrolling the stage. Putting 
 the game on random is usually the best way to go, allowing you to sample everything and keeps a 
 good change of pace.
  
  In an effort to use the DSs capabilities more, Bomberman DS also contains three battle modes that 
 use the DS microphone to either plant a bomb, activate a shield or detonate a bomb by speaking 
 or blowing into the microphone. Voice Bomb isnt really all that great, since bombing becomes a 
 lot less accurate, but the other two work pretty well unless you have a lot of ambience. It does 
 mean you cant really talk as much or youll accidentally set off a bomb, but it is a fair addition.
 
  
  Since the touch screen is not used in battle mode for storage, it gets put into use when the revenge 
 option is put on. Once killed, this means that you can flick bombs with the touch screen at the 
 players still alive. If Super Revenge is enabled, you come back to life if your bomb kills a player. 
 Its a nice addition to keep those who get out soon entertained while waiting for the next match, 
 as flicking the bombs with any form of accuracy proves to be very taxing.
  
  The battle mode manages to support up to 8 players using the DSs wireless connectivity using only 
 a single cart, which proves to be one of the best reasons to buy the game. Even if you do not own 
 Bomberman, if a friend does, you can join in the fun wirelessly. No additions are added if multiple 
 carts are present, making the game even more community friendly. Even if you dont have 8 friends 
 with DSs to play with, you can fill up the remainder of the 8 slots with AI bots. The bots prove 
 to be well made, as even one set on easy can trap you if you arent careful, and playing against 
 them manages to be much more fun than it would have been had they not been as smart.
  
  The level design is OK at best, with not too much effort put into making the stages look different. 
 In single player, the scenery changes for each block of ten levels, with areas like a pirate ship 
 and a fortress. Every stage within those ten has the exact same patterns to it, so it becomes important 
 to progress in the game simply for a change of scenery. In battle mode, most stages have the same 
 design patterns, though a few (such as Skull or Speedy) throw in new elements to separate themselves, 
 which is a welcome change that would have been appreciated for the more generic levels.
  
  The graphics themselves are not too much better, as the game is simple 2D top-down, much like the 
 older Bombermans. As previously stated, the opening sequence is the only 3D piece of the game. 
 Bomberman and enemy animations are perfectly fine, even if they underuse the DS. Then again, on 
 the other hand, the 2D style works well for the game, so it is hard to come down on it too hard. 
 The graphics suit the game, but are nothing that push the system in any way, shape or form.
  
  Sound is definitely all a matter of opinion, as it may set a good tone for some and drive others 
 into insanity. It consists of the typical Japanese-sounding circus music which sounds both inviting 
 and exciting at the same time. Of course, it also is the kind of thing that some people cant resist 
 but tap their head to. Others will be much more comfortable with the sound turned off, as in large 
 doses the music can get fairly annoying. Of course, an announcer is there who sounds to be a 13 
 year old girl. While this also may get annoying, it actually serves a purpose, as in the frenzy 
 of battle mode, it does help to have the item you picked up shouted at you (especially concerning 
 the mystery items) .
  
  In all, Bomberman is a solid purchase thanks to the excellent battle mode. Sure, the single player 
 mode is long enough, but once completed, there is no reason nor motivation to go through the ordeal 
 again. Even without the human competition, battle mode will constantly keep you entertained. Combined 
 with decent graphics and solid controls, Bomberman is probably the best multiplayer DS game to 
 come along so far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilpapper
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 27, 2005 12:28 am PT
Review:  I have played almost all of the Bombermans to date (I missed the one on gamecube) . This new version 
 of Bomberman for the ds has a very classic feel. The multiplayer is very good, and it allows you 
 to play with up to 8 people and/or bots. When i first bought the game I played with my brother 
 for 2 hours straight. The single player is not as strong as I would have liked however it is a 
 Bomberman game, and the multiplayer is the real reason you should buy it. The price doesnt hurt 
 much either. If you are looking for a game to play with friends this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chairguru22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2005 1:49 am PT
Review:  As far as single player goes, the gameplay is your usual blow up blocks and enemies to get to a 
 goal. There's 100 stages divided into 10 levels of increasing difficulty with a bonus stage in 
 the middle and boss stage at the end of each level. Simple gameplay doesn't change much except 
 for the fact that enemies have different hit points and attacks. The game as a good quick save 
 feature so its a good way to pass the time especially on a trip.
  
  The touch screen is used as a way to select different items and nothing more can really be expected 
 from it.
  
  The graphics are pretty good for a Bomberman game and the sound is right on par with the rest of 
 the games in its series.
  
  The multiplayer is where Bomberman has always shined. Even alone, the bots do a good job at providing 
 a challenge and with the many modes and items it never gets old. Playing with friends through wi-fi 
 is the highlight of this game and some would agree that multiplayer Bomberman is one of the funnest 
 experiences.
  
  So if you're a fan of the series, this game won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 9, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  It seems that the DS games just won't stop coming. First, Kirby Canvas Curse, now Bomberman. The 
 game does have some very simple controls; you almost think that it's just another game that doesn't 
 take advantage of the DS's many features, but it does. It doesn't require much touching in the 
 singleplayer campaign; just to select your powerups, but no one really buys a Bomberman game just 
 for single player. The single player gets very frustrating because it has only one save point every 
 five stages. If you get to the fourth stage of a section, and die, then you must return all the 
 way to the first. I went through this process a couple of times before eventually giving up and 
 focusing on multiplayer with the AI. That's the redeeming gameplay feature of the game-multiplayer. 
 Whether it be with other DS owners, or just a couple of AI opponents, this is what has kept me 
 hooked on the game. It offers a variety of gametypes such as Capture the Crown, Voice detonating, 
 and some classic stages from previous Bomberman games. What makes this game so original is that 
 matches are played over two screens, instead of just one in previous games, and not to mention 
 the single player mode. This makes all the matches a little more interesting and longer. Overall, 
 the game plays well, but mostly on multiplayer. I'm a bit dissappointed with the graphics. The 
 DS was made to handle 3D graphics, and we just keep getting games that could be played on a GBA 
 if it had an extra screen. Most everything is just 2D, but Bomberman really has always been 2D, 
 so it doesn't take much getting used to. The sound is a little off too. It plays the same song 
 over and over from menu to actual gameplay. The voicing is loud and high pitched, but it's not 
 that bad. The sound effects are really good though. Overall, this is another DS game worth buying, 
 even if it is just for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 24, 2005 1:17 am PT
Review:  Bomberman... do I REALLY have to describe this game? This game is up there with Mario in known 
 video game characters... except Bomberman has always held the same basic mechanics for its multiplayer 
 mode. But it doesn't seem to stale no matter what. If anything, this Bomberman is a fresh loaf 
 of explosion fun.
  
  Gameplay- 7 (4&10) - The gameplay really deserves two scores, one for single player, and one for 
 multiplyer. The single player mode is remenicent of the old SNES single player games where you 
 run around, blowing up little cutsie creatures. But now, there is the new power storage system, 
 which basically allows you to hold everything until you need it, making the mode easier than ever 
 & more boring than it was in the past. An all-around bad move and weak attempt at using the touchscreen.
 
  
  But the multiplayer mode... the multiplayer mode is just amazing. You can battle with up to 7 players 
 on one card (for a total of 8 players) , in 30, that's right... THIRTY DIFFERENT MODES! And each 
 of those modes have options that you can toggle before battling. There is the normal, classic, 
 voice activated, crown run (like a king of the hill mode) , among many others. There are so many 
 modes, you and your friends (or bots, if you don't have DS capable friends) , that the fun will 
 never run out. The multiplayer mode is one of the best experiences I've had in a multiplayer game, 
 and definately the best for any handheld system right now.
  
  Graphics- 6- They are simple, 2D graphics that do plenty well for a Bomberman game. They just aren't 
 anything that hasn't been done before, though.
  
  Sound- 7- All the classic Bomberman sounds are intact and sound great.
  
  Value- 10- Multiplayer 
 will give this game practically unlimited gameplay time.
  
  Tilt- 9- If it wasn't for the bad single player mode, this'd be a 10
  
  In closing, this is 
 one of, if not the best multiplayer experience you will have in handheld gaming, and despite a 
 horribly weak single player experience, this game is completely worth it, just for battle mode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2005 3:51 am PT
Review:  bomberman has gone through many stages. This stage isnt to shabby. the main problem is the lack 
 of substance... there are two modes 1-p story (not the exact name but good enough.) and multiplayer. 
 The one player mode is fun in small doses. There are many levels so if you like it enough this 
 game could last you months. on the bottom screen it displays your items and on the top you and 
 your enemies. first you must defeat all enemies in the stage then you must destroy the walls to 
 find a silver block with some kind of blue device on it. if you step on it you go to the next round. 
 Yes its kind of repetative but it never really gets boring to me. now the game REALLY shines on 
 the multiplayer. in multiplayer you can play versus up to 8 of your friends. its really fun vs 8 
 people like this. you can pass to the other side of the screen by taking tunnels. There are a lot 
 of power ups you can use, and many levels in multi-player.
  
  If your looking for a fun multiplayer game and you got the money i'd definetly recommend bomberman! 
 however, if you dont know many people with a ds or just dont like multiplayer this might not be 
 the game for you. i give it an 8.5 which some may think is over rating it, but i've had a real 
 fun time playing multiplayer with my friends.
  
  if this game doesnt suit you try these other great ds titles: kirby: canvas curse and goldeneye 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
