-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Brain Age 2: More Training in Minutes a Day
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/dstraining2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great sudoku.
 Clean presentation.
 Good multiplayer options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Speech and handwriting recognition is still a little shaky.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.9, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 954 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Edutainment
Date: Aug 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Brain Age 2 provides more of the same noggin-teasing puzzles in the same format and presentation 
 as the original game. 

  Brain Age 2's subtitle tells you almost everything you need to know about Nintendo's new mind-flexing 
 sequel. It'smore  training in minutes a day." The structure and presentation of Brain Age 2 
 is functionally identical to the previous game, but this time around, you'll see different training 
 minigames. This means it's perfect for people who played the first game and are looking for more. 

  The games in Brain Age 2 are more advanced than the previous game, which had you doing basic math 
 problems half the time. Now, those math problems have twists, such as one game where you continually 
 add numbers, but one number is removed from the screen after a second or so, which forces you to 
 use your memory to remember numbers and solve the problem. Another puts the keys of a piano on 
 the touch screen and has you follow along with some sheet music to play a tune. Another has voices 
 say two or three words at the same time, and you need to pick apart the garbled speech then write 
 down the words you hear. All in all, the different games are satisfyingly different from what was 
 in the first game and make for a solid companion piece.  

           The minigames in Brain Age 2 get a little more involved than most of the stuff in the 
 first game.      

  The structure of Brain Age remains the same. You can train away on the different games, but the 
 main test gives you three tests and uses your performance to calculate how "old" your brain is, 
 which is the brain age check. The lower the score, the more nimble the game claims your brain is, 
 all the way down to the best possible score of age 20. While there's a doctor's name on the box, 
 the jury is still out on just how scientifically proven this stuff is, but that hardly matters. 
 It'll make you think just as much as any newspaper brain teaser, if not more so, and it still has 
 a great collection of sudoku puzzles too. Unfortunately, the game also has some of the same problems 
 that the previous game did because the speech and handwriting recognition can occasionally get 
 sketchy. It's very frustrating to know all the answers only to have the game score you with a mistake 
 because you didn't speak clearly enough for it to pick out your words.  

  On top of the brain training and sudoku, you can play the game with up to 16 players in all, using 
 only one copy of the game. Competing on some of the games can be fun, though you get a lot of that 
 by having multiple players play the single-player training games on one DS as well. The game also 
 has a very basic touch-screen version of Dr. Mario hidden in it, which is kind of neat.  

  Brain Age 2 is solid fun and available at a bargain price. But it can only be recommended to players 
 who have already exhausted all of the excitement out of the original Brain Age and want a slightly 
 more advanced course. If you haven't played the original, you should start there and work your 
 way onto the sequel.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Flavoriceguy
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 30, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age 2 in a nutshell has plenty of good mini games that help your brain stay fit, the problem 
 is that it is not really that fun. The game is solid; there are no glitches, no problems, the points 
 are made across, and its a functional game. If you want this game solely for your brain to stay 
 fit, get this game. If you want this game so you will be entertained like I did, spend your money 
 on something else. 
  The graphics are pretty good, the game itself is really easy to pick up and play, the sound was 
 just average, their was no reason to want to keep playing after doing everything a couple times 
 unless you are actually using the game for what it is meant for, and the game was not really that 
 enjoyable
  
  Graphics 7
  Playability 8
  Sound 7
  Tilt 3
  Enjoyment 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egamer15
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  When I bought Brain Age 2, I wasn't expecting it to be the kind of game that the whole family could 
 enjoy. As it turned out, my whole family loved it, and it became an instant hit in our household. 
 The game itself is basically a bunch of fun tests to train your brain in day by day increments. 
 After you feel that you've done a good job on the brain-training games, it is time to take the 
 Brain Age Test. After you take the test the game will tell you how smart you are, and the goal 
 is to become the smartest person in the family. This set-up really encourages family play, and 
 thanks to the four save slots, everyone can participate. But it's only a matter of time before 
 you come across some of the games shortcomings. First of all, you'll notice that most of the brain-training 
 games are focused on one thing. Math. This isn't too bad, but I would've liked a little more variety. 
 Also, some of the brain-training games are repeated, but disguised as a different game. It's also 
 weird that they used the exact same presentation from Brain Age 1 that they use in this game. It 
 makes it seem like the game isn't new at all, but just a fresh coat of paint over the new one. 
 That being said, Brain Age 2 is basically the same game as the first, but with some new games. 
 That's it. I probably would've given this a lower score if I had owned the first one already, but 
 since I don't this game deserves credit for being something truly unique. I also liked the inclusion 
 of the sudoku puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_To_The_C
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:32 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, the best thing that I liked about this game was the knowledge that I was getting 
 something out of it. As it's proven that exercises like memory tests, logic puzzles, and other 
 things of the like are good for your brain's development and stability, this is a great way to 
 get it all.
  
  The game starts as a little confined, as you're not immediately able to access all of the brain-games, 
 but it doesn't take long at all before they're all unlocked. When you eventually do, you'll probably 
 find that some of the games are either boring, or not your kind of fun, but this is remedied by 
 the fact that you have many more to choose from.
  
  You can also choose to either challenge yourself by setting up the difficulty level, or just going 
 through it leisurely and relaxingly on an easier pace. Throughout the game, you can record your 
 brain's progress once a day by performing the "Brain Age Check" and see how much you're improving.
 
  
  What's this, though? You've done your check and done all the brain-training games for the day? 
 Not to worry, because Brain Age 2 also comes with a full set of Sudoku puzzles for you to tackle. 
 (Although I had a bad experience with these by doing them before sleeping. I was seeing numbers 
 when I closed my eyes.)
  
  Another thing; this is a great game that the whole family can play, as the game comes with multiple 
 save-file slots so that everyone can keep their own records.
  
  The only downside to this game I could think of is that it's not a game that you can take out on 
 the go, as you need to concentrate quite hard on many things in it, which every-day distractions 
 can make quite difficult.
  
  Other that that, this game is a great. All-in-all, I would say that's is a good investment to buy. 
 As I said, I enjoy the knowledge that you can get from this game everything that you put into it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzyman572
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is a daily training excersise for your brain.
  
  7/10 Introduction: The introduction is nothing special just put in your name, tell them when you 
 were born, ect. Then this scary floating thing appears on the screen and tells you all about your 
 brain.
  
  0/10 Storyline: Somtimes the best story out there is no story at all.
  
  7/10 Graphics: Well, they are good, but nothing like the other games you see on the DS like Super 
 Mario Bros.
  
  8/10 Sound/Music: The sound and music are often fairly good, but the real magic happens when you 
 play some classic musical scores on the Piano Player. 
  
  8/10 Gamplay: Brain Age puts the Nintendo DS' mic and touch screen to good use. There are many 
 fun mini-games in here such as: 
  
  Sign Finder -- You must think as fast as possible to solve simple problems. 
  
  Memory Sprint 
 -- You must figure out whether your runner is in 2nd to 9th place.
  
  Sudoku -- A classic puzzle that came from Japan, and it's very fun for you and your brain. 
  
 
  8.3/10 Overall: This game is great if your brain is feeling a little numb or if your bored. Other 
 than that, it's almost entirely useless. 
  
  I give it four thumbs, out of five.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: piemanngamer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  So, Brain Age 2. It's all about the minigames that supposedly make you smarter. The games range 
 from unscrambleing words to playing a piano to a Dr. Mario like minigame.
  
  You stamp a calander in the game every day you play the game. Get enough stamps and you unlock 
 more minigames. If you do well enough on a certain minigame you can unlock an extra difficulty 
 level.
  
  This is a short review, but Brain Age 2 is a short game. Its a lot of fun working every day to 
 unlock all the games and difficulties, but when you do theres not much left for you to do and after 
 a few hours of playing you'll almost certainly be very very bored.
  
  Brain Age 2 isn't a bad game at all, but I would have loved to see more depth and replayability. 
 Hopefully when Brain Age 3 comes around it will reach the full potential of smart making minigames. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scouttrooperbob
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This game isn't bad its just extremely repetative. I started my profile and did the brain traininng 
 but every day was practically the same. I am going to stick to normal videogames. This game gets 
 realy boring. Heres my opinion. GOOD: Fun games such as piano saduko and much more. a lot of saduko 
 puzzels. Chalenging puzzels. BAD: repetative training. Boring after awile. Wher did the floating 
 head come from? realy. The random questions are the same most the time.
  
  Like I said earlyer its not a bad game it just needs some work. I would only recamend this to people 
 who realy like to work their brain. I usualy would tell you to rent it befort you buy it but it's 
 a ds game. If you realy want to try this I mean realy realy want to try this buy it used at gamestop 
 for abou 17$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  In the game you help your brain in some minigames and they expect you to do it daily. 
  
  Minigames: Piano Player
  Sodoku
  Money count 
  Many More
  
  In Piano Player you unlock 
 songs and you play them in the exsact same notes that they are played with. In Money Count you 
 count money and see if it will add up. In Sodoku you just play sodoku and it gets harder and harder. 
 There is also a Brain Test that you can play three minigames and if you get them right your Brain 
 Age will get closer to 20 the age that you want. 
  
  The good part of this game is that it helps your brain and his fun.
  
  The bad part of this 
 game is that not all the minigames help you train your brain.
  
  Overall I rate this game 7.5 outta 10. If you are going to buy this game I wouldn't it wouldn't 
 go that far. So I won't get this game for the DS because it deosn't last you long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 66swing
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game expecting a $15 cure for my annual summer brain-melting. Little did I know I'd 
 be getting an addictive, solid gaming experience as well. Granted I have only had it a little more 
 than a week, but I have to say that the fun can just keep going and going. And the Sudoku's are 
 great.
  
  I only gave it an 8 because of the strong possibility that it could lose its appeal over a long 
 time. Also, I found myself disappointed with the piano game. I don't mind the simplistic nature 
 even though I'm a piano player (pianist sounds too formal) but the timing seems a bit off to me 
 and it feels awkward. I'm not sure if this carries over to people who don't play piano, though.
 
  
  One hugely important plus: The touch screen understands my writing 99% of the time, and believe 
 me, THAT is saying something.
  
  If you take the price into account, this game is definitly worth your money. The only type of person 
 I wouldn't recommend this to is an adrenaline junkie. If all your favourite games involve blowing 
 up buildings and high-speed car chases, this one isn't for you. Otherwise, go grab yourself a copy!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 11, 2009 7:51 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  There is no story in this game. Yous just try to get your brain in the best condition which is 
 20 years old. The younger the age, the better.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Brain Age Check
  
  Rock, Paper, Scissors is based on the game of the same name, though you are presented with their 
 virtual opponent's choice and must choose the correct state to either win or lose, as instructed 
 by the test. This test uses verbal input from you and is not presented if you instruct the game 
 that you are not in an area you can speak.
  
  Serial Subtraction presents you with one large number and a second smaller number that they must 
 repeatedly subtract from the larger number; the previous result is blacked out, requiring the player 
 to remember this result, though they can check that number by tapping a button for a performance 
 penalty. 
  
  Symbol Match shows a simple substitution cipher of a single digit to a symbol ("#", "@", etc.) . 
 A series of questions asking which symbol is represented by a number is shown to you, using this 
 code.
  
  Math Recall presents a series of single digit addition problems; one number from the equation will 
 be common on the next equation, but will be changed on the subsequent one. An example series may 
 be "2+3=?", "4+3=?", "4+8=?" "1+8=?" and so forth. The reused digit is blacked out on the second 
 equation, requiring you to remember that and perform the addition correctly. If you cannot remember, 
 they can tap a button to reveal the blacked-out number with a performance penalty.
  
  In Number Memory, you are presented with a 5x5 grid with the numbers 1 though 25 randomly distributed 
 on the grid. Within two minutes, you must memorize as many symbols as you can, then fill in a blank 
 grid from memory. Each space on the grid can only be guessed at once, with the correct number being 
 shown after entry.
  
  In High Number, you are shown several numbers of various font sizes and possibly moving on the 
 screen. You must tap the highest value number, regardless of how its presented on screen.
  
  Training
  
  The training activities include Math Recall above, in addition to the following 
 activities.
  
  In Sign Finder, you are shown a single math operation lacking the operator (plus, minus, multiplication 
 or division) . You must write the correct operator to satisfy the equation. In hard mode, you may 
 be asked to fill in multiple operators.
  
  Piano Player presents you with one octave of a piano keyboard, and a scoring musical score of common 
 folk tunes (such as "Home on the Range") on the opposite screen. You must hit the correct notes 
 on the piano as indicated by the score. Points are earned for following the tempo and rhythm, although 
 the music will pause if the player makes a mistake or does not hit a note when expected. In hard 
 mode, the piano's keys and the notes are not labeled, and the song accompaniment will continue 
 to play even if you make a mistake.
  
  In Word Blend, you listen to one, two or three words simultaneously spoken through the DS speaker, 
 and must write the word (s) that they hear. In hard mode, the words are longer and spoken softer.
 
  
  Word Scramble shows a rotating ring of letters that can be anagrammed into a word. You must guess 
 that word, though you can pass on any word they can't identify.
  
  Change Maker shows a dollar and cents amount to you, and the bill used to pay for that amount. 
 You must select the right type of change in bills and coins. 
  
  Calendar Count will ask questions relating to calendar days, such as days of the week, or the date 
 of a day a number of days from the present.
  
  Memory Sprint asks you to keep track of the position of one target runner in a sprint, with the 
 screen showing only a small segment of the players running the sprint. You must identify the correct 
 finishing position of the target runner.
  
  Math Recall presents a series of single digit addition problems; one number from the equation will 
 be common on the next equation, but will be changed on the subsequent one. An example series may 
 be "2+3=?", "4+3=?", "4+8=?" "1+8=?" and so forth. The reused digit is blacked out on the second 
 equation, requiring you to remember that and perform the addition correctly. If you cannot remember, 
 they can tap a button to reveal the blacked-out number with a performance penalty. There is a hard 
 mode, where you have to recall 2 blacked out numbers, one for the current problem, and one for 
 the next problem.
  
  Clock Spin shows you an analog or digital LCD clock face that is rotated or flipped on the screen, 
 and will ask the player to enter the indicated time. The analog face will only have one number 
 on it as the reference point.
  
  In Block Count blocks of various shapes will fall in a Tetris-style grid. Once they are in the 
 grid, they can no longer be seen, so you have to remember how many have fallen into each column. 
 Sometimes, pairs of blocks will fall in horizontally, leaving a gap in the column. This counts 
 in the final height, so you have to remember this too. When the falling is complete, you will be 
 asked to count the height of a specific column in the grid. There is a hard mode to this where 
 the blocks fall faster.
  
  Stamps and tips
  
  One stamp may be collected per day, after completing at least one training exercise. When certain 
 numbers of stamps are collected, new training exercises and features are unlocked. Once eight stamps 
 are collected, a feature to design personal stamps is unlocked.
  
  At the end of a training program, Doctor Kawashima will give you a brain tip, and once 5 stamps 
 have been collected, it will be possible to read all of the tips Doctor Kawashima has given out.
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  This game has nothing to do with graphics, the only thing that has any kind of graphical power 
 would be Doctor Kawashima's face, but that would be a waste of a score.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  This game sounds great. Everything sounds clean and crisp, the music in the game is awesome.
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  This game controls well for the most part. The only thing that will bug you is that some of the 
 touch-screen elements are unresponsive, and the rock, paper, scissors game is really annoying when 
 you speak clearly and it still doesn't understand you.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  This game is great at what it does. You deffinately get more than you pay for. I reccommend Brain 
 Age 2 for anoyone who has a summer vacation from school, or if you just want to better your brain!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luv_2_Rock
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought it was great, and I played it a lot, but the game does get boring after a while 
 and you won't play it near as much after the first couple months of having the game. Some of the 
 modes are fun, but it's a bit repetitive. If you like sudoku you'll play it a lot more, probably, 
 because there's quite a few sudoku levels on it. 
  The different modes are pretty fun, but some of them are annoying. There is one mode where you 
 use the touch screen to play piano, which is very annoying because you very easily miss the keys. 
 Also, when you are playing games that involve numbers, sometimes you get the question wrong because 
 it read your numbers wrong. So, the game has some flaws. 
  But, there are some fun parts to it too. As you progress through the game you unlock some more 
 modes (some annoying and frustrating, some fun) and you learn some more hints about the game.
 
  Overall, it is a decent game, but not one that you'll use every day. (which is its purpose.) After 
 a while you'll probably only use it around once a week or less. If you already have Brain Age 1, 
 than you should probably only buy it if you really liked it. (Or use it a lot) I can't compare 
 it to Brain Age 1 because I don't have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age did have some nice stuff in it, and it was overall considered good, as in not bad. Brain 
 Age 2 still has mind bending the challenges just like the previous game only this time, they've 
 added new stuff to the mix.
  
  Of course, our star, Dr. Ryuta Kawashima, has returned to Brain Age 2 with brand new simple challenges 
 that exersise your mind. The challenges are not tough in any way, but the goal is to exersise your 
 mind. The game is perfect for kids who care to play this as it's so easy a baby could give it a 
 worthy shot, but the ways it challenges you such as timing adds difficulty to Brain Age.
  
  One thing it does is caculates your Brain Age. You create files and then it wants you to do at 
 least a challenge per day. It also wants you to do a Brain Age check. You can do up to one per 
 day, and what it does is gives you three challenges. It bases your brain age on accuracy, time, 
 and sometimes reflexes. After you do all three challenges, it gives you your brain age. It can 
 go as low as 20, and you want it to be as low as possible. It does feel a little challenging to 
 get it that low, but I suggest your's is around 35.
  
  Simply put, this is just another Brain Age game. That's it. Nothing really new except more challenges. 
 It does deserve some credit for everything it packs in plus the fact that the only real bad thing 
 about Brain Age 2 is the sometimes shaky handwriting reconition. This is a great game for children 
 of all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missonrs
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Brain age 2 is here to train your brain with more brain teaser mini games. This time around it's 
 sightly better, but by just a little bit. Brain age 2 is a sequel to a Edutainment game called 
 brain age, which was popular among adults, and even some teenagers. In the sequel the only two 
 things that have changed basically is the sudoku puzzles and the quantity of mini games. So if 
 you did'nt like the first game at all then stop reading and turn back. If not keep on reading to 
 get the scoop.
  
  Brain age is made by a man who studies the brain in a Japanese university. This game does'nt offer 
 a storyline nor plot but purpose. the purpose was to design a software to train the brain. His 
 fact is the brain is like a muscle you need to train it like a arm, but with mental activities. 
 Use this software to keep your brain in good shape to make life easier and be in better shape mentally. 
 Brain age 2 mainly is appealing to teenagers who want some extra help before tests, quiz's, or 
 who to play brain teaser mini games. It also appeals to adults who need improvement with their 
 speech impediments, brain farts, or who have brains in bad shape. This does not appeal to kids 
 at all.
  
  Brain age 2 works in the same way the original brain age did. You play mini games that involve 
 you to write signs to complete simple math problems using the ds touch screen. there are also scrambled 
 words rotating and you must unscramble them and write the word. There are 11 mini games that increase 
 the quantity of mini games. Your overall goal is to answer a certain number of problems as fast 
 as you can, or get all 5 levels correct. When you finish you get a speed from walking to rocket 
 speed depending on how fast/ well you did. You can also do local multiplayer with up to 16 people 
 which really improves it, but you can't do online multiplayer. You can also do three difficulties 
 in sudoku, which has new fresh sudoku problems. There are also some mini games with two choices, 
 hard or normal. Every now and then you get warm ups when you open your account like connect the 
 dots to provide a image you see then name it and compare it to what it really is supposed to look 
 like. You can do brain age tests like number memory or tests the exact same as some mini games 
 to get a brain age. The best score you can get is 20 years old.
  
  The game is mostly in 2D, except the doctor's head. So the graphics are not in HD like ps3 games 
 are. The game itself does'nt have any problems except the hand writing and speaking is still shaky, 
 but no bugs which really takes some stress out which the shaky part puts back in. the doctor does 
 not speak but does the words into a bubble thing. You do not get any music when playing sudoku 
 or minigames only at the menus and even then the music is alright nothing exciting. So brain age 
 2 is a failure at making great graphics and has gentle decent music. It's music in the piano game 
 is the better music because it lets you play some good old classic music on your ds piano.
  
  We all form our own perspective on a game it could be good' or it could be bad. But in order 
 to form a perspective we need to know about the game. I found out about the game through a commercial. 
 After that i looked at screen shots to found out about what the mini games are gonna be and through 
 the trailers to found out more about it. So the question is here should i invest money into it? 
 I say yes because it's only $20 which is really cheap and even though the graphics suck and music 
 is kinda decent I think It's solid fun you can enjoy for a good amount of time. I had fun playing 
 it myself so it's recommened by me because I have fun playing with 16 other people and having a 
 healthy brain while playing simple math or vocabulary. It's even fun to unlock games and unlocking 
 more songs to play in the piano mini game to enjoy listening to while hitting the notes right. 
 I think this has some good value and is worth your $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGamer1215
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 4, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is mediocre and I would not recommend it to very many people. In fact, I would only recommend 
 it if all you had was $20 to buy a game and you already had Flash Focus. This Brain age has very 
 very horrible games. They are no fun and simply fail to attract me to their far-to-simple design. 
 It seems that hardly any effort was put forth by the creator of Brain Age than to simply be able 
 to play and learn. But I believe he lost the core aspect that games are for: Fun!!! Even for those 
 who would love a purely educational game, I tell you guys this: When you break your DS out of frustration 
 simply because the software on Brain Age thinks your 4 is a 9 or your 0 is an 8, dont come to me 
 cause I told ya so... Not to mention the fact that if I see Dr. Kawashima or w/e's face again I 
 will kill myself. And the way you have to hold your DS sideways SUCKS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wicko92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  One of the best Brain Training games out there! Okay, so I think this game is great work for you. 
 First of you have 3 trainning progams they are called:
  
  1. Missing Symbols
  2. Masterpiece Recital
  3. Word Scramble
  
  Collect more stamps to unlock more stuff by the 
 time you have 10 stamps you shall have these trainning progams.
  
  1. Missing Symbols
  2. Masterpiece Recital
  3. Word Scramble
  4. Correct Change
  5. World Blend
  6. Memory 
 Adition
  7. Days and Dates
  8. Finishing Position
  
  You also have these in the other options: Tips & Stamp Designer.
  You can unlock more by getting 
 more stamps! You get one stamp per day. If you train, you get bigger stamps if you train harder.
 
  
  You can see the Top 3 by holding down select and tap 'Graph'.
  You can choose your Brain Age Check progams by holding down select and tap 'Brain Age Check'.
 
  
  Okay, get the game for yourself and see what other cool stuff you can unlock!
  
  Overall Score: 8.7 (Great) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palooka123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I first got my DS for Christmas. I was really excited. I also asked for brain age 2. When i opened 
 it i was pretty happy. At first i thought it was a nerd game but it really isn't. Now i play it 
 every day, earning stamps playing mini-games and the whole ancholata! I really love this game and 
 I have noticed that i have been improving in math and my memory. It is a game that i probably will 
 never gat tired of playing. Even my mom and dad enjoy it! They even have a game that helps relax 
 you if you're about to go to bed. It is kind of like a Doctor Mario game. Over all it rocks and 
 its educational! It is a very good buy that i recommend. It is a lot better than number one and 
 if you're parents don't like buying you video games tell them about this one and they will most 
 likely buy it. Youcan also do DS download play and play with friends who don't even own the game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getfreaky
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  The game's exercises work mostly well, but the present flaws are very frustrating. The game's handwriting 
 recognition, as its predecessor's, isn't perfect; more than likely, you will have to write certain 
 letters, such as K's and T's, differently from the way you're used to. Number recognition works 
 great, but making a mistake while writing numbers or letters can cost you; the game gives you very 
 little time to hit the 'Erase' button, and many a time you will be penalized for making a mistake 
 you were trying to fix. Also, many of the game's introductory rules are highly lacking and simplistic, 
 forcing you to waste a day's worth of training as you try to figure out what exactly it is you 
 must do. As you play daily you will learn to avoid most of these mistakes, nevertheless they should 
 be nonexistent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LadyAngel89
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  I really do enjoy Brain Age 2! But it's so disappointing that you can only do all the training 
 sessions once per day and have it recorded. I think at least they should have it so you could do 
 it a few times per day, or only the Brain Age check once per day but still be able to see a daily 
 graph of the training. Although I understand that this game is not meant to be played for long 
 periods of time, sometimes I would like to just sit down and play the little games and see if I'm 
 getting better. The generic Dr. Mario hidden away is a fun way to unwind though. Overall, the minigames 
 are fun and really do get your brain working. So much so sometimes that I get frustrated. At least 
 their short. And at least this is something different than blowing up koopas, although I really 
 don't think my brain functions at an age of 82. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homerman92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  The first brain training was a good idea. It wasn't a gamers game but it was good just for someone 
 who wanted to be that little bit smarter and have some brain excercise.
  Now the second has come. More brain training comes with new games and another chance to make your 
 brain that bit better. The games are good and are of different varieties. Correct change asks you 
 to do what the name says. Memory addition 5x5 is like word memory from the first game. You are 
 given a 5x5 grid with a number in each quare. You must remember where they are.
  There are now also the relaxation games such as Germ buster (A spin on Dr Mario) ( Unlock this 
 by pressing the bottom training exercise before you unlock it)
  Overall this game is good for people who want to keep their smarts and memory going for a long 
 time. Like I said, Its not a gamers game but its good for a bit of brain exercise for 10-20 mins 
 a day. the only slight problem is that the few training games may get tiresome after a while. The 
 good thing is it'll last forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Definitely worth buying, especially if you're a Sudoku fan like my wife. It's one of those games 
 that I bought, enjoyed for about a month or two and then traded in. It's not like a lifetime game 
 for your collection, but is that really the point? Isn't it just to suck all the gaming goddness 
 you can out of a particular title and leave it's dry, withered, whimpering husk at the register 
 of the local Gamestop? This was just as fun as the first one, and had some cool new stuff, like 
 the piano game, where you plunk along the notes to a familiar melody. Or trying to figure out what 
 time that damn backwards clock is reading! (This time the guys are in a race, not running in and 
 out of the house) Still a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatcat32594
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  If you plan on getting something truly useful from your DS, which you can use in the real world, 
 this is the game for you. Although some people might find this type of a game to be boring, it 
 is useful if you want to actually learn something from a video game, or if you want a game that 
 you can just "pick up and play." It isn't a game that will absorb 40% of your day. The sudoku puzzles 
 that come with the game are an added bonus, if you like that sort of thing. This is definitely 
 a good game for people who want to learn something from video games. Or people who like sudoku.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johno1995
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age 2: More Training in Minutes a Day is another one of my birthday games, and I have to 
 say, my least favorite. After a fun get-together with my friend on Brain Age (the original) , I 
 decided to ask for the bargain-priced Brain Age 2 for my b-day. 
  
  Brain Age 2 offers some good ideas, but ultimately does not bring a full meal on the plate. It's 
 shaky voice recognition and handwriting (honestly, my handwriting is SERIOUSLY neat and they mistake 
 my 5s for 3s... . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sir_Apropos
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:24 am PT
Review:  If you are an older gamer owning a DS, you most likely have felt that the system has too many games 
 geared for the younger player. In fact, that has been a common complaint for Nintendo about all 
 of their later systems. If a game does happen to market itself towards the veterans of console 
 playing, it often translates exclusively into plenty of bloody violence.
  
  There is an excellent exception out for the Nintendo DS: Brain Age 2. As a sequel to the first 
 Brain Age (but think of it as more of an upgrade than a sequel) , the game is based on the research 
 of the Japanese neurologist Dr. Ryuta Kawashima that finds doing various mental exercises each 
 day promotes a younger brain.
  
  Brain Age 2 (and Kawashima's research) bases itself around finding a person's actual age of his/her 
 brain. According to Kawashima, the age of twenty is when the average person is at his/her mental 
 sharpest. The daily "training" that consists of various sequences, such as serial subtraction, 
 sign finder, piano player, word blend, word scramble, math recall, calendar count, change maker, 
 and more, helps bring down one's brain age. The daily training leads to a daily brain age check, 
 which consists of three similar sequences picked at random.
  
  A player's progress (or regress) is charted out, and one can check it for all exercises. If more 
 than one person has an account on the same cartridge, they can compare results, but it is not all 
 about competition. It is also about communicatioin. For example, the multiple players will be asked 
 to identify pictures the others have drawn. Although the game does not support internet wi-fi, 
 it does encourage the use of the wireless DS single-card download play, which enables everyone 
 in a room with DS consoles to play with each other with only one Brain Age 2 game in use.
  
  There are two features that are often overlooked in the average DS game that Brain Age 2 takes 
 full advantage of; namely, the styler and the built in mic. After pressing the power button on 
 the DS, one can say good bye to pressing buttons at all. The styler ---a small, plastic pen shaped 
 tool ---is used for entering personal data, such as age and time of day (for accurate training results) , 
 navigation, drawing, and completely games. Very few DS games have abandoned the buttons so absolutely 
 as Brain Age 2, and this fact promotes the attendance of people who may not be familiar with gaming. 
 Players will also be asked to vocally complete exercises using the built in mic feature of the 
 DS console. The "paper, rock, scissors" sequence uses the feature the most.
  
  Brain Age 2 is chalk full of unlockable features. As a person records more daily training days, 
 more training exercises are unlocked. A person is given hints about other goodies such as a hidden 
 Dr. Mario "relax training" and voice reactions on the title screen. Such Easter Eggs promote repeated 
 game play without expecting players to dedicate a large chunk of time during each sitting.
  
  The Sudoku fans are not left out. There are plenty of puzzles with three general levels of 
 difficulty available on Brain Age 2. The game is presented very well via the options given to players, 
 and it feels far from a mere add-on feature.
  
  Brain Age 2 is an excellent answer to the older players who feel that the only games left for them 
 after all the Kirbys and the God of Wars are hand-held poker and video solitaire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iain-Kinloch
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  More Brain Training is a simple collection of games to help you train your brain to be the best 
 it can be.
  
  You start by creating a profile by writing in your signature, then you take your first brain age 
 test, then you set out to improve your score by doing a little bit of training every day.
  
  At first you'll only have access to a few of the games, but as you earn stamps by training 
 every day you unlock all the training games, a relaxing game and a few bonus features like being 
 able to design your own stamp. All these things give a reason other than improving your score to 
 keep coming back. However, after a while you will unlock every game, the hard modes for the games, 
 the bonusses and you'll be bored with it.
  
  This is the games only problem. It just can't keep you coming back for very long unless there is 
 a game or two that you really like or you have the sudoku bug. If you do get a liking for one of 
 the games or you like sudoku then this is going to be one of those games that lots of casual gamer 
 will love.
  
  Like last years game, it is very simple looking but that only makes it better as ther is no way 
 to get confused. Also, the sound is quite nice too, there are only a handful of songs, and they 
 only play during the menus but again this just makes it better as there are no distractions.
  
  If you liked the first game, have a thing for logic or sudoku, then this will keep you quite 
 happy for some time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 10, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  If you have got the First Brain Training on your DS you'll know that some of the training are the 
 same as the first one like Brain Age Check or missing symbols which just looks the same on the 
 first game. But there are some new puzzles to try your brain there is Masterpiece Recital or Germ 
 Buster or Determine The Time. There more stamps you get the more unlockable features you will get 
 on it. If you like Sudoku you'll find more sudoku games and somthing to past the time while your 
 at home or on a plane somewhere. You'll proppley play this game at 30 minutes a day at least. There 
 is one bad thing about this is if your speaking to the mic on your DS or how you write which is 
 kina annoying for anyone.
  But a great way to past the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mngavis
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age 2 doesn't change the formula of the original game, but it brilliantly expands the concept 
 to bring more training games. If that is what you are looking for, go ahead a pick it up.
  
  I bought the DS bundled that came with BA 2 and the crimsom/black DS because I wanted to see 
 for myself what all the fuss about Brain Training was all about. To me the games lives up to the 
 expectations delivering exactly what the box says: More training for your brain . To my surprise, 
 my wife who never plays any game has picked up the game instantly and plays it everyday. The graphics 
 are what you would expect from a puzzle game and the music is okay. The only problem we notice 
 is the voice recognition is not very good. Best of all, the game can be played in three languages: 
 english, spanish and french. Since we both speak spanish and english, we get more out of the game.
 
  
  The game comes with 100 sudoku puzzles, which is a nice addition. It has some multiplayer modes, 
 but sadly no Sudoky multiplayer. All in all, I recommend this game especially to player who have 
 not played the original and who could benefit from getting the bundle like I did 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This game is boring. The game doesn't really have any good visuals. All you do is play minigames 
 so you can learn... Anyway if you look at it as a learning tool then it's pretty good, but if you 
 look at it as a game then you shouldn't even bother checking it out. At least you can still learn 
 from this game. It doesn't compare to any other games out there visualy or anything else. The game 
 is very, very similar to the last one. The only reason you should pick this one up is  
 i don't really reccomend the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  The Good: Unique consept of a learning based game for the DS, puzzles are interesting and can be 
 a lot of fun, excellent use of the DS' features, an excellent choice for anyone looking to keep 
 their brain moving.
  
  The Bad: There aren't that many different puzzles and/or mini games, can be hard or frustrating, 
 it seems like you can never get the right Brain Age...
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  When Nintendo first unvailed Brain Age, most gamers expected it to be a flop. Not so. Now, Brain 
 Games are sweeping the nation primarily thanks to this DS title. Now, there is a sequel to Brain 
 Age and it features new puzzles to keep your brain going.
  
  The consept of Brain Age 2 is wrather interesting. You basically solve simple (or mostly simple) 
 puzzles to keep your brain going. By training your brain daily, you are able to keep your brain 
 going for years to come. The best part is that these games can be a lot of fun, or they can be 
 simply frustrating. Some like answering math problems by making the propper signs and the innovative 
 rock, paper sissors game are fun and enjoyable to play, but others, especially those involving 
 quick memorization, are quite hard and frustrating. The presentation of Brain Age 2 isn't exactly 
 showstopping. The game is presented primarily in black and white, and the graphics are as good 
 as a graphing calculators, but the presentation isn't why you play this game. Now, I've only played 
 it for a few hours on one day, so I can't yet say if the consept works or not, but I might deside 
 to update this review at a later date if it does seem to help. There is a multiplayer mode for 
 up to 16 players using one game, which is a cool idea, but I have yet to try it out.
  
  Overall, Brain Age 2 is a pretty fun learning tool that could be benificial for both kids and adults. 
 It's also something that parents shouldn't mind their kids asking to play.
  
  Gameplay: Simple puzzles that are both fun and frustrating help train your brain.
  
  Graphics: 
 Nothing special.
  
  Sound: Ditto
  
  Value: At $20, this isn't a bad pick up, especially if it does end up helping your brain.
  
 
  Final Thoughts: Why does the floating head of a Japanese Doctor keep talking to me? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Everyone's favorite brain training game is back and in full force. Brain Age 2: More Training in 
 Minutes a Day brings us more activities to make us smarter and also to let us get picked on by 
 a virtual head.
  
  Graphically this is a plain looking game but that isn't a bad thing. Everything is clear and the 
 screen isn't cluttered by flashy backgrounds and vibrant colours. The activities range from calculating 
 how much change you need to get back, remember numbers to solve math equations and even a hidden 
 version of Dr. Mario and there is also some sudoku thrown in the mix. Brain Age 2 does what it does 
 and it does it right. The microphone problem from the first game has been fixed and you're always 
 encouraged to keep trying even if your brain age isn't the age if should be. On top of all the 
 goodness inside the game it's also budget priced which means there's no excuse for you no to pick 
 this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever felt your brain slowly turn to mush as the years went on? Having a hard time remembering 
 where you put your car keys? Couldn't balance your checkbook without getting a headache? Dr. Ryuta 
 Kawashima has an answer for what's going on with you. YOU'RE BRAIN IS GETTING OLD! And he has a 
 cure for that. It's called Brain Age!
  
  The Brain Age games have been a remarkable success in Japan. The first Brain Age released here 
 in the states last year has also been a huge success, because these games actually help by keeping 
 your mind sharp. The first Brain Age contained several different mental exercises along with a 
 good number of soduku puzzles, and Brain Age 2 has an entirely new set of activities complete with 
 more soduku puzzles.
  
  For those unfamiliar with how Brain Age works, or even what a Brain Age is, it's a measurement 
 of your brain's health based on your age. The ideal Brain Age score is 20, which is what Dr. Kawashima 
 believes is how old the brain is when its at its peak. The higher Brain Age score, the more out 
 of shape your brain is. In order to determine your Brain Age, he conducts a Brain Age check. This 
 entails a series of three activities. He'll always start out by asking you if you are able to speak 
 freely or not. He asks, because the game utilizes voice recognition, and the starting activity 
 requires you to speak into the DS's mic. The first activity is called Rock, Paper, Scissors, and 
 you'll have to say what beats what based on the pictures you're given. He'll switch it up and ask 
 you what loses against what, and that forces you to stay alert.
  
  If you can't speak, he'll just skip that activity altogether, and give you something else to do. 
 Such activities conducted in the Brain Age Check are Math Recall, which shows you an equation and 
 erases a number requiring you to remember what it is to solve the problem; Serial Subtraction, 
 which gives you a number, and then tells you to keep subtracting a given number from it; Number 
 Memory, which has you memorizing the placement of numbers 1-25; High Number, which has you picking 
 out the highest number from a group of numbers (made more difficult by some numbers being smaller 
 than others, and other numbers moving around) ; and Symbol Match, which shows a legend of differnet 
 symbols paired with numbers 0-9, and you write the symbol based on what number is given to you.
 
  
  When the Brain Age Check is done for the day (you can keep doing the Brain Age Check, but it only 
 saves your score once a day) , there are other daily activities for you to do. The new activities 
 are as follows: Sign Finder, which has you writing the missing symbol of an equation; Piano Player, 
 which has you tapping piano keys in rhythm to a scrolling cursor across notes of a song (and there 
 are a ton of different songs) ; Word Scramble, which has you unscramblng words from letters rotating 
 in a circle; Memory Sprint, which has you keeping the place of a runner as he's passing and being 
 passed by people; Change Maker, which has you calculating how much change to give back from a given 
 amount; Word Blend, which recites more than one word at the same time and has you trying to decipher 
 what words are being said; Calendar Count, which asks what date it would be for so many days ahead 
 or behind, or what day a certain date would land on; Math Recall (the same from the Brain Age Check) ; 
 Clock Spin, which flips and reverses analogue and digital clocks and has you telling what the time 
 is; and Block Count, which has blocks falling in different rows that are covered up, requiring 
 you to remember how many have fallen in what row.
  
  The game will keep a top score of three for each activity, as well as maintaining a graph recording 
 your progress. It will also gauge how well you did by showing you an animation based on speed of 
 travel. For instance, if you're given an animation of a guy walking, that indicates you performed 
 rather poorly, while an animation of a rocket taking off will indicate you performed exceptionally. 
 You also only start off with three activities, but the more you play, the more you unlock. The 
 game uses handwriting recognition technology to input your answers, and it's not without its flaws. 
 If you have poor handwriting, you're going to have a lot of issues with this game, so it's best 
 to slow down and write legibly. Even so, there may be issues based on the style of your handwriting 
 that will require you to alternate from upper case to lower case. The voice recognition for Rock, 
 Paper, Scissor is also hit and miss. It takes a bit of getting used to know just how far away to 
 hold the DS, and to use just the right amount of tone and annunciation. [Editor's Note: The first 
 Brain Age also used voice recognition, and when I played it on the old DS, it was fine, but had 
 serious problems on a DS Lite, so this issue might be based on what mic you're using.] Sudoku, 
 just as with the first Brain Age, is a blast to play if you like Sudoku thanks to the handwriting 
 recognition. You simply tap what cell you want to input a number in, just write down the number 
 and POOF! Done! This reoccuring feature of the game helps boost the game's value a great deal. 
 Just as with the first game, you can also share this game with other DS users thanks to the Download 
 feature. You let them play some of the activities found on your game, and if they like it enough, 
 they can go out and buy it for themselves. You also have Quick Play, which allows other people 
 to play your game on the DS without the need to establish a profile.
  
  When I played the first Brain Age, I could actually feel my mind getting sharper with each bit 
 of playing I did, and that applies to the sequel. Just keep in mind that this game is not meant 
 to be played in long periods of time. As its motto states, Train your brain in just minutes a day 
 , it's meant to be played only minutes a day. This title's only 20 bucks, and there's really no 
 reason a DS owner shouldn't add this in their collection, because it is fun, and it does work. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: protoroll
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  This is a hard game to describe but basically it helps keep your mind alert. It asks general knowledge 
 things but in ways that you must think and be quick about it. For example 3+?=12, or it may give 
 you a set of letters that you must turn into a word, but the letters are spinning in a circle so 
 you really have to focus. The main problem with this game is that the answer recognition is off, 
 especially on the voice answer questions. For instance the rock, paper, scissors game. You have 
 to say the answer into the ds' mic. It picks up rock and paper just fine but scissors it just won't 
 understand sometimes. It' can become frustrating because if it doesn't understand after a certain 
 amount of times it will end the game. The writing portions are much better at picking you what 
 you pt down as the answer, but it's best if you write the letters in uppercase. It recognizes uppercase 
 letters better than lowercase ones. All in all this is a neat package and there is fun to be had 
 playing it. It is more suited to older audiences. The tasks may be to hard for kids say in middle 
 school or younger. If you can get over the voice recognition parts Brain Training 2 may be up your 
 ally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  The first Brain Age showed the market that there's definitely a place for this mature concept, 
 which is essentially a game targeted at those who really don't play them. The sequel's name alone 
 shows that Nintendo certainly isn't trying to hide its intentions with Brain Age 2: More Training 
 in Minutes a Day. It's like a Volume 2 of Jane Fonda's Workout: same format, same host, just a 
 brand new assortment of exercise routines to keep those muscles toned. The novelty of it being 
 something new has worn off since the original game hit shelves a year and a half ago, but that's 
 okay, since the package - while still containing almost the exact same shell of Brain Age - features 
 a whole new assortment of challenges that turns what could have been a seen it already rehash into 
 something a lot fresher than the usual handheld recycling.
  
  The whole idea behind the Brain Age design is to keep those synapses firing in your head by giving 
 a regular assortment of simple challenges that do nothing more than make you think. The first Brain 
 Age was the first foray into this concept and most of the exercises were pretty straightforward 
 Iowa Test-style challenges. In Brain Age 2, they're a lot more creative with twists applied to 
 challenges that started out in the original version of Brain Age. So while you might have had your 
 fill from last year's 20 dollar mental exercise, there's a lot more where that came from in this 
 year's 20 dollar cart. It's still not real gaming, but there's still fun to be had in brain-bending 
 challenges that you'd expect to find in a middle-school text book.
  
  Gone are the silly tasks like Volume 1's Read this chapter challenge that never really put any 
 of the Nintendo DS system's capabilities to use. Also gone is the poorly tested voice recognition 
 where no amount of saying the word blue would register properly in the color shouting game. Every 
 game, every challenge has been tightly developed and tested, with the handwriting engine tweaked 
 a bit better and the voice recognition working like a champ.
  
  That one voice recognition challenge shows you just how mentally taxing the tasks can get in Brain 
 Age 2. In it, you have to rapidly shout out Rock, Paper, or Scissors, when you're shown an on-screen 
 fist, hand or set of fingers. Ah, but it isn't that easyshouting out the winning answer might 
 be a snap, but the designers throw in a curve by randomly forcing you to call out the losing answer. 
 You can feel your brain straining after just thirty seconds of this task. Eventually you'll get 
 it, but boy what a workout the first few dozen tries.
  
  Then comes the math quizzes. Unlike the original, a twist is thrown at the player: as they're answering 
 the simply 2 + 8 = equation, one number is being scribbled over. And that mystery number will be 
 used in the next question, while the other number slowly gets scribbled over as well. It forces 
 you not only to mentally come up with the answer, but also to immediately recall what that number 
 was when you answered the equation. Simple, but clever and very tricky.
  
  The other challenges are equally creative. Like the one where you have to listen to multiple spoken 
 words as they're layered on top of each other, and then spell out the words that you heard. Or 
 following along on a piano as sheet music plays a familiar tune. The count the men challenge from 
 last year has been upgraded in a clever what place did the man come in during the race game of 
 observation. Later you'll unlock this day of the week challenge where you'll have to immediately 
 recall what the current day is and then figure out stuff like What day was two days after and three 
 days before today? Time travelers beware - this is the designers' way of keeping you from mucking 
 around with the in-game clock.
  Everything else, however, remains pretty much untouched in the move from Brain Age to Brain Age 
 2. Other than a newer color scheme for the menus, the interface in this sequel remains identical 
 to last year's game, and the theme of encouraging daily play through a set schedule of tasks and 
 statistics tracking (as well as ranking by how old your brain is) has not changed one bit. And 
 to supplement the brain bending activities, Nintendo brings back another set of a hundred Sudoku 
 puzzles. Not that big of a deal this time, simply because in the 18 month gap between Brain Age 
 1 and Brain Age 2 there have been a bazillion Sudoku puzzles released on the Nintendo DS. To its 
 credit, Brain Age 2's Sudoku engine still kicks ass and blows away the rest of the DS Sudoku crowd 
 thanks to the quick and easy interface.
  
  However, the new game has a new addition: multiplayer competition. It was one of the better options 
 in Nintendo's competing follow-up, Big Brain Academy, and the inclusion here definitely makes this 
 a worthwhile purchase, just in case you weren't convinced that an additional set of brain strengthening 
 tasks was enough. Up to four players can compete in variations of the tasks wirelessly between 
 systems, and only one copy of the game is needed to play them. If you think doing the tasks solo 
 was taxing, wait until you try to beat other players in rapid-fire challenges.
  
  Closing Comments
  In many cases it's tough to praise a company for recycling assets to make a 
 sequel on the handheld. Brain Age 2 definitely has that flavor of a quickly developed product, 
 reusing pieces from the first game to get the second volume out the door while the Casual Gaming 
 window is still open. But while the feel is familiar, much of the experience is brand new. With 
 the exception of Sudoku, every brain challenge in this sequel is fresh, and even if you played 
 the first game to death there's a lot more mind-building challenges here, many of which are a lot 
 more fun and addictive than the ones in last year's series premiere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  I really loved the original, so the 2nd one had to be great... it is... yet somehow I wish it had 
 more.
  
  I love the Sudoku as much as the one in the original. Great add to an already good game.
  
 
  The activities are completely different than those on the original, but they are just as much 
 fun and challenging. The variety is better than in the original, but I wish they had brought back 
 a couple of the original ones.
  
  The sign finder is great change of pace over the solving problems like in the 1st BA. The piano 
 game is nice but it should be timed or something else besides just hitting the right key. Word 
 scramble is a great activity. I hate the memory sprint but I like it more than the similar activity 
 in the original. Change Count is great because it uses practical math well. The activity were you 
 hear multiple words and you have to write them out is tough... a little too tough.
  
  The Brain Age test activities are different but I have to admit that I like the original BA test 
 activities a bit more. The Paper, Rock, Scissor test is cool. I like the activity that has you 
 memorize 25 numbers. I cant help but to think though that there should be a bit more variety.
 
  
  I haven't tried multiplayer action, but from what I hear it is a great option. My final comment 
 on this game is that any game that can bring in a non-gamer like my wife and my brother-in-laws 
 gf is a game every DS owner should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatergamer2
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  The best game that is a learning game ever. Please by this game a good game. Gameplay: Good is you 
 like sudoku. Fun and pleasent for kids. Replay value: Every Day play this game. play it please a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a good game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaq1992
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age 2 is the best educational game out on the market. I think Brain age is going to expand 
 through the whole world like Mario in the 80's. brain age is not just your ordinary child game 
 that you would find in a store, its a simple game that a japanese doctor came up to challenge your 
 mind with difficult problems. I am playing Brain Age right now and i am so addictive to it, the 
 more i play the more i feel smarter. The games in brain age shows you a multitude of math, memory, 
 and competion to see how fast u can train your brain. I recommend this game to any one who wants 
 to play something different on the Ds and wants to find a new challenge to play on their handheld 
 game.
  
  For those who already have the game keep training. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amadeus_451
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 8:14 pm PT
Review:  I call this game a mirror of sorts because it reveals just what you can do when put under pressure 
 and required to focus on something. Overall, the game really is great as a time sponge. You can 
 always just click on your DS and do a few quick brain training games whenever you have a moment 
 or chip away at more sudoku puzzles. Overall though, I'd say this game is reviewed rather harshly 
 by players because it reveals just how little the brain is actually used (I personally started with 
 a brain age of 54 or so in the first installment) . I think this game definitely deserves at least 
 a once-over, even if you just buy a used copy from a Gamestop then return it the next day for your 
 money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacky18541
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  I tried this game a few days ago, i played on the brain age check mode and i got like 45 yrs old 
 brain age. Anyways, this game warms your brain up and make your brain move and move. So, your brain 
 will not get rusted. there's only a method, that is: play brain age every day but not too long... 
 it's time to warm up your brain! By the way, this game is hard to play on DS , when your doing 
 scrabble the alphabets you wrote might turn in a question mark which makes me go crazy on it. remember 
 to write your letters straight and big. good luck to all brain age players. have a healthy brain! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlawlessSeasons
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  It's really hard to review a game like this, being that its not really a game. This is the sequel 
 to Nintendo's biggest Non-Game Game. If you played the first one, you pretty much know what to 
 expect here, a series of simple tasks that end up being harder than they seem when you're supposed 
 to do them quickly. This game is meant to be played in short bursts thus the name In minutes a 
 day so you're not gonna be sitting down to play a big Brain Age 2 marathon. But what will happen, 
 is that you'll probably get obsessed with trying to lower your brain age to a better score. The 
 only problems here are the ones that were in the first game, writing and voice recognition. For 
 the most part they've got it down, but my brain age is suffering due to the fact that the game 
 has problems recognizing the numbers 4 and 9. Also during the game where you have to say Rock, 
 Paper or Scissors I got two correct answers by either not saying anything or going uumm... 
  
  Other than that, the game is fine. Its fun to sit down and have a game tell you that your brain 
 is stupid. Other than that, there's nothing much to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVi110
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Brain age 2 is the follow up to the original Brain age: Train your Brain in minutes a day: Which 
 was a fun, slightly boring game with over 10 exercises to help keep your brain healthy. Brain age 
 2 is pretty much exactly the same idea. Same menu, same talking Japanese head, but different games.
 
  
  Those who enjoy Brain age most likely do it in groups because by yourself it's rather boring. Seeing 
 what your friends and family have made up when ask to connect the dots is fun and it's also fun 
 to see who can get the Brain-age of 20 too. So strangely enough as is sounds the game has great 
 multiplayer, but not in a way you'ld expect.
  
  But even though competing for the highest score in a an odd math minigame is fun the game only 
 has true lasting value to those who use it everyday but most people don't find this fun at all. 
 If your willing to spend 5 minutes of your time in the day to train your brain you will see improvements 
 like being able to remember 3 more digits of a train of numbers and that's pretty cool that a little 
 game ha that power.
  
  So if your going to give it your all everyday and you have other friends and family who like this 
 kind of stuff Brain age 2 is a steal for only $19.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Very few games out there are truly deserving of the title sequel. In fact most sequels aren't reall 
 sequels but just rehashed stories and gameplays of the first game.
  
  Brain Age 2 is different. The games are trickier than the first and I have to truly say that unless 
 you prepared yourself mentally from the first game the learning curve on this game is quite high.
 
  
  The only gripes I have with this game were the same as the first one. The hand-writing recognition 
 needs to be cleaner. At times when I am drawing 6 only to be confused by 8 or 9 and having it recognized 
 as 7 is infuriating. But for the most part I have no deep problems with the game.
  
  Sudoku is an excellent game and its multi-player aspects will keep you and your friend busy for 
 some time. Overall I'd reccomend any previous Brain Age owners to try Brain Age 2. For newcommers, 
 I'd start out with Brain Age and slowly work your way to the sequel worthy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JonFuri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  The first Brain Age that came out last year was a fun, innovative, and educational game. Woah? 
 Fun and Educational in the same sentence? Yeah, believe it.
  
  So after the mass success the first Brain Age recieved here in the US, it was a no brainer they 
 were going to make a 2nd part to Brain Age. So if you're like me, you will agree that the first 
 Brain Age was a tad on the easy side. Saying colors, doing math, some sudoku puzzles, and hey your 
 smarter than you think. It was not hard getting a Brain Age score of 20 in a couple of days.
  Brain Age 2? This game will break you.
  
  Your first training excersize will have 2 options. 
 Can you Speak? or Cannot Speak? If you can Speak out loud, you are challenged to a game of Rock 
 Paper Scissors. Only you have to yell out your answer if the Dr. wants you to Win, or Lose. Yelling 
 out colors? sure why not. Yelling out Rock Paper Scissors? Big WTF?! The mini- game is long with 
 40-50 questions.
  the Can't speak portion has 3 tests for you. Number Memory, which is kind of like Word Memory in 
 the first one, then theres another minigame that i can't recall the name of right now, but it has 
 you do math problems with a number being constantly scratched off. The third is kind of the same, 
 but you are always subtracting that same number. You better know your times tables at least before 
 attempting this game.
  
  Of course, all of those mini-games can be played under the Daily Training tab, and Other minigames 
 include watching a race with stick people and guessing what place they ranked (its easier said 
 than done) , playing the Piano in a sort of rythym game -esque game, and a bunch more.
  
  And of course, what would be a Brain Age game without Sudoku?
  
  Brain Age 2 is not puddy-footing 
 around, its going to make you learn, and at the same time the mini-games are still fun as hell. 
 This time around is no cake-walk in the park and thats what makes the game so challenging, and 
 makes the game totally worth it. Certianly a game to buy if you liked the first Brain Age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 24, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This is the second brain training title from Dr. Kawashima and as you slot in the cartridge and 
 load it up, you'll think you're playing the wrong game. Why? It looks and sounds like the old game, 
 right down to some of the things Dr. Kawashima says. The only thing that is different in this second 
 Brain Training game is the actual training games and the Sudoku puzzles. Is this a bad thing? Not 
 at all - fans of the first game will love this game too; however there is nothing much here to 
 appeal to people who disliked Kawashima's first title.
  
  For people who are new to the whole Brain Training scene, here is a brief summary: you hold your 
 DS on its side and you do three games which test your brain. After the three games are completed, 
 you will then be given a brain age ranging from 20-80, the latter being the worst and the one you 
 obviously don't want. You can also select the training option to pick which game you want to practice 
 on.
  
  For the actual games, there are the great, good, okay and down-right awful. The best has to be 
 'Masterpiece Recital' which has a keyboard on the touch screen and a sheet of scrolling music on 
 the left screen. You have to press the corresponding keys on the keyboard as the arrows scroll 
 over it on the music sheet - it's very fun and slightly tricky! A good but annoying game is one 
 which has you drawing out a symbol which corresponds to the number. It sounds boring, but is actually 
 quite fun. There is, however, one downside to this game - a couple of symbols are extremely sensitive 
 on and if you draw a really obvious percentage sign, it still wont accept it, damaging your score 
 overall. The worst game of the lot has to be where you have to remember which number goes into 
 which square and you have a time limit of two minutes. You just sit there for two minutes remembering 
 numbers. That's it. What a load of fun... or not. There are also lots of other games, but mentioned 
 above are the select few that stand out for their own reasons.
  
  Then there is the section for Sudoku puzzles, if that is your kind of thing. If not, you can skip 
 over it without missing out on anything, but it takes your fancy you wont be disappointed. It 
 is controlled with the touch screen and has you drawing on what numbers you want where. It is very 
 well made and you are getting quite a lot for what is a budget priced game.
  
  This game is pretty much the same as the last one, and you can take that as you wish. However, 
 considering it is basically the same game, it gets the exact same score as it did last time. Another 
 decent, quick-to-play Brain Training game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Before I bought it, I saw the adverts for it where Nicole Kidman exercises her Brain using More 
 Brain Training from Dr Kawashima: How old is your Brain and that was excellent because its just 
 like with Chris Tarrant with the first Brain Training Game. You have the same sounds and music 
 but they have a new added tune to them and when you select something, there's a new sound to it 
 compared to the first one. Anyway the Correct Change challenge is quite tricky so as the Rock, 
 Paper, Sissors. In that, you have to say the correct word to lose and to win. Word scramble is 
 also challenging because you need to search carefully so you can spell the word correctly.
  
  Missing symbols is fun because in the missing sums, you need to put the right symbol with sum 
 and the other with numbers who are partnered with a type of sign like on the keyboard. The Highest 
 number is also fun and the number memorey is difficult. Its just like the word memorey form the 
 first one. One of the toughest challenges are the Countdown subtraction and 5x5 memorey because 
 you have to remember a number that your working with in a sum. Lastly of course is the Piano challenge 
 because you have to follow a piece of music and when the arrow nears the notes you have to tap 
 the note on the touch screen with the stylus and thats tricky.
  
  This is the latest edition in a set of Nintendo DS games with Touch Generations and its worth getting 
 if you want to carry on stimulating your Brain with the new activities.
  
  This game has a good budget price tag of just &pound;19.99
  
  This game has arrived in Europe 
 first after Japan 2 years ago and it will be out in North Americia in mid-August.
  
  Get it now! Its a good seqeul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyedunno1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  A couple months ago, a friend here in Japan introduced this game to me. Playing it a couple times 
 is actually what led to me buying a DS. And I'm not the only one. This series of games for adults 
 (three games now, including an English training game) has become a huge phenomenon in Japan, and 
 has even opened up the market for games to a previously untapped demographic - middle-aged women. 
 Every day now, two women in the office ask me what my brain age is, and a third asks to check hers 
 on my DS. To put it simply, this game (or "non-game" as some choose to call it) is infectious.
 
  
  Upon starting as a new player, Dr. Ryuuta Kawashima, the Doctor of Medicine upon whose books the 
 game is based, explains in brief the nature of the game. When a person is doing normal activities, 
 only small portions of the brain receive extra blood flow. However, certain activities require 
 a wider range of brain functions. This game seeks to compile many such activities, and in theory, 
 through daily training, the brain will become better at handling these situations.
  
  The game consists of two main parts: a brain age check and daily training exercises.
  
  The 
 brain age check randomly chooses three activities per day from a set of seven to test your brain:
 
  
  1) Win/Loss Response. This is a game of janken, known in the U. S. as "Rock-Scissors-Paper." However, 
 rather than simply playing the game, the player is shown either rock, scissors, or paper, and is 
 asked to either win or lose by saying "guu" (rock) , "choki" (scissors) , or "paa" (paper) into the 
 DS's microphone. This is actually the weakest thing on the whole DS card, since the microphone 
 doesn't work as well as it should. Often saying the correct thing doesn't work, while on the other 
 hand, just talking normally to people in the surrounding area often results in a string of hits. 
 However, the player can opt out of this game by choosing the "no speaking" option when the age 
 check begins. This option is great, leaving the game open to people who are good at it, while allowing 
 those of us who aren't to skip it.
  
  2) Continuous Subtraction. The player is given a starting number (let's say "102,"since that's 
 what I got today) and another number to subtract from the first number (today's was "9") . The player 
 must then subtract the second number from the first number and write the answers on the touch screen 
 as fast as possible (93, 84, 75, 66, 57, 48, 39, 30, 21, 12, 3) . It does take a little practice 
 to get used to writing numbers the DS will recognize, but overall it's fairly accurate and this 
 activity works nicely.
  
  3) Kanji Memorization. The player is given 36 kanji (Chinese characters) , and must memorize as 
 many as possible in two minutes, and write as many as possible in three minutes. The order doesn't 
 matter, and I'm fairly good at this for a gaijin (my record is 21) , but it obviously wouldn't localize 
 well for audiences not in Japan or China. The best I could see them doing is using full-length 
 words, and they would be losing something in the process, in my opinion.
  
  4) Symbol Conversion. You get a chart of equivalences between numbers and symbols (1=#, 2=$, 3=&, 
 etc.) , then the game throws numbers at you. You have to write the corresponding symbols as quickly 
 as possible. This is not a memorization activity, but good speed requires consulting the list for 
 the next number's symbol while writing the current symbol.
  
  5) Addition From Memory. The game starts you out with a number (let's say "5") , then blacks out 
 that number and gives you an addition problem with another term ("# + 4 = ?": the correct answer 
 here being "9") . After answering the problem, the term that was not blacked out ("4" in this case) 
 is blacked out, and you must use it in the next problem ("6 + # = ?": "10") . This requires a lot 
 of concentration, and is hard to understand initially - two of my coworkers couldn't figure it 
 out. If you forgot the number, you can have the game give you a new number, but your brain age 
 will suffer. This one is good practice.
  
  6) 5X5 Memorization. Possibly the hardest of the seven. You are given a 5X5 chart containing numbers 
 from 1-25, and you have two minutes to memorize them and two more minutes to write as many as you 
 can. Unlike kanji memorization, the position of the numbers matters, and if you make a mistake, 
 you are penalized (by having the correct answer given to you and therefore not getting another 
 chance to fill in that square) . This one is tough, and makes for good practice (my record here 
 is 19, though I don't know how I pulled it off) .
  
  7) Largest Number. You're given a random jumble of numbers written in varying font sizes, and you 
 have to pick the number with the highest numeric value as quickly as possible. Some of the problems 
 have numbers that float around the touch screen to make things more confusing and interesting. 
 I'm still working on improving at this one.
  
  Brain age ranges from 80 to 20, with the former age being the worst possible performance, and the 
 latter age being the best. You may check your brain age repeatedly, but only the first score of 
 the day is recorded. My record to date is 23, but I have a coworker (one of the aforementioned 
 middle-aged women) who rubs it in my face that she repeatedly hits 20.
  
  Aside from the brain age feature, there is daily training. The activities are similar to the brain 
 age check (and one is exactly the same) , but overall there seem to be more problems that test specific 
 knowledge rather than general skills. Some activities have a "difficult" mode, which must be unlocked 
 by getting "rocket level" (the game grades you using modes of transportation from walking to rocket) . 
 The problems included in daily training are:
  
  1) Kanji Writing. Given a sentence, replace katakana with kanji. Not timed.
  
  2) Arithmetic 
 Symbols. Given a problem such as "2 _ 2 = 4," write the correct symbol ("+" in this case) as quickly 
 as possible. Difficult mode requires two symbols per problem (e. g., "2 _ 2 _ 2 = 6") .
  
  3) Famous Song Performance. Every day, you get a new song and the sheet music for it, and you have 
 to play it on a one-octave piano on the touch screen. The piano and the sheet music both contain 
 "do re mi" notation as a guide, but difficult mode removes these. However, if the rhythm doesn't 
 match well, the highest possible level is "airplane" (I got a piano-playing coworker to unlock 
 this one for me) . 
  
  * 4) Kanji Composition. Arrange simple kanji and katakana into more complex kanji and write them 
 on the touch screen as quickly as possible. This is one of my favorites, although there's no possible 
 way to localize this for foreign markets.
  
  * 5) Shotokutaishi (this one's name doesn't translate well) . Listen to the spoken three-syllable 
 words, then write them. Sound easy? Well, sometimes you'll get two or even three different words 
 spoken simultanously, and you have to write all three. Headphones are a must for this. Difficult 
 mode has more three-person problems.
  
  * 6) Addition From Memory. As in the brain age check.
  
  * 7) Reading Aloud With Differentiation. 
 You get a sentence with a jumble of kanji and hiragana, and three seconds to memorize it. Then 
 you get the same sentence with either one kanji changed to hiragana, or some hiragana changed to 
 one kanji, and you have to write it (in kanji) . I finally pulled off rocket level today, but there's 
 no difficult mode.
  
  * 8) Date Calculation. This starts from simple questions such as "What day of the week is it today?" 
 and moves to questions like "What was the date five days before four days after tomorrow's yesterday?" 
 This can get confusing, and it's timed, so getting rocket level is extremely difficult.
  
  * 9) Four-character Compounds (Yoji-jukugo) . In Japanese, knowing a lot of four-kanji idiomatic 
 compounds is a sign of a high level of literacy. This activity gives you some with one character 
 removed, and you have to write it. It's wonderful if you're a student of Japanese (and somewhat 
 difficult even for many natives) .
  
  * 10) Change Return. Shown a yen amount and a bunch of money (coins and maybe a bill) , you have 
 to give the correct change by selecting coins. Speed is of the essence. There's no difficult mode 
 though, which disappointed me a little (it could have used problems with multiple bills) . It's 
 still lots of fun, and a few minutes a day playing a similar game should be mandatory for zitfaced 
 fast-food employees in the U. S. ("Why are you giving me six dollars and three cents? It's only 
 $5.98!" *sigh*) .
  
  * 11) Height Counting. Tetris-like blocks fall into an opaque box, and you have to give the height 
 in units of a given column.
  
  * 12) Rank Counting. This one shows a race, and you have to write the rank of the starting runner 
 at the end of the race. This one gets really hard when the number of runners increases.
  
  * 13) Clock Reading. View analog and digital clocks at various angles (and sometimes as mirror 
 images) and write the correct time.
  
  * 14) English Writing. Translate Japanese into English. You're given the number of letters in each 
 word to rule out synonyms.
  
  As with the brain age check, only the first scores of the day are recorded. This can be frustrating, 
 as one's brain doesn't tend to be quite as primed on the first try, but it also adds to the replay 
 value, since your one chance to get a high score each day becomes more precious. Also, training 
 activities I've marked with an asterisk have to be unlocked, and they're unlocked by means of calendar 
 stamps. If you don't train at least once on a given day, you don't get a stamp. Plus if you do 
 three different activities, you get a bigger version of the stamp, and surely nobody wants to have 
 their calendar looking all funky with different-sized stamps, so you'll want to do at least three 
 a day. Moreover, you can unlock an option to design your own stamp for additional customization.
 
  
  As if those 14 activities aren't enough, the 15th entry on the list is... Dr. Mario! Even the music 
 is the same is the NES version (though with updated sound quality) . But there's a twist. Instead 
 of Mario, you get Dr. Kawashima, and the game's control (like just about everything here) is entirely 
 stylus-driven - tap to rotate a pill, drag to move it. This adds a new dimension to the gameplay. 
 On higher difficulty levels, two or even three pills are released at one time, and even when half 
 a piece is falling, you can move it with the stylus (I know I wished I could have done that in 
 the original Dr. Mario) .
  
  Occasionally, Dr. Kawashima will give you things to do aside from the standard training. Sometimes 
 he'll ask you to do things like complete several sentences, write certain kanji (to judge your 
 personality type - this one's kind of lame) , or draw pictures of certain things. The picture thing 
 is particularly fun. If two people are playing on the same cartridge, the second person to play 
 in a given day will be shown the pictures drawn by the first person, and will be asked to guess 
 what they are. Then when the first person picks up the game again, he or she will get to see whether 
 the other person could tell what was drawn.
  
  You can also see both graphs charting your progress in both training and brain age, along with 
 top three lists for every activity in the game.
  
  This review is getting extremely long, and I haven't even gotten to the multiplayer functions (and 
 believe it or not, I've left out a few other small bonuses as well) ! Up to 16 (!) people may play 
 from one DS card, and, along with competitive versions of Kanji Composition, Change Return, and 
 5X5 Memorization (all mentioned above) , if you have 3 or more people with DSes, you can compete 
 in drawing pictures! Everyone is given prompts of what to draw, and at the end, you get to vote 
 for which ones you like the best (you can't vote for your own, of course) . Then Olympic-style ranks 
 are given (though it's theoretically possible for everyone to get gold if everyone gets an equal 
 number of votes) . This seems like the kind of thing the DS was made for, and it rounds out an already 
 amazing cart by adding multiplayer fun to a game that already has insane replay value. And to top 
 it off, this is one of the cheapest games available for the DS. I guess I need to end my review 
 before my head explodes from love for this game. Before I go, I'll summarize my scoring.
  
  Gameplay: I can't stress enough how great this game is, but I'm docking one point for the poor 
 voice recognition (though it may not be the game's fault) and occasional problems with numeral 
 recognition. 9.
  Graphics: Pretty simple graphics. The only thing of note is the 3D animated head of the good professor. 
 But any showier graphics would likely be too distracting and detract from the game. Plus you can 
 draw your own pictures, so how could I not give it a high score?! 10.
  Sound: Pretty good. Not much music in the game, aside from the menu music, the music you have to 
 play touchscreen piano along with, and that of Dr. Mario, but what's there sounds good and perfectly 
 complements the feel of the game. The sound effects are also appropriate, and the voices in the 
 listening activity are reasonably clear. 9.
  Value: Though this game is only for people who are fairly proficient at Japanese, its value is 
 pretty much explained in the lengthy review above. Duh. 10.
  Tilt: One of the most unique games I've ever played, and one of the most fun, too. 10. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
