-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/brainagetrainyourbraininminutesaday/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great sudoku.
 Interesting use of the DS dual screens.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Could have used a bit more variety.
 Speech and handwriting recognition can get a little shaky.
 Could have used more multiplayer functions, such as scoreboard transfers.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 14, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.8, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 3,661 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Genre: Edutainment
Date: Apr 17, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Does Brain Age actually make you smarter? We have no idea, but it's still an interesting puzzle 
 game available at a budget price. 

  Since the heady days of arcade favorites such as Asteroids, Pac-Man, and Missile Command, people 
 have claimed that video games can help sharpen your reflexes and keep you thinking fast. But there 
 never seemed to be any hard science to back it up. Over 20 years later, Nintendo's releasing a 
 product for the Nintendo DS that is squarely aimed at that hard science, making the claim that 
 playing Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day can "make your brain feel fresh and sharp." 
 Well, we're not scientists, so we can't necessarily prove or disprove that claim, but as a budget-priced 
 game, Brain Age is strangely compelling, even though its very nature is brutally repetitive.  

 
          Brain Age is mostly about flexing your math skills.     

  The focus of the game's educational aspect is that the activities on display are designed to activate 
 your prefrontal cortex, the part of the brain that controls how you apply what you know. The theory 
 is that by flexing this part of your dome with basic math problems and memorization, you can sharpen 
 your intelligence. The game presents you with a series of different simple tasks that you are to 
 perform daily. Your performance is stored in a profile and displayed via a series of graphs that 
 quickly tell you how well you've been doing. Additionally, there's an overall test that determines 
 your "brain age" based on a sampling of the brains of various people of various ages. The best 
 score you can get is 20, signifying that your brain is as nimble as a 20-year-old. Well, a smart 
 20-year-old, anyway.  

  You play the game solely with the touch screen, and on top of that, you hold the DS sideways. Info 
 appears on the main screen, and you answer questions with the touch screen. The tasks you're given 
 are basic math and reading comprehension, with some memorization thrown in. You start out with 
 calculations x20, which gives you 20 simple math problems to complete. From there, you get the 
 harder version, which gives you 100 problems. You eventually get one that measures how quickly 
 you can read, one that asks you to memorize the placement of numbers on a grid, one that asks you 
 to quickly count how many syllables are in a phrase, and so on. There aren't a ton of different 
 tests, but the game unlocks them over time, so you aren't given the opportunity to burn out on 
 all of them right away. For the most part, they're interesting, and if you get into attempting 
 to beat your own score (or the scores of another player that's using the same copy of the game) , 
 they can get sort of addictive.  

  Aside from the brain-training aspect of Brain Age, there's also a multiplayer mode that lets you 
 get into a calculation battle against up to 15 other players using a single copy of the game. But 
 the other additional draw is a lot more compelling than that. Brain Age comes with a substantial 
 amount of sudoku puzzles. The addictive numbers-and-logic game is done very well here, putting 
 the touch screen to use in an effective manner.  

          Brain Age has a good amount of well-implemented sudoku puzzles.     

  The touch screen 
 and DS microphone make the whole game possible. It's a really slick way to play the game, but it's 
 also reliant on your handwriting and ability to speak clearly. When you're rushing through math 
 problems, it's easy to squiggle down something that the game will misinterpret. This is extremely 
 frustrating, as you're penalized for mistakes. The voice recognition doesn't come into play very 
 often, and you can bypass it entirely if you like, but we had trouble getting it to recognize certain 
 words. Over time, you figure out exactly how the game wants you to write and speak and then adapt 
 to it. For the most part, though, the recognition is pretty impressive, especially considering 
 there's no calibration process involved.  

  All in all, Brain Age is a quirky and unique product that's worth taking a look at, largely thanks 
 to its budget price. Whether or not it's improving your mind or just improving your ability to 
 perform its specific tasks is ultimately unclear, but there's currently nothing else quite like 
 it on the market, and fans of logic puzzles and other basic puzzle games should enjoy it quite 
 a bit.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (265 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mastersword101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I think the critics got this one right. Brain Age deserves about a 7.5 based on its material and 
 gameplay. But maybe this game is just not for me... I guess I'm more of a Zelda/Final Fantasy kinda 
 guy. I saw this game marked-down at the store and I thought it deserved a chance, and I was right. 
 This game has helped me in school to be faster in mathematics, which is cool especially when you 
 can show it off in front of the class or make yourself out to be "knowledgeable" in front of a 
 teacher. The down-side to this game is that you can only save your Brain Age once a day, and you 
 can only play the games once a day ( if you play it more then that, then it will not save your 
 progress.)
  
  I personally think that everyone should give Brain Age a chance because it can help you out in 
 the long-run.
  
  I'm sure it can help people get of their brainlessness during summer break if played.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinsora
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is a peculiar game. It's not as much a complete computer game as a daily brain-training 
 exercise. So making a review about it is hard, mainly because everyone experiences it differently. 
 Obviously, there's no story, basic graphics and not so catchy music, but ultimately, that's not 
 what makes the game. It's all in the gameplay, or more accurately, the challenges.
  
  The challenges are all pretty basic: Memory, reaction and calculation exercises are among them 
 and are easy to play. You can easily dive into a daily test, and depending on your performance, 
 the age of your brain changes. The better performance, the younger your brain is. Simple as it 
 may be, it still manages to throw some curveballs and will make you think ahead.
  
  You can also train in every category independently, so your performance tomorrow will (hopefully) 
 be better. A few more trinkets are in the game, but that's just about it. That's what ultimately 
 makes Brain Age only a casual game: It lacks variety and flexibility. With some extra content and 
 possibly some puzzles, the game could have been much better.
  
  So the verdict is that it's a game that's worth playing, but don't expect to be playing it months 
 or years from now. It does manage to do it's job right, though, and that's really all you can hope 
 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMLSLAT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 8:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Sudoku that's even better than the ones in the newspaper; all the mini-games are pretty 
 fun; your brain does indeed process things faster after continued play; excellent stylus use; the 
 talking head is hilarious; it does give you real facts about your brain; it maintains the fun level 
 despite all this.
  
  The Bad: Your Brain Age is misrepresented when you try a new mini-game; some mini-games are too 
 hard or too easy, also changing your Brain Age; the game grows repetitive; Sudoku ends up being 
 the best part.
  
  Nintendo keeps setting goals that no other gaming company even thinks of, let alone tries. Both 
 the handheld and console platforms of the next gen now have games designed for them to appeal to 
 everyone.
  
  DS was the first platform to arrive, and has since gotten appeal to family members in general, 
 with a bit of success. Nintendo's second party team, Touch Generations, produced Nintendogs first, 
 bringing in the female crowd with the cute puppies. But the games weren't bull, either, they really 
 were solid, fun games. You'd have to have no soul not to love the puppies, and it's no cash-in 
 by any means, even with three different versions.
  
  2006 brought, most famously, the Wii. This had far more success, at least in America, of reeling 
 in entire families. Moms and sisters sometimes gave Nintendogs a shot, but everyone would give 
 Wii Sports a try after seeing it in action just once. Nintendo scored big time getting everyone 
 off the couch and getting even your mom and dad to bowl in your living room.
  
  Meanwhile, Touch Generations is trying out different directions. Nintendogs does appeal to everyone, 
 but Brain Age, like Wii Sports, is there to appeal to your sense of self. Wii Sports can actually 
 get you burning calories. Brain Age never exactly promised it would make you smarter, but it certainly 
 makes your brain excel in certain ways, and that's quite a feat.
  
  When the game says it's training your brain, it doesn't mean that it's going to be teaching you 
 vocabulary, math, science or history. Instead, the game does give you real facts about what parts 
 of your brain do what, and that it will be working on your prefrontal cortex.
  
  The prefrontal cortex is brought up constantly in-game. It is in your brain, as correctly stated, 
 to help your brain function faster and control your memory. By playing simple mini-games and such, 
 trying to work out math problems quickly or, in a sense, solve puzzles, or even memorize words, 
 the game tells you that you're working on your prefrontal cortex.
  
  You are allowed to train all day, and if you so choose, you can take a Brain Age test. This test 
 is designed to tell you how 'smart' your prefrontal cortex is, as it will have improved with more 
 gameplay. The lowest possible score is 20 (the best) . I have yet to see someone hit 100, on the 
 other end of the spectrum, and don't know the maximum.
  
  The mini-games are all pretty fun, and practicing them can definitely surprise you. You'll actually 
 be glad you're doing this, not feel like your in school. Even though you will solve math problems 
 and read excerpts from books, it doesn't remind you of school at all. It's truly fun. You'll test 
 your brain in other ways, like seeing a word that says blue, but it's colored red, and you have 
 to say 'red' into the mic. Sometimes it responds incorrectly, but more often than not it gets the 
 word right.
  
  Meanwhile, the touch screen controls are the main focus of gameplay. You won't really be using 
 buttons at all, and you're holding the DS sideways. To solve math problems, for example, you'll 
 write a number below the problem. This too generally works, and you won't usually get a 9 instead 
 of an 8, or something like that.
  
  But Brain Age does this quite often: it works, just not always.
  
  You do get the feeling you're 
 improving at the games, and you might see this in everyday life, making you feel your prefrontal 
 cortex is working more efficiently. I'm pretty sure it is, too. But in determining Brain Age, the 
 game can often screw you up, and you'll think you're better than you are, or vice versa.
  
  It'll give you easier mini-games testing your Brain Age at first, like the color words mentioned 
 above, or writing every number you see on a screen when they're moving, spinning, or different 
 colors. Your brain age will decrease quickly with these. You could go from a 60 to a 40 in just 
 one day, especially if you get easier games the second day.
  
  When you get similar games the next day and you get a 35, you know you're improving and you feel 
 the game is doing what it says it does. Then you start getting extremely hard mini-games, like 
 memorizing thirty words on the screen and writing the ones you remember (well, it's the hardest 
 one to me) . Then your Brain Age jumps back to 55 the next day.
  
  So you don't really know what your definitive 'Brain Age' is. That doesn't help you feel that you're 
 improving, and kind of destroys the game. Eventually you'll get sick of feeling that you can't 
 improve and not want to play, even though the mini-games are still fun diversions.
  
  However, the talking head (who you can mess with once in a while) , tells you Sudoku works your 
 prefrontal cortex. And this Sudoku is the best Sudoku I've ever played.
  
  You'll be writing in the nine numbers per line, as ever. But when you go to write small numbers 
 into the boxes, you can just magically wipe them clean on the DS, not use an eraser and possibly 
 tear a piece of paper. Even if the game gets the wrong number, you can change it before zooming 
 out to the overall puzzle again.
  
  When me, my mom and my sister all got addicted to this game (or we played it more than the others) , 
 it was Sudoku that kept bringing my mom back in particular. It definitely beats playing it in the 
 newspaper, and there are tons of puzzles. It even tells you the difficulty levels.
  
  The graphics and music to the game are passable, but not something to write home about. That helps 
 lend this game the 7.5 I'm giving it.
  
  It's a good game, and the Sudoku's fantastic, but it's not exactly a great game. Still, if you 
 love Sudoku, you'll love this game, and the other part is pretty fun too. If you can ignore your 
 supposed, ever-changing 'Brain Age', you can get quite a bit of fun out of the mini-games.
  
  Plus, again, it reels in the moms and dads. And when they're reeled in, they won't mind that 
 you play hours of video games quite as much.
  
  Whether it's worth it or not mainly depends on your appreciation of Sudoku, but all the aspects 
 of the game have appeal. So it's kind of hard to rate this game, but now, at $20 or less, it's 
 definitely worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 14, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  As I said in the review deck for this game, it [Brainage] is not as good as big brain academy. 
 Still, it is addicting and worth playing as well as buying. What I like most about this game is 
 that it is serious. It really does feel like your brain is working, and at the same time, it is 
 a load of fun for all ages. In truth, its not too realistic, but it's still good all the same. 
 Well, that's all for today gaming fans. 
  
  P. S. Sorry this was a short review-I have to do my homework from ystrday. See ya my  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSFanaticNerd
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  If you're anything like me, I like doing math problems (it helps me with my homework, besides I'm 
 only in middle school) . However, there are no big math problems, just a bunch of ones like 3x7=? 
 (? is obviously 21 okay?) However, this game is fun for a while, but the dude's comments get extremely 
 old after you've heard them 2 times.
  
  Sudoku (sp?) is fun, but if you beat them what do you do? 
  
  Personally if I don't get the 
 top line on my 5 it thinks it's a 7...? That's another minor problem, it doesn't always read your 
 numbers well... beware of the frustration that takes place when that happens...
  
  I also get frustrated when I have to do the exact same games to determine my brain age. I do often 
 end up with a brain age of around 30, but that isn't the point. I don't want to buy Brain Age 2 
 and I'm sure I've gotten all of the point out of the game, so I stopped playing it, and I will... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2009 10:35 am PT
Review:  OK first off i didn't get this game in fact i don't even have a DS, its my mum's and she got brain 
 training for it.
  
  I checked it out and yeah i actually had a bit of fun with it. Its just a mini game on helping 
 you with remembering maths sums and other stuff to exercise your brain, its pretty good and its 
 actually worth checking out. I'm surprised i actually said that, no this game is not worth buying 
 a DS just for this game, if one of your mates have this game or something and they offer you to 
 have a go on it well i would say yes. It's not like doing homework or anything its actually just 
 like a bunch of logical mini games although a couple of the games are just maths questions and 
 remembering a bunch of words. Using the stylists pen gives it that slick feeling to the game and 
 makes it pretty fun to use.
  
  Well that basically it, not much to say just some fun mini games, worth checking out for DS owners 
 but its not worth more then 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxim565
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is one of Nintendo brain tester game that have a really exciting game play. As the title 
 of the game says "Train your brain minutes a day!". Well, its true. Which means, even its weekend, 
 if we have to let our brain not to count or stimulate, it will make your brain even more worse. 
 This game will teach us how to train your brain at least a minutes a day. It will not makes us 
 smarter or genius, but to work our brain.
  
  
  The positive side : Creative and unique game play. You can't find a game like this in other platform. 
 Plus, you can play sudoku here.
  
  The negative side : This game hardly catch what we write or what we say. And the graphic is too 
 simple, well at least acceptable...
  
  So overall, this game worth much to me. Its a fun game to waste your time and train our brain. 
 I recommend you to buy it. Don't rent. Because its like some kind of your private brain coach.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3571BC
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 7, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  Brain Age is somewhat a mystery. How can you score something that, theoretically, isn't a game. 
 How can you break it down so that it makes sense to the gamer. How can you expose its flaws and 
 parade its triumphs when you have nothing to place it against, no criteria to judge it by. If you 
 go out and buy Brain Age, you're not buying something that you'll play with, or even have fun with. 
 You're buying something that will teach you. It'll scold you when your wrong, and praise you when 
 you're right. If that's something that you're into, then this is perfect for you. If it's not, 
 then stop reading.
  
  Game play in Brain Age, if you could call it game play, is simple. You have three main options 
 - Quick Play, Daily Training, and Sudoku. Quick Play allows you to access all of the content from 
 Daily Training in a quick burst. Sudoku is basically what you'd expect - a range of different Sudoku 
 problems for you to work on. Daily Training is the meat of the game, and it's where you'll spend 
 a large percentage of your time.
  
  You start off by creating a profile. Then you undergo your first Brain Age check. You undergo something 
 called the Stroop test. Based on your performance you'll be given a Brain Age. The closer you are 
 to 20, the smarter you are. Once this initial test is done, you'll move on to the training. These 
 are basic activities which test your basic math and reading skills. There are 9 activities in all. 
 Once you've completed an activity you'll get a stamp that goes on a calender on the right screen 
 (you're holding the DS sideways) . The game will also record your score, so you can challenge yourself 
 later on. You can only record your first score of the day, so you'd better make it a good one. 
 The same goes for the Brain Age tests, which you'll also want to take daily. These tests consist 
 of the Stroop test you took earlier as well as other activities. All of these activities use the 
 touch screen or the microphone to great effect, as you write down or say aloud your answers. There 
 are cases where the DS doesn't read what you've written or said, but they're few and far between. 
 Game play in Brain Age is nothing revolutionary - you're basically doing what the hardware was 
 made for - but it works well enough and if you immerse yourself then you'll get a lot out of it.
 
  
  Graphically this is pretty plain. What you get for your money is white background after white background 
 and a 3-D head of Dr. Kawashima, the game's creator, on your menu screen. There are nice little 
 touches in some activities, but it doesn't push the hardware graphically like it does in game play. 
 If you're looking for a stunner then ignore this. That said, I found absolutely no glitches, and 
 it does manage to keep up if you're writing at a fast pace. Overall, it's all very simple, but 
 that ties in with both the accessibility of the title and its homely charm.
  
  The sound is basically the same deal as the graphics. It's a bit underwhelming, with very few effects 
 save the scratch of your imaginary pencil, the little bloop noise when you get something right 
 and the noise when you're handed your score. It certainly isn't flawed, but it lacks that little 
 something extra where a game can draw you into its world with a great score.
  
  If you're looking for something that you will invariably play day after day until you wear out 
 your touch screen then this is the best thing for you. It's simple, addictive and charming. Though 
 you probably won't have fun playing it, you will learn and you will feel the improvement. It's 
 not something that will captivate you and draw you into its world. It's one of those titles you'll 
 play for a while until the next big game comes out. Then, when you're done with that, you'll go 
 back to it again, and the cycle will repeat. If that sounds good to you, then by all means go buy 
 it, because it excels at what it's good at. However, there are flaws, so it could be better to 
 wait and hope that next time around, some fun will be added to the mix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niels200683
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 25, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  This is the only game - ever - I feel like doing when I just woke up.
  
  That's because the game wakes you up. Some simple challenges each day actually seem to stimulate 
 the brain.
  
  It doesn't actually make you smarter, but it does stimulate you to think quicker. After getting 
 the ideal brain-age, you are probably able to answer basic mathematic questions without having 
 to think about it - memorize a bit more, concentrate a bit better.
  
  But, if you want to become smarter - read some books, scientific journals, great classics, take 
 a course in whatever you are interested in...
  
  It does seem to work as a brain stimulant, and even if it didn't - it's just a fun game to play 
 and challenge yourself on something other than the standard fare of puzzle-solving & timed reaction. 
 
  
  The mayor downpoint of this game is the sheer amount of clones it produced... the game industry 
 does seem like star wars episode II at times, but it was never so apparant as when this game turned 
 out to be hit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 16, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8/10
  Simple and easy, thats the modo here and brain age takes it to the top with minigames that are both 
 simple and also work your mind. From math to test's that see how fast you can read, your mind will 
 ve in for a nice workout without any stress or pressure from anyone. The only thing that can sometimes 
 get in the way are some problems with the game response to your voice for mini games that reqire 
 speech, and mini games that reqire handwriting. But you'll soon learn to overcome those flaws and 
 see the beutifal simplicity of brain age.
  
  Graphics 5/10
  Really the ony thing you see are black and white numbers and the colored menu's otherwise theres 
 zero graphics in brain age, but thats just fine.
  
  Sound 6/10
  Again not much here simple sounds of approve or disapprove and a light airy toon are the only sound 
 effects in brain age, again all is forgiven.
  
  Value 8/10
  You could play this game forever as long as you don't stay at a brain age of 20 or get tired of 
 the minigames. But for $19.99 you really can't go wrong.
  
  The good
  Simple brain teasers are great fun, its fun to see the docters head go through his emotions.
  
 
  The bad
  could have used more minigames, simple and boring sound effects and graphics but hey this game has 
 nothing to do with graphics its all about the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  In this game there are some minigames that can help your brain and can make you very smart. At 
 rhe very start of the game he asks questions like your name and shows some pictures of some brain. 
 There is also Sodoku that you can play but it really isn't that fun. But the game is a great brain 
 game. But they should have a little more minigames though. The good the minigames are fun and some 
 of the minigames are exciting.
  
  The bad part of the game is that some of the minigames don't help your brain and the brain Age 
 test deosn't help your brain.
  
  Overall I rate this gaem 7.5 outta 10 if you are going to get this game I would think about that 
 and maybe not get it. The game is not the best for the younger people and the diffuculty level 
 is easy and you can not beat Brain Age and the game kinda grows on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DannyRice
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Sudoku; all the mini-games are pretty fun; your brain does indeed process things faster 
 after continued play; excellent stylus use; the talking head is hilarious; it does give you real 
 facts about your brain; it maintains the fun level despite all this.
  
  The Bad: Your Brain Age is misrepresented when you try a new mini-game; some mini-games are too 
 hard or too easy, also changing your Brain Age; the game grows repetitive; Sudoku ends up being 
 the best part.
  
  Nintendo keeps setting goals that no other gaming company even thinks of, let alone tries. Both 
 the handheld and console platforms of the next gen now have games designed for them to appeal to 
 everyone.
  
  DS was the first platform to arrive, and has since gotten appeal to family members in general, 
 with a bit of success. Nintendo's second party team, Touch Generations, produced Nintendogs first, 
 bringing in the female crowd with the cute puppies. But the games weren't bull, either, they really 
 were solid, fun games. You'd have to have no soul not to love the puppies, and it's no cash-in 
 by any means, even with three different versions.
  
  2006 brought, most famously, the Wii. This had far more success, at least in America, of reeling 
 in entire families. Moms and sisters sometimes gave Nintendogs a shot, but everyone would give 
 Wii Sports a try after seeing it in action just once. Nintendo scored big time getting everyone 
 off the couch and getting even your mom and dad to bowl in your living room.
  
  Meanwhile, Touch Generations is trying out different directions. Nintendogs does appeal to everyone, 
 but Brain Age, like Wii Sports is there to appeal to your sense of self. Wii Sports can actually 
 get you burning calories. Brain Age never exactly promised it would make you smarter, but it certainly 
 makes your brain excel in certain ways, and that's quite a feat.
  
  When the game says it's training your brain, it doesn't mean that it's going to be teaching you 
 vocabulary, math, science or history. Instead, the game does give you real facts about what parts 
 of your brain do what, and that it will be working on your prefrontal cortex.
  
  The prefrontal cortex is brought up constantly in-game. It is in your brain, as correctly stated, 
 to help your brain function faster and control your memory. By playing simple mini-games and such, 
 trying to work out math problems quickly or, in a sense, solve puzzles, or even memorize words, 
 the game tells you that you're working on your prefrontal cortex.
  
  You are allowed to train all day, and if you so choose, you can take a Brain Age test. This test 
 is designed to tell you how 'smart' your prefrontal cortex is, as it will have improved with more 
 gameplay. The lowest possible score is 20. I have yet to see someone hit 100, on the other end 
 of the spectrum, and don't know the maximum.
  
  The mini-games are all pretty fun, and practicing them can definitely surprise you. You'll actually 
 be glad you're doing this, not feel like your in school. Even though you will solve math problems 
 and read excerpts from books, it doesn't remind you of school at all. It's truly fun. You'll test 
 your brain in other ways, like seeing a word that says blue, but it's colored red, and you have 
 to say 'red' into the mic. Sometimes it responds incorrectly, but more often than not it gets the 
 word right.
  
  Meanwhile, the touch screen controls are the main focus of gameplay. You won't really be using 
 buttons at all, and you're holding the DS sideways. To solve math problems, for example, you'll 
 write a number below the problem. This too generally works, and you won't usually get a 9 instead 
 of an 8, or something like that.
  
  But Brain Age does this quite often: it works, just not always.
  
  You do get the feeling you're 
 improving at the games, and you might see this in everyday life, making you feel your prefrontal 
 cortex is working more efficiently. I'm pretty sure it is, too. But in determining Brain Age, the 
 game can often screw you up, and you'll think you're better than you are, or vice versa.
  
  It'll give you easier mini-games testing your Brain Age at first, like the color words mentioned 
 above, or writing every number you see on a screen when they're moving, spinning, or different 
 colors. Your brain age will decrease quickly with these. You could go from a 60 to a 40 in just 
 one day, especially if you get easier games the second day.
  
  When you get similar games the next day and you get a 35, you know you're improving and you feel 
 the game is doing what it says it does. Then you start getting extremely hard mini-games, like 
 memorizing thirty words on the screen and writing the ones you remember (well, it's the hardest 
 one to me) . Then your Brain Age jumps back to 55 the next day.
  
  So you don't really know what your definitive 'Brain Age' is. That doesn't help you feel that you're 
 improving, and kind of destroys the game. Eventually you'll get sick of feeling that you can't 
 improve and not want to play, even though the mini-games are still fun diversions.
  
  However, the talking head (who you can mess with once in a while) , tells you Sudoku works your 
 prefrontal cortex. And this Sudoku is the best Sudoku I've ever played.
  
  You'll be writing in the nine numbers per line, as ever. But when you go to write small numbers 
 into the boxes, you can just magically wipe them clean on the DS, not use an eraser and possibly 
 tear a piece of paper. Even if the game gets the wrong number, you can change it before zooming 
 out to the overall puzzle again.
  
  When me, my mom and my sister all got addicted to this game (or we played it more than the others) , 
 it was Sudoku that kept bringing my mom back in particular. It definitely beats playing it in newspaper, 
 and there are tons of puzzles. It even tells you the difficulty levels.
  
  The graphics and music to the game are passable, but not something to write home about. That helps 
 lend this game the 7.5 I'm giving it.
  
  I figure it's a good game, and the Sudoku's fantastic, but it's not exactly a great game. Still, 
 if you love Sudoku, you'll love this game, and the other part is pretty fun too. If you can ignore 
 your supposed, ever-changing 'Brain Age', you can get quite a bit of fun out of the mini-games.
 
  
  Plus, again, it reels in the moms and dads. And when they're reeled in, they won't mind that you 
 play hours of video games quite as much.
  
  Whether it's worth it or not mainly depends on your appreciation of Sudoku, but again, all the 
 aspects of the game have appeal. So it's kind of hard to rate this game, but now, at $20 or less, 
 it's definitely worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is a game where you do daily maths and english tasks to make you smarter. To tell you 
 the truth I did play it every day but now I don't because I haven't improved on my maths very much. 
 A good thing about this game is that there are four files where you and someone else can keep their 
 own little calender and own little personal graph. My mum isn't much into video games but she gave 
 this a go and really enjoyed it. But then she began to realize this IS a video game and that she 
 hadn't improved much either. I kind of think that this is an excuse for playing video games. I 
 found it fun at first but then slowly lost me and I went to play some REAL video games.
  
  Remember, the whole point you're playing video games is to get your mind off stuff like maths and 
 entertain yourself. It can also get a little annoying in some parts because if you've almost finished 
 a suduku and you just need to put in a 4 you must be very careful, because it may think it's a 
 9 and all that boring suduku work for nothing because you got something wrong.
  
  Overall, I've rated this game 7.0 because I know it works for some people and when you first play 
 it, it is pretty fun.
  
  OVERALL -------------------7.0
  
  Check out my blog for other reviews on great (and not so great!) DS games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 13, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age seemed like a really good idea at the time. An educational videogame that let you do 
 simple brain exercises to keep your noggin thinking. And while it's fun for a few months, you'll 
 end up not caring about it in the future. In Brain Age, you create a profile by giving some personal 
 information, and then doing some brain exercises to determine your "brain age." (How old your brain 
 really is compared to your own age.) You have a friendly Japanese doctor and college professor 
 help you along and give you tips. He's probably the coolest thing about this game. He'll even fall 
 asleep in the options menu, tell you about your birthday, and gets angry when you haven't been 
 playing for a while. But that's the problem about this game. It expects you to play every day, 
 doing simple exercises ranging from simple math, to reading literature aloud. But the whole routine-thing 
 is not something gamers are used to. We're used to turning on the game when we want, and play until 
 we want, but we don't expect a game that tells us that we NEED to play, which is the ultimate reason 
 of why this game is aimed toward casual gamers. If you are a casual gamer, or not even a gamer 
 at all, feel free to pick this game up, you'll probably enjoy it, but if you're a hardcore gamer 
 like me, and prefer to stomp on Goombas and kill aliens, you won't get much out of Brain Age which 
 is why my score is somewhat low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  The new hype is that video games can make you fit, but there is also one that video games can make 
 you smarter. Is that true? Well, there isn't really any real convincing proof that this can train 
 your brain. Plus you are still staring at a video game screen, only you are just using your head 
 a little bit. I overall have a loss in words. There isn't much to say about this game. What you 
 are mainly doing is training your brain by doing challenges. There is a brain age check where you 
 do 3 challenges and based on how you did, it caculates your brain age. It isn't very accurate all 
 the time seems to be one main problem. There is a wireless gameplay, but it isn't much to it. All 
 you can really do is a math challenge, whoever gets the most correct anwsers out of 30 problems 
 wins.
  
  Simply put, this is an unexciting game. It isn't all expensive, but you still don't get your moneys 
 worth. Just dont play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Initially, I wasn't expecting much from Brain Age, and never really got much from the game either. 
 Like Gamespot's Jeff Gerstmann, I too don't know if this game makes you any smarter, but whether 
 it does or not, it's in no doubt a fun addition to any collection of DS games.
  
  The core idea behind Brain Age is to "work out" your brain. Brain Age does this by providing you 
 with small daily activities (that make up the main part of this title) that require you to use 
 your mind to succeed. Starting off, your brain age will, most probably, be a high number; 45, 50, 
 60 or perhaps 70 and higher. As you go through your daily training you get better and better and 
 will eventually reach a brain age of 20, which is the lowest and best brain age you could possibly 
 reach. The game is good at making the activities fun and stress free; in fact, this game requires 
 little skill when it comes to games, a little more when it comes to school. Dont' let this turn 
 you off, because the school skill you need is some grade three math and as long as your not color 
 blind and good at memorizing on the run, you'll be fine.
  
  The game has four files available to keep track of four different users' completed daily activites 
 and updating their improved or unimproved brain age. To keep the game more interesting, the developers 
 provided users with unlockable activities that are playable (in due time - as you get better) . 
 Brain Age starts you off with three activities (for training purposes) : CalculationX20, CalculationsX100 
 and Reading Aloud. CalculationsX20, and X100 are self explanatory really, they are a series of 
 20 or 100 (based on what you choose) of basic math questions that you have to complete as fast 
 as possible (the faster, the better) . Reading aloud tests your reading skills and records the number 
 of syllables per second, so the faster you read the better you are. The game requires you to go 
 through a set of daily activities that take up about 10 minutes of your time - the scores you get 
 in such activities reflect your brain age.
  
  Apart from the main "campaign", the game has a "quick play" option that allows other family members 
 or friends, with no intent of playing through the main game, to wet their fingers with some of 
 the games available. The game does a good job at providing a fun atmosphere without going out of 
 its way.
  
  Overall, Brain Age is a simple, fun, productive game that does little to ammuse and ammuses much. 
 With the petty price tag of $20, Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day shouldn't be overlooked 
 by any DS owner looking for a unique experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laxwarrior3975
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  It is a great game to entertain yourself for a few hours with. It forces you to think back to the 
 3rd grade and how to do simple math problems and reading out load, yet they always seem to have 
 at least one question that you don't get. Charting your brain age gives you a goal to shoot for (20 
 is the best, sadly I'm 22) The only bad thing about the game is that sometimes the screen doesn't 
 read your number right and makes you wrong. But it doesn't happen that often so, nothing to worry 
 about. Also i wish there were more games on it cause once you beat them all down, you have no more 
 to do. Sudoku was a great part to it though. There are many, many games of sudoku, on all different 
 levels. That in itself should keep you busy and thinking for a couple hours. Yet you can only do 
 so much math, reading, and sudoku before you get tired of it. Overall a very fun game that will 
 preoccupy you have many hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janlukky
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  gameplay: very short, but thats the point to use your head. long hours of gameplay will get you 
 bord though, the game is mostly brain puzzles and sodoku which is a japanese puzzle involveing 
 numbers 1-9 placed on a 3x3 grid each with 9 squares, and it makes fairly good use of your DS. 
 much like those simulator games, this is something you should do for no more than a hour daily, 
 the game will also allow you to use the mike for 2 of the puzzles one that involves you to sey 
 the background color of the word color
  the the other involveing you to do basic math out loud.
  
  story: there is no story just puzzles, 
 math, and reading. i do find some of the stories in the reading amuseing though
  
  sound: there is only a little sound but its best to just leave the volume off since they are only 
 sound effects
  
  overall: its a very good game to challenge your friends and family with or without wireless. the 
 wireless is a basic math race,
  up to 4 accounts can be made..... happy training!!.... and oh yeah the best brain age is 20
  4/5 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amphibiouskille
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  I completely believe in the methodology behind this product; I first heard of this "game" linked 
 to Alzheimer's Research and being used in treatment. I firmly believe that you need to exercise 
 your mind just like you exercise your body, the problem with "real life" is that once you get out 
 of school, the opportunities to do so are less and less.
  
  As far as the game goes, the interface is engaging and games themselves are challenging and fun. 
 The ability to asses your mental age (I am 34 and I was disappointed to be told I was in my 40's 
 the first go round) makes it almost an obsession to ensure I reduce my age!
  
  My wife and I both play the game and use it to engage in friendly competition between the two of 
 us. Its nice (and rare) to find a game that we both enjoy, so this was a real treat. The fact that 
 this "game" isn't really a game at all ensures the "replay" value stays high. If you are looking 
 for something that is purely fun, this is not for you, but if you are looking for an engaging and 
 entertaining training tool, this is a great product! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta3champion
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  When I got my DS I wanted to get Brain Age 2 right away but all they had in stock was the original 
 Brain Age, so I bought it. Glad I did!! Now that I have both, I find the original Brain Age actually 
 to be more fun. I love playing the Stroop test where you have to say the color but not read the 
 name of the color that's on the screen. We always end up laughing so hard we can't speak! The activities 
 actually do make you smarter daily. The only down side is that you want to do it every day to get 
 your stamp but some days it does begin to feel like homework. It's okay to take a break if you 
 will let yourself! I find myself drawn back to this game day after day. There are plenty of unlockables 
 so you have something to work toward, if trying to lower your brain age isn't enough. You can even 
 design your own stamp for each day if you get far enough into the game! If all else fails, there 
 are Sudoku puzzles to do as well which saves the expense of buying a separate game for those! Definitely 
 a game for the whole family and you will definitely earn parent approval points if caught playing 
 this daily! (That's if you can get it away from Mom and Dad!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kcweezkid
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 24, 2008 2:35 pm PT
Review:  It took some time but i have come around but finally i am a believer. As you probably realized 
 from the title, i am talking about the game Brain Age for the DS. This is a staple for the system 
 and a game that due to advertising is very well known throughout the gaming world. While it is 
 popular it took a long time for me to truly understand and respect it as a game. 
  
  This was one of the games that i purchased with the system, along with a couple other ones that 
 i have long ago beat and set aside. They are the games that like too many for hand held systems 
 are pretty good, but fairly short and the replay value is virtually none. 
  
  My initial reaction to Brain Age was that it was the Homework of video games. While it was a neat 
 concept it was repetitive and frustrating. The test which are similar to a Wii Sports fitness test 
 are tougher to master than the before mentioned game, therefore it was not out of the ordinary 
 to have ages in the 40's or 50's and the learning curve was steep. 
  
  After a week or two i found myself wanting to play other games and therefore Brain Age got little 
 use. Lately i have found myself back in the routine playing brain age for just a few minutes each 
 day. I usually take my daily brain age test, do a couple of daily trainings, and play a soduko 
 puzzle or two. This time around i cannot seem to get it out of my system. So much so that i have 
 recently purchased elite beat agents and Zelda - Phantom Hourglass but have yet to give them a 
 try. 
  
  It is crazy but if you keep playing this game it is highly addictive. There are several reasons 
 why and they are listed below:
  
  1. The game works. You can get smarter and sharper by playing this game. Even when you get good 
 at the tests it is constantly unlocking new challenges and different levels of difficulty. Basically 
 It keeps things fresh.
  2. There is a wide variety and plenty of unlockables. The game seems shallow at first, but once 
 you get into it you can access plenty of other games and different things that you gain access 
 to just for playing. This makes the replay value pretty much unlimited.
  3. It is addicting - you can only take one test a day so if you have a bad day you want to come 
 back and score better the next day. It keeps track of all your scores, times, etc. so you are constantly 
 competing to beat personal bests and achieve better scores. All of this while you are actually 
 getting smarter. 
  
  Overall the game is much more than it seems on first try. It has value for nearly any age, although 
 it is probably targeted towards the adult gamer. Regardless don't be discouraged if you find yourself 
 frustrated and bored with this game early on, simply keep working and you will be amazed at how 
 you can improve. For these learning games that have seemed to find there way to the DS - Brain 
 Age is the best in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bball_playa010
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game for people who want to learn something from video games. It is a great 
 game that improves your skills in learning. If you are not smart in school, I would recommend this 
 game to you. It includes sudoku as well so when you are somewhere, you can always take out your 
 DS and play it. It has quick play for people who want to play before they start the real game. 
 In the real game, you can check your brain age level and play other game with counting and some 
 logic. It times you on everything you do so you should do it very quick if you want to get a good 
 score. It is not very addictive though, so if you get this game, you probably will only play it 
 for a while. I would burrow it from somebody before playing it. If you want to be smart, buy this 
 game but if you don't care, don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RossMan14
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is a simple game, the player having to complete some minigames to supposedly "train your 
 brain" Unfortunately, that's all Brain Age reaches out to, and it can get really old very fast. 
 You start out with a few of the games which are easy enough, and to unlock the others, you have 
 to play each day. Trying to unlock all of the games is entertaining, but once you do, and have 
 played them 4-5 each, they start to get old, boring, and repetative. The one thing however that 
 does potentially save Brain Age is the fact that there are tons of Sudoku puzzles built in. Although 
 it is nice that the game has these features, there are other games made for Sudoku that do much 
 better. All things considered, this game is great if you want something quick and fast to play. 
 But if you want a title that is engaging, fun, and has a great replay value, you are much better 
 off spending your money on The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass, or Metroid: Prime Hunters.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roxybillo
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth playing as it is very educational but yet it is also fun. Although it is fun 
 after a while of playing it can get boring and after you have unlocked all the educational games 
 there is not much else to do which kind of sucks as I paid $40 for this game. So if you are new 
 to this game don't play it every second of the day as you will unlock everything to quickly and 
 there will be nothing to do after a while of playing!! So if you get easily bored this is not the 
 game for you, or if you hate educational games than this is definitely not the game 4 you!! please 
 be aware that on this game there is only one multiplayer mode and if you ask me it is a bore! So 
 if i could go back in time i would of actually returned this game as i finished it in about 1 or 
 2 as i fast forwarded time to get more stamps! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Definitely worth buying, especially if you're a Sudoku fan like my wife. It's one of those games 
 that I bought, enjoyed for about a month or two and then traded in. It's not like a lifetime game 
 for your collection, but is that really the point? Isn't it just to suck all the gaming goddness 
 you can out of a particular title and leave it's dry, withered, whimpering husk at the register 
 of the local Gamestop? It's very innovative the way you use the stylus to solve math problems, 
 count guys running in and out of a house. Fun, and probably good for my grandma, if I could ever 
 induce her to try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poetsoul
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  Based off the research of Japanese neuroscientist Dr. Ryuta Kawashima, Brain Age is essentially 
 a collection of exercises that stimulate the underused sections of our brains. I begin the review 
 with the word "exercises" for a reason. Although the activities that make up the game are challenging 
 well presented, they can verge into the realm of the dull... especially considering the game's 
 encouragement of daily repetition.
  
  I try to avoid expressions of personal taste in reviews, so let me explain what the game actually 
 consists of, as neutrally as I can, and I'll let you decide whether it sounds like something that 
 suits your fancy.
  
  There are several modes of play in Brain Age: Quick Play; Daily Training; Sudoku, and Download 
 (Wireless multiplayer.) The main focus of the game is upon Daily Training, which itself has three 
 modes; Brain Age Check, Training, and Graph.
  
  Brain Age Check is itself the focus of the game, and the means by which the player "progresses" 
 in achievements. The game works off the premise that our brains are at their sharpest and most 
 creative at the age of 20 - therefore, the player is graded on a Brain Age scale that has its peak 
 at 20, and moves "down" through the scale of age to what must be the grim dimwittedness of 80. 
 (My roommate always scores around this level, to my infinite satisfaction.)
  
  To determine the brain age, the player is put through a series of four randomly selected brain 
 puzzles. These range from from a quick series of math problems to more complex puzzles, such as 
 one wherein the player sees a color word displayed on the screen and must pronounce the color of 
 the word itself. (For example, the word "Black" will appear in blue letters and the player must 
 say, "Blue!") 
  
  The puzzles are varied, dealing with a range of issues from math to memory. Some are quite simple; 
 for example, "Reading Aloud" displays a passage of a well known book which the player must read 
 aloud as fast as he or she possibly can. Players must be content with just a few puzzles to start 
 with, but using the game daily will be rewarded with the unlocking of puzzles. A total of ten puzzles 
 can be accessed in this manner.
  
  Another feature of the game is the Sudoku puzzle, which was something of a craze in the papers 
 a while ago. For those of you unfamiliar with the concept, Sudoku is essentially a logic puzzle. 
 The player is presented with a grid of 9 boxes, each of which is again subdivided into 9 boxes, 
 and must fill this grid with numbers so that:
  
  1) every line left to right and up to down contains the numbers one through nine.
  2) every 3x3 
 box in the grid contains the numbers one through nine.
  
  Its quite a complicated and challenging feature, and since the game provides a collection of about 
 60 puzzles, the player will likely go for a long time without exhausting this portion of Brain 
 Age. 
  
  For every puzzle against the Sudoku, the player can be rated on a graph that marks his or her progress 
 in the various puzzles over the course of time that he or she has played the game. If you have 
 been diligent (or particularly masochistic) this can be a fairly informative experience. 
  
  Finally, there is the Download play. In this mode, 2 players may race to solve a 30 question 
 Calculations Puzzle. Never, under any circumstances, suggest to play this game with your friends.
 
  
  Brain Age is a well-produced game and does plenty of little things to keep the player engaged. 
 The face of Dr. Kawashima constantly hovers on one screen shouting advice, instructions, and sometimes 
 reveals little hidden aspects of the game, (for example, saying the word, "glasses" causes the 
 doctor to do a little trick with his own.) The game uses both the microphone and the touchscreen 
 to the extent that the player never touches the d-pad and buttons.
  
  If you appreciate puzzles and the exercising of mental muscles, perhaps this is the game for you. 
 However, one should not expect from this game the same type of enjoyment offered by such games 
 as Tetris or Meteos. Brain Age puzzles are hard core, grim, logic-based games. They are not as 
 flashy as any of the afore-mentioned games, have no bright colors, and are not accompanied by any 
 distracting music. For those thinking of purchasing the original Brain Age, be aware that the main 
 pleasure one will receive from the game may well be tracking how one has improved at a certain 
 puzzle over time, rather than the experience of the puzzle itself. 
  
  I give Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes A Day credit for its efforts to make what is an inherently 
 dull concept into an interesting form of entertainment. I also respect the versatility of its gameplay, 
 10 unique puzzles are played using a combination of the microphone and touchscreen. In light of 
 the dull nature of these puzzles, however, I found the game quickly became more work than play. 
 In all probability most people could stand to gain from these mental exercises, but as a person 
 who recommends games based off of the level of enjoyment I believe they will bring, I think people 
 would better spend their money buying a cup of coffee and a subscription to the local newspaper.
 
  
  I give it two and a half stars out of five. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuesdaynext
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  I gotta be honest, I bought this for the Sudoku game. The concept of brain-building activities 
 sounded intriguing but I really just wanted to be able to play Sudoku without being covered in 
 eraser dust.
  
  To date, the Sudoku within Brain Age has one of the best designs. The handwriting recognition is 
 very good and the ability to write in hints and have them show on the game board makes this handheld 
 version of Sudoku the closest to actual paper and pencil without the mess.
  
  Unfortunately, there are a limited number of Sudoku games and often, when you restart Brain Age, 
 it will force you to do drawing exercises before it will allow you to play a new Sudoku game. While 
 that seems like a good way to "train your brain" if I only have 30 minutes to play, I want to get 
 to the puzzles and not be sidetracked by these other options.
  
  The other brain training exercises are great refreshers but quickly lose their appeal for replay. 
 More Sudoku, please and less "brain training". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duckshoe
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I got the DS looking forward to New Super Mario Bros. and what not, but when I saw this obviously 
 DS game-shaped present from my parents on my birthday, I wondered what game it was. It was Brain 
 Age, Which I had never thought about getting. It turned out that it was a gift for the whole family, 
 because I little sister started liking it, then my parents. This was a great game that brought 
 my family that much closer, and after a week I had reached the magic number of 20. I was very happy, 
 because I was having fun and I found I was smarter (placebo effect probably) . I got to 20 in a 
 week or two, and then had no reason continue to play. I felt terrible, and I don't play the game 
 often anymore. It was like part of me was gone, but now it was boring. Hands down a great one-week 
 game, but if you are looking for something you can really sink your teeth into, look elsewhere. 
 The games are fun, but not anything truly deep.
  
  Bottom line: Get it for someone younger than yourself, but don't pass this one up completely, even 
 if you just borrow it from somebody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S1MPL3xPLAN
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you pick up Brain Age and test to find out your Brain Age, you'll be addicted because 
 you'll want to keep lowering your brain age. After much training, you'll eventually get use to 
 the exercises and things will start to look much better with your "age".
  
  The game is very straightforward and really seems to keep your mind sharp and quick. You'll find 
 your basic arithmetic skills SOAR like no one else's business. You'll be able to find out how many 
 people are in and out of a house. Okay, but honestly, I feel that the game does a lot by keeping 
 people thinking critically and quickly, rather than making a person "smarter" or anything like 
 that.
  
  The game does that well! Especially with everyday tasks, doing some simple but challenging, yet 
 addicted, academic games are a fun break from everything else.
  
  Overall, the game flow was good. Not everything is unlocked at once, so it's fun to see things 
 get unlocked, and sometimes when logging in to the game, you'll be stopped to do some different 
 random activities and get them compared to other Brain Age players on the same cartridge. Seeing 
 those funny drawings was very amusing in my opinion.
  
  The music was good because there is very little of it. Sometimes it can get repetitive, but its 
 only on status and menu screens, so it's not really a problem. The graphics are well done, if there 
 are any. It's simple and clean, which is great.
  
  The writing/speech recognition could use a little work, as much people have commented on, because 
 sometimes saying blue sounds like saying black, and the DS/GAME will pick up something else. Numbers 
 could be misinterpreted for other numbers, which can get really annoying when you are on a roll 
 getting answers correct.
  
  Other than that, there is little to complain about. The game seemed to offer everything it put 
 out to offer without making it seem to much of a game, but too much of academics either. Also, 
 comparing this to other "brain" games, this one seemed the most true to it's purpose without making 
 it so confusing.
  
  So, go out and get a copy! It's only $20, or now, less in some places. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dnddmdb642
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is a game in which you train your brain minutes a day. The gameplay is easy and although 
 you play the same game every day, it is not repetitive. You can train your brain and do a Brain 
 Age Check once per day. As you train more times a day, you unlock more training games and more 
 bonus features. The games you can play range from Reading Aloud (where you read a short passage 
 from a novel aloud) , Calculations x20 (where you do 20 simple math problems) , to Head Count (where 
 you keep track of the people who leave and enter a house) , and Triangle Math (where you are given 
 three numbers and then find the sums of the adjacent numbers and then the sum of the sums) .
  
  The Sudoku puzzles are great, and are a fun thing to do when taking the bus or waiting in the 
 waiting room of a doctor's office. Multiplayer is okay. It is when you and a friend compete to 
 see who can do 30 simple math problems the fastest.
  
  Brain Age is such a great game because you can play it in incredibly tiny intervals, and the training 
 exercises are fun.
  
  I got this game over the summer just before school because my brain was frying. Trust me, it helped. 
 This is definitely the best Edutainment game for the DS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjgamer13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is a great game to play when you have time to waste, like riding a train or waiting for 
 an appointment. The daily training is cool, but there really isn't any challenge once you've taken 
 training for day. They should have incorporated more challenges for each test, to give you something 
 fun to compete for rather than a higher brain age.
  
  The Sodoku is what really makes this game shine. The puzzles are challenging and the interface 
 is very easy to use. I find my time just flying by as I am concentrating on solving these puzzles.
 
  
  Overall, I like the game. But the daily training part of the game could have been made more replayable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  When you're looking to buy a new game, chances are you won't think of the logic games. That is, 
 the games that actually try to stretch your mind as you play. But at the bargain bin price of $20, 
 this may not be a bad, albeit casual addition. Brain Age has you completing different puzzles using 
 the stylus while holding the DS as though it were a small book. You'll do varying degrees of mathematical 
 computations, counting of syllables, counting people in a building, and even naming the color of 
 the word that appears on screen. Also included are many sudoku puzzles, a nice distraction from 
 the Brain Age portion of the game. So in short, the variety is there, but not so much volume. Once 
 you obtain all of the activities, there's not much more of a reason to play, save to reach that 
 Brain Age of 20. Graphically, Brain Age will not impress, but it won't make you beg for something 
 more advanced either. The graphics are simply there and never interfere with the activity. Sounds 
 are all in stereo and it sounds excellent, even with the built-in speakers. Brain Age is worth 
 a purchase if you want a sudoku fix, or just want to make your brain more active. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctores143
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I will admit it. I enjoyed doing the math problems in this game lol even though I hate real life 
 math. It must be the teachers. Anyway this game is pretty cool but mabey not a great game to bring 
 on a plane or something because it gets boring after about 20 minutes and you plane daily soo yeah 
 plus you need to write neat for it to pick up your handwrighting.
  
  Heres the basics:
  
  graphics:6.5 out of 10. Not the best but for this game they are more than passable.
  
  gameplay:8 
 out of 10. Not the best game to sit down and play for a hour but it last way longer than a standard 
 game.
  
  controls:7 out of 10. Its hard to write but its pretty good.
  
  overall: 7.5 out of 10
  
  This is a nice game but if you go to school it might just be work 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Ghost
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  There are a few small games that can be played and the big test your brain age game. The games 
 contain things that you need to solve. You will need to add, multiply, subtract and divide really 
 quickly to get high scores on the game. The really bad thing about this game is that there is barely 
 anything to do! There are barely any games at all and things will get boring after a while. You 
 might want to just rent it if you are interested in it. It's not a very good game to buy because 
 of its limited features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nitro720
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  I was a little skeptical of this game before I bought it. I am glad that I decided to.
  it is really fun. Anybody can pick it up and play it. it actually helps stimulate your brain! The 
 learning games it has on it don't last long but it is still fun to play them over and over. It 
 also comes with sudoku! (however you spell it.) Which means endless brain busting fun. It is so 
 innovative. The multi-player is alright but it is not all that it could be.
  
  if you are into puzzle games or want something to do at the laundry place while on your pants to 
 dry it is the perfect pick-up and play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgt-slaughter61
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 8, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  Brain Age is a puzzle game and usually deals with how many points you can get in a so much time, 
 Mostly in the Math category but I know that worked cause my multiplication is simpler than ever. 
 The system works like this you make your file then he'll give you 3 puzzles usually math, memory, 
 and i forget the other one but all I know is i couldn't wait till the next day to get my brain 
 age up. You will also get other things to do like practice and soduko, which i can't even play 
 but my family said it was fun so you soduko fans will love this.
  Cant think of anything else but to say that brain age is a great game, remember brain age 2 is 
 out now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: choffy31
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This game comes from Japan, with no actual changing of the gameplay, so you know it's going to 
 be weird. In fact, when you first turn on your DS, it tells you to turn it on its side so the touch 
 screen is on the left or right (depending on which hand you write with) , but not the bottom like 
 normal DS games. It also comes with a blocky head of the creator of the game, Ryuuta Kawashima, 
 staring right at you and practically telling you that he did research and saw how the brain works. 
 But instead he scares you by saying that the prefrontal experimental complex, thingy... majiger.... 
 gets worked when you do this. And then you take a quick Brain Age Check to see how old your brain 
 is. You start freaking out when your Brain Age is 3x your age and it made me want to continue 
 to Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day. 
  
  Gameplay - 9
  
  This game is unique in every single way I can think of. The touch screen is used in the 2nd most 
 unique way I've seen (Nintendogs is, of course, 1st) and, to me, the training exercises never get 
 old. This game is the definition of the word 'Revolutionary. 
  
  Graphics - 6
  
  This game is nothing special to look at. It is pretty much just 2D numbers and some moving objects 
 and a 3D head of Ryuuta Kawashima that looks like crap. But this game isn't here for looks, nor 
 is the system itself. But the head is so blocky (and creepy) that I can't help but mark it down.
 
  
  Sound - 8
  
  I never knew that I would even think of liking a preppy, techno, Japanese style music. But it's 
 catchy. And even though training in silence is better, I love to turn the music up all the way 
 and hear the little dings and clinks it makes when you get a problem right.
  
  Value - 10
  
  This is the sort of game where it could last you months, to even years, PLUS 
 a s**t load of Sudoku puzzles. And for only $20, you'd have to be on some pretty strong s**t to 
 not see the value of this game.
  
  Bottom Line ~ This game is a once-in-a-millennium experience that I found hard to put down. Ive 
 trained daily for 6 days, and my Brain Age improved from 57 to 32. Even if this is a lie (which 
 I do believe it is) , its a big confidence boost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesey11
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 27, 2007 3:14 am PT
Review:  As i said before this game is good at the beginning but gets boring after a while. That is because 
 there isn't very many games that you can do. In fact there are only fifteen games you can do. (not 
 including sudoku.) They include calculations times 20, calculation times 100, reading out loud, 
 low to high, syllable count, head count, triangle math, time lapse, voice calulation, word memory, 
 stroop test, speed counting, connect maze and number cruncher. In calculations times 20 you do 
 20 sums. In calculation times 100 you do 100 sums. In reading out loud you read the story it tells 
 you as quick as you can. In low to high a certain amount of numbers apear on your screen for three 
 seconds then they disappear, after they disappear you have to click on the numbers lowest to highest. 
 In syllable count ti comes up with a couple of lines of words, you have to write down the number 
 of syllable in those lines. In head count it comes up with some people then a house comes over 
 the people then out of no where other people start to run into the house and others run out, at 
 the end it will ask you how many people are currently in the house. In triangle math their are 
 three numbers right on the top of the screen. Then their are either plus or minus symbols below 
 the numbers. And below the the two symbols their are two zero's. Below the zero's is a plus or 
 minus symbol. And below the symbol their is a box. Firstly you have to add up the first two numbers 
 up the top. And then you have to add up the second and third numbers. So then you should come up 
 with two different answers. Add them together to maket the answer. In time lapse it has an analog 
 clock. You have to write out what time the analog clock says on it in number form. In voice calculation 
 you have to do sums but instead of writing them down, you just have to say the answer into the 
 microphone. I am not sure how many sums it asks you. In word memory it comes up with some words. 
 You have to try and memorize those words for two minutes. You are supposed to memorize those words 
 because after the two minutes because after you memorize the words for two minutes you have too 
 write dowm all the words you can remember in three minutes. In stroop test it comes up with all 
 these different words. All the words are colours. And they are in different colours to what the 
 word says. You have to say the colour of it, not what the actual word says. In speed counting you 
 have to count to 120 as fast as you can. When you are finished you just click finish. In connect 
 maze there are all these different letters and numbers on the screen. You have to connect A to 
 1, B to 2, C to 3 etc. In number cruncher their are numbers floating all around the screen, all 
 in different colours. Up the top it says a certain thing you have to do like it might say how many 
 3's are there on the screen. You only do calculations times 20, calculations times 100, reading 
 out loud, low to high, syllable count, head count, triangle math, time lapse and voice calculation 
 in training. You do calculation times 20, word memory, stroop test, speed counting, connect maze 
 and number cruncher in brain age check. I brain age check you do some of these at random, based 
 on how you go in those you get a certain brain age. To get into these games you need to click on 
 daily training and make your own file. On the main menu there is also a thing called quick play. 
 In quick play all you do is one stroop test and based on how you go on the stroop test you get 
 a certain brain age. In sudoku there is beginner mode, intermediate mode and another mode i hav'n't 
 unlocked yet. You can even make it teach you how to play. In beginner mode there are 4 tutorials 
 and 36 puzzles, in intermediate mode it has exactly the same amount of tutorials ad puzzles. I 
 do not know how many tutorials or puzzles there are in the other mode i haven't unlocked yet. On 
 the main menu there is also a a thing called download. On download you can either vs someone else 
 in calculations by 20 or send someone else a short demo of the game. Overall this game is pretty 
 good but the games that you play on it can get pretty boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_GS
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This is not a game that I would spend 3-8 hours a day on. But I do use it every day to train my 
 brain. There are games in it and just old times tables tests. But this game is still cool. You never 
 know what he will ask you to draw or what hell ask you to write. Like one day he asked me o draw 
 a locomotive an anchor and race car. His were great and mine were really really bad. Needless to 
 say I felt stupid when I started that day. But I guarantee that when you set it down you will have 
 had a good time and be at least 105 more focused and energized. Both mentally and physically. Some 
 of my favorite things about it are the tips he gives you. When ever you get a stamp for the day 
 (meaning that you trained that day) he will give you advice on training your brain everyday without 
 using the game. Like reading signs along the road if aren't driving of coarse. Or counting your brush 
 strokes every morning when you brush your teeth. Also the games are very fun and challenging. But 
 its in a good way. You can also compete with people that have the game. If you have a younger brain 
 age you have bragging rights lol. Also you can see who has a better score at each game. There are 
 even charts to show your progress and it even compares your progress to others who have polayed 
 the game. If you are a teen and are behind in a subject j8ust play this every day for 30 minutes 
 or so and in a week i guarantee you will bring your grades up and be able to concentrate a lot 
 better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bender_N64
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 11, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  I honestly did not think I wouldn't like this game because of what I had heard, It was educational, 
 But when I played it, I thought it was a really unique game for the Nintendo DS and used the Stylus 
 well. Not only will you maybe learn a few things, You'll have a good time too, for a cheap price 
 too.
  
  The gameplay is awesome, Nintendo seemed to use the Touch Screen's abilitys nicely in this game. 
 Such as connecting dots in a very challenging order or writing down numbers and answers to math 
 problems. There was only a small problem I had with the gameplay, And it was that It thought my 
 5s were 6s and my 9s were 8s, But other then that, good gameplay.
  
  The graphics aren't really important in this game. Basically, The graphics are very average and 
 it fits in very well. You shouldn't really care about graphics in this game, but their ok at least.
 
  
  The sound, just like the graphics, are just average. There really isn't very many sounds or music 
 in this game besides when you see how you did. Theres a basic theme but its still average.
  
  The replay value is a 9, Because the more you play it daily, The more games and challenges 
 to unlock and get your Brain Age number down to year 20, which is the best.
  
  My overall rating to this game is a 8.0 because it isn't the best game for the DS, but it is rather 
 cheap compared to others and for $20.00, you can't go wrong with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: natester10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 7, 2007 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age : Train Your Brain In Minuts A Day, is the ridiculously long titled sort of educational 
 game for the Nintendo DS. While the fact as to whether this game actually helps your brain or not 
 is in the air, it definately is a fun game, however it has it's technical glitches the can really 
 bog down the gameplay at times.
  
  Gameplay
  
  So, Brain Age really just runs runs like this. After making your profile, the game will give you 
 a fair library of mini-games that are to help your brain be more alert, and be able to react quicker. 
 Once again this may or may not be true, but it would seem so after doing 100 quick calculations. 
 The mini-games include the following:
  
  Calculations- The game runs you through some very simple calculations, such as 9+5, 8x7, etc. and 
 the player has to write the correct awnser on the touch screen in the least amount of time possible. 
 Every wrong awnser will add 5 seconds to the time. This excercise is done in Calculations x20 or 
 x100. Can be played in normal or hard modes.
  
  Reading Aloud- This game makes you read a few pages from poetry or a book, and measures how fast 
 the time was that you read the book in.
  
  Low to High- This game will show you a few random numbers placed around the screen, (3,4,6,8 etc.) 
 and you have to touch the ones that are lowest, and you work your way up to highest. Syllable Count- 
 Self-explanatory. The game gives you a sentence and asks you to write in the number of syllables 
 in that sentence.
  
  Head Count- THis game shows a house with a few people inside of it. The game will show people going 
 into and out of the house, and when it's done, you have to write on the touch screen how many people 
 are inside the house.
  
  Triangle Math-You have to solve the math problems shown on the screen in a pyramid form.
  
 
  ex. 5 6 3 + + ? ? + =
  
  Time Lapse- The game will show you two clocks, and you must wirte how much time has passed between 
 them.
  
  Voice Calculation- Works the same as Calculations, except you have to tell the game the mathematical 
 awnser instead of writing it on the touch screen.
  
  The game also offers the Brain Age Check, which will bring you through a series of 3 tests (not 
 the ones above) , and will in the end tally up your results and display your Brain Age!
  
  The whole point of the game is to reach a Brain Age of 20. If you want to devote your time to it 
 that is. Sudoku is included as an added bonus in the game as it aparently helps your brain as well. 
 It's a really neat Sudoku engine, all touch-screen based.
  
  The game does have it's problems however, voice and touch problems seem to be the big culprit in 
 this one. The game can have a very hard time differentiating your writing down of numbers like 
 27 or 21. This gets extremely frustrating, as you know that the clocks ticking, so sometimes it's 
 just best to give up and take the 5 second penalty. Same thing with the voice detection. In the 
 Brain Age Check, the game will have a very difficult time trying to understand the word 'blue' 
 or 'black'. Also frustrating, and can definately bog the game down quite a bit.
  
  Once in a while the game will ask you to draw random pictures and tell you how bad of an artist 
 you are, basically. If you are told to draw an elephant, for example, it will probably tell you 
 to 'focus on the trunk' when the trunk was just fine, and the tusks were missing. Understandable, 
 though, and it usually does work.
  
  It will also ask you random questions like 'what color clothes are you wearing?', or 'what did 
 you have for dinner?' and ask you the same thing next time you play.
  
  Graphics
  
  The game is simple, but the graphics are crisp. The floating doctor head is sort of a polygonal 
 figure, and his contrast changes over the course of the day.
  
  There isn't really much to say of the graphics in this game, it's definately bold, and whatever 
 graphics are there, they're pretty good.
  
  Sound
  
  Just some basic music files fill this game up, and the click sound of the font as it appears on 
 screen. The music is nice, but may get repetitive after a while.
  
  Overall
  
  Brain Age: Train Your Brain In Minutes A Day is an unproven brain trainer, while there are technical 
 problems that can make a player angry and frustrated, at the low budget price, the game isn't all 
 that bad, just hopefully the next title can fix up some of the prequels' flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oliwam
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 3, 2007 12:27 am PT
Review:  The Good: Actually sharpens your brain; Very addicting; Great Sudoku; Available at a budget price
 
  
  The Bad: Shaky writing and voice recognition
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Do you hate math? Well, you're not alone buddy. Though math does make you smarter. In fact, simple 
 math makes you smarter. Just by doing a few elementary math problems every morning can really get 
 your brain going so that you're able to do more complicated things. However, who wants to do math 
 every morning? Well, once you buy this game, you will.
  
  This game is inspired by the work of neurologist Dr. Ryuta Kawashima, and he is your guide throughout 
 the game. He explains to you how the brain works. His face is also on the screen on the menu, and 
 by saying some stuff, he will give you some humorous reactions. Anyways, you start of by making 
 a little profile of yourself, and then doing a Brain Age check. The goal of this game is for you 
 to get a Brain Age of 20. If you get one of 90, then you've got some work to do. Though don't worry, 
 lots of people start out with old brains, and if you're under 20, your brain is still developing. 
 There are 6 different tests I believe that are conducted to determine your Brain Age. They're all 
 simple, but you'll be surprised how difficult they are to do, especially when being timed. After 
 that, you're able to do some training. There are 9 or 10 different modes in training, though you 
 start of with three (you'll unlock one once you do one of the first three) . You unlock modes by 
 collecting stamps. You collect stamps by doing one mode every day. An ideal thing to do is to wake 
 up every morning, go through the modes, compare your results in them to previous results, and then 
 do a Brain Age check. This is what keeps you coming back every day for a few minutes, and it's 
 surprisingly not boring.
  
  One of the best things about this game is that they've put in a game called Sudoku. It's a number 
 game where you must fill out the boxes using the numbers 1-9. The rules are all explained in the 
 game. This is probably the one of the most funnest number games of all time, and you'll be surprised 
 at how hooked you can get to this game. There are tons of Sudoku puzzles available and it's something 
 fun to do before and/or after your daily brain training.
  
  The one major fault of this game is it's shaky writing and voice recognition. You pretty much have 
 to teach yourself how write and speak again to be as efficient as possible in this game. You could 
 try to write down 9, but you get 4. You could try to write down 8, but you get 7. You could try 
 to say black, and the game could recognize it as something else. It's very annoying, and it's something 
 you'll notice probably from your first event in this game.
  
  Is this game worth it? It's available at a budget price, and it's definitely worth it. The only 
 things that could get you to hate this game are the shaky writing and voice recognition and if 
 you really despise education (or you really don't care at all about your brain) . This is the kind 
 of game where you will pull out once every morning to play through for a little bit, and with the 
 Sudoku puzzles, you could be playing for a little longer. You can also use this game to compare 
 your Brain Age with the rest of the family to really see who's brain is the fittest. It's definitely 
 worth a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  The education game craze in Japan arrives in the States with Brain Age, and this game quickly became 
 a bestseller. Through the use of easy mathematics, reading, writing, and computation you can give 
 your brain a daily workout and aim for that Brain Age of 20.
  
  Gameplay 9- a fun way to become smarter a little bit at a time
  Graphics 7- Obviously this game 
 doesnt depend on graphics to be enjoyable. Nothing more than a white background with text, numbers, 
 and objects.
  Sound 9- Not too much other than sound effects when you use the touch screen, but the blips and 
 beeps fit in.
  Value 9- with a couple hundred sudoku puzzles added, this game has lasting value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony931
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Education in video games are usually treated underratedly because The Learning Company had suffered 
 our greatest plumber mascot in such games like Mario Is Missing or Mario's Time Machine. But games 
 like these are more likely to wind up being ones that are kid-friendly. Now that we're at the year 
 2007, Brain Age is still being used to smarten your IQ in different tests you take everyday.
  
  Created &amp; Developed by Nintendo, Dr. Kawashima [as himself] will help you with various 
 hints throughout your trainings and give you instructions to complete these mini-games to progress 
 stamps so that specialities are unlocked like the ability to draw any stamp with your stylus pen 
 for example. Not to mention that it will also unlock newer games which is a good thing Brain Age 
 2: More Training In Minutes A Day will come next month. Graphic-wise, they're pretty much simple. 
 So they're not really the best in the world, but are just right. After all, it's the edutainment 
 that helps you. Sounds are very helpful for starting/finishing your testings. But that's pretty 
 much it. Nothing else to do. The only problems that I can find within this helpful genre is that 
 they'll eventually get tedious to do and if you blather without any following guides, you'll wind 
 up getting some trouble with tests. So you'll wonder why the difficulty was set to Easy according 
 to the scoreboard.
  
  Overall, there's nothing much else to say. All I can think of is that if your in hot water of brain 
 intelligence, it is recommended that you get both a Nintendo DS and this game. Along with some 
 other games that I pretty much strongly agree.
  
  Gamespot Rating: 7.2 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is kind of fun! Why? Read on! =DDD
  
  Gameplay (8/10) -
  This game is about playing some eduacational games! There's also some kind of test that tests your 
 Brain Age , 20 being the best possible Brain Age. (I really thought the older your Brain Age, the 
 smarter you were so I was really excited to see that my Brain Age was 50 the first time I played! 
 But it is actually the younger your Brain Age, the smarter you are! o. o) I usually aren't in really 
 eduacational games, but my godfather just got this for me anyways so I picked it up and played 
 it. It's kind of fun for a eduacational game! Really!
  
  Graphics (8/10) -
  There honestly aren't much pictures around this game at all. Only the Dr. Kawashima or whatever's 
 3-D head. I'd give his head an 8/10 then! Why? Looks kind of... cool!
  
  Sound (8/10) -
  Most of the music and sound is kinda like robots and computers! The sound involves beeping or whatever! 
 They sound kind of cool, I guess!
  
  Value (8/10)
  This thing is kind of cheap! I only got it for $20! The value's OK!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (8/10) -
 
  It's great! =DDDD
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (8/10) -
  This game is fun for an eduacational game, like I said before, but it can get boring after a while 
 cuz after you complete every Brain game to play for the day, there's nothing else to do. But alot 
 of people like Sudoku, and there's Sudoku in this game, so some people might like this game's Sudoku.
 
  
  It's a cool and cheap game, so you can get it if you want! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dayzee23
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 8, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I finally got my first DS Lite system the other day! I usually take the time to research gamesites 
 like this one before buying a game, but since Brain Age was on my wishlist and I hadn't taken the 
 time to research other games yet, I decided to get it along with my brandnew DS Lite.
  
  So ofcourse, I played it for a while when I got home. Unfortunately the fun didn't last as long 
 as I thought. Don't get me wrong though, it's a good game and it's fun, but it's not something 
 you're going to enjoy playing for hours straight!
  
  The fun of this game is challenging yourself and beating your own highscores. When you start the 
 game you first have to take a brain age test. The game will then save the results along with your 
 (nick) name and real age. The first time I played my brain age was 49, and my real age being 26, 
 that was not very impressive! So ofcourse you'll want to improve that!
  
  After taking your brain age test, you can start training your brain with three different games/excersizes. 
 When you play a game, the results will be saved, but only ONCE every day. So it doesn't matter 
 if you play it twice or one hundred times, only your first score each day will be saved. When you've 
 played a game, you'll get a stamp in your calender, indicating that you've trained your brain that 
 day. The more different games you play, the bigger the stamp on your calender.
  
  Your game results are saved on a chart. You can view the chart and look at how you did compared 
 to your own previous results, but you can also compare your scores with others using the same game 
 cartridge. After playing a game you also get to see a top-3 highscores list. You can switch between 
 your own personal highscores, and the total highscores which also include other players using the 
 same cartridge.
  
  After you've played your first game and have received your first stamp, you'll unlock a 4th game. 
 So on your first day of playing the game, you can only play 4 games in total. Of these 4 games, 
 2 games are the exact same, but on is a longer version of the other. One game requires you to read 
 out loud, this is not particularly fun, because first of all it doesn't record if you are actually 
 reading, second you are able to cheat, and third the text itself is a little ridiculous. The 4th 
 game is a memory game that is pretty challenging, but as with all games, practise makes perfect!
 
  
  So on my first day, I played the math game (100) and the memory game several times, and did a couple 
 of sudoku's, and even though it's certainly fun for a while, at one point you're just done with 
 it for the day. I think it's a great game to play about 15 to 30 minutes a day and track your progress 
 each day, but it's not something you'll play for hours straight. And that's why you shouldn't buy 
 it as your first DS game, like I did, because after an hour or two you'll be sitting there pretty 
 disappointed with your brandnew DS but without a game that you can enjoy playing for quite a while.
 
  
  Scores:
  Gameplay 8. It's easy to use, voice and handwriting recognition are good but not perfect.
  Graphics 
 6. The graphics are pretty boring actually, nothing fancy or flashy here! It's all very basic.
 
  Sound 7. The sound is o. k. but can get a little annoying after a while.
  Value 7. It's a decent game for a decent price.
  Reviewer's Tilt 7. Because this is my first 
 DS game I did expect something a little more entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinx6
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is a game that is not really game it was make to appeal to people that don't play video 
 games like old people or your parents. It was also made to show how innovative Nintendo on its 
 new hand held system the Nintendo DS is. In Brain Age is like a learning simulation game. It got 
 daily training mode which is you do a certain amount of activities each day. Like do simple maths, 
 read a story, memories certain words, do puzzle and etc. Their is Brain Age mode which you do a 
 certain amount of activities to see how old your brain is. Right now my brain in the game is like 
 two or three time older than my age. It have a soduki mode which is cool if you are into those 
 type of game. The game is good but it is not for everyone. The game suggest that you play Brain 
 Age everyday to get the benefit from it. They say do a activity from the game everyday and it will 
 make you smarter. The only reason why i would recommend this game is because it have this activity 
 that required you to read out loud. This activity help me out a lot, because i got an accent and 
 it is very difficult for me to read out loud. But after i started to do the read out loud activity 
 on a daily bases, i started to find it easier to read out loud.
  
  The Graphic is basic 2-D models. The graphic is like a Game Boy Advance game. The graphic don't 
 need to be good, because this is not really a video game; i am very satisfie the graphic. The game 
 doesn't really have any sound. There is a limited amount of sound in the game, sometimes it have 
 a little sound here or there; but its like little noises. Sound doesn't really matter in this type 
 of game.
  
  In conclusion i think that Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day is a good game or software 
 which is what the people call it in Japan and elsewhere, a software not a game. Also this game 
 might get boring at sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBlade753
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is a game that uses mini games to test your brain. All of the mini-games use the touch 
 screen in order to complete it. Whether it involves scribbling down your answer to a math problem 
 or connecting the dots using the stylus all games uses the DS's functionality fully but not in 
 a ground breaking fashion. The game loses its fun in a few hours because the game is very shallow 
 after you play the game for a brief time even though the extra sudoku extends the life of the game 
 a little longer. In short the game will provide you a few hours of fun and could possibly get non-traditional 
 gamers to begin to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kev3331
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Simple addictive fun, clean presentation, 100 sudoku puzzles, great stat tracking, my 
 parents play it....
  
  The Bad: modest number of games, limited multiplayer, questionable voice and handwriting recognition 
 at times...
  
  Guided by the floating head of Dr. Kawashima, in brain age you do exactly as it says on the box, 
 train your brain in minutes a day by simply performing basic exercises such as maths, counting 
 and memorisation before moving on to calculating your brain age which consists of three tests, 
 at least two of which are randomly chosen, you're given a brain age and your aim is to train up 
 until you hit your cranial peak of 20....
  
  The exercises are addictive fun, perfect for daily spurts of pick up and play action and the game 
 is great at giving you incentive to do better with it's constant stat tracking and graphs. However 
 sometimes you will find yourself demanding a recount as your brain age or high score slides at 
 the hands of sloppy voice, handwriting recognition which could certainly be refined for the sequel.
 
  
  Outside of the main game there's a 100 sudoku puzzles across 3 difficulty levels which fit perfectly 
 with the DS touch screen interface, as does the whole game for that matter, including the way in 
 which you hold it i. e like a book (lefties are catered too as well here) . After that there's a 
 fairly limited head to head multiplayer math mode that's an adequate diversion.
  
  Overall the package is fun, unique (or at least it was) and perfect for the ds and portable gaming 
 in general, all the while wrapped up in a modest but effective, visuals and sound and clean presentation. 
 If you haven't experienced it already, this is an enjoyable, budget priced package that anyone 
 who enjoys the odd crossword, sudoku puzzle or brain teaser should enjoy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  i swear this game makes you smarter. but after a while these brain enhancers get old fast. really 
 fast. down to the point where i was basically playing it for suduko only. but a i guess this games 
 pretty good, drawing is fun but not really, yeah no. not fun, learning in a video game sound fun.. not 
 really. math isn't fun repeat math isn't fun math isn't fun math is not fun MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH 
 IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH 
 IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH 
 IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH 
 IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH 
 IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN. MATH IS NOT FUN.!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperMooseman
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  The whole point of Brain Training is to - believe it or not - train your brain. The age you want 
 your age to be at is 20 according to the game and to see whether or not you are a genius you will 
 be asked to play a selection of random games to determine what your brain age is.
  
  The DS is turned on its side much like a book and has you writing your answers on the touch screen, 
 tapping the correct answers or speaking into the microphone. The games consist of a variety of 
 things. One game titled Calculations x20 (in which you can unlock other, harder versions) sees 
 you quickly answering mathematical questions as quickly as possible. Other games are - but not 
 limited to - things such as keeping track of how many people stay in the house, saying aloud the 
 colour of the word and not the actual word (for example, the word could be coloured red but the 
 actual written word could be green) , tapping numbers from highest to lowest and memorising words 
 (easily the most boring game) . After this the game then calculates your brain age.
  
  There is also multiplayer (not Wi-Fi, though) mode which let you play the calculation game against 
 up to 15 other players solely using your cartridge. There is also a side game of Sudoku which has 
 a large amount of puzzles to complete. The Sudoku is actually set out very nicely and uses the 
 touch screen to its full use.
  
  The downside of this game is that of the speech and writing recognition. You may write your 9s 
 differently to how the game wants you to write it or you may quickly scribble down an answer and 
 have the game drop marks for thinking you wrote the wrong answer. The speech recognition is also 
 poor in some places as when you clearly say the correct answer it'll tell you you're wrong, making 
 you waste time having to repeat yourself.
  
  A small downside is the fact this game is quite serious and you wont particularly find any humour 
 in here (except Dr Kawashima's quite frankly awful jokes) and if you are looking for a similar, 
 fun but more light-hearted game, you'd be better off with Big Brain Academy. Overall, a solid low 
 budget game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 20, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  One of the only knock on this game is voice recognition. I never knew we were all saying the word 
 blue wrong. Well relax, it isn't you or me, it is the actual software itself.
  I've had plenty of hands on with this game and it holds up quite well. They do a good job of giving 
 you new things to do at first, and when multiple users are using the same card it really adds to 
 the depth of the game. It gave the game some challenge and something to keep coming back for knowing 
 your roommate has just a slightly younger brain than yourself. Also, in the value department an 
 ample amount of sudoku puzzles were provided.
  The game controls quite well with voice recognition being the only problem for myself and others. 
 The stylus worked really well with this game as well as holding the game in tablet form. You know 
 the stylus was working well when it picked up my sloppy writing and registered it correctly almost 
 %100 of the time.
  In terms of visuals, there isn't much there, but that was to be expected. Could they have spruced 
 it up a little? Maybe, but the game was aimed at crosswording adults that usually want to get straight 
 to the point and this is a training software. It isn't an excuse, because at times I felt like 
 I was playing a game, and that is a feat in itself.
  So I liked the game but technically it was weak. Take the review as you will, and please don't 
 just judge it based on the score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fortenium
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 16, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  In the past, Edutainment genre titles usually had to do with learning how to count with Elmo from 
 Sesame Street. Other titles were just crappy games with famous characters like Mario or Sonic. 
 Get ready for this: there's actually a good edutainment title! Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes 
 a Day goes far beyond just learning your alphabet.
  
  Brain Age is made to keep your brain in shape through exercises like studying a long list of words 
 in two minutes or looking at a word and saying its font colour (like the word yellow with blue 
 font, you have to say blue ) . At the end of your exercises, he gives you your brain age , twenty 
 being highest and eighty being lowest. At first, you may hit rock bottom around eighty, but as 
 you play this game, your brain will become accustomed to the work, helping you get a better brain 
 age.
  
  From time to time, Dr. Kawashima may ask you to draw three things he says (like to draw Queen Elizabeth, 
 King Henry, and King Tut all from memory) or he may ask you what you ate for dinner last night 
 (he asks again about a week or more later) . These are meant to warm you up for the exercises.
 
  
  There are also individual exercises available. After you complete one, you will get a stamp for 
 the day. When you get a certain number of stamps, you will unlock more. Also at the end, he may 
 give you brain tips or funny Easter eggs (like saying glasses glasses at the title screen) .
  
  Multiplayer modes are also available. Challenge your friends at math or send them a demo of 
 the game.
  
  Also included are Sudoku puzzles, also seen in newspapers. If you don't know how to play, he will 
 give you instructions and tutorials. These really get your brain active, and, as the saying goes, 
 practice makes perfect.
  
  When I played this game daily, I noticed a change in my Algebra and Physical Science class. I used 
 to be terrible, but after playing this over and over, I was able to remember more and work faster. 
 For anyone who is struggling with mathematics, try playing this.
  
  Overall, the game was great. I kept playing this game, even after I unlocked everything. Who knew 
 edutainment could be this fun? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 9, 2007 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age on the Nintendo DS is probably one of the most original titles to hit the system. I say 
 this because it has been out for not even half a year and it has already spawned wannabe Brain 
 Age games on the handheld system. This game is probably does one of the best jobs at taking the 
 capabilities of the DS and using them to their full extent. That being said let's get on to the 
 review. Brain Age gives you a number of tests and depending how good you do the age of your brain 
 is measured, with 20 years old being the youngest your brain can be. You can only test your brain 
 once a day, but there are ways to train your brain in fun little mini games that will keep you 
 busy. The sad thing is that you can only save your scores once a day, so once you do everything 
 for the day there is really no need to come back to the game for the rest of the day. This is disappointing 
 because the game has so much potential to be even better than it is. In my mind Brain Age is the 
 perfect handheld game. You can play it for five minutes or for fifty minutes it doesn't really 
 matter. You can do some quick training or you can play the newest craze in puzzle gaming Sudoku. 
 The game does however come with some flaws that most gamers can come to expect from a DS game that 
 uses all of the DS capabilities. First of all the voice recognition is so-so at best. Some days 
 everything that you say will be heard correctly, but sometimes even when you are in a silent room 
 the game doesn't always think that you say what you said. Another flaw in the game is the stylus 
 which can at times are touchy, and thing that you are writing a number when you are trying to write 
 something else. Both of these flaws will be overlooked after you play the game for some time. The 
 game doesn't have that much lasting appeal because once you get to 20 you feel like you have completed 
 the game. Another thing that I did not enjoy about this game is that all the games which you unlock 
 in training cannot be played in the Brain Test section, which is a little disappointing and definitely 
 could have upped the replay value of this game. Brain Age is however a budget title and at twenty 
 bucks you can simply not go wrong. The low price helps you overlook the flaws that would be much 
 more noticeable if you were paying thirty or forty dollars for the game. Concept: 9/10 Graphics: 
 7/10 Control: 7/10 Sound: 7/10 Replay Value: 8/10 Worth what you pay: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuggie74
Rating: 9
Date: May 29, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Any action movie heroes might not need any Shooter game since they know how to handle real guns. 
 That's my reason for the title statement. Brain Age is really addictive, to a point that I got 
 a frontal headache after played it marathon for a week. The game itself is pretty simple, the concept 
 is awesome since it can only be played on DS. I noticed that there will be a Wii edition of Big 
 Brain Academy. Brain age for Wii? I don't think so. It's either you enjoy and love this game, or 
 loath it and say that this game is the worst game you ever played. For me, the Sudoku option itself 
 is worth the price you pay for this game. My suggestion, before you buy this game try to rent it. 
 If you got a headache like mine, then the game is good for you since our brain is actually a muscle 
 too, so the headache is the smartness inside that tried to come out. :-) Enjoy the experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeTheDifference
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 27, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I got Brain Age: Train Your Brain In Minutes A Day! Because I wanted a change of pace. It offered 
 a different type of game that gives you simple reading, writing, and arithmetic problems to give 
 your brain a good workout, like going to a gym to have the ladies (and guys, for you gamer girls 
 out there) squeal over your bulging bisceps. Not that having a generous amount of blood flow to 
 your brain isn't attractive to the opposite sex. Which in most cases it isn't.
  
  Basically, as I said before Brain Age gives you simple training that is supposed to help your basic 
 brainpower. When you first start the game, the floating head of Ryuta Kawashima, a famous doctor 
 of neuroscience. Then you awnser a few personal questions, like whether you have right or left 
 handedness, and Ryuta explains that if you don't use your brain, it will age quickly. Doing these 
 simple math, writing, and reading problems puts your brain to more work rather than sitting on 
 the couch eating potato chips and wondering what to have for dinner.
  
  Then he measures your Brain Age... The ideal age for your brain is 20 years old. Usually you start 
 out with a pretty old brain age and then after getting a hang of some of the activites you can 
 always do a brain age check to see how well you're doing.
  
  Ah, now for the main part of the game, which I have mentioned alot. Doing the simple activities 
 that are proven (or so Ryuta claims) to stimulate the brain and make you smarter. When you start 
 out you only have 3 activities that you can do to give your brain a good workout. But after getting 
 a few stamps or so, you get to access more activites. There all 9 in all that you can do daily. 
 And when I say daily, I mean your score on how well you did that day is recorded only once.
  
  But don't worry! There is MANY sudoku puzzles that you can do to keep your brain stimulated. 
 I do about 1 or 2 every day, if you haven't done a sudoku puzzle, they are pretty addicting.
  
  Well, in conclusion, Brain Age, simply put, is hardly a game. It's kind of boring (especially 
 to the younger audiences) after about a month of gameplay. I'd personally go with Big Brain Academy, 
 it has 15 activities and up to eight people can play with a single game card. Brain Age has one 
 multiplayer game, Calculation Battle x 30, which I see no point in unless you want to impress your 
 friends or family with your incredible amout of geek. Yeah... Get Big Brain Academy instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P-Roo
Rating: 3.2
Date: May 23, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  It lets you play for mere minutes everyday however if you plan on getting a sudoko game then but 
 this game as it works well, there are a lot of levels and you have the added bonus of brain training. 
 But the training is boring and rather repetitive,, It may be something a 40-50 year old would be 
 interested in but not for a hardcore gamer. The most satisfying part of the game is shouting glasses 
 into the mic. to freak the guy out and have him unhappy for several seconds. Just like you will 
 be unhappy if you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raym0nd
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Not really a game, but I still have some fun while playing this thing 
  Graphics aren't really there except for the big brainic on the other screen
  giving all the explanations 
 and questions.
  This whole thing is text based and in all fairness pretty fun.
  Don't know if it really TRAINS your brain, but none matter what
  you'll have some fun time especially 
 when you have to draw
  some objects that they want you to draw.
  I was surprised that it plays pretty good.... though I need to learn
  to write perfectly while 
 doing some simple math problems in high speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 6, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  After all of the negativity surrounding video games, and how many think that they'll rot a person's 
 brain, the irony of Brain Age is very interesting indeed.
  Nintendo decided to bring something new to the table: A collection of educational mini games. Brain 
 Age will have you solving simple math problems as fast as possible, reading aloud, counting the 
 amount of syllables in well-known sayings, and much more. They've even thrown in 100 sudoku puzzles. 
 It is certainly a refreshing change of pace, but the voice commands and touch screen recognition 
 bogs down the enjoyment quite a bit. The problem is that everyone's handwritting and voices are 
 different, therefore making it rather hard for some to play the game. You have to adjust your writing 
 and speech to the way the game will recognize it. The graphics..... well, they do what they have 
 to, nothing more. Which really isn't a bad thing. And the music isn't for everyone.
  
  Even so, if you can get past the recognition problems and irritating music, Brain Age is a great 
 budget priced title, offering a good amount of content to justify the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minus_273
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Is this really a game? That is up for debate. In either case I strongly recommend people give this 
 a try. I have converted many non gamers and hardcore gaming cynics a like with this game and that 
 says something about its charm. This is a remarkable game in the sense that you really do play 
 it only once a day. You are discouraged from playing the main part of the game again the same day. 
 This is a commuter game. In a matter of seconds you can pick it up and begin playing then just 
 quit when your commute is over. Do I think it is a game? A game is a game if people have fun playing 
 it. This is a fun game to play. Even my cynical friends who laughed when I bought it have now gotten 
 their copies. At $19 this is an excellent value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great implementation of DS features; addictingly simple; tons of Sudoku puzzles; budget 
 price.
  
  The Bad: Voice and handwriting recognition aren't perfect; not really a game, in any sense of the 
 word; gets old after a while.
  
  Brain Age is one of those "touch generations" titles that Nintendo's using to try to get non-gamers 
 to buy their products, and dang it, it's working. But how much does it appeal to the common gamer? 
 Well, that depends on what you're expecting. But what Brain Age offers is a different kind of experience, 
 and a unique way to use your portable gaming system. It isn't a game, per se, but it is entertaining 
 and interesting in its own way.
  
  The premise is actually quite lucrative. Dr. Kawashima has designed a brain training program on 
 the notion that your brain needs as much exercise as your body does, and that exercise should be 
 in the form of short, quick exercises such as simple math problems, reading out loud, and quick 
 calculating. Whether it works or not, it is an entertaining daily regimen, and the ability to compare 
 your "Brain Age" - the younger the better - makes it a good social game.
  
  The voice recognition isn't perfect, but it's remarkably good. The letter and number recognition 
 has the same issue, but again it's amazing it's as good as it is. The presentation of the game 
 is pretty basic, but it works, and the sounds are at least slightly catchy, if a bit grating.
 
  
  The loads of Sudoku puzzles definitely help beef up the replay value of the game, and Brain Age 
 is worth picking up if that's all you're getting it for. It works very, very well, and the options 
 are nice.
  
  Overall, there's no way to universally recommend Brain Age. It isn't flawless, and it isn't really 
 a game, but it sure is a unique and fulfilling way to use the DS. That's all there is to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyfanatic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  A game with lots to do. There is math problems, color recognizing, word memory, head counting, 
 and more. The game uses the stylus, and it works pretty good. Occasionally, it won't read what 
 you wrote, and put a fat X on the screen. That's annoying. The sud uko is great, with over 100 
 puzzles. But you can do the same one more than once and not even notice you've done it before.
 
  
  The only graphics really are the menus, which are good.
  
  I found the music quite catchy, so that's good.
  
  Doing an activity will give you a stamp, 
 and the more stamps you get, the more stuff you can do. That extends this games play time, since 
 you only get 1 stamp per day.
  
  I liked this game a lot, and is loads of fun. It may get boring after a while, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crippla87
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  A game like this is definitely rare, it makes me like math! Call me a nerd, but the mini-games 
 are truly fun when you are timed and rated thus giving you your brain age from I believe 23-80. 
 Although it doesn't mean anything but bragging rights, it's still addictive. Theres little quirky 
 games that have you memorizing words and numbers, reading aloud, telling time, and playing the 
 popular sudoku. This game actually got me into sudoku and the helpful right/wrong section helped 
 me get good at it just in case you don't know how to play. The game also has small things here 
 and there you can do with the mic to say at the Japanese guy for random things and changes to the 
 games. With the good, come the bad. You have to learn how to speak into the mic otherwise the game 
 won't interpret it right and throw off your brain age. You also have to be careful with how you 
 write with the stylus as the game has a tendency to misinterpret what you write. Overall, once 
 you get how the game works, you'll be able to do well and even possibly better your math skills 
 in the process and for $20 you can't go wrong. This game also makes great use of the DS's capabilities 
 and is easily playable by almost anyone you know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AeroTow
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 17, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This will be a quite short review as there isn't alot to say.
  
  Brain Training is simply just alot of fun, even maths.........
  If you are looking for something 
 to help improve your mental skills then this is for you, ive already noticed a difference in my 
 arithmetic skills which is a good sign that the game does what its supposed to do.
  It comes with Sodoku which is a great addition to the game and has, i have to admit, got me addicted.
 
  It uses mic and touch screen features and has you tilting the DS on its side like a book, these 
 a very innovative features combined and we haven't seen these combined in many games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hammer_of_thor_
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is a collections of games which make doing school-work seem fun. Sure you may be thinking, 
 Why would I pay money on a game that adds to my homework? But it really does prove to be a fun 
 worthwhile purchase. Brain Age is priced less than the majority of DS games ($24. xx Canadian, ~$19. xx 
 US) making it a great purchase.
  
  The game isn't exactly what you would call the most in-depth game, but it offers fun in quick little 
 bursts. You are able to play the little games, and it tracks your progress and development in each 
 activity. You can do your Brain Age test, the best being 20 years old, each day. Also bundled within 
 the game is a collection of sudoku puzzles, which in itself may warrant a purchase, considering 
 there is a standalone sudoku game already.
  
  Brain Age makes good use of the touch screen, as you hold the DS as you would a book, vertically, 
 that is. It also utilizes the built-in microphone for certain games. The only drawbacks with these 
 are that certain words won't be recognized if not pronounced correctly while using the microphone, 
 and when writing with the stylus on the touchscreen, many times your numbers won't be recognized, 
 which in turn, affects your score.
  
  Overall, Brain Age is a great game if you have limited time for games, or just want something you 
 can quickly pick up and play. Keeping in mind the price you pay for the game, it has great value. 
 The replay value of the game is great too, with tons of sudoku puzzles as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikaze_pigmy
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 7, 2007 11:04 am PT
Review:  Brain age, is not a really addictive 1st person shooter, or anything fancy, just a number of games 
 to 'improve' your mental capacity. It has quite a few games and includes sudoku at 3 different 
 difficulty levels. I personally wanted to go on every day for the 1st few days, just to unlock 
 more games, ok so there isnt much in the way of multi play, unlike big brain academy, but you can 
 challenge up to 15 players in a battle to finish 30 maths problems quickest. You can work out your 
 'brain age' too and the results for all of your training are plotted on a neat little graph. The 
 sudoku isnt as fidley as i thought it would be, its actually quite cool and a lot more practical 
 than doing it on paper. Also, you can store 4 profiles on 1 cartrisge, probably enough for a family. 
 Overall it has a number of challenging activities, which will take you a while to get really good 
 at, for example 'head count' where a number of people enter and exit a house and you have to write 
 how many you think are in there, the final one is toio tricky for me at the momnet, but i managed 
 to guess my way to 5/5 on that one so i dont really care. Also it tells you how fast you've gone 
 in 2 ways: The actual one (such as 6 seconds or 6.7 syllables a second) , and it gives you a comparitive 
 speed (The ones i've seen are: walking speed, cycling speed, driving speed, train speed, flying 
 speed, and rocket speed, and i don't think there are any more)
  Overall Brain Age will probably be one of the games you either keep going back to or unlock all 
 the puzzles then forget about it, i really am quite addicted though, and i spend up to an hour 
 a day, even though it says 'train you brain in minutes a day' on the front cover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WigiFan
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  -Gameplay-
  OK well no story here so ok. This game is played mostly with the touch screen, but there is one 
 minigame that is played with the DS's mic. When you make a new profile you are given a small lecture 
 about brain study and put your brain to the test with a quick stroop test. You'll want to go as 
 fast as you can or you will most likely get a poor brain age of 60 or so. . If you do poor, you 
 can always update it by re-doing your brain age. What you usually have to do is use the stylus 
 to write down the answer of the math problem as fast as you can. You may find this simmaler to 
 WarioWare: Touched! both in gameplay and it's unforgiving addictivness. The only downside to this 
 is that after a while the only reason you'll wanna play it anymore is to get a quick fix or to 
 earn your daily stamp. You'll find yourself playing for hours on end with it's many types of brain 
 traning games. But you must note that you can only save one thing per day. That means if you play 
 one minigame you get your stamp for the day. Speaking of stamps, you earn one stamp per day on 
 your little Brain Age calender. You can also edit your own stamp after a while of playing. A plus 
 to this game is the added soduku minigame which was very nice! -Graphics-
  The graphics are nothing special, but they get the job done. Also if you haven't already noticed, 
 the Doctor is just a little polygon head. The numbers and words are just little black lines but 
 what do you want, freakin bright colors and flashy lights? Well yeah I know the graphics catagory 
 is short but theres nothing else to say so NEXT!
  
  -Sound-
  For an educational game the sound is quite good! Really! The little tunes are quite catchy if you 
 ask me. There are no voice overs here just little bubble sounding blops but it's alot less anoying 
 than games like Golden Sun. When you quick answer a question right it will make a little Pirrik! 
 noise. 'Nuff said ok next!
  
  -Value&amp; Tilt-
  Over-all this game is a worthy addition to your DS collection if you take it from me. It's really 
 cheap 20$. Well to be honest I think this game has boosted my reaction time to most things. But 
 a big question that many of you might want to know right now....... Does Brain Age make you smarter? 
 That I am yet to learn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truk1600
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  this game is fun and easy to play.
  if you have passed the 5th grade you can easily play this game.
  one of the best parts is the 
 sudoku if your rily good at it this game can help you get better at it.
  but the only thing thats not the best abought this game is the voice system.
  some times it can 
 under stand you and some times it cant, witch gets very annoying. but other then that this game 
 is fun, simple, and easy to playand if you can find it used at a game stop its only abought $12 
 but for a new copy its $20
  witch is a grest value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CheddarLimbo
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 15, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  In their desire to gather new gamers into the fold via the DS, Nintendo has begun making games 
 that arent really games at all. These sorts of games are informative, educational and more casual 
 than traditional portable titles. One of the flagship forays in this movement is Brain Age: Train 
 Your Brain in Minutes a Day. And while you may find it in the video game section of your local 
 retailer, Brain Age is less of a game and more of a mental exercise regimen.
  
  Based somewhat on the studies and life works of Dr. Kawashima (whos polygonal, disembodied head 
 gives the player their daily instruction) , Brain Age challenges players to perform through a series 
 of tests and mental challenges in order to stay mentally fit. The results of these challenges are 
 scored and then compiled to give each player a Brain Age, which serves to show how young or fit 
 ones brain is.
  
  The challenges vary in style and effort required from the player. One game requires players to 
 perform rapid-fire mathematical calculations, while another simply asks players to read a passage 
 and then determine how many syllables it contains. Initially only a few games are unlocked, but 
 by progressing through the challenges each day, new mini-games, and new difficulty levels of existing 
 games are unlocked and added to the repertoire.
  
  Dr. Kawashima encourages players to play a few games each day to stay mentally fit, just as you 
 would exercise your body regularly. Making use of the internal clock and calendar, the game is 
 able to keep track of the players schedule accordingly allowing them to take a daily, weekly, 
 or monthly assessment of their scores in each aspect of the training. A different series of games 
 can be played to specifically determine your Brain Age at any given time (though only the first 
 attempt counts each day) .
  
  Also included in Brain Age is a Sudoku emulator. Solving these puzzles has nothing to do with your 
 Brain Age, except that solving the puzzles is yet another way to stay mentally fit. There are over 
 a hundred puzzles in various difficulties, and that portion of the game alone could take players 
 weeks to complete. A blank Sudoku template would have been a nice addition, so that players could 
 use the application to recreate the daily puzzles they find in newspapers, but no such tool is 
 available, unfortunately.
  
  Control wise, the DS also acts as something of a technical demonstration of the DSs non-conventional 
 abilities and the players are often asked to interact with the DS in unusual ways. One game asks 
 players to read aloud, or speak the names of colors into the microphone (whos sensitivity is somewhat 
 sporadic) . Another asks players to drawer certain objects from memory using the stylus and touch 
 pad. The stylus is also used in conjunction with handwriting numbers or words to complete the challenges. 
 Over all, the control of the games is well done, but there are occasions where the game will misinterpret 
 a players hastily written answer and score them incorrectly. This can be particularly frustrating 
 in the games where there are strict time limits.
  
  Graphically, Brain Age is simplistic, bordering on primitive. The games consist mostly of manipulating 
 numbers or words in some way or another, and what few instances there are of graphical representation 
 are made with either small black and white outlines, or stick figures. There are some light music 
 accompaniments and sound effects to keep players from falling asleep, but they are minimal and 
 non-intrusive. The core of this game lies not in flash or presentation, but in the substance of 
 the challenges and min-games, and this causes the game to suffer as a result. Without and sort 
 of interesting or colorful presentation the game feels increasingly like what it is  a series 
 of boring tests.
  
  Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day is not the kind of game one ever beats in the traditional 
 sense, nor is it really even classified as a puzzle game. Its more like light-hearted test-taking 
 software, and as a result, it ranges from somewhat enjoyable to frustrating at times, to bothersome 
 to play. The Sudoku portion offers a wealth of content, but the proper game lacks in replayability 
 once the players desire to maintain their Brain Age is outweighed by the fact that they arent 
 having any fun doing it. Aside from bragging rights, the game itself offers little in terms of 
 rewarding the player for their efforts. Ultimately, though, Brain Age is what you make of it. If 
 testing your mental abilities sounds like fun, or you are looking for a cheap way to get non-gamers 
 to pick up a DS, then Brain Age is a great choice. If youre looking for consistent or fun puzzle 
 action, look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fun game that has a good replay value. You can go through a test that can calculate 
 what age your brain is. It sas that your brain's age changes dramatically depending on how much 
 activity it gets. This game has many modes in which you train different parts of your brain. For 
 example, you have a math mode in which you try to do 20 problems as fast as you can. You also unlock 
 other modes the more you train. You get a stamp for everyday you get on and train. You get new 
 modes after a certain many stamps. If you get bored, there's also Sudoku. Overall this game is 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigabrowser12
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  so if you think this is just like all those other brain games, think agian. This game is presented 
 in the perfect design, which can make math fun, part of it is lowering your brain age and comparing 
 it to others using the game, so it's rewarding, part of teh problem is that once youv'e unlocked 
 every thing youv'e pretty much lost your intention to play. But their is sudoku's AND THOSE ARE 
 FUUUUUUUNNNN. If you are the ultimate hardcore gamer this is not for you.
  
  
  ther aint dat much to do but for 20$ cdn it's not bad. Oh and their is multiplay, but it's pretty 
 bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clinty76
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I know it's math, but I guess math can be fun. This game was the first game I bought for my DS 
 Lite. Everyone I talked to said that you have get this game. It's a ton of fun. I completely agree 
 with the masses, this game is great. You find yourself coming back to this game everyday and when 
 you get your stamp for the days training you feel good about yourself. My wife and I play this 
 game everyday and the competition is great. The game is also very intuitive, knowing that it is 
 morning is a very nice touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Brain training is a good game. Unlike some games, its actually intellectually stimulating and can 
 be alot of fun to play for a while. Part of what makes brain training special is its designed to 
 be played little by little over a long period of time, apparently training your brain. As other 
 reviewers have said, if it does so or not is irrelevant. The main point is its fun to play. After 
 about a month or so you'll probably start missing your daily brain training and will end up getting 
 Mr. Kawashima in fumes though. Though it is fun at first, the brain training games consist of about 
 12 different games you can unlock. Some of these can get old very quickly. The other main catch 
 is you really had better like sudoku if you play this game because the other 3/4 of the game is 
 made up of sudoku puzzles.
  Unfortunately for me, I *hate* sudoku, so I only really play the daily training games.
  
  Graphics 
 5/10
  The game consists mostly of text and numbers except for Dr. Kawashima's big head that guides you 
 so the graphics aren't all that wow for a game but I suppose a number game doesn't really need 
 great graphics.
  
  Sound 4/10
  The music's kind of annoying and there aren't that many sounds. The music in particular gets repatitive 
 really quick. Though once again, these aren't really an important part of the game.
  
  Gameplay 7/10
  The game's original, fun and interesting. Over lots of short periods of time. 
 Even if you don't like numbers that much, you're bound to end up racing the clock to beat your 
 scores on some of the games.
  
  Value: 8/10
  I bought this game for about 40 bucks, which is fairly cheap for a game in my country. Given the 
 amount I've played it, I'd say it was well worth its value in money. You'll more than get your 
 money's worth out of this game if you do play it and don't despise puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianozuca
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 27, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  The Good: Innovative dual screen system and good ideas; good time comparing graphs and drawings 
 with other users; sketching individual stamps is great; funny interaction with doctor Kawashima! 
 Sudoku.
  
  The Bad: Sometimes the software just can't recognize your handwriting, and losing points for that 
 is EXTREMELY frustrating; graphs are limited to one month per time, so you can't follow your progress 
 in a long term; normal and hard modes are mixed in one graph, making your average fall when you 
 try the hard mode.
  
  Good training programs, delightful bright sound and the funny doctor's head floating around the 
 screen don't keep Brain Age from being frustrating.
  The major problem in the game is the not-always-good handwriting recognizing system. Many times 
 you will find yourself scratching the screen here and there, and watching the time going by without 
 being understood. Or being misunderstood, anyway resulting in lost points. In a nutshell, the pieces 
 fall apart because of this structural defect.
  The game could also give prizes for reaching higher age levels, or for completing sudoku. Add to 
 that the discouraging mix between the normal and hard modes in the graphs generation, and we got 
 more problems than qualities.
  In the other hand some training programs like Low to High and Head Count, and some tests from the 
 brain age check like Connect Maze works pretty fine, and are well-executed ideas.
  In the end the game leaves a bitter taste in your mouth. Because you know the entire thing could 
 be amazing, but this time they lost a good opportunity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Looking for something to do while your sitting on the train or on the plane flying. If your really 
 bored why not Dr Kawashima's Brain Training that can help your brain more awakend and test your 
 score to your real age of your brain.
  Daily training will help you feel abit smarter and you only the touch screen to write numbers or 
 drawings and memory exercise. You can also speak into the Microphone on your DS but it depends 
 if Brain Training will hear your voice clearly which is abit of a pain in the neck. But your daily 
 training that you can do everyday if you want 30 minutes a day that will help your brain and the 
 more stamps you get the more unlockable games you'll get.
  If you want a puzzle to do there is a huge selection of Sudoku puzzles for basic players or if 
 you can't find your local newspaper that has the Sudoku Puzzle you'll have fun doing them on your 
 DS.
  This game is somthing you want to play everyday and its cheap to get in shops and you can docalulation 
 battles over the DS Wireless Communication. Sounds like there's a Doctor that can help you almost 
 every day when you see Dr Kawashima. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renagadez187
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day is a simplistic, educational game designed to test 
 and expand the limits of our mind. It is a great concept for learning and a nice addition to the 
 Nintendo DS game collection, making it a game worth trying out.
  
  The idea of Brain Age is to increase the power of your mind such as responsiveness, quick reaction 
 times and short-term memory. As you complete a certain amount of tests, you'll unlock other games 
 which will further test the capabilities of your mind. This is mainly done in the daily training 
 mode, which, as the name suggests, is set out to train your mind on a daily basis. Once you complete 
 your exercises, you will receive a stamp, and when you have a certain amount, you'll uncover even 
 more puzzles.
  
  But how do you know if your brain is growing? Brain Age graphs all results to show the improvements 
 made through the course of playing the game. All these go towards your actual Brain Age, the youngest 
 being 20 years of age your mind can achieve.
  
  You'll also notice a cheerful doctor by the name of Dr. Kawashima who is your guide throughout 
 the game. Not only will he advise on how to complete a certain puzzle, he'll give you advice on 
 how to keep your mind sharp using day-to-day activities.
  
  Brain Age also comes with a multiplayer mode. This allows you to challenge others to see which 
 one has the quickest mind. You may not feel the need to test your mind against others, but if you 
 wish to then this game is the way to do it.
  
  There are quite are few problems you might encounter while playing Brain Age. It takes full advantage 
 of the DS touch screen and attempts to be precise. Major problems may occur when writing down numbers 
 or words. A simple number like two can be misinterpreted as five, and the letter K may be recognised 
 as a H. All these types of errors can cause all types of mistakes and can prove costly when attempting 
 to break time records.
  
  Both the visuals and sound effects of the game, although limited, work well. The only visual you 
 might not be impressed with is Dr. Kawashima's head. It's not the best visual you'll see, but then 
 again you won't be paying much attention to it.
  
  Overall, it's a game worth trying; it is very limited with its repetitive puzzles and constant 
 errors. Also there is no way to determine if your results truly reflect the power of your mind, 
 so while it might say you have a Brain Age of 23, there's no guarantee that this your minds true 
 capability. While it does come with Sudoku, it will only interest you for a short period of time 
 as trying to complete all of them in order will soon feel as if you're completing the same puzzle. 
 If youre into action-packed games which tests the skills of your fingers, then steer well clear 
 of this game, however if you wish to test your mind, then this will suit you perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CobraTennisPlay
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 20, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  School is boring... so why not learn with your DS? This game is one that all DS owners should have 
 in their collection. To tell the truth, you just might have more fun with this game then some of 
 the others out on the shelves of the game stores. So try it out and have some fun!
  When you first start the game, you take three tests and given your brain age . You might be surprised. 
 Most of the time you get a very high age. For example, mine was 78 (laughs) . Don't freak out like 
 I did, after a few days of more testing you can bring it down to 40 years old. Your goal is to 
 get 20, so keep training 'til you get it! You earn more tests as you train each day. The better 
 you do, the more tests you get and more privileges, such as making your own stamp design for your 
 calender! The tests you take everyday from Day 1 are tests such as math problems and reading out 
 loud. After you train your brain, take the Brain Age Tests and find out your brain age! Make sure 
 you train, or you'll find your brain age go up and not down. I had too much fun with this game 
 and you should too. Train your brain and tell everyone you know that you have a 20 year old brain! 
 Now you have a good come back to say to your mom when she says to stop playing your DS and study. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-of-God
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Ok, lets review the good and the bad of Brain age:
  
  The Good
  
  1. Brain Age is very cheap. You can get it with your DS Lite bundle pack or for nineteen bucks 
 or less at any department/discount store.
  2. It's a unique concept. I haven't encountered any other games of this type. 3. It's at least 
 somewhat fun. At least if you like puzzles and simple problems.
  4. It graphs your progress.
  5. The funny little Chinese man (I think he is Chinese)
  
  The 
 Bad
  
  1. The voice recognition sucks. If you have a heavy Texan accent like me, it can't understand half 
 of what you are saying.
  2. The writing recognition is much better than the voice recognition, but has its faults. You have 
 to be careful and write at least semi-legibly.
  3. You can only graph your progress once a day.
  4. The graphics are, um, well what can you expect... 
 This is a training game.
  
  When you weigh all the pros and cons I say this game is worth buying. I enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangeseraph
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Okay, I know nothing about the human brain. But this game certainly helps me on that account. You 
 get many little tests and puzzles that you can do in order to strengthen your brain power. You 
 get graded and you have a calender that tracks your progress. Cute animations tell you have you 
 are doing, and a 3d head talks to you and give you directions. Packed in with this game is Suduko, 
 which is the best part of the game.
  
  You take a daily test to guage where your brain is and what your brain age is. You take tests daily 
 to excercise your brain muscles. On your calender it shows you a line graph of your ups and downs, 
 and you get a stamp for each calender day you complete.
  
  I must confess, I don't play this as much as I should, which is probably why my brain is such an 
 old age (not telling you what my brain age is!)
  
  Still a great game, and very addictive. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darussell1958
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  I am not sure if it really increases any of your brain activity, but the puzzles are fun and the 
 Sudoku game included is pretty good as well.. If you like puzzle games with a bit of a new twist, 
 then this is a game you will enjoy. For $19.99 new, you can't go wrong.
  You get more levels and some unloacable games as you play.. You get a stamp for everyday you play. 
 After a few stamps, it even allows youa to customize a stamp of your own. Has some pretty good 
 multiplayer games as well...
  I don't care for the picture drawing part and would remove it if I had the option.
  Other then 
 that is does grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:15 am PT
Review:  Brain Age is an unusual game in respect to its unique concept. Some scientists claim that playing 
 this game for just a few minutes per day will not only entertain you but also make your brain feel 
 physically sharper; these same experts say that the game is designed to stimulate your prefrontal 
 cortex and boost your intelligence in the process. Its hard to say whether the game achieves any 
 of those things or simply makes you more adept at completing the activities on offer, I guess thats 
 not for us to decide.
  
  The main portion of the game is based around you completing a number of these activities which 
 come in the form of basic puzzles and exercises, plus an overall test at the end of each day which 
 ultimately decides your brains age. These scores are all stored in your personal profile and can 
 be used to charter your progress; the only problem is once you reach the ideal age of 20 and remain 
 consistently at that level it kind of loses its appeal.
  
  All the activities make use of the DS and its unique abilities, whether that is basic math calculations 
 and youre writing numbers onto the touch screen or taking part in one of the games memory exercises 
 which require you to speak your answers. The problem is there arent all that many activities to 
 choose from, the game also restricts you from playing through each one more than once a day which 
 is absolutely ridiculous. Sadly thats not the only thing of fault here; the writing and voice 
 recognition systems are very sketchy. Unless you write or speak in a certain way then the game 
 often misinterprets what youre trying to input and gets quite frustrating after a while.
  
  Perhaps the best thing about this game is the addition of Sudoku puzzles; there are more than 
 enough to keep you busy for quite some time and you probably wont stop until each and every one 
 has been conquered. The superb use of the touch screen and the addictive nature of the puzzles 
 themselves make for a truly rewarding experience.
  
  The game also includes a multiplayer mode, if thats what you can call it. With one cartridge you 
 can play a calculations contest with up to 15 other people, this sees you completing a set number 
 of sums before your opponents. While this can be a lot of fun at first it soon becomes very repetitive.
 
  
  This game really does have a quality about it though. I dont know whether its because you hold 
 your DS like a book to play it, the addictiveness of the puzzles on offer or that it possibly is 
 stimulating your brain but its definitely worth taking a look at. While it does have its flaws 
 it also has strongly addictive elements to it and while there isnt a whole lot here its budget 
 price provides just enough incentive to keep you satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGamemannn
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is hard to describe. It DOES make you smarter, as far as I'm concerned, but it dies in 
 the areas of interest and graphics. The graphics used on the brain doctor looked like blurry images 
 from that Disney movie Tron. I still like the purpose of the game's making, so it excels in good 
 presentation. It's a lot more formal than Brain Academy and much more enjoyable. Brain Age takes 
 it slow while Brain Academy takes it fast, eventually leading to the result of making you irritated. 
 Brain is, overall, a good games with good qualities.
  
  
  Good: Good presentation, great game play , good budget price, will make you satisfied
  
  Bad: 
 twitchy graphics and sound, controls are over-expected to work, lack of variety 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 3.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  There's not much to review here for brain age. It is a broken, frustrating game. Surprisingly, 
 something as complex as the DS comprehending the word yellow when spoken into the microphone works 
 nearly flawlessly, yet the simple task of the DS translating a drawn b into the letter b does not 
 work at all. What's the point of even taking a brain age if half of the little tests don't work? 
 It's incredibly frustrating when you just spent 2 minutes memorizing a list of 20 words and then 
 they give you 3 minutes to struggle to even write in 3 just because it's near impossible to draw 
 the word crib or lake ... I really hate this game, it is so incredibly frustrating. Yes, it has 
 many features and if it worked, this would be one really cool piece of software because it charts 
 your progress for your brain age and other tasks. But of course, half of the tests do not work. 
 Sudoku, I thought would be fine, but it's not... you can't leave numbers down and then go back 
 and change... if it's wrong it's wrong and the game will not accept it. On top of that, you have 
 an alloted amount of mistakes you can make. I would much rather do my Sudoku puzzles with pen and 
 paper. Brain Age is very dissappointing, it could have been a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadiel2007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  I got Brain Age as my second DS game. I love playing it every day and unlocking new stuff. The 
 game features a lot of replayability with over 100 Sudoku puzzles ( I think there's about 120) 
 and the fun experiences you will have. This game isn't an action game. It's more of a thinking 
 game. It WILL improve your memory! Before I started playing this game, I was typing at about 48 
 wpm. Now I can type at 60 wpm! All because of this game. It's a great game if you only have a couple 
 of minutes a day to play this. You can play this all day but I recommend not to because you can 
 get a headache ( It's just like if you lift weights more than 3 times a week, you are overworking 
 your noodle!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixseventeen617
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the most intelligent games I have ever seen! To start out, the tests 
 that it has really feel challenging, yet they are fun at the same time. There are lots of short 
 activities that you can do to train you brain. Once a day, you get scored in each activity and 
 the game compares it to your scores over the past two months. My only regret about the training 
 activities is that there aren't enough of them.
  
  Also, once a day, you can test to see what your brain age is. The lower your brain age, the better. 
 20 is the best you can do and it's very, very hard to get to that point. The activities in the 
 brain age tests seem impossible some days and super-easy other days. The game also has lots of 
 sudoku puzzles to work. You only get 5 mistakes on each puzzle, so this makes it challenging.
 
  
  The graphics in the game aren't really important, but they are choppy looking where they are in 
 the game; however, this doesn't really take away from things.
  
  There are only one or two songs in the game, but they are cool sounding. Besides, who wants music 
 going when they're trying to take a hard test?
  
  This game is definitely worth the money you pay for it. Once you play it, you'll be hooked. I can 
 honestly say the only true drawback is that the handwriting recognition doesn't always work that 
 great and it can be frustrating. If you have a lot of patience, you'll love this game. If not, 
 you won't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSCNAVYSPAZ
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Ok honestly I dont like Math, and stuff like that. But the puzzles on here, are really neat. It 
 can keep you entertained. If you dont feel like playing a really intense game. then play this. 
 its pretty relaxing. I especially love how you can link up without anyone else needing the game. 
 16 players wooooo. Although after awhile, it gets repeative and you dont seem to want to play it 
 as much. (after a while. I mean like after a month) if you play it every single day, for along 
 time. then it would get boring fast. this is a secondary choice of I game I say. if you dont feel 
 like playing any other game or jumpin around like an idiot with a wiimote. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_152
Rating: 7.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Brain Training is a game that can truely unlock the potential of your brain but don't think this 
 is boring like school, training your brain can be very fun. Graphics aren't a big feature of this 
 game. To help the game feel clean and cool and to cut out distracting colours Nintendo have given 
 this game a very simple, minimalist look. You will be led through the game though by Dr. Ryotu 
 Kawashima, although many have criticised his graphics here I am quite sure that this blocky texture 
 is deleberate. Brain Training is really a pick-up-and-play game that is meant to attract new gamers 
 and only requires you to play for several minutes a day. The training exercises in the game do 
 genuinely unlock the potential of your brain but when playing the games you won't feel like your 
 brain has been beaten to a pulp with a barrage of tricky math questions, these exercises work in 
 simple but effective ways. New exercises will also become avaliable as you play. The game also 
 has a Brain Age Check which tells you the perrfomance level of your brain based on age, it keeps 
 records of which days you have done your exercises on and keeps a graph of your brain age and how 
 well you have done on all the exercises over time which you can look at and use to compare your 
 results to your friends. Another feature of the game is it contains tons of sudoku puzzles although 
 a lot of these will tax your brain more than the exercises. The real let down in gameplay though 
 is the voice and writing recognition, you will find at first it is almost impossible to work with 
 and for days after that you will have problems with the games recognition, this can be really frustrating 
 and is the kind of thing that seriously affects your results. You can sort of adjust to the games 
 bad recognition if you become a bit of a hardcore player but even then you'll find now and then 
 it will cost you time in your exercises and brain age checks. It's a bit of a shame as with a little 
 tweaking in the recognition this could be a completely un-frustrating game but still the exercises 
 are very good. Another useful feature worth mentioning is that Dr. Kawishima will also give you 
 easy tips to help train your brain in everyday situations. Sound in the game much like graphics 
 isn't a big issue. The sounds are mostly all relaxing and calming and add to the simple feel of 
 things. Of course there is no plot to this game but Dr. Kawashima serves as a warm and welcoming 
 character. All in all although this is the first of a few brain-improvement games for the DS I 
 feel it is the best out there and we could all use a game like this in our modern lives, easy forr 
 gamers of all levels although in need of slight tweaking this is an easily recomendable title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoeTokoro
Rating: 6.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Hi this Poe Tokoro again here with the review of Brain Age: Train Your Brain in MInutes a Day!
 
  
  Gameplay: The game has solid stylus controls. I'm happy this is on the DS because of the Touch 
 screen because without that, this game would be in your trash can in 20 seconds. It has microphone 
 controls... but I highly recommend not to use them. For one, the game has a hard time understanding 
 your words so it's not going to be accurate when it tells you your Brain age.
  
  Graphics: I can't really judge in this category because the only thing that uses any graphics is 
 a disembodied head that looks awful.
  
  Sound: The music is somewhat good but isn't really music, it's just some repetitive sound that 
 tells you if you won or lost.
  
  Value: For $20 this game isn't bad, it's worth it if your bored.
  
  Multi-player: The games 
 download option is really great as it sends the info, and the other person doesn't have to be near 
 you anymore. The real multi-player is really only for math nerds, it's worth a try once but that's 
 it.
  
  Overall: I'll have to say, rent it. It's just not worth it even for $20.
  
  -Poe Tokoro 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xize
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  its a game but not realy amazing because there not realy much minigames as you know its a little 
 bit borred the graphics are bad to but the microphone is realy good for a console like the nintendo 
 ds! but the makers of this game says as you try this every day you going to illigent nivau but 
 i dont think its truth what they saying about the game i play this only for fun as im borred or 
 to lazy but mine opinion is you can better not buy this game because its not a real game for me 
 sometimes i tried that the microphone is doing realy weird then i say its blue and it is red it 
 says its good thats realy wrong of the game! but i dont know i had play the demo version of the 
 game! i thought i had the full version but maby i must unlock the games maby.......
  but the game is plain for fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerrav
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 10:02 pm PT
Review:  QUICK 8-7 = ????? = )
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  This is my first puzzle/education type game I've played. At first, I'm was fairly skeptical. It 
 was interesting to be presented w/ a book-style method of holding the DS. It seems like more could 
 have been done, but I'm impressed w/ what I've seen from this particular genre thus far.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  This is almost a moot scoring category for this particular title as most of what 
 you're reading/seeing is text based. The few graphics that you see are nothing too outstanding. 
 The doctor's avatar is a bit blocky? *shrugs* Not sure that warrants a bad score in this category 
 though.
  
  SOUND
  
  Again, sound isn't really a huge factor w/ this particular title. The sounds that are heard are 
 pleasant on the ears. Nothing too abrasive. VALUE
  
  Unlike the sound and graphics category, the VALUE is what's important here. If I were the only 
 one in my apartment paying this game, I'm sure I'd find myself bored fairly quickly. While the 
 games are fun in short bursts, they do tend to get a bit old. What really gets me going is being 
 able to see everyone's scores. I have 3 other people that play. We're constantly attempting to 
 best each other. In that respect, this game has tremendous replay value for me. TILT
  
  While the game is fun for me due to my competitive nature w/ my roomies, others playing solo will 
 probably play this for a solid week and then slowly forget about it. I have to consider that while 
 setting a score because someday, I may be all by my lonesome. Will this game be as fun then? Hmm.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_t29
Rating: 4.7
Date: Dec 3, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Overall: Brain Age starts out as a fun, great learning tool on the DS -- until a month has passed 
 and you grow tired of it. I would prefer to rent this game.
  Street Smarts: You can actually learn things, clean interface, infinite replayability, $20.
  No 
 Smarts: Infinite replayability, gets repetitive after a month, kind of gimmicky.
  
  The ratings for Brain Age in magazines and here seem inflated. Why? GS gave this DS game a 7.2, 
 but after a few months of playing this game, it wears thin. There are some good points, though. 
 It's only 20 bucks, I got it at Circuit City for 10. You actually do learn things, say the math 
 program. Give it to an average fourth-grader and in a week, he'll be able to multiply like that. 
 There is a neat, minimalist interface, nothing is confusing in it's menus. Obviously there is technically 
 infinite replayability since you can't beat this game at all. You sort of master it. The main problem 
 is the replayability. I played this game from June to October: by then I did not want to do the 
 training, whatsoever. You do the exact same thing *every* single day. I don't play it anymore. 
 Brain Age seems like a great idea, and it is, though it gets very repetitive after a few months. 
 I would rent this game, but that's as much as I would do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nighthawk89
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Some people question the true value of Brain Age. Ryuta Kawashima's interactive, intuitive software 
 is a simple program, promising to train your brain to react more quickly and intelligently by activating 
 your prefrontal cortex. Up until this game, I'd never heard of a prefrontal cortex, but Kawashima 
 tells you that it's an important part of your brain that helps your memory and quick thinking. 
 But even if Kawashima's studies are ludicrous, this game is well worth picking up. The activities 
 inside are fun and relatively easy, and the entire package is made worthwhile with its 19.99 pricetag 
 (US) and bonus addition of sudoku puzzles.
  
  Gameplay
  Kawashima guides you along through the training simulator, explaining to you how to operate each 
 game and what it does for your brain, all revolving around this prefrontal cortex thing. The opening 
 screen holds 4 options- Quick Play, Daily Training, Sudoku, and Download. Quick Play allows friends 
 or family to try out Brain Age without actually having to create a player on the card. Daily Training 
 allows 4 players to create a file on the card for themselves that tracks their brain age and daily 
 progression throughout the program. Each file can be specifically tailored to each player, including 
 having the screens flip over for us left handed players! However, this is one of my first complaints 
 of the game. There should be an option to allow you to automatically have a left handed screen 
 positioning when you first turn the game on. I find that I have to go into my daily training game 
 file before it will flip to the left. I know that it would affect all people using the card, meaning 
 rightys would be forced into my position if playing like that, but honestly, for those of us without 
 any rightys using the cartridge, it'd be a nice addition.
  The training session games are mostly interesting. My most favorite are the multiplication sessions, 
 just because I love multiplication. Reading Aloud is my second favorite, because I read it in my 
 head, and I'm helluva fast reader, meaning I get an awesome score on it. Other games, like Low 
 to High and Syllable Count, are also available. After you've trained for the day, you can do a 
 Brain Age Check once a day, which will give you a numerical number from 20-70 (I believe that's 
 the range) , your brain age. For anyone under 20, he tells you to take the results with a grain 
 of salt, because your brain is still growing. It'd be nice to have a more accurate count for those 
 of us under 20, but ah well. Que sera sera.
  This game wouldn't make it's value, however, without the sudoku. You get 120 puzzles, ranging from 
 Basic to Advanced, and four tutorial puzzles at each stage. I've become hooked because of this 
 sim. It's so much easier to do sudoku on here because you can erase easily and be more organized 
 with your numbers. Plus, the computer has the option of informing you when you get an incorrect 
 answer, though it only lets you have 5 mistakes before you have to start over, which is really 
 annoying when you've been working on a puzzle for a HALF HOUR.
  The last part is the Download option, where you can battle in a game of calculations against up 
 to 15 people, or send the quick play demo to someone. I've never used this option, but it seems 
 like it could be helpful, and the send demo option is great game advertising, since it stays on 
 their DS until they turn it off.
  
  Graphics
  On par for the DS. Kawashima's head is the only real 3D object, but everything else looks clean 
 cut and smooth. There's never any drop in pixel rate or lagging. Nothing horribly amazing either. 
 It's what you would expect to find in a game of this sort.
  
  Sound
  Very basic. Not grating or harsh. The sudoku games have no sound, which can either be good if you 
 find sound distracts you, or annoying if you don't like silence. The game sounds aren't distracting 
 either. Again, nothing extraordinary.
  
  Value
  Overall, if this game had come out at 30+ dollars like normal DS games, it would've been a ripoff. 
 But 19.99 is a very nice price for a game of this sort. It can keep you entertained for a while 
 with it's daily training, making you want to come back to unlock new games, and the sudoku puzzles 
 will keep addicts and new sudoku players coming back. If you want something new for your DS this 
 year, pick up Brain Age, and have some fun. It doesn't feel like you're boring yourself with work 
 , which is what good, educational fun does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAgamer985
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:56 am PT
Review:  This was a great game in concept, but the games requiring voice seem to be a bit harder. You have 
 to speak very clearly. Other games offer a variety of options from math to counting syallables. 
 The handwriting recognition is also a bit off sometime mistaking 6's for 0's or 4's for 9's My 
 favorite is the least to greatest in which you have to play a simon type game and recall lowest 
 to highest where the numbers were. I am looking forward to more games like this one that may come 
 out in the future. All in all a good game that could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeyrCat
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Not to stereotype myself as a Girl Gamer, but there really is something about having to THINK in 
 a game that makes it more fun!
  
  I tried this one out at a friend's place, and wanted it IMMEDIATELY! I tried out the DigiDL from 
 a Gamestop, playing the Sudoku til my battery about died and I HAD to shut the DS. Finally, I just 
 went and bought the silly thing.
  
  Both my BF and I play on the one cartridge (as there are 4 slots) . It's a great function because 
 it allows us to compare scores..
  
  Oh Yea! I should probably tell you ABOUT the game, yea? There are a few different Training mini-games, 
 most of them math based. Getting correct answers in a certain amount of time determines your score. 
 Get a wrong answer and a certain amount of Penalty Time is added to your overall. Trainings include 
 Multiplications x20, x100, Time Lapse, and a few that test how fast you read and how well you can 
 follow directions. By getting A Stamp each day, you accumulate more and more to unlock other Training 
 games.
  
  I really love this game, and it can be done in just a few minutes on break, or in one sitting! 
 Just... don't do it just before lunch.. that's when I get my worst times! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguru43
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  This game tests your brain age. you can only play literally play minutes a day. There is a lot of 
 stuff to unlock. and you can really give your brain a work out. but it just wasen't that exciting 
 for me. WOW! suduko is not fun at all. and the mic doesn't work on some puzzles. many elderly people 
 would like this game but kids are better off buying a game that doesn't bore them. it does give 
 you some helpful tips for learning things. The word memorization is dumb, you could easily cheat 
 , which I did :) don't worry if you end up having a brain score of 78 because you know those three 
 puzzles don't cover everything you know in life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOZFAN6537
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Brain Age: Train Your Brain In Just Minutes A Day is a very fun game putting in a elite group of 
 games that are both educational and fun. There are many different mini games that you can do to 
 lower you brain age such as arithmetic problems in sets of 20 &amp; 100 and the head count mini 
 game where people will walk in and out of a house and you have to remember how many people where 
 in the house at the end. The daily training mode is where you will spend most of your time you 
 can also dothe brain age check where you will have to do three mini game things as well as you 
 can the better you do on the activities the lower your brain age will be. There is also a rather 
 large amount of Sudoku puzzles ranging in difficulty the way the Sudoku puzzles work is very nice 
 you can see the whole grid and when you tap a square you will zoom in and you can put a number 
 for that square or little markings telling what numbers that square could be. I'm not going to 
 go into much detail about the graphics and sound because they don't matter much but both are good 
 and they aren't horribly bad or anything they just don't matter in a game like this. Brain Age 
 is a very fun game that you will spend a lot of time with mostly because of the great amount of 
 Sudoku puzzles but also because of the very fun mini-games so if your one of those intellectual 
 type people Brain Age is a great game.
  
  ~LOZFAN6537 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that got my wife to buy the DS and she is not a gamer at all.
  Brain Age is great for the gamer and non gamer alike. It is full of quick tests that keep you on 
 your toes and will sharpen your memory and overall mind. I was surprised when on monday it asked 
 me what I had for Dinner and I said Steak and on friday it asked me what I had for dinner on monday 
 and I said Chicken and it said I was wrong. Plus this comes with Sudoku which is a cool deductive 
 logic puzzle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Brain Age for the Nintendo DS is a good idea and captures your imagination... for about a week. 
 With simple graphics and a limited amount of gameplay modes, training your brain gets boring fast. 
 When you unlock all the training modes and plateau with your times/scores, thats when you've played 
 it all. Time to move on to another, more rewarding game. Big Brain Academy builds on the ideas 
 in the game and have more training modes which are more interesting then doing math calculations 
 and reading old prose. Again, Brain Age is a good start but dosen't make it as a solid must have 
 DS title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 28, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This game, which is more like an activity software, is actually quite the product I must admit. 
 What is it exactly? Well it is pretty much exactly what the title suggests, a brain training program. 
 What it has are a handful of fairly simple activities that pretty much raise coordination and other 
 basic brain functions (if you actually stick with it, after a couple of months you might actually 
 notice a difference in your abilities) .
  
  Gameplay: It is VERY simple and anybody can play it. Truthfully my mother, father, brother, sister-in-law 
 and all of my friends that have played it all play it whenever they can when I am around. As said 
 it is a bunch of activities pretty much. For example: One activity merely has you doing 20 simple 
 one-digit calculations as fast as you can, while another might have you count the syllables of 
 certain phrases and write down the answer as fast as possible. The activities are simple and neat, 
 and after you finish the activity the doctor (who sponsored this game and pretty much the reason 
 for its existence) will tell you how that activity helps you out. There is also a function that 
 called Brain Age Check, which basically throws at you a few activities (different from the regular 
 training) in order to figure out how old your brain age is (20 being ideal) . It also has graphs 
 that you can use to track your progress. One other thing is that this contains a fair amount of 
 Sudoku puzzles that will likely last you a fair amount of time. The multiplayer is pretty short 
 lived, having very limited choices (although it is Single Pack) .
  
  Graphics: SIMPLE. A little too simple at times. I mean really all you are seing all the time is 
 the doctor's 3-D rendered face or a bunch of numbers or words in a font no different from the font 
 used to display the text you are now reading. There are also pictures but all of them are something 
 that a child can draw, like a stick figure or a simple car, etc. Really this is one of those games 
 that don't really NEED graphics, but the simplicity in some places is just really bad. Overall 
 the graphics are effective and the simplicity actually helps keep your concentration, so you don't 
 get distracted easily. This is one of those examples where it doesn't need to be beautiful to get 
 a good rating, it merely needs to fit the mood properly.
  
  Sound: SIMPLE. Just like the graphics it is too simple sometimes, but unlike the graphics, there 
 are places where the sounds and music could have been better. Within activities the simple sound 
 effects are actually perfect, because like the graphics it helps to keep your concentration so 
 you can perform better, but the music theme is just one track and that is all. They could have 
 given you a choice of tracks and also allowed you to have some music on during Sudoku (and of course 
 allow you to turn it off if you wish, since some people can't perform well on puzzles with music) .
 
  
  Value: Honestly, for how cheap this game is, it really isn't a bad choice. The only problem is 
 that after a month or two, or maybe a week even, you will probably not want to do this anymore, 
 even though you know it could prove benefitial. The fact that there are way too few activities 
 is a problem also. One other gripe is that during one activity that requires speech, the game seems 
 to have trouble registering the word Blue and also with writing the game seems to have trouble 
 registering the number 4 (I have not had problems with either but most people I know have, I don't 
 know what the problem with blue is but I think the problem with 4 is that people often learn a 
 different stroke order and sometimes even a different shape for writing 4's, so that could be the 
 problem) . The only thing that would make you want to come back is the numerous amount of Sudoku 
 puzzles. This is one of those things that will vary from person to person, if you have the patience 
 and the 5-10 minutes everyday, this training program is actually pretty neat AND helpful.
  
  Overall this is something that is worth checking out, I mean it isn't bad and it isn't great, 
 but it isn't expensive either, and it is compatible with EVERYONE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  The Good : Upon purchase, Brain Training will have you addicted for hours on end. Great selection 
 of activities and Sudoku puzzles.
  
  The Bad : Very easy to cheat the system to acquire a high brain age. Addictive at first, but the 
 novelty wears out after about a month. I've found myself playing the game less and less. Around 
 once a month now. Frustrating sloppy handwriting and voice recognition.
  
  Brain Training (as it is called in Europe and where I'm from, Australia) is a charming, innovative 
 title for the Nintendo DS, and has pioneered a wave of new Brain games, which frankly, don't seem 
 to live up to the sheer simplicity and fun factor in Brain Training.
  
  Brain Training is quite a simple game, really. By simply partaking in simple literary, numeracy 
 and reading activities, the game will calculate your Brain Age on a scale of 20 - 80 (20 being 
 the best, and 80 being the worst) . Since I am only 17, the game constantly points out that its 
 calculations are inaccurate, as this game is clearly marketed towards older gamers, but nevertheless, 
 Brain Training is an inexpensive and most importantly, fun way to exercise your brain and keep 
 it active.
  
  This isn't the sort of game you can play for hours at a time (except perhaps the 100 Sudoku puzzles 
 provided on the cartridge, which are surprisingly lengthy and fun) , but is a great way to keep 
 your mind busy for a few minutes a day.
  
  Other than the Brain Age Check exercise, which prompts you to partake in three activities, is the 
 small range of Training exercises available on the game card. The game card will only record your 
 results ONCE for each activity, per day, so its interesting to play daily to see how you fare. 
 Some days I've improved a little, on days when I wasn't feeling so good, my results plummeted.
 
  
  The graphics and sound are minimal, but they do their job. Nothing to poke a stick at, although 
 I surprised to see that Dr Kawashima's head was fully animated in 3D when I first started playing 
 the game. And although you'll probably get sick of the game after a while, it's fun to play again 
 every once in a while just to see how my brain's working out.
  
  Although Brain Training isn't a game in the traditional or even conventional sense, it offers an 
 intriuging gaming experience for both hardcore gamers, casual gamers and non-gamers alike. Give 
 it a try. You can't go wrong with the budget price. And if you're not entirely show, simply download 
 the demo wirelessly from a mate who has a copy of the game. :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leafs_ducks
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  this is the first game i bought since i bought it along with my dsl. i gotta say this game is quite 
 additive. gameplay=lets you play games that not only help work your brian, but always help you 
 with your math, reading, and thinking skills. my fav. is the 20x and 100x calculations. with an 
 addition of sudoku is amazing. the only minor flaw with this game is that the game sometimes doesn't 
 recongize your numbers which can be annoying when your doing the 20x and 100x calculations. other 
 then that this game is very much enjoyable. the sound is normal, nothin outstanding with it. graphics, 
 there are no graphics in this game except for the guys' face.
  overrall, if you want to improve your brian memory and sharpen it up a bit, this game is for you. 
 7.8 is my score:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deano-The-Dino
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for &pound;20, just out of curiousity. I'll admit, I'm a pretty big geek, so 
 I thought it'd be a wise investment. And it damnwell was. You start the game by doing the Brain 
 Age quiz, which gives you your brain's age. Mine started at 68, on the 1st of August I believe. 
 In two days, I managed to drop it to 40, then down to 31, and so on. After about 2 months, its 
 been a steady up-and-down in the 20-30 range. Its currently 27. And I've been finding school a 
 lot easier thanks to this game =D But enough about my brain age, what about the game. Well, the 
 graphics are basically what you'd expect from a DS game. Shading, a few 3D models, but nothing 
 amazing. The sound is great quality, due to the fact there isn't a lot of the sound that could 
 have potential bad quality, just blips and bloops really. The gameplay is innovative and fun. I'm 
 still playing this game every day, 2 months after I bought it, and I love it ^^ And considering 
 I paid &pound;20 for this in pre-owned games, this was well worth it in terms of value. All-in-all, 
 this is one game that is definetely worth checking out. About &pound;18 now, so go out and get 
 yourself a copy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aashkii
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 24, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  Do you think everyone thinks youre dumb? Do you have what it takes to pass a certain class you 
 are having trouble on? Do you know what 2 + 2 equals? If you cant even think, try, and add, then 
 you must have an old brain with an age of 90. Do yourself a favor and get Brain Age so you can 
 test your noggin with 12 minigames.
  
  This is one of the most innovative games anyone should play. There are a lot of exercises, puzzles, 
 and tests for you to try out. Lets talk about the exercises: There are 12 types of puzzles to 
 try your thinking skills on. The one minigames you should try out are Calculations x20 and x100, 
 Low to High, Voice Calculation, a Triangle Math (a math puzzle that you have to think in your head 
 with three numbers with two addition and subtraction problems, then calculate those two numbers 
 to find the answer) , and Time lapse (a clock game.)
  
  Brain Age mode allows you to test your brain thinking skills by three random (also by choosing 
 by pressing the right button before tapping on the Brain Age icon) puzzles that you can try out. 
 As you progress throughout this mode, your brain age will improve depending on how you successfully 
 finish the puzzles. Try to get a brain age of 20 and show it to your friends, family, and others.
 
  
  Brain Age isnt the only game in this cart. There are also Sudoku puzzles to try out. I wont explain 
 the rules (since they are in the game in the first place) but this puzzle is getting very popular 
 around the world, so give it a try. Its that fun.
  
  If you are a puzzle fan or want to be smarter, get Brain Age. Have you figured out what 2 + 2 is? 
 Slow learner, huh? Thats okay, just take your time and give me the answer later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknight570
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 18, 2006 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wondered what it would be like to have fun learning? Well I can't verify that you 
 actually learn anything while playing this game, but brain age is loads of fun. This the perfect 
 game to have in your collection. If you want puzzles that will make you think and bring a smile 
 to your face then this is the game for you.
  
  It's not one of those die hard action packed shooters or a time consuming rpg. What it is is simple 
 a game to tease your mind and let you loosen up when you've had a bad day. The games main approach 
 at this soothing effect is the fact that it allows you to just play games with no apparent investment. 
 This way you can enjoy the game for its parts. It is almost like solving a crossword puzzle or 
 some sort of word find. It is very simple at first and get more involved as you decide to enjoy 
 the fun.
  
  So, if you like word puzzles or just like to have fun thinking about simple games, then give Brain 
 Age a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarysSoldier
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Brain Age is not a traditional video game because it is meant to be played just minutes a day. 
 At first, you want to play more and open up all the games. But once that happens, all that is left 
 is to break records and keep the ol' noggin in shape.
  
  The setup works very well because the game is easy to play in small bites. It is easy to look forward 
 to the next day's shot at trying to break the record. And it does seem like the game is effective 
 because after a little while, you will get the hang of the games and your brain will be trained 
 to do well.
  
  The ability to hear voice is very cool. Sudoku is a great addition to the package. The simple presentation 
 suits this game.
  
  As for flaws, there are a few. Many people I have tried to have test their brain age could not 
 communicate the word blue to the machine. This could have been due to background noise, but still, 
 it has a hard time interpreting that word. There is also a calculation mode where you say the answer 
 to the math problem, but the machine doesn't always know which number you said and that kind of 
 ruins that.
  
  Some of the measurements aren't very fair. For instance, it is very easy to get a rating of rocket 
 speed on the syllable count game, but for as far as speed reading, car speed is the only thing 
 I've ever gotten despite moving my mouth 100 mph.
  
  Being the first brain genre game I ever played, the game is worth having despite its flaws because 
 it is so unique. It is a great little showpiece for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie_IV
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  So video games are bad for you, right? Nothing but violence and murder and disrespect for one's 
 elders? Well, Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day is a game which attempts to change that 
 notion, with several different mini-games (or exercises) that are supposedly designed with the 
 intent of keeping your brain fresh and alert. Weather or not it actually succeeds at doing so is 
 open to interpretation, but it's worth looking at this game nonetheless.
  
  To start with, the game offers you the option to either perform one of a few different exercises 
 to strengthen your brain, or to take a random selection of three tests to determine your brain 
 age, which is the measuring stick by which it determines just how strong your brain is. Most of 
 these are scored on how quick and accurate you are, some require you to perform simple mathematical 
 calculations, others require you to memorize different things and repeat them back to the computer. 
 All of them use either the touch screen or the DS microphone exclusively, and allow you to keep 
 track of your progress over a period of days and weeks to see how you're improving. However, the 
 game only allows you to record your score once every day that you play, limiting replay just a 
 bit. Occasionally the games voice recognition can be a pain too, as it sometimes mistakes simple 
 words for others or outright refuses to recognize them until theyre repeated several times.
  
  There is also an option to play one of a few dozen different Sodoku puzzles, independently 
 of the normal Brain Training exercises. These are simple number puzzles which take place on a nine 
 by nine grid. To complete one, you must draw a number from one to nine in each of the squares so 
 that no number repeats itself in either the same horizontal or vertical row, or in the same three 
 by three group of squares. There are enough of these to keep things interesting, and it's nice 
 to have something to turn to once you run out of exercises to perform each day. And at the very 
 least this saves paper.
  
  Brain Age's biggest fault is simply how very repetitive it is. Each of the exercises is rather 
 short, and they get repetitive very quickly, even if you only perform them once a day to have a 
 score to record. Playing through them every day does eventually open up even more games to play 
 through, but there aren't enough of these to make it feel worthwhile after a time. Eventually, 
 it all just starts to feel old, and that hurts the game ultimately. Occasionally the games voice 
 recognition can be a pain too, as it sometimes mistakes simple words for others or outright refuses 
 to recognize them until theyre repeated several times.
  
  Brain Age looks and sounds just fine, it's just not a very striking game either visually or aurally. 
 The presentation comes off as maybe a little bland, but it's not there to dazzle the player, it's 
 supposed to present its information clearly and concisely, and that's what it succeeds at doing 
 for the player.
  
  Weather or not Brain Age actually helps your brain is open for debate. It's length certainly doesn't 
 do much to help it's case. However, it's various games are fun to practice and get better at as 
 the days go by, and it's got enough in it to keep players busy for at least a few weeks. It's budget 
 price is also a big plus, and makes the game a lot easier to recommend to anyone either hungry 
 for a quick DS fix or possibly on the edge over this game. It definitely makes edutainment a lot 
 more fun than one might expect, which is commendable enough in itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allhailcaesar
Rating: 5.2
Date: Oct 2, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  good game but a few things cause serious annoyance. doesn't recognize blue, unable to read a 4, 
 Also the brain age calculation leaves alot to be desired. I play almost daily and take the brain 
 age test each week, this week I set three personal bests on all three of the random tests, my brain 
 age dropped from 29 to 36, which dropped the week before from 22 to 29 after setting two personal 
 bests?????? Completely befuddled. Drawing the pictures requested is also unreasonable, especially 
 when your asked to draw the Mona Lisa, or Statue of Liberty. Way to small a screen and not enough 
 detail to even begin to do so, drawings come out very kindergarten at best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  this is my first ever edutainment game so to speak.
  and i will say that its refreshingly fun for the first few times you play it. it makes you think 
 (literally) and also makes you want to keep coming back for more so as to improve yourself (according 
 to the games standard) .
  
  you will find yourself playing it daily for at least a month due to the hook it has on you as well 
 as to unlock all of the other content. however after that, its sad to say that the only thing left 
 coming back for is to complete the sudoku and to pick it up and test yourself - instead of daily 
 - on a weekly or monthly basis.
  
  however, considering its budget price and the novelty of it for all ages, its still a game to pick 
 up and test yourself with. treat it as something to play with instead of your normal run shoot 
 jump type of game. i'm not sure if it will make you smarter, but it will test you educationally 
 and mentally and any game that does that on such a level should be given a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 5.8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  I brought this game thinking it would be fun and mabe even make my brain a little faster at the 
 same time . Oh how i was wrong. Iv'e got alot to say about the gameplay, but 1st . If your the 
 type of person who enjoys doing maths , reading aloud and lame little memory tests. Well this is 
 the game for you. If not , then do not buy this game. All the game does is monitor how fast you 
 do maths problems, how fast you read and how many things you remember in a memory test. BORING. 
 And it dosent make any sence, how can i get a brian age of 27 and then the next day have a brain 
 age of 60 all because i took a little longer doing some maths problems or made a couple of mistakes 
 in the memory game! Im afraid to say that the games on it dissapointed me.
  
  I cannot say anything much about the graphics apart there aint none! The most graphical thing in 
 the game is that stupid annoying chinese man with glasses that pops up all the time! Everything 
 else is writing.
  
  The sound is also annoying as the only noise this game makes is when you finish a game. And its 
 just a few little dings.
  
  The only real thing good about this game is the price as you can get it for $20/&pound;20 .
  
 
  Overall this game was a real letdown for me . ( if you can call it a game ) And i wish i never 
 brought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djsaskdja
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Im not even entirely sure what Brain Age is. Is it brain testing software? Is it a fun and innovative 
 game? Or is it something completely different? The answer isall of them! Brain age is no doubt 
 fun with the quirky mini games that apparently add up to tell you how old your brain is. Im a 
 little skeptical about how well it actually works, but trust me youll have fun. Basically you 
 take a 3 min-game long test everyday and it tells you your brain age in years. You take it every 
 day and you unlock new mini-games well improving your score. This would be a lot easier if it 
 recognized the pronunciation of blue and the writing of the number 9. All this is all very fun 
 and innovative for about three weeks. After about three weeks I was completely tired of testing 
 myself and I just felt even lazier then when I started if thats even possible. But still for $20 
 its a nice purchase for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scifi_fan
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 25, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is a game that trains your brain (duh) . You start off with 3 activities and you unlock 
 a few more as you go on and get more stamps for completing activities. It is worth the $20. Brain 
 Age has 9 Training programs and 6 Brain Age Check programs, which, in my opinion, is too few, there 
 should be more programs for you to unlock. With the amount of training programs, you can unlock 
 all 9 in less than a month, then you loose interest in the game because of the few training programs 
 the game has. I think it was a good idea to but Sudoku with the game to help prevent losing interest 
 in Brain Age. Also, I think the sound that comes from the game can be very much improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardboardonly
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  For $20 if you don't already have this in your DS collection you need to drop the Bus Change and 
 get to the store and pick it up. The game itself is relatively short, but consist of a multitude 
 of Brain excercises such as reading aloud, simple math problems, or the ultra hard head count game 
 that has you counting people as they run in and out of a house. Sudouku is added in and although 
 there are only 100 puzzles, it is a welcome inclusion.
  
  The only cons of the game are bugs in the voice recognition software or the writing recognition 
 software. But, they are small and avoidable once you get used to how the game works. When it comes 
 down to it, I feel as though this game has helped me focus and work out problems quicker. Practice 
 makes perfect and Brain Age is your own personal tutor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echo_ent
Rating: 5.3
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:32 pm PT
Review:  Growing old is a fact of life; it just happens. However, the people over at Nintendo Japan have 
 apparently come up with a solution for an aging brain.
  
  First released in Japan, Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day is a Nintendo DS game allowing 
 for exercise of the brain.
  
  Brain Age, through a set of tasks ranging from counting syllables in a sentence to quickly answering 
 20 math problems, assigns one's brain with an age between 20 and 90.
  
  Brain Age promises that by only playing the game for 20 minutes a day, one will be able to have 
 a younger-thinking brain.
  
  The game's premise is through repetition of brain-stimulating exercises, the brain will actually 
 learn to do other things quicker, like a runner being able to run further distances after training.
 
  
  Brain Age takes full advantage of the Nintendo DS. The game has the player turn the DS on its side 
 (one side for left- and right-handed players) as if it were a book or magazine.
  
  The stylus is used like a pencil to write out words and numbers during the exercises. The microphone 
 on the DS is used as well for players to speak into during other exercises.
  
  Brain Age has its heart in the right place, allowing for the use of the stylus and microphone in 
 this way, but as each person has a different way of writing, the game is easily confused with the 
 English alphabet.
  
  The game also has a hard time understanding words that aren't spoken perfectly clear, so any accent 
 or mumbling will not be understood.
  
  Those problems aside, Brain Age does a fantastic job of tracking progress through the daily training 
 and making one feel as if it is actually doing what it says. Brain Age gives players a stamp on 
 every day they train (a small stamp for one exercise completed and a bigger stamp for three or 
 more) , via a digital calendar. As players collect more stamps, more exercises are unlocked.
  
  Brain Age also allows for up to four personal data saves to be stored on one game cartridge. 
 This allows for family and friends to add their own data to the game for some healthy competition.
 
  
  As an add-on, Brain Age includes over 100 sudoku puzzles. The game also keeps track of a player's 
 status for completion of sudoku puzzles as well.
  
  Overall, Brain Age does a fairly good job of offering different exercises to keep one entertained 
 for awhile, but it grows very tiresome after the first month of play.
  
  For a price of just under $20, Brain Age would be a welcome addition to any family household or 
 college dorm room. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aragorn33
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  If you own a DS, by now you know of the popular phenomenon that is Brain Age. A game that states 
 that you can maximize your brain efficiency by doing simple mental task, such as counting as fast 
 as you can, and using arithmetic. You can supposedly make yourself smarter. And as far as I can 
 tell, they weren't lying.
  
  Brain Age isn't your normal game. It uses the DS's touch-screen and microphone to let you do fun, 
 short mental activities. Believe it or not, this is a lot more exciting than it sounds. You get 
 a mysteriously kooky trainer named Dr. Ryuta Kawashima, a virtual version of the real man of the 
 same name. The good doctor first does a test on you, which determines how efficient your brain 
 is. The younger the better; in the same way that an obese geriatric wouldn't stand a chance in 
 a running marathon against a 20-year-old Marine Corps troop. Once the Doc tells you your brain 
 age, he gives you exercises to complete daily. Eventually, your score will boost and your brain 
 age will get younger. It's the equivalent to giving your gray matter a protein shake and then making 
 it exercise. You'll unlock all kinds of different exercises, one of them being a huge collection 
 of addicting Sudoku puzzles. I started out with an apparently hopeless age of 78, but now I have 
 an incredible 20, the best possible age.
  
  The easiest way to describe what Brain Age is like is to describe a typical day with it. You turn 
 on your DS, hold it sideways like a book, and take out your stylus for writing and drawing. Like 
 I already mentioned, there is no need for buttons, with the exception of the ON/OFF switch. You 
 tap either Quick Play (Extremely short samples for those who wish to play without saving) , Daily 
 Training (It describes itself) , or Sudoku. The main meat is quite obviously Daily Training. Once 
 you choose it, the Doc will greet you, and tell you when you last did your training. ( AREN'T YOU 
 A TROOPER! Coming by everyday like this! Oh, I didn't see you at all yesterday! It was sad! After 
 that bothersome routine, he occasionally asks something random, for you to remember a few days 
 later, or he asks you to draw three haphazard things. Never before in my life have I realized the 
 finesse I lack in the art department. It's absolutely scorning/hilarious to see Dr. Ryuta glance 
 at my work with those seemingly sarcastic eyes. How did you do? He asks mockingly. After stomaching 
 his comments, you move on to the next menu. You can either do another Brain Age check, change the 
 options, look at your progress graph, or do the problems. On a normal day you will go straight 
 to the problems, and do three or more exercices, so you can get a bigger stamp on your calendar. 
 There's the first three: Calculation X 20, X 100, and Reading Aloud. The first two are adding, 
 multiplying, and the like. Read Alouding is exactly what the title suggests. You do them, one by 
 one, as fast and as well as you can. It will be recorded and you will get your stamp. The stamps 
 are currency with which you earn more exericises, and customization in the options menu. Once you're 
 finished, you can turn off the DS or do more of the same. The entire process takes less than 10 
 minutes, which means it's not too substantial for long car rides, excluding Sudoku, which can take 
 a looong time to complete 100%. That's a day of Brain Age.
  
  Since Brain Age isn't like any other game, you can't judge it by its sound or graphics. It's more 
 of a fun homework assignment than a video game. There are no explosions, or shiny graphics, but 
 anyone willing to give it a shot won't be dissapointed. Just don't expect Halo 2 or Need for Speed, 
 and it's easily worth the $20.00 admission fee. It has Aragorn33's Official Seal of Approval. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splitterguy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  This game is all about taking tests using the DS's unique technology, bu the major problem is, 
 it's trying to do something that current technology hasn't grasped yet.
  
  When you start up the game, it makes you take the test. The first game is the stroop test. The 
 stroop test is when there are colored words and you say the color of the word, not the word itself. 
 You'll immediatly notice it can't understand you when you say blue, making the test near impossible 
 to beat. However, if you say... higleiahai or some other gibberish, there is a 25% chance it'll 
 work. When your done you'll play a math game. The math games work much better, but are still really 
 hard to beat, because it can't always read your numbers. Most other games work well, but since 
 these are major tests, it can take away from the game. You unlock new games over every few days, 
 but there are only a few to unlock, so it gets boring after a while. You have to play at least 
 3 games a day, and it doesn't matter what game you choose, or in what order. There really aren't 
 any amazing graphics, mostly just numbers and letters written down. There is a sudoku game with 
 tons of levels, and it teaches you how to play. It's addicting as hoola baloo!
  
  In short, for $20 it's worth it, but expect flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zkureeman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I got this game the other day with a NDS Lite and i was surprised at how good it was. At first 
 it asks you to do this brain age check and dont be surprised if u get teh game and it tells u your 
 brain is something like 50 or something as it did for me and my family. It gives you these simple 
 quick trainign games that apparently awaken your brain and everyday so far my brain age has been 
 gettin better. Some of the exersixzes even require u to talk into the microphone. There plenty 
 to do here and SUDOKU!!!. GEt this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SM42
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 15, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Thank God I played the Brain-Age demo in stores instead of the Tetris demo (not that I have anything 
 against Tetris DS, great game) ! I tried it and right away I wanted it!
  
  Gameplay-Fun and addictive, keeps you comin' back everyday! And it works! I started at 80 and at 
 the moment, I'm at 30!
  
  Graphics-Well... not really flashy, but what's there is good.
  
  Sound- BADOOP! BADOOP! DUMDUMDUMDUMDUM... DUM! and the menu music. That's about it.
  
  Value-$20?! 
 Holy crap! XD Awesome!
  
  This is a great game! And only for $20! If you want a good DS game and you don't have $40 to your 
 name, get this awesome title now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BearGamez
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 13, 2006 3:42 pm PT
Review:  === Pros / Cons ===
  
  ___ Pros ___
  + Sudoku is included
  + It did help improve my mental speed, I guess
  + Kind of grows on you
  
  ___ Cons ___
 
  - The face creeps me out at times
  - Doesn't register my writing and reading at times
  
  === Review Text ===
  
  Well I can't really review this as a game. Since this was really more 
 of a training program. For me, I think it did its job, I am calculating faster and reading faster 
 when I'm at work, so I admit this program does help my brain. The program contains mostly puzzles, 
 calculations, and memory type "game". They all are time based.
  
  This is a helpful little program/game in my opinion. Fun? Not really... think of it as a work out 
 for your brain and for me... and it's starting grow on me.
  
  I don't know... can't really say much about this... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coxmartin
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 12, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  OK, so they claim this will make your brain more youthful and if you are truly exceptional recapture 
 that of a Twenty Year Old. Which is apparently the optimum age from which everything starts to 
 go down hill.
  
  Well at 46 I was very interested in taking the test, this proved to be a mistake. I had not undertaken 
 any of the training and well how hard can they be, this resulted in a brain age of 68. Initial 
 reaction was where is the nearest nursing home and do they have a vacancy. Then a reality check 
 gave me the answer, know how the tests should be taken improved my brain age to 33 (the best result 
 so far) .
  
  The test are very simple and without cutsy graphics of the Brain Academy.
  
  You have basic maths in 20 and 100 questions, the 100 version will later present you with a 
 hard setting this is particularly fun as it adds division in to the mix and resulted in my brain 
 ageing dropping to 42 on the first attempt but this as with all things reduced as familiarity grew.
 
  
  There are various verbal tests that require you to either count, read, or state one of four colours.
 
  
  The colours game I find particulary fun, this involves you being given one of four words;
  
 
  RED, BLUE, YELLOW and BLACK
  
  These are displayed on for words which are also;
  
  RED, BLUE, YELLOW and BLACK
  
  The fun comes from the fact that it is the colour of the text 
 and not the actual word that you have to vocalise, simplicity itself well you would have thought 
 so :-) try it you will see why this one will grab you.
  
  I have two grumbles that do frustate a little;
  
  1  The character recognition is a little 
 floored and can result in your answer being taken incorrectly.
  
  2  In the colours game mentioned above 'BLACK' is not always recognised but this could be the mix 
 of London, Gloucester and Oxonian accents I have cultured in my many years living in these areas.
 
  
  So all I can say is 'BUY IT, BUY IT NOW' you won't regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbeacom
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is the first of many cross category "games" that Nintendo has developed to draw in an 
 expanded audience while still pleasing those of us who are already playing games. Well Nintendo, 
 I have 2 words for you.
  
  Mission Accomplished!
  
  Thats right. Nintendo has really nailed it with this one. As fun and mentally engaging as Sudoku 
 but as simple as Free Cell. If this sounds interesting to you. Read on.
  
  I was very excited about this game when I read that it tested your quick wits and reaction time. 
 As a gamer who wouldn't be interesting in testing the skills they have spent years honing to a 
 razors edge. Well, I'm 31 years old and when I got Brain Age, my brain had slowed to the pace of 
 a 52 year old! What? Thats right, more than 20 years slower than it could have been. I proceeded 
 to repair the damage. Here's how:
  
  Brain Age offers several categories to test and train your brain. They include, but are not limited 
 to:
  
  1. 20 Second simple math speed test
  2. 60 Second simple math speed test
  3. Observational speed counting
  4. Speed Reading (aloud)
  5. Triangle Math
  6. Speed Color 
 Identification
  
  Noticing a pattern here? Thats right: Speed. The key to this game is not doing hard things. After 
 all, the math problems don't get much more difficult than "16 minus 8 equals ?". The key is doing 
 simple things quickly and with efficiency. Imagine a small pictograph of a house with stick figures 
 going in the front door while others go out the back. Your job is to count how many people are 
 left in the house after several groups come and go. Seem easy? It should, because it is. But then 
 larger groups come and go more quickly and you will feel your brain start to "sweat". One thing 
 is for sure, if you put some effort into this game, your brain will get a work out and you will 
 know it. I actually went through about a 30 minute of hard training and afterword I actually felt 
 depleted. It was amazing. It really felt wonderful.
  
  As if all this wasn't interesting enough, the game is set up such that you can practice as much 
 as you like, but you can only "test" at each skill once per day. It keeps a calendar of your "testing" 
 days and you can easily view the charts of your progress over time with the rises and dips showing 
 your skills improving steadily. Its very gratifying. Each Cart can hold the profile of 4 full time 
 players as well as impromptu guest players. You can compare your results with the other profiles 
 and see who is working harder and progressing faster.
  
  And don't forget, that most of the input required is done with the stylus or your voice via the 
 microphone making for some very simple and intuitive interaction. There are ZERO complex controls 
 to be found in this game.
  
  Lastly, if you like Sudoku, there is a VERY full featured Sudoku game included that makes Sudoku 
 as quick and simple as it could ever be. I find doing paper Sudoku tedious by comparison (and I 
 started with paper and pencil over a year ago) .
  
  Suffice it to say, this would be a great game at twice the price, so for the bargain price of $19.99 
 (at time of release) , you should defiinitely pick this title up and give it a go. Especially if 
 you have a friend/spouse/sibling you want to see how you stack up against.
  
  Also, if you are looking for info on graphics/sound/normal game info, it doesn't really apply as 
 this is not a graphics heavy game. Its all about using your brain. In fact, there are some fun 
 little "warm ups" that require you to free hand draw everyday objects just to get that part of 
 your brain working and surprisingly, it actually helps. Plus its particularly fun to see what each 
 of the people who have profiles on the game come up with for the same subject matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioman00
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  When I got brain age i was really excited... you know WHEW NEW DS GAME kinda thing. Then i played 
 a little and didnt understand it much and didnt really like it. So i played it the next day and 
 my brain age is 20. Then i started training with sudoku, memory, and trivia games. After then i 
 play every day and really enjoy. There are loads a puzzle things to unlock too. Great game definintely 
 a must buy if you want to smarten yourself while having fun.. Altough some drawbacks include that 
 its hard to be a lefty and play this game, sometimes it feels like homework or a chore, and there 
 arent any tunes or graphical things to add spice to it.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ponygonpwns
Rating: 6.1
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  Brain Age is a good game for your brain, and for your free time. Even though, it might not seem 
 like that at first. Brain Age does seem boring at first, because you have to go through tutorials, 
 but it is worth it. The game has 3 different modes, Daily Training, Sudoku, and Download. Daily 
 Training is where you go to so you can take the Brain Age Test. Also, you can see your progress 
 in the game with graphs, and train yourself with fun tests in Training Mode. Sudoku is like a "mini" 
 game in Brain Age. There are helpful tutorials for beginners of sudoku. Download is where you can 
 test friends and family with the Calculator Battle, or send a trial of Brain Age to someone else. 
 There is also an easter egg I like to do in the game, but I won't tell you.
  
  You wonder why I gave Brain Age a 6.1 if I have good things to say about it? Well, when there are 
 good things, there are bad things. The game is barely just a brain check, not even with a "brain 
 mini game" installed. The game does not have enough sound effects or music on it. The graphics 
 are barely suitable for the DS, looks more like an advanced GBA game.
  
  So, this game isn't reccomended for everyone, only recommended for people who are more addicted 
 to educational games than I am. The price is reasonable, so mostly everyone should get a copy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theheartless666
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 5, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  Brain Age: Train Your Brain In Minutes A Day is one heck of a weird title. In some ways I don't 
 even know that it's fair to call it a "game". An solidly fun piece of interactivity, yes, but a 
 game? I'm not quite positive.
  
  When you boot this game up for the first time you may be a little scared of the floating polygonal 
 head. I'm sad to say this fear may never subside. Nevertheless, he is Ryuta Kawashima, the guy 
 behind this whole project. He is the author of a book called Train Your Brain and he is very, very 
 obsessed with the prefrontal cortex of the brain. It's kind of creepy. He will not telll you about 
 any other part of your brain. I didn't even think the thing existed, but upon a quick net search 
 found out that yes there is a prefrontal cortex. Does Brain Age really flex it? Your guess is as 
 good as mine.
  
  The first thing you'll notice about this game is that you have to hold the DS sideways to play. 
 Like a book. I do not know whether or not this is comfortable on an old DS system, but it is a 
 pretty comfortable fit into my hand on my DS Lite. Depending on whether or not you are right or 
 left-handed the game will reverse itself to make sure you can write with your good hand. This is 
 a welcome accommodation for the one out of every nine people (if I have my numbers right) who write 
 southpaw. And yes, you will be writing in this game.
  
  When you get your profile made and you're ready to play, you will be presented with Quick Play, 
 Daily Training, and Sudoku modes. Yes, sudoku, that super-popular puzzle phenomenon that all your 
 friends are playing but you don't understand. Believe me, there is no better way on earth to play 
 Sudoku but on Brain Age. But I digress.
  
  Quick Play was basically conceived to hand the game off to your friends and say "do basic math 
 now!" Daily Training is where you'll spend most of your time. Whenever you want (up to once a day) 
 you can do a Brain Age test. You will be given three random tests and based on your average score 
 the game will calculate your brain's "age". The younger, the better. The types of tests can all 
 be practiced from the Training section. Harder versions of the same tests, as well as many additional 
 tests, can be unlocked simply by getting daily stamps for practicing frequently.
  
  The tests may remind you of the brain-teasers they fed you back in middle school. You will have 
 basic math time-tests, memorization practices of different varieties, and some things that are 
 outright bizarre at your stylus tip. These really do make your brain feel like it's more aware 
 after you warm it up with some of these. If nothing else, the game could make a good tool for getting 
 your mind going in the mornings before work or school.
  
  Then there is the sudoku. Sudoku has become the topic of much newspaper puzzle geek chatter over 
 the past year. It is a simple-yet-agonizing logic game based on numbers in a grid, and I never 
 understood or cared about it until I got a copy of Brain Age. I still don't believe I could play 
 the thing on paper, but the interface for it on Brain Age is fantastic. Touching any empty space 
 zooms in on it so you can place the right number or, up to 9 tiny guess numbers as to what it might 
 be for later on. Hand-writing recognition is usually pretty good but it will slip up sometimes. 
 When meaning to write a 2 you might get a 7 and hit "zoom out" without noticing. This would cause 
 you to lose a point and get 20 minutes added to your final score. BE CAREFUL!
  
  The handwriting is the same all throughout the game. Usually it's pretty good but every now and 
 again you will get a mistake marked against you just because it thought you wrote something you 
 did not. This can be infuriating because you care so much about getting a good high score and making 
 yourself feel smarter. Oh well. That is really the only complaint I have about the game!
  
  Brain Age is a budget title at $20 and it successfully implements all of what makes the DS unique: 
 stylus writing, stylus poking, microphone interaction. And hey, it might help you warm up for the 
 big test on a Monday morning! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cakeorrdeath
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 6:14 am PT
Review:  Brain Training isn't really a game, it is a collection of puzzles and short math problems. Somehow 
 Nintendo have managed to make this very simple format into something deeply engrossing and highly 
 addictive. There are a two modes of play. The first is a varied collection of mini puzzles, testing 
 your math, observation and memory. Upon completion of of each puzzle you are given a score dependant 
 on how fast and/or how accurately you completed the test. You can also take a series of 3 tests 
 and the game will calculate how old your brain is. The second aspect of brain Training is Sudoku. 
 Close to a hundred puzzles are included of varying difficulties. The interface for this is excellent 
 and allows much easier play tha if using a standard newspaper of puzzle book.
  
  Brain Training will disappoint those looking for a traditional game, but if you are looking for 
 something different you should definitely give Brain Training a look! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bengameaholic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 3, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  I found that Brain Age was and is a great game. I think this for a number of reasons. Firstly, 
 the game has a certain element that allows you to relax and just sit down and enjoy the simplistic 
 white backgrounds and black script. With the florescent grace of simple yet totally necessary music.
 
  
  This is a game that you can get along with. Something that you look foward to and something to 
 enjoy all at the same time. You do it daily and I always find that I can't wait until the next 
 day because I just want to try out something new and obtain new results, and just continue piling 
 on to the game. It's a game that the more you put into it, the more you get out of it.
  
  The graphics are not bad. There is no need for graphics. And the face may have edges rather than 
 curves but that only reminds us that that he is a computer rather than a machine. I like him just 
 talking to me. As an example, I missed a day once and the next day when I played it, he said to 
 me ''Oh. You weren't here yesterday. I missed you'' and I feel more acknowledges that I am playing 
 the game.
  
  The activities are interesting and I do enjoy them. If you don't enjoy them, they are there for 
 a purpose. To improve your brain. I find the sound is fine. Just nice to listening to softly while 
 you are writing mathmatical equations on a pretty excellent touch screen. There may be little frustrating 
 areas where you write a 4 and it reads a 9. That might happen but you shouldn't complain because 
 the device is quite excellent. And in the end of the day, if you don't enjoy these types of puzzle 
 games, then just don't buy it. You have a choice, and that is what is so great about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justiceboy13
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  hell yes. I can honestly say, that for a time this is a very fun amusing little DS game. For a 
 time. The thing is, after you've done everything a few times, this gets stale quick. But while 
 it lasts, its very fun, and argueably one of the defining experiences on the DS. You are guided 
 by the slightly off-putting face of Dr. Ryutu Kawashimi through all the mini-games. This game is 
 well worth $20, for the entertainment you get. That is the beauty of this game. Bored with your 
 DS? Fork over $20 and buy yourself some pure handheld fun. The mini-games are hard, but in their 
 challenge addictive. You will find yourself coming back for more, waiting for tommorow to come 
 so you can test yourself again. This game is also good for when you are bored with your DS and 
 don't feel like buying a new game. It feels fresh everytime you pick it up. I give this game the 
 Justiceboy seal of approval. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoGamer06
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  The main point everyone interested in this game may want to know is... does it work? Well, its hard 
 to say even after playing several times over a period of weeks.
  
  The gameplay involves the user having a number of calculations to find the answer to and then while 
 being timed the results are entered usuing the stylus on the lower touch screen. For example: On 
 the top screen or left screen (Brain Train is played with the DS on its side like an open book) 
 sum is displayed and you have to write down the answer on the oposite side of the DS. So if the 
 left screen shows 2+2, you would then enter 4 on the touch pad, and the game will then move on 
 to the next. After a round you then find out how well you have done and the game records your efforts. 
 Then it gives you a rating and tells you your overall "brain age". It will take some time for you 
 to get your "brain age" down to your real age but the game is designed to be played daily so you 
 can see a change as the days go on. So you have maths problems to figure, but there are other alternative 
 modes to get into. There is other "brain activities" such as remembering something you see on the 
 left screen and try to write down the order in which you seen the numbers appear. This game can 
 be fun and it can get challanging as you try to remember everything and get the answers down on 
 the touch screen. There is also reading sections of the game where you will be given a passage 
 from a book to read and again you will be timed to see how much time it takes you. My main problem 
 here was that the player could just use the DS shoulder buttons to file through the pages of text 
 and end the test. This basically alows the player to cheat as they do not have to read everything 
 before continuing and there is no way the DS tell if someone is just pressing the button to get 
 to the end of the test without doing it properly.
  
  Other problems occur throughout the game but it does not ruin the overall experience... that may 
 be down to the player and the attention they feel like give a game like this. Some of the main 
 problems with the game are as follows:
  
  The player sometimes has to identify a color and speak into the DS microphone. In most cases the 
 game could not pick up what I was trying to say, again this effects the score in any given test.
 
  
  Most of your time is spent writing on the touch screen, this often includes numbers. The problem 
 here is that the DS doesn't recognise what you have written and 9's can often be represented as 
 7's. It may be down to the user but this will have an effect on your score when your training is 
 complete. Value
  
  So you get the tests that you can work on daily but the value this game gives really depends on 
 the player. You may know if this is your sort of game and many will be curious to see just how 
 it plays and if it works for them. You can also play Sudoku if you don't feel like playing the 
 normal maths and reading portions of the game, the only difference seperating Sudoku on the DS 
 from its other forms is the DS touchscreen functionality. If you like Sudoku then that is another 
 reason for picking this game up. Overall
  
  So to sum up, the game is different to anything else on any system and because of the subject many 
 people may want to give it a go. It has some problems with understanding all that is entered by 
 the play, be that voice recognition or text but these flaws do not ruin the game completley. I 
 would sugget that anyone interested in this game give it a go but don't expect it to be more than 
 it is, and it really just is a bit of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beymaster1
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  when i first got this game i was pretty excited to see if it met my expectations. It apparently 
 did with some good gameplay and addictive activities to keep you going. I have now unlocked all 
 the activities and to tell you the truth i have enjoyed this game a lot during that time
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay is good. it makes good use of the touch screen and microphone
  
  Graphics: 
 The graphics were ok considering this game does not need good graphics since all your seeing is 
 numbers and plain pictures
  
  Sound: Sound is simple and suits well with the game
  
  Overall id have to say that ive enjoyed this game for a short time. It may keep you going for a 
 while but over time with repetitive gameplay it gets boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xL-phrutz
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:49 am PT
Review:  Okay the reason i dislike brain age is bcuz it has terrible activities. Also when you say blue 
 and black it does not recognize what the heck you are saying. Another problem is that it recognizes 
 numbers horribly. If i draw a 4 i get a 1. if i draw a 3 i get a 2. Okay main point is this game 
 has many flaws and that it may be fun for the first hour, but after that, it's boring. It should 
 go for 10 dollars. Sooo, the first day i got it i gave it to my bro and stopped playing for a while. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakelhj
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I had originally planned on purchasing Big Brain Academy, but the clerks 
 at GameStop claimed Brain Age was better. So, at their suggestion, I got this game instead. Whether 
 it's true or not, I still have no idea, though I would like to find out. I am not too impressed 
 with the game. I find the whole game as a package rather ugly looking (could they not afford better 
 graphic artists?) , however the controls are good for the most part, though sometimes it mistakes 
 numbers I write with the touch screen for different numbers, causing me to get the answer wrong 
 where it would otherwise have been right, and thus effecting my score. Also, some of the speech 
 exercizes can have the same muddled effect when it comes to voice/word recognition.
  
  The exercises are quite repetative and though I realize they are not supposed to be necessarily 
 ENTERTAINING... I feel like it's definitely missing something. Whether or not this is compensated 
 in Big Brain Academy or not I don't know, but it seems as though it might.
  
  The multiplayer is a joke. It really is that bad. If you were looking for a battle of wits, this 
 is not the game to pick up... maybe try Advance Wars : Dual Strike!
  
  My favorite part is the Sudoku which is not even the main focus of the game. Out of all the forms 
 of Sudoku I've found in digital form, I'd say that Brain Age is the best, and that is pretty much 
 this games saving grace. If not for it, I would have given this game around a 5.5 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DELTADOG00
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 24, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  when you turn it on its cool and innovative.. but gets repetitive... lacking variety
  
  if u like those stuff.. i recommend it..... its a good game to try out and etc.. but not to keep you 
 interested long enough... youll rather play king kong on the ds more than this...
  
  but if you want to work your brain.. its good for random pick up play for a few min.. but then it 
 get gay...
  
  music aint important.. its just simple music.. and gets annoying for 1 hour.
  
  just not very fun.. so dont get this game.... borinb boring boring boring boring borign
  
 
  chinese guy boring ahh ahh ahh ahhh ahh ahh ahh ahh hahh ahh ahh hahh hahaha hah haha hahh ah 
 haha hhaa h h aha h ah ahahahah a h a hahahahaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LINKTHECHAMPION
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is O. K., it's just that I don't like educational games. The game is always the same after 
 you unlock everything and beat the puzzles (which took me about 7 and a half hours, I know there 
 are 100 some puzzles, I'm just really smart) , I mean after a couple of days, you won't like it 
 anymore and will just trade it in. This game may also be better to those who have a family that 
 plays video games, but I don't, so I will say that it is good for a couple of hours, but gets boring 
 after a couple of hours. If you can find a used copy of this game, though, buy it. It isn't a bad 
 game, it just gets old quick. I would have paid $10 for this game, but that's just my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sam_woo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 23, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  FIRST OFF, THIS IS NOT A VIDEO GAME
  
  aight, here's the story, when i was little i was a genious. i started speaking in full sentences 
 when i was 1 and a half and was extremely advanced throughout elementary school, slowing down a 
 bit in middle school and MAJOR LAGGGG by the end of my freshman year in highschool. in the past 
 two years i've been playing a bit more videogames than usual i'd play pretty much every time i 
 got the chance (a definite spot from about 6PM to 2AM XD) . if i didn't shape up this year, i'd 
 definitely be taken out of some of my classes
  
  so...
  
  BRAIN AGE PWNSBRAIN AGE PWNSBRAIN AGE PWNSBRAIN AGE PWNSBRAIN AGE PWNS
  
  au yeh.
  
  and 
 im good now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall6Cloud
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game, I had heard that it was fun. But I had no idea it would be SOOOOO addictive!!! 
 The game basically has a couple of different sections. One section tests your "Brain Age" as defined 
 by the game. The other is for playing against other people. And the last is different brain exercises. 
 You have exercises that use voice, and then exercises that use the stylus. There are basic addition, 
 subtraction, multiplication, and divinsion exercises. There is head count, where you have to count 
 how many people are left in a house while some enter and some exit the house. There is a syllable 
 count where you have to count the syllables within a number of sentences. There is a basic reading 
 exercise. There is an Analog clock exercise where you have to figure out how many hours difference 
 between the two clocks. There is a vocal exercise where you have to shout the colors as fast you 
 as you can. And a couple more exercises. EACH being very fun. I found myself literally playing 
 this game for an hour or two everyday for about a month or two.. It's highly addictive and well 
 worth the 19.99 price tag. So I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LakeFPownsu
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 18, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Video games have existed for quite a while now. However, with my experience, I've yet to come across 
 a fun education game. Then brain age comes along. A game that actually measures how smart you are, 
 based on how old your brain is. It claims that if your brain age is lower than your real age, you're 
 smarter than a normal person your age, and vise versa. Brain Age delivers a addictive game that, 
 while may not have many games to play, recommends you to play the game in bite-sized amounts every 
 day. And that leads to some of the problems of the game.
  
  Sure, Brain Age is addictive, but it doesn't set itself up to be as addictive as it could've been. 
 You unlock games by getting a stamp for days you "train your brain." This means that you have to 
 wait for time to pass so you can unlock the games. Sure, this may seem like it extends the life 
 of the game. But with only one new puzzle a day for each game, don't expect to be playing the same 
 game more than 3 times in the same day. That is, unless you're playing Sudoku. Sudoku is basically 
 seperate from everything else and tries to give the game replay value. If you don't like Sudoku, 
 don't expect to be wanting to play this game more than a few minutes a day, as the title suggests.
 
  
  Then, there's multiplayer which isn't very fun. All you can do is math equations, so don't expect 
 to be playing this much. However, you can send a demo to friends which is pretty cool as well.
 
  
  Gameplay: Brain Age never uses the buttons or D-pad (unless you're turning the page of a book) 
 and plays nicely, despite some voice recognition and writing recognition minor errors.
  
  Graphics: The numbers do look very nice....?
  
  Sound: Not much sound besides a beep when you 
 get a question right and some repetetive music.
  
  Value: If you play in bite-size bits as the title suggests, you could be playing this for a long 
 time before your brain age hits 20. If you don't like to do that, don't expect to be doing much 
 but sudoku, which does get repetetive.
  
  Tilt: Right in the middle. While the game is entertaining, it doesn't have enough games to be called 
 extremely fun. It's more addicting than fun, if that makes sense...
  
  All in all, if you want a game to play a little at a time, look no further than brain age. But 
 if you want to sit with your DS for long periods of time, for simple fun or to pass that long car 
 trip, look for something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plucky7
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I like this game. I just got it and I was playing it and its fun. Its good because I like the minigames. 
 I like doing the tests. I think its fun but the thing i hate about it is that it can get old quick. 
 There isn't a lot in this game that can make keep playing it over and over again. I love that its 
 cheap and that it has Su Doku in it. Im a big fan of it. I can't see me playing this game in like 
 a month but i don't know. This game seems like a two week game to three. If it wasn't so cheap 
 and regular price as 35 i wouldn't have bought it but I like the idea of this game and its fun 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FetusZero
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 16, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Well this is my first DS review and luckily, Brain Age will be quite easy to review.
  
  There isn't much to be said about Brain Age other than the game schools all ya'll out there. it 
 schools you in every way it can. While the game is really addictive, it still works out your brain 
 instead of destroying it like most video games out there. This game litterally makes you more intelligent. 
 Teaches you how to calculate simple numbers, while I used to be bad at mental calculation. It helps 
 you speak better, faster and in an understandable way. It works out your memory, helping you remember 
 things you usually wouldn't. How many people can say they remember what they ate yesterday? I sure 
 can't.
  
  While being an instructive game and while most of us hated school to death, Brain Age succeeds 
 in making us learn in an entertaining way. I never really liked "instructive" games as most are 
 for 4 years old kids, but Brain Age brings you the schoolin' you need since you droppe dout of 
 high school and you stillw ant more of it. Believe me, it is hard to believe you want more schoolin, 
 but you will see if you try it.. you'll be craving for some schoolin your way, buddy.
  
  As anybody who have red my reviews, they know I'm not the typical reviewer (this graphics this 
 thing that whatever) but that i write out what were my impressions on the game, and for who it 
 is. Of course, a big brainer won't find any fun inside Brain Age as he'll get the perfect score 
 right away.
  
  But anybody with a distant mind.. this game is for you, or should I say, for your distant brain. 
 make it run within good work instead of butterfly fields.
  
  I've got absolutly no complaint about the game xept for the fact that the word "blue" is often 
 misunderstood. The game catches my "blue" like 2 times out of 5, don't if this is because my native 
 language is french (might be a very good reason) but I've also heard other people complain about 
 this. Is there a perfect way to pronounce "blue" that nobody knows? Only the game knows for sure, 
 or should I say, master Brain.
  
  I didn't give too much details about what is inside the game, as this would ruin your pelasure 
 of finding it out. All I'll say about it, you have PLENTY of games to do before you get tired and 
 sick of this game. Sudoku rocks my world today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimD73
Rating: 7.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Video games and education never really got along together. You know, wed try to arrange playdates, 
 but itd always end up with the games sitting on the couch eating cheetos and forcing the education 
 to do his homework for him. Whenever education tries to stand up to video games, it just ends up 
 with a twisted arm and has to run home to mommy. Brain Age is basically another playdate, but one 
 that absolutely exploded in Japan and has now been brought to the rest of the world. Does the marriage 
 of the two elements finally work? More or less, it actually does, and is well worth the budget 
 price.
  
  The basic concept of Brain Age is that performing certain activities daily will enhance your mental 
 capacity and make your brain work more efficiently, and your progress can be tracked by checking 
 the relative age of your brain daily. The activities include such seemingly regular choices such 
 as reading out loud or solving simple calculations to more fast-paced games like having to remember 
 a group of numbers and rank them low-to-high or keep track of people entering and leaving a house 
 at lightening pace. None take too long, which stays true to the games slogan, which is that it 
 will train your brain in minutes a day.
  
  Basically, that slogan does sum up one important part of the game. You should not buy this game 
 and expect to play it for hours on end. Once you have completed each activity once in a day, the 
 game will no longer record statistics until the next day. The same goes for the brain age checks, 
 so if you do better at five oclock than you did at three, then you are still stuck with the worse 
 score. Youll probably want to play for about twenty minutes per day and then wait until tomorrow.
 
  
  If the game had allowed the tracking of multiple scores in one day, some of the games could be 
 very replayable. Low-to-High is actually very fun and easy to get into, and Triangle Math is challenging 
 enough to garner a few tries. A couple of the games, such as Syllable Count and Reading Aloud, 
 have only one set available per day, so replayability goes right out the window for them. Other 
 games like Time Lapse and Word Memory just arent interesting enough to be played multiple times.
 
  
  The skill of the player has absolutely zero bearing on how the other games are unlocked. While 
 you only start off with two forms of Calculations and Reading Aloud, you can easily unlock every 
 game by simply getting stamps each day. To get a stamp, all you have to do is play one game in 
 a day. Since games like Calculations x20 can take a little as twenty seconds if youre good, this 
 is certainly not a difficult task. After your twentieth stamp, every game will be available to 
 you. This can actually be fairly tedious, as it leaves you waiting for the other games as opposed 
 to being able to simply playing through the other games to unlock later games. It is also a setup 
 for disappointment, as the two final games after Triangle Math are not worth writing home about.
 
  
  As mentioned above, the game also has a method used to check the age of your brain once per day. 
 The test gives you three random challenges (most of which arent available to play in training 
 mode, unfortunately) that will determine how well the overall efficiency of your brain is. While 
 games like Number Cruncher (which has you count objects on the screen with specific characteristics) 
 and Connect Maze (in which you must connect numbers and letters in a specific order) are good enough 
 that they should have been in the main game, but others like Speed Counting (which is simply count 
 to 120 as fast as possible with no way are actually proving you counted) are just lazy.
  
  While the game does come with a 16-player calculation showdown option available with single card 
 play (which I have never personally tried) , the main draw to the game for many may well end up 
 being the numerous Sudoku puzzles that come with the game. The often intense number game has become 
 a worldwide phenomenon, and the game is incorporated quite well into Brain Age. There are 100 puzzles 
 available with varying difficulties and recorded times, as well as the option to have the game 
 stop you if you write an incorrect answer. Since the puzzles should take at least ten to fifteen 
 minutes each on average the first time through, that alone is more than twenty hours of gameplay, 
 making the game worth purchasing for that alone if you are a Sudoku enthusiast.
  
  The game obviously makes heavy use of the technologies made available by the DS. Everything in 
 the game is either written out or spoken, with not a single use for the buttons (aside from the 
 occasional Easter egg) . The number recognition is surprisingly apt from the get-go. The only two 
 numbers that tend to cause problems are the 9, which must be written more like a lower case G than 
 the more traditional stick with a ball poking off Im used to, and the 4, which must be written 
 in one fluid motion. Once you get used to it, the number writing is very easy with only the occasional 
 hiccup.
  
  Voice recognition is not quite as good. The first time you try the Stroop Test, which requires 
 you to say the colour of the word rather than the actual word, be prepared to say blue about 
 fifty times before the game recognizes it. You must speak in near-complete monotone for the game 
 to recognize, but it also becomes easy to work with once you get some practice. Since there is 
 no calibration process, the performance of the voice recognition is actually quite impressive.
 
  
  The part that never seems to work right is the letter recognition, which is thankfully only necessary 
 in Word Memory. If your handwriting isnt perfect, the game will rarely accept your letter and 
 constantly show the wrong one. Lower case As are especially difficult, as they must be written 
 in the typewriter form. Also, since you cant erase individual letters, the entire word must be 
 restarted, leading to much lower than normal scores in the game than normal. Since it only appears 
 in one game, it isnt all that big a deal, but it still can be very frustrating.
  
  One minute disappointment from the game is that there is no way to trade scores with another player, 
 which would definitely be good for putting a more competitive spirit into the game. However, up 
 to four profiles can be placed on one cartridge, which emphasizes family playing. In fact, the 
 game is playable by basically anyone caring to try. Ive seen my parents play it and my mother 
 actually become addicted to it. Since you can compare scores with other profiles, there is a certain 
 competitive spark that may easily arise. This is actually probably one of the best games on the 
 DS for non-gamers, and with a mere twenty-five dollar price tag, it is definitely worth trying 
 out even on a lark.
  
  The big question is whether or not Brain Age actually makes you smarter. Well, I know that after 
 failing miserably at performing simple calculations without a calculator at first, I can now wiz 
 through such mind-bending questions as 7 x 8. Whether or not it actually applies to real life and 
 overall brain efficiency is not for me to tell. What I can tell is that, for the $25 price tag, 
 you really cant go wrong with Brain Age. Sure, its a little repetitive and has some technical 
 issues, but it can be fun at times, has plenty of Sudoku puzzles and is truly fun for all ages. 
 Its not a classic and probably wont be well remembered a couple months after purchase if you 
 dont have anyone to compare scores with, but it may be worth checking out for a simple cheap DS 
 title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallAroundBoy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 15, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Okay, everyday, when you boot up Brain Age , and Professor Kawashima guides you through a short program 
 of activities chosen from a list that includes such rapid-fire tasks as prtforming simple equations, 
 or reading out loud from a passage of text.
  However, it's cleanly performed, unfolds neatly and feels far less dull than it should. Games that 
 are based on edutainment are rarely as good and addictive as this, making it perfect bit of self-improvement 
 for DS owners of any age. Gameplay is easy to learn and the minimalist soundtrack helps you concentrate, 
 not the other way around. It's clean and functional, with the Prof's grinning face to see you through. Brain 
 Age genuinely strengthens you mind, and it does well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draqq_Zyxorian
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 11, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  The words "education" and "entertainment" usually don't belong together. So when we call Oregon 
 Trail, Reading Rabbit, and Math Blaster "edutainment" software, heads start to turn; even more 
 so for Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day!, since (besides its long name) it targets 
 more than children. Brain Age dreams of DS lovers walking down the street playing mental exercises 
 that supposedly improve your practical intelligence. Supervisor and prominent Japanese neuroscientist, 
 Dr. Ryuta Kawashima, wants his game to make mental training simple and fun, two adjectives not 
 associated with exercises steeped in academia and psychoanalysis. For a game that only requires 
 basic math, reading, and writing, Brain Age takes a lot of complicated risk, to rather odd results.
 
  
  Dr. Kawashima's extremely polygonal head guides you through the game, but like an overeager professor, 
 the game begins by force-feeding facts that try to "show that brain training works" but also prevent 
 you from having fun. Flipping screen after screen will lead you to believe that your brain age 
 determines your intelligence. The game takes every opportunity to remind you that your results 
 in training programs are determined by monitoring the activity of your prefrontal cortex. The six-page 
 introduction in the game manual is littered with colored diagrams of the brain's anatomy, functional 
 magnetic resonance imaging, and near-infrared spectroscopy. This pretentiousness sucks some of 
 the joy out of the game, especially when the scientific evidence is not entirely convincing.
  
  Brain Age uses mini-games, like addition and counting, that generally provoke quick reactions 
 to simple operations, but the provided comparisons to other games aren't fair. The introduction 
 shows you four labeled brain diagrams displaying how much Brain C performing simple math problems 
 quickly or Brain D processing words when a book is read aloud has more red-glowing activity than 
 Brain B solving a difficult math problem or Brain A sitting in idle thought. Is that it? What about 
 high-impact fighting games or resource managements in a real-time strategy game? Don't they require 
 quick reactions as well? Furthermore, if your performance is based on the activity of your prefrontal 
 cortex, which is in the front of the brain, why show diagrams of the entire brain? Finally, basing 
 an entity as broad as "brain age" on just academic smarts fails to recognize different kinds of 
 intelligence. Physical and emotional intelligence may not be as readily testable, but it should 
 have been noted that brain age doesn't encompass the breadth of all intelligence.
  
  If you overlook this overgeneralization, however, Brain Age has a nostalgic charm that is quite 
 disarming. Beyond the scientific mumbo-jumbo and analytical wordplay, you will find mini-games 
 that rekindle what made learning so fun:
  
  * Before mathematics became an onslaught of theoretical algebraic functions and variable conic 
 sections, we scribbled big numbers and squiggled plus signs and symbols we thought were x's (Calculations 
 x 20, Calculations x 100, Triangle Math) .
  * Before we deciphered lines of Shakespeare, we sputtered and stumbled over long words (Reading 
 Aloud and Syllable Count) .
  * We glanced at the clock to see how much time was left until recess (Time Lapse) .
  * We pointed 
 at people and counted with our fingers (Head Count, Number Cruncher) .
  * We shouted out numbers and the names of colors (Voice Calculation, Speed Counting, Stroop Test) .
 
  * We flipped cards with letters and numerals. (Word Memory, Low to High) .
  * And we connected dots (Connect Maze) .
  
  After a mini-game, you are rewarded in a happy yet 
 quirky way. Did you finish the game as fast as a man, a bicycle, a train, a jet, or a rocket? Juvenile, 
 yes. But it's this juvenile spirit that makes this game more than just some derivation of an IQ 
 test.
  
  As Brain Age takes seemingly childish games and, in Nintendo fashion, gives them an unexpected 
 spotlight, it also highlights the power of DS, using the stylus and microphone exclusively. Just 
 on first impression, playing Brain Age with a directional pad and the standard buttons would be 
 silly. Imagine having to spin digit wheels to answer your multiplication tables; every calculation 
 would be an exercise of tedium. Instead, you either speak the answer or write it on the touch screen, 
 and with speed being the name of the game, both writing and voice recognition are properly swift.
 
  
  Unfortunately, as you fight your way to earn rocket speeds, the game's shortcomings don't get any 
 harder to see. There's no clear system for recognition, no manual that tells you what the game 
 is looking for in penmanship. Frequently, your 1's are confused for 7's, your 4's are looped into 
 9's, and the word "blue" doesn't like to register. Worse yet, the game actually recommends you 
 to have your friends and family take a quick brain age check - with the Stroop Test. So expect 
 to hear them blare "blue" at the screen ad nauseum. Making these problems even more irritating, 
 the penalties for a wrong answer are severe: a 5-second penalty for an incorrect calculation and 
 a 20-second penalty in Syllable Count. And if you choose to be notified of an incorrect answer 
 in a basic-level Sudoku puzzle, one unlucky error between a "4" and a "9" will you get a 20-minute 
 penalty, the same amount of time it takes to finish the darn thing.
  
  More frustrating is that the game forces its worth. The whole point of Brain Age is to, well, check 
 your brain age, by having the game monitor your performance in three games. You might struggle 
 near the beginning, but you will probably reach the highest brain age of 20 within a few tries, 
 except that you are only allowed to record your brain age once a day. Since the game is based on 
 elementary skills, you probably won't have any trouble earning at least train speed on every game, 
 so why force us to wait? Even starker than how standardized tests are in some measure about test-taking 
 skills, your initial struggle comes more from learning the game rather than any lack of intelligence 
 on your part. Sure, there's always a learning curve, but for a game that (supposedly) assesses 
 your brain age, you would expect the game to test your natural ability sooner.
  
  Moreover, you can't unlock all of the mini-games when you want to. The game requires you to collect 
 time stamps, which you painfully earn one day at a time. That Brain Age wants you to train your 
 brain every day is understandable - it's in the title - but it should have depended on the strength 
 of its training games to make you come back for more, instead of forcing a daily regimen down your 
 throat.
  
  Truly, the scant multiplayer says it all. The "Calculations x 30 Battle" is quite fun, but that's 
 all there is. Brain Age has so many training programs at its disposal that having just one multiplayer 
 game is ridiculous. It just makes it more obvious that the game spreads itself across several days, 
 because there's just not much there. Brain Age should be praised for showing us that educational 
 software can be entertaining for everyone and for getting you to learn on purpose. Learning can 
 be fun. But after a week of solving problem after problem, you will soon forget about your brain 
 age and activate your prefrontal cortex for bigger and better games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ojkoj
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  Here I am, in my room. I Must break my record!!! Oh no! I SO messed up!!! Then I realize....... 
 I'm freaking out over math problems.
  Bain Age is game where you proggress through things that usually activate your prefrontal cortex 
 as the science Brain Age man says. Somehow, doing math problems and thinking is fun.
  The gameplay is quite entertaining, from reading, writing, and 'rithmitic, you slowly proggress 
 toward the amazing fealing you get when you reach a brain age of 20. I, unfortunatly, have never 
 expierienced this, for i have a brain age of 51 at the moment. If you consider getting a brain 
 age of 20 beating the game, then you have quite a challenge ahead of you.
  The menu music is nice, but it really doesnt matter for this game.
  Overall, the game is worth 
 the cheap price and is surprisingly fun. I'd definatly reccomend buying this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mecha_Koops
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  well this game is supposed to make you smarter and it actually kinda does. you have a tutor to 
 help you get smarter and hes set up a bunch of activites for you to do to get your brain smarter. 
 there is a reading excersise and many thinking excirsies that involve numbers and even ones that 
 involve speach were you speak into the built in microphone. there is also brain training mode were 
 you do a number of randomly picked activaties to see your brain age. the lower the number the better 
 your brain age is. this is an amazing game with good multiplayer. you get to see which is smarter. 
 hey if you play against your family you might get a better brain age then your parents. so if you 
 want a game the whole family to enjoy get this game. it is awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BR0M
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 9, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The game is innovative and neat to show-off to friends and family but it lacks staying power. I 
 shouldn't technically call it a game neither.
  
  Brain Age is a brain training tool that may or may not actually benefit your brain. It has a large 
 number of puzzles it uses to test how quickly your brain functions. It scores them on a ranking 
 system called your Brain Age... the lower your brain age, the better (20 being the lowest) It only 
 tests your brain age once per day though, so you only play for about 10 minutes a day. I managed 
 to get to age 20 in a mere 3 days so i spent 30 minutes on that portion of the game. I spent about 
 30 minutes in the training exercises so I could unlock more games. Nothing spectacular there. The 
 games, or puzzles rather, get tiring after one or two shots. And I spent another 30 minutes playing 
 sudokus... the only reason i would ever come back to play this game. So I spent an hour and a half 
 on this game. The sudoku is a nice feature and it works even better than Sudoku Grid Master for 
 the DS. If you are a giant sudoku fan then this game should be rated a 9.9 for you. Otherwise, 
 there isnt enough replayablity for the masses. This game is definently not for everyone. Mull it 
 over before committing to purchase this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royal_demon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 8, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The brain age game is an extremely easy to use game. The entire game is used with the touch screen 
 and microphone. various parts of the game confuse the game like the way you write your 4's and 
 9's. the stroop test which requires the microphone doesnt always work so instead of in the end 
 giving you your brains correct age it will add on a few years which seems very unfair after youve 
 completed the brain age check.
  
  The graphics are not great but it doesnt matter that isnt why you have to but this game its because 
 of the amazing writing recognition and sudoku which has become extremely addictive. I used to hate 
 the fact that everyone played sudoku but its very good and its helpful to begginners when your 
 ds tells you when you make a mistake which your newspaper cant do.
  
  for 20 pounds this is well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  ... then you stop getting new games added. and to get a new game everyday in the first place, you 
 hav to get on and train at least once a day. after like 3 or 4 days, you start not getting new 
 games for weeks at a time, and once the easy age of 20 is reached, you decide that theres nothing 
 more to be done, and you never play it again. also, it has trouble hearing the word "blue". just 
 because you play the same games over and over doesnt mean that they aren't challenging, theyre 
 pretty fun and if youre good at one you feel good about yourself. also, if a friend has the game, 
 you can always compare brain ages, but only once a day! 
  theres also a bonus sudoku section that also gets old because the beginner section is super easy, 
 and the intermediate section is super hard (or im just no good at sudoku... thats probably it.) 
 ya... dont buy it, even for $20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiderSouth
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I've gotta say this right up front: You know how there are always people who say that "video games 
 aren't good for you"? Well, shove this under their nose, and watch the fun unfold. This game is 
 innovative because it uses it for EDUCATIONAL purposes. I'm not saying that no video game ever 
 trained your brain, because many games require you to use your brain to complete it. This game 
 trains your brain in basic areas like math and reading and stuff that you would usually want to 
 reserve for schooling. But all you need to do is just take fifteen minutes, tops, out of your day, 
 and you're done for the day. It's that easy. Not many video games can do that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 3, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Brain Training is a good handheld game. You improve your numeracy skills by playing different puzzles 
 & games which makes maths quite fun. There are 9 activities to play. They are Calculations 20x, 
 Calculations 100x, Reading Aloud, Low to High, Syllable Count (easy) , Triangle Count, Time Lapse, 
 Head Count (Hard & Impossible) & Voice Calculation. There is also 100 sudoku puzzles which are 
 fun if you know how to play it. (As well there will be sudoku expansion packs at download stations.) 
 You will gradually get these activities as you play the game more & get more stamps. You get stamps 
 if you play at least 1 activity a day. As you get more stamps you get more activities to play. 
 The truth though is it actually improves your numeracy. It does, but in a fun way which is good. 
 However there is 1 slight problem. When writing a number down a number or saying a number into 
 your microphone in certain activities or sudoku it can sometimes come out with a different. Not 
 always but sometimes, but if you are a natarully good handwriter it will be no problem. Also you 
 might complain that there aren't enough challenges well i suppose you could complain but 100 sudoku 
 puzzles makes it up. There is also multiplayer, however i haven't had the oppurtunity to test it 
 out with my mates so i'm not too sure about it. The sound isn't that good but it doesn't really 
 matter as you only ever hear the music when you're on the menu. It has kept me entertained for 
 the past week & i'm sure it will continue too. Brain Training is a nice little addition to the 
 DS games collection. I would to say it is probably the best DS puzzle game along with Tetris DS. 
 Its a nice little innotive game worth buying at a low price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghog2293
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 2, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Brain age is fun while being "educational" but it takes forever to unlock all of the mini games, 
 and the multiplayer sucks, all it is is calculations or giving someone a demo. But it comes with 
 suduko which makes it interesting for a little longer. Plus the guy is a little creepy and obcessed 
 with talking about the "prefrontal cortex" he's pretty much a nerd. And there are some glitches. 
 It has a hard time reading the number 8 and on one mini game where you say the color of the words 
 it doesn't understand blue very well either. Overall, it's an okay game with a cheaper price than 
 most of the other ds games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeV-Unreal
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 1, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I didn't know that solving sudoku puzzles could help to activate your prefrontal cortex. The modern 
 game Sudoku was invented in Indianapolis in 1979. Interest in Sudoku stems from a revival in Japan 
 in 1986. But You ask yourself "What is prefrontal cortex?". The prefrontal cortex is the anterior 
 part of the frontal lobes of the brain, lying in front of the motor and premotor areas. Cytoarchitectonically, 
 it is defined by the presence of an internal granular layer IV (in contrast to the agranular premotor 
 cortex) . Divided into the lateral, orbitofrontal and medial prefrontal areas, this brain region 
 has been implicated in planning complex cognitive behaviors, personality expression and moderating 
 correct social behavior.
  
  About this game is that it will work with your prefrontal cortex, this game will make you a better 
 thinker, your brian will be fast as well on math. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacojac
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  There is much to talk about to talk about this game. Its not even a game. Its more like a training 
 program. It consists in some exercises which are supposed (?) to train your brain daily. When 
 you begin the game for the first time, you have the surprise to discover that, to play, you have 
 to play by holding your DS vertically as you would do with a small book (The DS Lite is lot more 
 comfortable in this position) . And then, a floating Japanese head with glasses (Dr. Kawashima) 
 welcome you and ask you which hand you use to write. You then have to turn the DS according to 
 the answer. After that, Dr. Kawashima explains you the different options of the menu.
  
  The Quick Play option allows you to play some exercises quickly and to compete against your friends 
 in mental disciplines. That option looks like a demo and other DS owner can download it as they 
 would do with a real demo.
  
  The Daily Training option is the main part of the game. Your first enter some information (date, 
 birth date) and then you play some mental exercises (more complex than in Quick Play) . According 
 to your results and your performances, Dr. Kawashima will determine your Brain Age. 20 is the best 
 possible result so if your brains older than 20, you must train it more. To train your brain daily, 
 Dr. Kawashima explains you that you have to do a least 2 exercises from around 20. If you do 2 
 exercises, you will earn a stamp (OK) printed on the games calendar. When you have some stamps, 
 you will get more exercises to play with. Why 2? Its because there are only a few exercises available 
 on the beginning. For example you can play at the calculation x20 which features 20 simple calculations 
 (+, -, x) . This exercise is short and frustrating, but its a lot more interesting to play the 
 longer calculation x100. Another game features 30 words which you have to remember in 3 minutes 
 and then write within 2 minutes.
  
  In addition to these calculation and memory games, some other games feature the distinction of 
 colors, the articulation while reading a text aloud, the observation and the dexterity. All the 
 exercises are made to make the play quick and instinctive by using the Touch screen and the DS 
 mic. You have to write numbers and letters with the stylus on the Touch Screen and tell your answers 
 in the mic. If you dont write your answers clearly, the game will sometimes confuse some letters 
 (like 5 and 2 or H and R) . So you will have to train a lot to be able to always have the right 
 and clear answers. Some exercises are very hard, some are just right, and the others are too much 
 easy. Some players wouldnt like this irregularity and would play only the hard or their favourite 
 games. These little defects make the Training as not credible as it would be
  
  To unlock all the exercises, you will have to work a few days by doing a least two exercise a day. 
 The games goal isnt to try to beat your own records every day. Its just to train your brain 
 daily (even if Im not sure if it really works) . But at the end of your exercise, Dr. Kawashima 
 will associate your performance to a transport mode speed: walking speed, bicycle speed, car speed, 
 train speed and plane speed. The floating head will also give you constructive comments and advices 
 to do better next time. 
  You will need around 20 stamps on your calendar to get your brain age to 20 by playing around 10 
 minutes a day. This game wasnt made to Hard-Core gamers who play a game all day long. It was made 
 to people who play sometimes and just want to have fun by doing these funny exercises and to train 
 their brain easily without efforts. The game also features a Sudoku game which is great when you 
 get bored by the mental exercises. But the game still stays on the puzzle aspect of the game.
 
  
  Brain Age: Train your Brain in minutes a day is a great game with an amazing potential. But you 
 must be careful with it because it wasnt made to play as a real game. If you want to have some 
 daily fun and some little challenges, that game is perfect. I give a correct score to Brain Age 
 because its the score a normal gamer would give to it. But if you correspond to the characteristics 
 upper it would merit a higher score. If someone told you, when you were at school, that someday 
 you would enjoy an intelligent game, Im sure you would have told him he was mad
  
  Hope you liked this review.
  
  Jacojac
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkRemembered
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day!
  
  The title hits you like a baseball bat to a prostitute's head in GTA: you will have to think! While 
 many games require this in more subtle ways, Brain Age comes right out of the closet. And it's 
 not too bad, either.
  
  The "gameplay", if you will, is a variety of touch-screen and mic-based puzzles, all that are supposed 
 to keep (or get) your brain in top condition. From the surprisingly fun 100 problem multiplication 
 to reading aloud, you will encounter a fair variety of challenges, but plan on having to unlock 
 many of them, as you start out with only three. This is not difficult, however, it just requires 
 you to earn stamps. To get these, you simply complete one event on a certain day. You can obtain 
 larger stamps by completing three in a day, but this is up tp you. 
  
  As you probably know by now, while playing Brain Age, you hold your DS (or DS Lite) like a book. 
 It's psychedellic at first, but you get used to it. On what was the top screen, the non-touch one, 
 you will get advice and rewards from the professor who came up with the concept for the game. He 
 will guide you through the game, at least in between the short bursts of gameplay. 
  
  Another glory in Brain Age is the superb Sudoku. Now I know it sounds boring, I thought the same 
 thing... until I played it. Sadly, as I've seen with many other gamers victim to Brain Age's cheap 
 tricks, it brings out my inner nerd. Alas! It is fun!
  
  The is multiplayer functionality, but it is very limited. Your only options are either playing 
 "Calculations x30" or sending a demo. You can't even view others' scoreboards! Sadly, this is a 
 little disappointing. Other problems result from a sometimes faulty voice recognition system, and 
 the occasional misreading of handwriting on touch screen events.
  
  This isn't the kind of game that you can beat. You come back to it whenever you feel like it, and 
 you gradually unlock new modes. This can get old, but you can't deny that you do get the hideous 
 urge to play fairly often, at least while it's new to you. Also, it's a budget-priced title, costing 
 a mere $20, so don't let that stop you from purchasing this seemingly useful game.
  
  Overall, while Brain Age has its flaws, it is a solid, fresh game, and it's just what gamers are 
 looking for right now. If you have a DS, then you should pick this good title up sometime. And 
 I don't care whether you want to or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RBossi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:37 am PT
Review:  I bought this game in France, and when I first heard of it I thought, where is this game good for? 
 So my dad bought it because he wanted to play it, and then my brother started playing it and I 
 thought, well, why don't I give it a try
  
  When you start to play it you can choose the brain test, or the brain training.
  When you do 
 this you can test your brain on how old it is, do this from time to time to see how much your brain 
 has improved or deproved, you get three exercises you need to complete before you see how old your 
 brain is, 20 is the best, 80 is the worst.
  The mic of the DS is also built in, you need to count to 120 as soon as possible (though you can 
 already stop at 50) and say the color a word is written in, when the word says black but the color 
 is yellow, you need to say yellow
  Then there are the exercises where you don't need to speak, like counting the people going in and 
 out the houses, calculating, remembering words and more, all to improve your brain
  
  Then there also is this sudoku you can play as an extra game, there are enough puzzles to be busy 
 for a while, though I never really was a sudoku fan, but for those that hate writing it down in 
 the newspaper this is a very helpful game
  
  Notice that when you first play this game you try to do it daily to get stamps to unlock new exercises 
 and see how old your brain is, it's addictive indeed.
  It's like brushing your teeth, sometimes in the weekend after I had my breakfast I go play Brain 
 Age, and it helps me to wake up! My entire family plays it now and overall it's a good game to 
 help you keeping you alert, but I don't think that the ages it says your brain is are correct sometimes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infernoply
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game i thought it was a good idea. it was a jump forward for nintedo 
 to try and get older people playing games, but is it any good? for people who dont know what brain 
 training is it is a game which involves you doing different mental activities (calculations, sylable 
 counting, reading aloud etc.) and trying to beat your record that you have set when you previously 
 attepted these activities. it also has a brain age check function which (aparently) checks how 
 old your brain is from the results of 3 tests. anyway lets get into the review.
  
  When you start up the game you have several options: sudoku, quick play, daily training and download. 
 
  
  we will start with quick play. this is basically choosing one of the activities at random. you 
 dont have to enter personal data (except which hand you write with) and is only used if your showing 
 someone the game as it is much better to use the daily training option.
  
  daily training is the main chuck of the game. after you've entered you name and birthday and past 
 the ramblings of the Dr Kawashima avatar you can get into activities. it starts off with 3 activities 
 and you can get up to 9. you unlock more activities and harder modes on certain activites by doing 
 at least 1 activity a day, this earns you a stamp and when you get a certain amount of stamps you 
 get a reward. graphs are kept of each activity you do so you can see your progress. you can also 
 check your brain age and this is done by a series of 3 tests chosen at random (you can choose them 
 yourself but listen to the Dr and he'll tell you at some point) . you do your best in these activities 
 and then at the end of the third it says your brain age. it ranges from a brain age of 20 (the 
 best) to a brain age of 80 (the worst) . im under 20 so he says take the results with a pinch of 
 salt. it took me about 5 goes to get a brain age of 20 and i do a check every so often to see how 
 im doing. but this game is not about getting a brain age of 20 then stopping so i carry on with 
 the activities everyday and enjoy them.
  
  there is also sudoku, another main part to the game. it has over 100 puzzles and they range from 
 beginner to expert (it had to be unocked) . the sudoku grid is controlled very nicely (you tap a 
 square and it zooms in on it then you can write in the number) and this will keep you busy for 
 a long time. it also has instructions and tips on how to play.
  
  therer is also download which allows you to send: a demo to another person, sudoku puzzles and 
 also lets you play a multiplayer game. this game involves up to 15 people (from 1 card) racing 
 to do 30 calculations as fast as possible. it doesnt sound good on paper and to be honest its not 
 that good in the game.
  
  the graphics are very clean and crisp as its mainly text and numbers and are presented on a white 
 background.
  
  the sounds are basic and there is a bit of music but it is not too catchy. the sounds are basically 
 notes for when it goes 3,2,1. and also a sound if you get it right or wrong.
  
  this game is played by holding the ds sideways using the screen on the left for puzzles. and the 
 touch screen for writing the answers. i assume its the opposite for left handed people (you choose 
 when you make an account so left handed people can play aswell) . there is voice recognition in 
 the game and its is good but does not always recognise what you say. its pretty good at interpreting 
 what you right but frustratingly it confuses 4 and 9. meaning you have a unfair wrong answer or 
 you have to start the activity again.
  
  so in conclusion brain training is a great game but now (based on everything in this review) you 
 must make up your mind whether you want it or not or are gonna wait and see... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RpGamerzzz
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:27 am PT
Review:  This game is hard to describe because its too different from any other games that i've ever played. 
 This game tells you how old your brain is and gives you various different activities to activate 
 parts of your brain that supposedly need to be stimulated because of old age. Checking your brain 
 age could be things like memorizing many words, doing math problems, etc. and those three tests, 
 based on speed and accuracy, will tell you how old your brain is. Rather than checking your brain 
 age, you could go on and just do some simple math problems, getting a head count on things, or 
 even just play soduko. Soduko was a great addition to the game because i mostly play it because 
 of it. there are around 20 different soduko puzzles in three different difficulties (basic, intermediate, 
 and advanced) . In simple words, this game is definitely a new experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imasmartguy
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I got this game a month ago. It was fun at first but, after a few weeks, it got boring. You have 
 to do stuff over and over and over and over again everyday. Oh, and your reward? A SMILEY FACE 
 STAMP! Don't get me wrong, when school starts I will play it more to learn, but who wants to learn 
 in the summer? Don't get me wrong, it can be fun if you like puzzles and stuff like that, but I 
 don't like them much, except for a little Soduku. It is easy to play, whether you're 8 or 80, it 
 can really improve your thinking and brain. I say, what the eck, get it just for fun, who cares 
 if the creepy japan head gets mad cause you haven't cone your daily challenges in over a month. 
 It is one of the cheapest games on the DS, so get it, try it, if you don't like it take it back! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R1k0_88
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  "Train your brain in minutes a day? Sounds like something useful for in vacation time!" was my 
 first thought when I first saw the game. So I bought it (and a black DS Lite to be able to play) .
 
  
  I started up the game at home, after showing off my new handheld console.
  Dr. Kawashima's polygonic head showed up, greeting me in a friendly way.
  Then I started working 
 out my brain with my first brain test. Voice recognition never has been more fun there. I remember 
 how many times I had to say 'Red!' before it finally recognized the word. Same with the calculations 
 x20, where i wrote 5, it recognized it as 1 and so forth! the tip for this: play every day to see 
 what the game recognizes, and with the stamps you get (1 for every day) , you unlock new minigames 
 to trigger your brain to get to work in another kind of way, or you unlock new options, like the 
 option to design your own stamp.
  
  If the game recognizes your handwriting and voice, you can have major fun with it, especially if 
 all 4 profiles are filled.
  That gives the game the competitive edge which drives you to rigorous training.
  
  BTW: the 
 first time i did the brain age test, i came out on 78 years, and today i'm on 22. So in less than 
 2 weeks, anything can happen, if you train hard enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martindprotts
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  I can't describe this game. On one hand it has stuff that some guys think shouldn't be in games. 
 On the other hand it's funny.
  
  The reason people with useless memories should buy this is (a) it's fun and (b) it can really help 
 improve your memory. People who say "Ohh, games are for twits," or "games can't improve your intellingence" 
 will feel like twits themselves. This game is great though. I'm far from getting a perfect 20 years 
 old. However I absolutely HATE THE VOICE RECOGNITION!!!! I've been stopped from doing voice things 
 twice because it couldn't recognise my voice. I tend to go four touch screen controls. However 
 I like Dr Kawashima's instructions because that makes it very X3 quick to learn. I'm doing brain 
 age check every day!
  
  This is a game everyone should get, teenager to pensioner, particuarly if you want to get a young 
 brain. Good graphics, calm little tunes and quite innovative. A must have and it could make you 
 smart. Only my Dad can do the sudoku puzzles though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoodyFlame
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, frankly, I myself, seriously do not know, I bought this mainly because it is so popular and 
 because it comes at a budget price.
  This is not a warioware type game, for those who thought so when they heard minigames...
  Now, 
 when you fist boot the game, you sign your name and stuff, and then you read through some facts 
 about the brain, and right after that you play the ugly polygonial doctors favorite game. A game 
 where you speak in to the mic, and he shows you one of four words coloured in either yellow, red, 
 blue or black, and the words are yellow, blue, red or black. i think many of you know that test 
 already, after going through the game, you'll realise the the stupid game has trouble understanding 
 the word blue, you have to sound like a brit for it to understand it 100% of the time!!!
  on with the review, other than that that particular minigame is fun, the only one in which i have 
 a problem with is the useless reading aloud minigame, he gives u a few pages to read, and at the 
 end of the minigame he times you and calculates your syslables per second, and voila, that game 
 just SUKS, all the rest are pretty fun especially syslable count and head count. yuo'll see what 
 I mean if you buy it.
  the brain chack is pretty okay, its short and it gives you a little of a competitive attitude to 
 beat your previous age.
  The addition of sudoku is really really cool, and thats pretty much it.
  
  The main thing is, 
 if you have some money to spare on the way affordable budget price I would say (if you like this 
 kinda stuff) that you shoud go for it.
  Otherwise, I myself wouldn't buy it if it was over the price it's at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaMeS4418
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:24 am PT
Review:  In brain age you do special puzzles that train your mind. How good you are at solving these puzzles 
 quickly and efficeintly will give you your brain age with 20 years as the highest possible score. 
 While this may sound like homewok it is very addicting and i can't put my ds down. The simple excersies 
 are entertaining though ti doubt that they train you that much. While mosst of the games work well 
 some of the games have technical difficulties like when you have to write words that appear on 
 scren and the ds keps thinking my "T" is an "X" that really pissed me off. Or when saying the color 
 of the words displayed onscreen the microphone doesnt understand me that can be annoying as well. 
 Overall brain age is a great game and should definitely at least be played by everyone who thinks 
 that this game is too much like homework.
  
  Graphics: Pretty good for the ds
  
  SOUND: Not bad just kinda background music i actually don't remember what it is : (
  
  VALUE: 
 High so you can become smarter
  
  REPLAYABILITY: Very high
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggamer25
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 20, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  One great thing about this game is that the gameplay is different in everything you do, it varies 
 from doing math problems to reading out loud and yes even play some sudoku. It even has you drawing 
 pictures of weird animals too and asks you what you had for dinner yesterday or something like 
 that. This game doesnt really have much of graphics at all but they are not very good especially 
 for a DS game. This game though is good for your brain and helps it stay strong and healthy and 
 it also gives you tips on how to keep your brain in good shape and not a lazy brain from watching 
 too much tv and playing too much non strategy type video games and of course games that help you 
 keep your brain in good health. This game is bad in graphics but i have to say that it is good 
 in everything else so that is a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavanesh
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This is just a small entertaining game that has you go through fun training programs. You can also 
 take a test each day that gives you a brain age (lower being better, 20 it says is your main goal 
 to get. All the game really is an entertaining way to keep your brain functioning. Training programs 
 go all the way from simple math problems to counting people walking in and out the house, and even 
 up the chimney. It also has sudoku on it which i am not really a fan of but i like playing it on 
 brain age than doing it in the daily paper. It's a good game all around 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bouche
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  It's definately improving my mind. As a 35 year-old, I don't really have the attention span to 
 sit down and do brain exercises like crosswords, solitaire, sododuku, etc. However, I can't seem 
 to put this down and my math skills are actually coming back! I didn't even know I lost them until 
 I started trying to remember my times tables. 9x7=63!
  
  woohoo!
  
  Ok, so the handwriting is shaky, and so is the voice recognition, but once you learn how it reads 
 handwriting and listens to you, you can properly draw a 9 or a 4. Pronouncing words and colors 
 properly doesn't take long to figure out either. Actually sharing the game with a couple of people 
 helps you as well because you'll get tips on how to draw the letters, not to mention the fact that 
 you can compare drawings. I don't know why, but I just can't draw on the DS, but other people can. 
 I suppose I'll learn that as well.
  
  Tonight, I went shopping, brought a shopping list with me. I didn't have to constantly refer to 
 it, and in fact, only had to look at it once. There's my proof and I've only been playing this 
 thing for 5 days.
  
  Giddyup. It's so cheap and worth the little time it takes to frustrate yourself until you really 
 start noticing improvement. One tip though, DO NOT PLAY THIS DRUNK! YOU WILL SUCK LARGE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubertaffy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  As every major review has said, this is not a game in the true sense of the word. At the core of 
 this pak is the goal of getting players to score a low (low is good) brain age based on the same 
 concept of working out your body daily to be in better physical shape. None of the activities are 
 so complex that players would not understand them. Because the range of activities is broad (from 
 reading and counting to various math activities and memory challenges) each player will be able 
 to quickly master some of the mini-games and will find others quite challenging. Also, if the activities 
 still are too easy, players are eventually granted hard mode.
  
  The Daily Training, which has the most options to play (and will only record your score for each 
 activity once per day) , wont actually bring your brain age down over time, but doing a few activities 
 each day over time is supposed to get your brain in shape, which then in turn should help you get 
 your brain age down, done through a separate 3-part activity that again you can only do (or rather 
 record) once a day at most.
  
  This is the type of game-pak that no review can do justice to. Every review I have read and all 
 the people talking about it couldnt shake the feeling in my head that it would get old very fast 
 and there isnt enough game to the pak. However, I am not among the throngs of people completely 
 addicted to beating my previous days scores on each game, not to mention making sure the other 
 people with saved games on my card (up to 4) dont get their names above me as you can compare 
 graphs and high scores at any time.
  
  If nothing else, there are scores of Sodoku puzzles that alone will be worth the budget price. 
 Whether the game makes you smarter or at the very least makes you better able to tackle very easy 
 activities very fast very many times, it is catching on for a reason and is certainly a fresh approach 
 to some of the very repetitive games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpecialED1020
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  Even though from my review deck it would seem like I don't like the game, I did, a lot. It challenges 
 your brain with some fun and addictive games. But just like the reason I didn't like AC: WW, it 
 became a chore, or more like a second school. You have to go everyday, but it doesnt force you. 
 But if you don't the floating head dude sure does make you feel guilty. There are some problems 
 when picking up your voice or recognizing your handwriting. Like in the color game, it has a lot 
 of trouble picking up the word "blue" and I found most of the mistakes I've made in the games like 
 calulations and so on were due to it think i worte a different number. After a while the only reason 
 I kept the game was Sudoku, but I found out something, you can get those puzzles anywhere. So if 
 you like school you'll like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SabotFox
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever noticed that at the end of a long day, you feel worn out, especially if your day 
 consists of sitting in front of a computer screen clacking the keys or sitting in classroom after 
 classroom? Apparently, this is because your brain isnt getting enough stimulation. Luckily, Brain 
 Age has come up with a cure! This game consists of a number of quick tests to revitalize your 
 brain and also to help you make it younger. That sounds a little far-fetched, but youll be amazed 
 at the results.
  
  Brain Age isnt really a game so much as it is a training regimen for your brain. When you first 
 begin, you are put through some simple tests that make full use of the DS voice recognition software 
 and its stylus/touchpad. For instance, a word of a color will flash on the screen, and you have 
 to say the color of the word, rather than what the word says. In the next test, you may have to 
 speed count to 120. Or solve 20 simple equations. Or engage in number crunching, a program that 
 flashes a jumble of numbers on the screen that are sliding, pulsing, or rotating and you have to 
 correctly answer what numbers are doing what and how many they are. The tasks are simple to accomplish, 
 and the time you complete them in will help the software to determine your brains age. Dont be 
 surprised if your first test reveals that your brain is really old!
  
  After the test, you begin your training. Again, these are really simple tasks that will take only 
 minutes to accomplish. For instance, youll have the 20 simple equations to solve, and a few pages 
 from books to read aloud. The more you visit, the better Brain Age gets. If you do at least one 
 training program, you receive a stamp. As you progress through the training and earn more and more 
 stamps, you are able to lock even more training programs to help you train your brain. Every so 
 often, youll be prompted to write down the first thing you said in the morning, or what you had 
 to eat. If youve got more than one person playing Brain Age on the cartridge, youll also be prompted 
 to draw certain pictures, and once everyone submits their pictures, you can see what everyone drew. 
 It sounds silly, but the training does actually help!
  
  The true gem behind Brain Age though, is that it carries a large assortment of Su Doku puzzles 
 within. If youve never tried a Su Doku puzzle, Brain Age will teach you how to get started and 
 then let you solve a bunch of them. This isnt a training requirement, but Su Doku is good, solid, 
 addictive fun and probably the most helpful piece of programming in this game. After all, it tests 
 your logic skills, where most of the other training programs only deal with number crunching and 
 strengthening memory.
  
  Brain Age isnt a graphical wonder, but its a game thats beautiful in its simplicity. Some of 
 the elements of it seem silly, but its good to have a program on the market thats less about 
 objectives, and more about learning new skills. Pick up your stylus and give Brain Age a try. You 
 may amaze yourself with the results!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syluvan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day really is all its creator, Japanese neurologist Ryuta 
 Kawashima, declares it to be. It's quirky, fun, challenging, and, most importantly, it induces 
 mental growth. When I first started using this game about a month ago and found that my brain age 
 was marked at 54, I was appalled. How could it mark me at such a high age? However, within a mere 
 few days, I could already feel results, and I knew that the initial age was correct. After a week, 
 I noticed startling differences in my thinking methods and executions of ideas. Overall, I experienced 
 an amazing jump in mental capacity, memory skills, and thinking pattern improvisation, all of which 
 still continues to grow and improve my gameplay, which in turn inspired even more growth . . . 
 its spectacular! I rate this game very highly in my collection, even though I only play it for 
 about one half-hour each day. I recommend it to anyone who wants to expand their mental horizons 
 in a highly diverting way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toros73
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game coming to the DS I wasn't quite sure what to think. It looked ambitious 
 and promising, so I gave it a try. After 15 minutes of playing I knew I made a good choice.
  
  Most of the puzzles in this game are fairly easy but a little too repetitive. The Sudoku add 
 on is of course, the best part of the game in my opinion. Overall this game is interesting and 
 pretty fun, but tends to get a little boring after playing for so long. As far as making you smarter, 
 probably, but I'm not sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00chaos8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Well first of all brain age is a unique game with a good learning system for kids. When I first 
 tried it out my brain age was 80, which means bad. I kind of felt insulted because my 10 year old 
 sister got a brain age of 64 in her first try. So I continued playing it but the more I played 
 it i improve everyday, but I don't feel that I change though so does brain age really make your 
 brain smarter?
  
  But this game can really help kids on there math or other things though I mean it has some great 
 features in it that can help you learn. Not to mention, brain age is a video game right I mean 
 how many people do you hear that say video games are a waste of time? Well not this one, my grandpa 
 hates video games but he likes brain age because he loves puzzles and things that are hard for 
 him. And I think most people that are old will like this game. 
  
  Brain Age is a good game, but not sure if it actually works out your brain. But hey, its a fun 
 game to play with. I recommend this game to pretty much everybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 11, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Brain Training seems to do the oppoite of most games.
  Video games in general fill your brain with colour, noise and basically a sensory overload which 
 is all done in an attempt to please you.
  Brain Training does something very different, it aims at masaging your brain and prepare it for 
 the day ahead.
  
  Basically, you partake in a series of mental challenges in the hope of beating your previous score. 
 All the challenges require you to use the DS's unique functions, such as the touch screen and mic.
 
  
  The first unique aspect of the game is the way it makes you hold the DS. You hold it side on, and 
 the side you hold it depends on which hand you use to write.
  
  Here are a few examples of the challenges:
  
  Simple calculations on the one screen must be 
 answered on the other screen. The sums are easy but the challenge comes in answering them as quickly 
 as possible.
  
  Another challenge is a reading one. You must read the "Colour" of the word and not the word itself. 
 So the word RED will appear in the coulout Yelow and you must say "Yellow".
  
  There are numerous challenges following in the same vein. All are simple in design but mastering 
 them does become a challenge.
  
  As the subtitle suggests, this game also measures your "Brain Age". By giving you three random 
 challenges you can test the age of your brain. The best age is 20 years old and the worst I have 
 seen is 66 so I guess 70 is the worst.
  
  In addition to the training the game also features are very well excecuted game of Soduko. There 
 are plenty of challenges to be had in the game and the interface is brilliant.
  Infact, Soduko might be the best part of the game.
  
  The Soduko follows the normal format. 
 The touch screen shows a zoomed in grid where you write the answer while the second screen shows 
 the whole grid. 
  You can write either one big answer or nine smaller possible answers if you want to narrow down 
 your choices.
  
  After all this positivitey there are some bad points.
  
  The variety is one major drawback. The puzzles arean't that varied and there aren't that many to 
 keep you interested for a long time.
  
  Also, the handwriting recognition can be very dubious at times. How many times I wrote G and got 
 C I have lost count, lets just say it leaves something to be desired.
  Still, once you get the hang of the writing it gets easier.
  
  Also, the game has a horrible 
 feature that makes you answer stupid questions the first time you play the games.
  It asks you to draw ridiculous pictures, like countries, cars, trains etc. Then it compares your 
 pitiful attampt with a real artists impression.
  
  This just slows the game down and the fact that it is designed to play in quick bursts is defeated 
 by this weird feature.
  
  On the whole, Brain Training is a great game for those looking for something different. I find 
 it really useful in the mornings, I have a quick 10-15 minuite go in a hope it prepares my brain 
 for the day ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  There is one particular question that can be heard echoing throughout the corridors of time. It 
 is something that cannot be correctly answered by most people, which usually include: the casuals, 
 gaming novices, and those who have never touched a game in their miserable life. That question 
 would be, Can video games help us improve our intelligence? Well, the way games have always been 
 made could be the reason why most people ask this. You have your mindless hack and slash ventures, 
 frantic shoot-em-ups, and button mashing role playing games (yeah Im talking about you Square-Enix) , 
 but how do these genres help us mentally? Unfortunately, they dont. Thankfully though, the smart 
 folks at Nintendo have decided to put a patch on the problem, in the form of an intriguing little 
 puzzle game. That game is Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day!
  
  The educational focus of the game is based on activities designed to activate your prefrontal cortex, 
 the part of the brain that controls application properties. Mathematical problems, memory trials, 
 puzzle solving, and speech control are the primary focuses throughout, and playing a little each 
 day, according to Nintendo, should help you see a bit of intellectual improvement. If that is the 
 case then you have to wonder if there really is any point to all those years of schooling.
  
  Back to the topic at hand -- what really makes Brain Age impressive is how it manages to keep 
 track of all of your achievements. A slew of elaborate graphs and record saves are what show your 
 progress as you finish each stage, alongside a calendar that lets you know if you finished everything 
 that particular day. Also, several files are available, so that you and a friend can jokingly compare 
 how stupid you both are; a calculation that is made accessible through the Brain Age score you 
 receive. Overall, the best score that you can receive is 20, signifying that you have the fresh 
 mind of a twenty year old human being.
  
  Well, a smart one anyway.
  
  What is commendable about Brain Age is that it is the first DS title to take full advantage of 
 the touch screen. Now just how many times were developers going to rehash the gimmicky concept 
 of throwing a map or simple file data on that bottom window? And even though most companies are 
 still caught guilty doing it, we can be glad for the few that gamble with innovative ideas. Alongside 
 the significant use of the screen is yet another interesting prospect in the form of a horizontal 
 viewpoint. Throughout your brain tingling progression, you will be focusing on the top screen for 
 questions and answering them on the other. As you jump from challenge to challenge, you can unlock 
 new subjects, ranging from simple math problems to memorizing the order of numbers from lowest 
 to highest. The presentation of the game is great and will show you just how worn-out your mind 
 really is.
  
  Everything explained thus far has been solely based on the one player mode. To make things a bit 
 more interesting, Nintendo decided to throw a multi-player version onto the title to increase the 
 interaction. Doing math problems by yourself can only be fun for so long right? Anyway, from two 
 to sixteen players can battle it out using the wireless download play feature. The name of the 
 game in this mode is the calculation battle, which gives each player a set of puzzles to try to 
 complete. Extra points are added for speed and accuracy, and the resultant of the trials can be 
 displayed afterward for all to see and mock. For example, my brain age was an abysmal 70 the day 
 I purchased the game.
  
  For shame.
  
  If things do get out of hand and you need a break from all the mental challenges, the game offers 
 a plethora of sudoku puzzles. For those out of the loop for the last year or two, sudoku is a unique 
 number sequence game, first made popular by Japan. The objective of the game is to fit numbers, 
 ranging from one to nine, in crossword style boxes. Fitting these digits in without repetition 
 will allow you to proceed from one trial to the next, with each new board giving you harder and 
 harder situations. There are one hundred in all and Brain Age will conveniently keep track of the 
 ones you complete.
  
  Unfortunately, the execution of the game can get a bit sloppy at times and it all points to the 
 writing and voice recognition. Yet another hardware addition to Brain Age was the inclusion of 
 the microphone usage. Most of the pronunciation levels, which you will unlock later, focus on the 
 accuracy of speech translated through the several holes on the DS. The problem is that the range 
 of your voice can have a major effect on how the game scores you. From the trouble the game has 
 with discerning if the word blue was said correctly to the incorrect way that your writing is 
 sometimes interpreted, Brain Age will certainly give some players quite the frustrating moment. 
 If you do happen to burst a blood vessel, be sure to vent that anger into the microphone. If all 
 goes well then maybe, just maybe, it will improve your score.
  
  In the end, what I find particularly interesting about Brain Age is how well this genre is progressing 
 and how well people are accepting it. From the farming simulation Harvest Moon to the ball rolling 
 madness that is Katamari Damacy, the ideas of developers everywhere seem to be jumping to life. 
 Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day definitely has its flaws, but the game is really what 
 you make of it. You can truly treat it as a brain trainer and try to get the best score possible 
 or maybe just try a round of sudoku from time to time. All in all, despite the simple premise, 
 there is a great deal to do, and the low budget price of the game makes it an easy recommendation. 
 Just be sure to keep the Minutes a Day aspect in mind, unless, of course, you happen to have 
 a bottle of Tylenol on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kyo__man66
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Well as myslef like to try new things so the other day I bought "Brain Age: Train Your Brain in 
 Minutes a Day". I must say this is the best attempt and best edcuational game i've Ever played.
 
  One of the good sides to this game is that is has both simple and hard puzzles to enjoy to like 
 trying to find out how smart you are and tring to remember math as fast as you can.
  
  On the bad side of things the Graphics are just okay. Ryuta Kawashima's polygonish face usually 
 tends me to avoid eye contact and after a while the game starts to get repetive with the same puzzles 
 to solve
  
  but overall Brain Age is a good game to pick up to brag about how big your brain is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendayzmylife
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age had the potential to be a great game, but the makers blew it. Still a fun game, the touch 
 screen and microphone were clumsily made. On the touch screen, you have to write the word several 
 times before it recognizez what you put. It's almost impossible to write a K without it thinking 
 it's an X, a T without thinking it's an R, and don't even get me started on the Stroop Test, you 
 have to repeat the word BLUE like ten times then penalizes you for it. Don't get me wrong, it's 
 a fun game if you avoid those games. The sudoku is almost the only thing I use it for. All in all, 
 this game could've been alot better if they had worked on the microphone and touch screen more, 
 but still an ok game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambo_Potter
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for a month and I'm no smarter or sharper than I was before I bought 
 it, but I'm definently more frustrated. The game is decent for a couple of days and then you begin 
 to see all the flaws in it. The handwriting and voice recogniton can be downright lousy. Often 
 your attempt to write a 5 will come up a 3 or your 7 a 2 causing you to get a wrong answer. I've 
 had to scream "BLUE!!!!!!" so many times at the screen in the Stroop test to get it to recognize 
 my answer of blue I've lost count. Don't get me started on the Word Memory test. It took about 
 ten times on that test one time for me to get it to realize i was writing "Tree". 
  Another flaw of the game is how incredibly easy it is to inflate your scores by cheating. On the 
 previously mentioned "Word Memory" test, why memorize words when you can write them down, or in 
 the "Read Aloud" training program, just zip through and make it look like your reading at 15 syllables 
 a second. Plus to unlock all of the programs and features on the Brain Age takes 20 days of playing 
 and stamping calender days which is kinda annoying that it takes that long to unlock everything. 
 The only nice feature of the game to me is the Sudoku, which I do more than the training, but with 
 Sudoku Gridmaster on the way, it is probably better to wait for that than buy this game for its 
 Sudoku feature. My opinion can be biased because I am 20 years old myself, but even so I don't 
 see how even a 30 plus year old would benefit or have fun with this game. Definitely save your 
 money for something other than this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAXTER112
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This is what I think of as a really awsome. Some might be turned away just by seeing that it's a 
 learning game, I mean I was also turned away, until I played a demo. Now to talk about the graphics, well 
 there's not much to them but they're real good to say the least. Well as for the music it's decent. This 
 game can be real fun when you get into is. But I think it's one of those games you will only play 
 for a while. I liked it. You have to definently have to try this. So if you don't buy it at least 
 rent it. Oh an the SUDOKU puzzles are really fun. Well I guess that is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebritainer
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  This game is suprisingly good, considering it's a puzzle game, and for those of you on a budget 
 20 pounds is a very good price, having played the game pretty much everyday i would say its worth 
 the buy if you want 15- 30 mins of play on it.
  The sudoko is an interesting addition to it aswell, you can spend hours trying to solve the puzzles, 
 very good for the brain.
  
  There is also a section for your friends to play so they dont have to input their data. Good for 
 people of all ages.
  
  So all in all, the game is good but gets a bit tedious after a while!
  
  7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaveGray
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:16 am PT
Review:  Brian Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day is a fitting title for this game, since you'll be 
 hard pressed to spend more than a few minutes on the main game mode in one sitting. But, in the 
 game's defense, it's set up that way. The idea is that you play a series of mini-games based around 
 math problems, brain testers, and reading excercises. By playing these same mini-games each day, 
 you'll graph your progress and see how your brain is sharpening. There is also a Brain Age Check 
 feature that performs 3 basic tests on you to attribute a numerical age to how your brain is performing. 
 Over time, your results should improve and your thinking should be sharper. While these games are 
 fun and rewarding, after they're all unlocked (in about 15 game sessions) , you won't be as excited 
 to turn on your DS and do 20 math problems as you were when you first started playing.
  
  Brian Age has you hold the DS system sideways and uses the microphone and stylus as its main input 
 methods. Once you're used to the way that the system wants you to write and speak, it captures 
 your inputs very well. However, there are many bumps along the way, and you may find yourself have 
 to change the way you write "5"s or pronounce the word "blue". I, personally, didn't have much 
 trouble adapting, but I noticed that others that played and had different voice pitches had more 
 difficulty with recognition.
  
  The game features a few interesting additional aspects that aren't related to any kind of scoring 
 system, but just exist to test you and get your brian cooking. For example, as you log in each 
 day, you may be asked what you ate for breakfast. Then, a few days later, when you log on, the 
 game will ask you what you'd had for breakfast a few days prior. Another fun game asks you to draw 
 pictures of specific things from memory (a crab, Florida, "The Thinker") . Then it compares your 
 pictures to the actual items, as well as the pictures of others who have played the game.
  
  The make or break for Brain Age is unrelated to the main challenge, and is in the form of Suduko 
 puzzles. These are number-based logic puzzles found in newspapers and have become very popular. 
 The interface is flawless and makes playing the puzzles much less taxing than on a piece of paper. 
 There are 3 difficulty levels, ranging from the easiest of puzzles to advanced ones, but not the 
 insanely difficult ones that are sometimes found in the newspaper.
  
  If you're a fan of Suduko, Brain Age is worth its bargain price for this alone, as you'll find 
 hours upon hours of entertainment. If you're not looking for on-the-go Suduko, and you have other 
 friends or family that will also be playing the main game, you'll still probably get enough value 
 from the main game to warrant a purchase at its discounted price.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Techno_Burn
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Parents of the world, breathe a sigh of relief - an EDUCATIONAL game!!! Finally, kids wont have 
 to play GTA, Doom ad the like, the next generation of humans is safe... or not.
  Its good. Its definately good. A good idea too. Simple tests calculate your "Brain Age", while 
 other activities like Calculations x 20 - a round of 20 simple sums, answered by writing on the 
 touch screen - and Reading Aloud - reading a passage as fast as possible, with the game giving 
 you a score of syllables per second - are "Designed to activite the prefrontal cortex of your brain, 
 and improve general brain power! Hoo hoo ha!" (No mistype, the ingame "doctor" says that. All of 
 it.) . It definately keeps you sharper than usual, which is good, but it only lasts if you play every 
 game, every day. Kind of tedious though, so I reccomend you get it only if you expect to b extremely 
 bored, for a long time, every day. Its got sudoku as well, which I actualy quite like (Shut up 
 at the back!) , and you can have a 16 player battle with one card... doing 30 sums. Whoo-dee-friggin-doo. 
 But still, a valient attempt at something different, but not enough to distract from salivating 
 over trailers for FFXIII and MGS4. And budget price too, so l a lot more people will get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfaus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 4, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Intro: Brain Age is a game where every day, you do 8 or so activities that help keep your brain 
 activated. This helps train your brain, and potentially get a bit sharper.
  
  Difficulty: Just Right, all the games are kinda hard, but not too hard in any way.
  
  Sound: 
 Pleasant music is pretty much the soundtrack, but it fits in very well. Also, pleasant noises go 
 off when you get answers right and such.
  
  Presentation: All menus are easy to get to where you want to go and such. Very well done.
  
 
  Note: People say the mic and writing recognition is not good, but it works very well for me.
 
  Outro: Overall a very solid game especially for 20 or less dollars. You will put many hours into 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkrul3s
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 4, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I love this game 'cause Ithink that this is the reason I got straight A's on my final. Now lets 
 get down to reviewing.
  
  Gameplay: This game may seem boring but trust me it is not. Besides all you need is a stylus and 
 you are ready to play.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are ok and theres nothing great about it but there is nothing bad.
  
 
  Sound: The sound is ok in the beginning but then after aa while it will get pretty annoying. You 
 still will be too busy playing to even notice it but still.
  
  Value: I still play this game so I can get staright A's on my report card I don't care how boring 
 the game gets and how many new games I get I am going to still train my brain. Besides all it takes 
 is 10 minutes per day of your life.
  
  Tilt: The only tilt there is, is that you can unlock new training methods and if you read carefully 
 you can learn some really cool secrets about the game.
  
  That's why this game deserves this score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dipdogXgamer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 4, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day is one of those rare games that puts your brain to 
 work, and does a good job at that with its nine mini-games that quiz you in mathematics, memory, 
 and computation, which all are under Dr. Ryuta Kawashima's guiding. The simplicity of the game 
 makes it perfect for those who have never played a video game before or don't even know what in 
 the world they are, and that's why it's in Nintendo's new Touch Generations! system. The only down 
 side to this one is that its voice and handwriting recognition aren't as good as you think, but 
 is still surprisingly accurate when compared to today's standards. Now you may think that the game 
 is all about training, but no, the game doesn't just stop at training activities. Why not play 
 some fun Sudoku puzzles, or maybe even go against some friends in a Calculation Battle? You may 
 also think that this game is just for people over 20, the ideal brain age. But that is where you 
 are wrong, my friend. This game is for almost any age who want to train their brains, and why not 
 show them the game by showing them Quick Play mode? Think about how many friends or family members 
 you can get on to your game card, hooked on to this very game! Just like Dr. Kawashima says, it 
 is critical for your brain to be exercised, just like your body. This game is perfect for this 
 goal. A truly simple, inquisitive game, but its system is indefinitely complex, and should not 
 be underrated due to its simplicity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 1, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  Nintendo has been a very succesfull company troughout the years, their innovative hardware and 
 software break the barrier of regular gaming and turn it into a totally different yet enjoyable 
 experience.
  
  During the last year Nintendo made Japanese go crazy with the Nintendogs fever, the pet simulator 
 sold millions worldwide, but people were skeptical, no one thought that Nintendo was going to pull 
 off another game that made people go crazy over it.
  
  Well Nintendo succeded, and the DS has been a success worldwide, the great variety of games and 
 innovation have helped the company sell millions of units.
  
  Brain Age: Train Your Brain In Minutes A Day is a game which concept is simple, it helps the user 
 excersice his or her brain by following a series of tests and challenges that require skill and 
 quick thinking, it also features a bonus Sudoku game which by the way also requires skills and 
 thinking.
  
  When you wake up in the morning turn on your DS and play Brain Age for 10 or fifteen minutes, that 
 will activate your brain and help you be lucid and quick during the rest of the day, it is a quick 
 procedure and it is enjoyable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjb-sensei
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 30, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  One of the games released for the Nintendo DS from Nintendo themselves in the past year can't even 
 be considered a game in the truest sense of the word, but across the Pacific Ocean in Japan, that 
 doesn't really matter as it's sold over a million copies, becoming yet another DS million-seller 
 in that region. Now, the once Japanese-exclusive phenomenon is no longer exclusive to that place 
 as it has spread to the United States as Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day, and carries 
 a cheap, affordable price tag of only $19.99 at its launch.
  
  Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day is basically a piece of software that is used to calculate 
 just how old (or young) your brain is. It's unique in several different ways, one of which is the 
 way you hold the DS. Instead of holding it like you usually do, with one screen on top of the other, 
 you hold it sideways, like a book. The left screen will show the information you need to complete 
 a particular thing, while the right screen, the touch screen, is obviously used to input your answers. 
 The first thing you are instructed to do is take a test called "Brain Age Check". Through a series 
 of challenges, like a simple row of mathematical equations that you must either add or subtract, 
 or being able to identify how many of a specific color of numbers are appearing on screen, this 
 test, once you are finished with it, grants you your brain age. The perfect score is 20, which 
 is apparently the youngest a brain can get. I usually tend to hover around that range, although 
 partially because there is a hidden, alternate method of being able to choose which tests you want 
 to attempt while using this portion of the game (normally, you're random assigned which test you'll 
 be taking) .
  
  There is more to Brain Age, though. When you're not interested in finding out how old your brain 
 is, you can train it with a solid, yet somewhat lacking amount of activities for you to complete, 
 nine in total. I will now these break these down one by one.
  
  Calculations x20 - A basic collection of math problems are given to you here. If you can finish 
 problems like "7 + 1 =and "5 - 2 =then you know what to expect here. Obviously, the faster 
 you complete them, the better off your brain is.
  
  Calculations x100 - This mode is just like the prior one, only there are one hundred problems to 
 finish. Also, once you unlock it, you can choose to compete in hard mode, which ups the difficulty 
 by throwing multiplication and division problems at you in addition to the standard addition and 
 subtraction fare.
  
  Reading Aloud - Contrary to its name, you don't necessarily have to be reading aloud. This particular 
 portion of Brain Age simply has you reading some passages of famous writings. Again, the faster 
 you do the better off you are.
  
  Low to High - The left DS screen will briefly show some numbers. Your job is to memorize them and 
 then touch the order they were in on the DS' right (touch) screen.
  
  Syllable Count - The left screen will have a small passage for you to read, only this time instead 
 of merely reading it, you'll need to figure out how many syllables there are in total. Once you 
 determine just that, write the number on the other screen.
  
  Head Count - The DS' "regular screen" (the one that isn't touch-enhanced) will show a house and 
 people either leaving or entering it. You need to determine just how many people are left in the 
 house at the end.
  
  Triangle Math - Triangle math is not your ordinary set of math equations. Instead of the uber-simple 
 "4 + 2 =" and the like, you're now presented with problems of the fashion of "5 + 8 - 3"... but 
 that's not all. Once you're finished with the first row, there's an entirely separate row that 
 you need to add or subtract, using the answers you got from the first row. Once you have the answer 
 in your head, write it down on the DS' touch screen.
  
  Time Lapse - On the DS' left screen, there will be two clocks positioned. The top one shows what 
 time it was, while the bottom one displays what time it is now (not literally, of course) . Using 
 that amount of knowledge, you need to figure out how much time has passed.
  
  Voice Calculation - Unfortunately, I haven't been able to try this test as every time I attempt 
 to start it, my DS' microphone doesn't properly work for some reason.
  
  As you can see, Brain Age features an impressive amount of things to train your brain with, but 
 when you consider the fact that you can finish them all in the span of fifteen to thirty minutes 
 (combined, not individually, mind you) , you start to feel a bit disappointed that there aren't 
 more. Still, what is there has been nicely-crafted and are good ways to spend some time.
  
  Furthermore, once you complete a single activity you'll be asked to place a stamp on the calendar. 
 If you complete at least three activities, the size of the stamp will double in size. The stamp 
 can be customized if you don't like the default one, which is welcome, although personally, I don't 
 mind the standard one. The game also has a chart that is personalized to your statistics. You can 
 select a test to view your usage for, either for a single month or two months.
  
  If that just isn't enough for you, Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day also possesses 
 a game of Sudoku, which, according to the game, can evidently activate your prefrontal cortex. 
 There are three different stages of it: basic, intermediate, and a third, hidden one that I've 
 yet to unlock admittedly because Sudoku, while it's somewhat fun, isn't something I spent a boatload 
 of time on. The basic gist of the game, though, is filling in these blank squares with a number 
 from one to nine. Of course, it isn't that simple as you need to keep these three rules in mind 
 while playing:
  
  1) Every column must only contain one of each number from one to nine.
  2) Every row must only contain one of each number from one to nine.
  3) Every 3 x 3 box must 
 only contain one of each number from one to nine.
  
  There are plenty of puzzles here for Sudoku fiends, so those who are active in it will have plenty 
 to be happy about.
  
  Overall, Nintendo has clearly taken a very diverse path with this game (or non-game, as many people 
 seem to like to call it) . It's not Mario, it isn't Metroid, and it sure as heck isn't Zelda, but 
 what it is is a cheap, yet enjoyable package of brain exercises for the Nintendo DS. Is this an 
 absolute must-have for owners of the dual-screened handheld? No, but if you happen to have $20 
 that you're not sure what you want to do with, you could certainly do much worse than get Brain 
 Age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 29, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  When I first purchased the game it was fun playing the minigames that tested your brain's age. 
 Then after about 2 weeks i unlocked all the minigames and it got really boring playing the same 
 minigames everyday. And when they say "minutes a day" they really mean it. You could easily play 
 all the mingames in less than 20 minutes. So i quickly stopped playing the game all together. There 
 really was no point in doing the same thing everyday to test your brain.
  Now the game isnt all bad. I really liked the suduko part of the game. I spent most of my time 
 with that part of the game. There are tons of these soduko puzzles to solve. And also it is really 
 cheap. Its only $20, so it really wasnt a watse of money altogether. The game is also fun sometimes 
 to go back and play but, overall the fun of the game doesn't really last more than 2 weeks (if 
 that) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erie_enigma
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 27, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I was quite excited when the news of Brain Age was first released in the 'states. Not always one 
 to keep up with the oversea's front, it was news to me a few months prior to its release. I was 
 very interested in this, especially upon hearing the craze it was causing in Japan. 
  
  Well, arrive it did, and get it I did as well. After playing it awhile I must say it is fun for 
 awhile and interesting, but overall, Sudoku (the mind bending number game) is the most long lasting 
 appeal to me.
  
  The 'game' is centered around training your brain daily by doing a series of repetitive, quick, 
 and mostly simple trials to keep your brain sharp and to make it sharper. The proof of this is 
 supposedly provided by a 'brain age check' that begins the first time you creat a profile and continues 
 to be checked every time you choose to check it. At first, you only have a few activities to try, 
 but as you progress you will unlock more activites to play. Every day you 'train' you get a stamp 
 on your calender (with a bigger stamp if you do three activities.
  
  The activites range from simple math problems to counting people moving in and out (and sometimes 
 simultaneously in and out) of a house, reading literature passages aloud, counting time elapsed 
 from two different clock faces, and even 'voice' controlled math calculations. Most of these work 
 rather well and on the higher difficulties (some have 'easy' or 'hard' modes later on) may be challenging. 
 The setup and interface works well and things flow great. 
  
  Also added in are regular questions and activites by the host of the game that range from asking 
 what you ate that day to the first thing you said that day -- which is stored and will be asked of 
 you again later. Another activity is drawing a series of pictures with the stylus of something 
 (like a train engine, a hippo, etc..) . This is more fun with muliple users of the game for they 
 will show you their lovely works as well compared with yours.
  
  Although everything works well, I have a hard time proving this is making me sharper. Sure, I was 
 much faster at the activities after repeating them, but can I say that means my brain is sharper 
 or just practice in general? It's a big conlcusion. Fighting senility and Altzheimer's? That will 
 reamain to be seen. That being said, when I did perform better on an activity, I did feel a sense 
 of accomplishment.
  
  If you are someone that is on the go and don't like games that require daily playing -- this may 
 not be for you, as the host will yell at you when you are not consistent with your use. Although 
 it doesn't take long to 'train' daily, sometime it feels more of an annoyance when you feel obligated 
 to play. Also, the appeal begins to wane after a bit.
  
  However, one great addition to the game is the number cruncher Sudoku. Those unfamiliar with this 
 game should look into it if they're a fan of puzzles of any kind. This number game has been becoming 
 more and more popular these days, and the Sudoku format on this kart is very easy to use and plays 
 well, plus it tracks how long you are spending on a puzzle and has enough puzzles that you can 
 go back to one you did awhile ago and try to improve you times. Plus, there are varying levels 
 of difficulty presented with the puzzles, and if you are new to it -- they have a tutorial of sorts. 
 A great addition!
  
  Overall this game is recommended to those that are looking for a break from what's become 'traditional' 
 gaming, those looking to explore the new 'brain games' craze, and those looking for a great electronic 
 sudoku game. The lower overall price is also attractive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-lukaz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  I dont know what this game does to you, but its fun, in an odd way, its addicting somehow I dont 
 know, but what im trying to say is, I wanted to see what this game was like, because it was different, 
 but I also underated it because it was different, I got it because I was determined to try it out, 
 I didnt plan to enjoy it as much as i did, Its a really entertaining game, do some tests for the 
 day, thats all it asks you to do, and if you want more do some quick practice tests, or even play 
 sudoku.
  
  Dont be afraid to try something new because its educational, Nintendo is all about trying something 
 new and thats exactly what has been done!
  
  Plus 20 is an incredible launch price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 24, 2006 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age, as a Scientist, I really can't say how much of this game is scientifically accurate 
 as improving your brainpower, but it sure does keep you on your toes and thinking. As a game, it's 
 not so hot, nor is it something you play for maybe more than 15 minutes a day, but it is an interesting 
 application.
  
  Gameplay: Well, the game is almost entirely based on using the stylus to write answers in the form 
 of numbers or letters to make words. Certain games like the Reading Test and the Number and Letter 
 maze are crisp and responsive, but in the 20 Calculations test and 100 calculations test along 
 with Word Memory, the stylus has a hard time writing accurate enough, or rather unless you are 
 spot on, the game doesn't accurately measure what you are writing down, and this results in a lower 
 brain age/results. This is very annoying when you clearly write an 8 and it scores you as a 7. 
 Same for words, my friend cannot seem to get G or g to write out, no matter how he writes it. 
 
  Similarly on the Stroop Test, where one has to say outloud the color of the word, and not the 
 word itself, there are a lot of problems with voice recognition. For instance I could get red, 
 yellow and black fine, but blue doesn't register with me. My brother on the other hand could get 
 blue and black and yellow but red doesn't work. 
  
  I find this to be a problem, and half of your so called "improvements" result from the fact that 
 you get used to the deficiencies in the stylus writing system and that is how your "brain age" 
 improves. 
  
  You are scored in the time used or number of things remembered, and these problems with inputting 
 the answers penalizes you, thus this is problematic with your brain age and overall score.
  
  Graphics" The graphics aren't great, but they aren't bad. There is nothing stand out, the only 
 significan graphical accomplishment is the floating head of the supposed M. D. the game is based 
 on. Some of his expressions are sort of funny, but overall, it's a very dry color scheme and no 
 complex shapes or shading or modeling. Just fair.
  
  Sound: The exact same, nothing standout, but nothing bad. Just fair. 
  
  Value: There are some 
 interesting games, and the game is fun to keep up with every day for 15 minutes or however long 
 you want to play Sudoku, but it is not a game that keeps your interest for much longer, although 
 over the course of a few months with charting your daily progress I can see some decent value from 
 this game, especially for 19.99$.
  
  Tilt: I give this game a good tilt due to its intriguing concept, but a not perfect tilt due to 
 its flawed execution and the fact that I don't buy this whole brain age deal. Even the little animated 
 helper says "20 calculations may activate your prefrontal cortex". Ok, there is a qualifier, "maybe", 
 even in the game itself. I find that the first few times you play, you get a lower score due to 
 your lack of familiarity with the system. Only having played with it for a week do you actually 
 see the effects of playing the game. Once you reach a low brain age can you actually sharpen yourself 
 and get faster and quicker and make less real mistakes, and not artificial mistakes due to the 
 flawed imput system. Overall, this isn't so much a game, as in it is a novelty or application. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazydave101
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  I thought that this game was really something that all of us should get our hands on. It really 
 brings something new to the D. S which makes it more enjoyable. I didn't know that education could 
 be so fun!
  
  When the game does start to get really repetitive, you unlock new fun games that pulls you back 
 in. When you get all of the games unlocked then there doesn't seem to much of a point to play other 
 than to raise your math and reading skills. One of the most fun things in the game though is the 
 tons of different sudoku games there are. If you don't know how to play already, there is a tutorial. 
 
  
  Even though that this game does get kind of repetitive, it really is something you should try. 
 Besides, it's only $20. Just remember, for all you people who could use a little education in your 
 life, buy Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: enygmagyrl
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 20, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is just OK. The game is split between training your brain and playing Sudoku. 
  
  The frustrating part in the training mode is that sometimes it reads what I have written as incorrect, 
 when it really IS correct. Also, when I say the correct answer, it will keep saying TRY AGAIN until 
 it can distinguish what you say as being correct. That has got to be the most frustrating part 
 of this game. I have yet to unlock all the games/tests within this part of the game, but it takes 
 time... based on how many stamps you have. You really need to play daily in order to unlock all 
 the items, so prepare to be dedicated if you want more options. I also don't like that your scores 
 are only recorded once per day and only the 1st time it is played. 
  
  There aren't any real graphics to judge on. If you count the graphics after you pass a training 
 segment, I'd say that they're pretty remedial. There's not much to Sudoku either. Don't get me 
 wrong tho... the Sudoku part of the game is really fun! IF you're into that sorta stuff.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireResurrected
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  The first reaction I had towards this game when I heard of its release was: "A game with math in 
 it?" And as much as I like math (crazy, I know) , I was not sure if it was suitable to be put into 
 a game. After playing the game for a while, I found it to be overall a fun experience.
  
  Brain Age is part of Nintendo's new "Touch Generations" lineup. These "games", if you can call 
 them that, is meant to get more non-gamers to play the DS. These "games" tend to steer away from 
 any of the already established genres and standards for video games these days. For example, to 
 play brain age, you hold the screen vertically! HOW CRAZY IS THAT???
  
  Brain Age is being advertised as "training for your brain" it supposedly slows down the aging of 
 your brain, and causes your brain to function better. Although my brain age has gone down from 
 86 (first time playing) to 21 (20 being the best) I haven't seen a noticeable increase in my ability 
 to think, but that is not the important thing. The important thing is the game experience itself
 
  
  Brain Age consists of three main parts. The Brain Age Check, Training, and Sudoku. Brain Age Check 
 is just what it sounds like, it tests your "Brain Age" so that you can see if the game is having 
 an effect on your brain age. 
  
  Training, as the name suggests, trains your brain through a set of mini games. You start out with 
 only a few, and as you train your brain more and more, you can unlock more. Some examples of the 
 minigames include Calculations x20 (20 simple math calculations, basic operations) , Calculations 
 x100, Syllable Count, Low to High, etc. etc. After each minigame, a graphic depicting a mode of 
 transport (walking, biking, train, car, and jet) to show you how fast you completed each game, 
 with the added penalties from your mistakes. Then, a graph is shown comparing your results with 
 result from previous times you have played. 
  
  The last part of the game is Sudoku. You may have heard of the puzzle game, seeing as how to whole 
 world is going through some sort of Sudoku craze right now. If you been living under a rock for 
 the past couple of months, I will explain the game. Basically, 9 3x3 grids are arranged in a 3x3 
 square, in each individual small 3x3 grid, you must fill in the numbers 1-9, but, you cannot have 
 a repeat number in a vertical line, or a horizontal one. Sounds sort of complicated, but it is 
 actually quite simple to pick up.
  
  Although the game is very innovative in its use of the DS special features, it is not without its 
 faults. For example, many a time you a shouting a word into the microphone during the Stroop Test 
 (look it up on Wikipedia if you don't know what it is) , and the game erroneously registers the 
 word as a different one, causing you to make mistake that you didn't actually make. As well, the 
 handwriting recognition isn't too great either. Sometimes, if you have messy writing, the game 
 will mess up the numbers you are writing down, and you will lose time for mistakes you didn't make. 
 Thankfully, these issues do not come up often, and the game can still be enjoyed.
  
  Which brings us to the next issue of the game, the gameplay. While the game is fine for short bursts 
 every 2 days or so, I found it extremely irksome to be playing the game each day and completing 
 all the minigames available. So if you are like me and cannot stand repeated monotonous tasks, 
 take the game's slogan to heart and only play the game for minutes a day.
  
  This game is innovated and accentuates many of the DS's features. If you can get past the occasional 
 glitch (for lack of a better word) in the game, you are going to have a very enjoyable and educational 
 game to take with you on the go. And for around 20 dollars in most stores, it is a great pick for 
 the budget-conscious among you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xplayfan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age for the Nintendo DS is a game which tells you how old your brain is. The younger your 
 brain is the better. The best possible brain age is 20.
  There are many activities in Brain Age such as Calculations in which you do simple math problems ( 
 or what they appear to be) , Low to High in which numbers flash out and you must remember the order 
 of the numbers and Head Count in which people come in and out of a house and you have to guess 
 how many are in the house at the end.
  
  Pros
  + Gives your brain a challenge and refreshes it
  + Games like Calculations, Low to High, and 
 Word Memory
  + This game can be very addicting
  
  Cons
  - Can only record things once a day
  - Games like Speed Counting and Reading Aloud
  - Voice 
 and writing recognition need work
  
  Overall, this is a fantastic game for people who want something different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Brain Age is basically a game where you log in every day and complete these minigames, 
 which supposedly boost your actual brain power. Though you might not notice a difference after 
 just a few playing sessions, after a couple of months your brain will become quicker and sharper. 
 While some may say "Wait, no, that's impossible! How can a 20-30 minutes workout of your brain 
 each day have any impact on how quick you can think?". Well, a month and a half ago when I first 
 started playing, it would take me 22-23 seconds to do the Calculations x 20 exercise (in which 
 you solve 20 quick math problems) . However, now, I can hit the 16-18 second mark pretty much every 
 day. In other words, I can calculate more quickly than I could when I first started playing it.
 
  
  The core gameplay of Brain Age is comprised of three categories: Brain Age Check, Brain Training, 
 and Sudoku. With Brain Age Check, you will complete 3 minigames, and at the end you will be given 
 your "Brain Age" based on how well you perform in these games, which range from Calculations x 
 20 to Word Memory to the infamous "Name the colour of the word, not what the word says" test. Brain 
 Training is where you'll spend the bulk of your time. In this mode, there are minigames that you 
 complete daily (which records your high score once per day) . You'll start out with 3, but as you 
 earn more stamps (which are awarded for doing Brain Training minigames each day) , you'll unlock 
 more, eventually maxing out at 9 Brain Training minigames. These games are pretty fun, though sometimes 
 it can get frustrating during the voice minigames since it doesn't always understand the number 
 that you're saying (though it does most of the time) . The third mode is Sudoku, which is basically 
 a ton of Sudoku games (over 100) of 3 different difficulty levels. Sudoku addicts would do well 
 to pick up Brain Age just for this mode! Overall, the gameplay in Brain Age is fun, though sometimes 
 frustrating when the game struggles to understand what you're saying or writing.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in Brain Age are pretty basic. There aren't really any things in the game 
 that will blow your mind with amazement or anything like that, but nevertheless, Brain Age's graphics 
 get the job done. Sure, the graphics could be done on a GBA and even a SNES, but even so, a game 
 like this really doesn't need these highly detailed images because it's not meant to be that type 
 of game. Dr. Kawashima's head looks amazing though! While I still have to give this game a pretty 
 low score in this category, don't let the game's graphics affect your buying decision.
  
  Sound: The sound in Brain Age is great. It doesn't have these huge orchestral musical scores or 
 anything like that, but it's got these catchy beats and fun sound effects that make the audio of 
 this game fun to listen too. While it's true that in most of the games there really isn't any music 
 at all and the only thing you'll hear is the "scribbling" sound effect when you're writing, the 
 music and sound effects featured in Brain Age are of high quality.
  
  Value: Brain Age is the type of game that you'll keep playing for months. It's got that daily feeling 
 to it where you'll log on for 15-30 minutes a day to complete all of the Brain Training activities 
 and check your Brain Age. The game could have let you record more than just your first high score 
 each day in each game, but even though it doesn't, the fact that this game will last you months 
 more than makes up for it. I've had the game for a month and a half, and I still play it nearly 
 every day. I'm guessing that I've logged in about 15 hours so far, and I'm still going strong! 
 And for $19.99, you can't go wrong!
  
  Tilt: Overall, Brain Age is a fun game that'll keep you playing for a long time. While it's completely 
 different from your average game, and some of the activities in the game are things that you wouldn't 
 dream of doing in your spare time (e. g. solving quick math problems) , Brain Age still manages to 
 boost your brain speed while remaining fun. While the game has some limitations and flaws, overall, 
 Brain Age is a game that any DS owner could easily enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hybrid3713
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 16, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age has many things going for it, but overall it's a title for the person that can wake up 
 with enough time to enjoy some problems and wake up completely. 
  
  First the good:
  
  Mr. Ryuto greets you with helpful and engaging info if you actually listen to what he says. Throughout 
 your Brain Age career he will help you along seeing to you that you are in tip top shape.
  
  Gameplay: The good things about this game is that it has many fun and easy puzzles to get into. 
 They are challenging at times, but provide day-to-day replayability (minutes a DAY, not hours) . 
 Perhaps the most intriguing thing that has happened is when you play, Mr. Ryuto will react to the 
 time of day, if you have visited recently and when your results are stunning or below average. 
 These minigames get repetitive quite fast however and that shows more lack in the game department. 
 The touchscreen adds much innovation, though there are just too many glitches with "4's and 9's" 
 and "5's and 9's." Then the mic doesn't respond to my blue's. Good time but somewhat poor quality. 
 (Gameplay: *7)
  
  *Sudoku is an add-on that is one of my favorites and is easily one of the most entertaining parts. 
 Mad Props to the man who put those puzzles in! (Gameplay: +1) (*8)
  
  Graphics: The cartoony stickmen are cute and friendly, though they kinda look like the bathroom 
 guys. Mr. Ryuto looks decent with his blocky face, but we've seen better with samus. Somewhat dissapointing, 
 but delivers where it counts. (Graphics: 7)
  
  Sound: Sadly it is limited to clicks and beeps, though i must say the music is very clear quality 
 bringing it to an unsteady eight. (Sound: 8)
  
  Value: With all the stuff that it is packing despite limited online play this is a very easy title 
 to pick up and play. (Value: 10)
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: How can I turn away from this delightful Brain Game. With some pretty nice things 
 going for it. I love it and I won't be turning it down soon. (Reviewer's Tilt: 10)
  
  If you like Brain Games pick this one up!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DZAPPER
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 16, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Yeah I was highly dissapointed by Brain Age. Even though I gave it a pretty good score it just 
 has too many little problems that stack on top of each other to form a big mess of a game. Well 
 I first turned on Brain Age and noticed one thing it was completely plain and dull. It lacked that 
 flash and BOOM that Nintendo always puts in their games, but I think that goes along with Brain 
 Age trying to have a mass market appel. Then I started to notice the real problems with the game... the 
 controls. Trust me you will spend at least the first weak or two with this game trying to figure 
 out how the touch screen picks up 7's, h's, and 8's. Also the Voice recognition is okay but two 
 problematic at times. The mic really has a difficult time picking up the word BLUE. So these problems 
 lead to frustrating gameplay that only leads too unavoidable rage. So I. m going to close with this.... 
 Nintendo, you need to fix the problems with your game before you can tell me how old my brain is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f16sunny
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  So you're probably thinking, why would I buy an educational game for my handheld video game console? 
 At least thats what I was thinking when I went into my local Gamestop and was browsing the shelves 
 for a new DS game. I decided to try it out, I figured, with all the hype I am sure I can find something 
 interesting in this game. 
  
  I got home and popped it in, the first think I noticed was the way the game is presented. You hold 
 the DS a completely different way, instead of horizontally you hold it vertically. The game even 
 changes the layout if you are left or right handed. 
  
  I took my initial brain test, I scored a 76. Wow. I must need to play this a lot I thought to myself. 
 Over the past week, I have played everyday for about an hour each morning, it is actually very 
 rewarding to see a screen with your brain age schrinking. 
  
  Brain Age is just one of those games, that you'll play maybe an hour a day, but it will never get 
 boring. Theirs always that sense of urgency to beat your previous times, and to lower that brain 
 age. (The ideal brain age is twenty ) . 
  
  Overall, I would say get brain age. It's a fairly low-priced title for the DS and will keep you 
 coming back to it, day in and day out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoelHH
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 13, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Brain age has many different minigames that involve mathematics and reading out loud. Even though 
 these games for the most part are simple, there are many reasons to come back and play more. One 
 of the best reasons is the Sudoku available. This is not actually apart of the minigames section, 
 but rather is a whole section on its own. If you are a fan of Sudoku, the value of this game will 
 go through the roof.
  
  The statistics and brain age calculations give you a good overview of how you are doing. The more 
 often you play, the more the statistics for each minigame will fill up. However, you will only 
 get one stat per minigame per day. This means that if you do an addition game twice, only the first 
 play will be added to the stats chart. This makes it a little harder since sometimes you will be 
 given harder games the first time around or the game misreads a six for an eight. 
  
  The minigames themselves are not all that difficult. After a few days of play, you'll find your 
 math and reading skills will increase, but there will never be a large challenge. Some games later 
 on do offer harder modes to help keep them fresh. But be warned! If you pick a harder difficulty, 
 the statistic that shows up will just be added to the normal statistics for that game and you will 
 not be able to tell the difference.
  
  For the most part, Brain Age is a game that can be played for a few minutes everyday, but not a 
 game where you can sit down and play for hours straight. This gives the game good replay ability 
 and makes you want to come back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 1:51 pm PT
Review:  It's tough to consider this a game. I mean it is, but it isn't.
  
  Really Brain Age is like school, but maybe a bit funner.
  
  Your teacher, Dr Kawashima explains 
 the ins and outs of the 'game'play to you. He's very humorous and always in a good mood. (Until 
 you start missing long streaks of training that is) .
  
  There are several different types of activities. Most of them include math (simple calculations) 
 or just general pre-frontal cortex exercises.
  
  One example is this; a word will pop up on the screen, it will the name of a colour, but will also 
 be IN colour. You must state the word, not the colour. It sounds easy, but it's a very fun challenge.
 
  
  A sudoku addition to the package includes 100 puzzles, which is icing on the cake.
  
  In reality, you have to play Brain Age yourself to full understand it. Then you have to keep playing 
 (even for just 5 minutes a day) to get the most out of it.
  
  Personally, me and Dr Kawashima will be 'friends' for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thorpe89
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  According to the game, Brain Training your brain needs to be exercised just like you would exercise 
 your body. The game attempts to do just that. Whether you are 11 or 85 the game can be fun and 
 will possibly get you coming back for more training. The minimum brain age you can get is 20 but 
 don't worry - as Dr. Kawashima says if you are under that age take the results with a pinch of 
 salt (I think it's that anyway) .
  
  At first, you'll only get a few exercises to start off with. As you progress through your training 
 you will collect stamps. Eventually, once you have gotten enough stamps you will have all exercises 
 unlocked. If you don't cheat this should be a matter of days. All you need to do is to remember 
 to come back to the game the following day. You'll need to know your times tables and remember 
 things a lot. This is what the whole game likes doing - exercising your brain. I was real bad at 
 my times tables when I first did them on the game but you should notice you not only improve your 
 brain age but you may actually remember those times tables for once! Things can get a little tricky 
 in the other exercises. There is one particular exercise that always makes me annoyed. The one 
 where you count how many people are in the house. You'll get little men walk in and walk out at 
 the same time. Can be rather confusing because the little men go in and out so fast - like mice.
 
  
  Dr. Kawashima is the only detailed thing you'll probably see in the game. Everything else is just 
 like writing on paper. Times tables are black on a white background and so are a lot of the exercises. 
 A game not to be judged by its graphics obviously.
  
  Again, sound isn't an issue. You'll here some sounds when you have passed an exercise and in the 
 menus you will get some brain training music for you to listen to. Nothing too big of a deal here.
 
  
  For a price (in the UK) of 19.99 it's worth it. This is a game you might want to play everyday 
 in order to keep improving your brain age and comparing it to other players. So, you'll probably 
 get a lot of hours out of it. The sudoku as well adds on plenty of hours, if you like that.
  
  Brain Training is fun for all sorts and is part of the Touch! Generations series of games. 
 Older and non-gaming people may be interested in keeping their brain "healthy" with this smart 
 and reasonably price Nintendo DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YamataDragon
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day for the Nintendo DS is an amazing game. It helps you 
 to get better at math problems and to flex your brain so that it makes you smarter. I like to do 
 the Soduku puzzles because they are a challenge but they are fun. It gives you problems that are 
 easy to solve and some that you really have to think about. Some people believe this game is not 
 one of the best. It is one of the best. I have seen lots of people buy this game. Try this game 
 out. you will enjoy every minute of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disciple_slave
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Brain age. What more is there to say? My brain age went from 55 to 38 to 31 to 20 back up to 33. 
 I guess I'm an all around guy. 
  
  The "game" itself is addictive, esspecially if you have more than one file on the cartridge. Every 
 day you train you get to add another stamp for that day. The more stamps, the more "games" you 
 unlock.
  
  Sudoku was added already unlocked and I have to be honest, It takes my attention away from the 
 real reason Brain Age was created. 
  
  It is a very addictive game and I reccomend it for the kids, the adults, and the seniors. Train 
 that brain and watch your reflexes flourish. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leverish
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age has been quite the phenomenon in Japan. It's one of the main reasons why the DS is selling 
 so well there. Brain Age is actually more of a tool than it is a game, which is something Nintendo 
 has been trying to make to capture the mainstream. Now, Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes 
 a Day is out in North America so now Americans can see what all the buzz was about.
  
  Brain Age revolves around the idea that when people stop using their brain that their brain gets 
 old and inefficient. Luckily, Brain Age contains a number of activities to keep your brain young 
 and healthy. The game will show you how much you have progressed over time with graphs. You can 
 also take a test to see how old your brain is, with 20 being the ideal age. The game also comes 
 with many handfuls of sudoku puzzles, which also are supposed to keep your brain in shape.
  
  You play the game with the touch screen and microphone alone in the activities. You also play 
 the game by holding the DS sideways, which will seem strange at first, but actually works out fairly 
 well. The main tasks you have include math calculations and reading abilitiy testers. Eventually, 
 you unlock plenty of other modes. These modes can pretty addicting, and you'll have the incentive 
 to want to beat your own score, or better yet, the score or someone else who has their own progress 
 being saved on the copy of the game.
  
  The fact that the game sorely uses the touch screen and microphone can be an advantage and a disadvantage. 
 The controls with the touch screen feel intuitive, but sometimes the littlest dot could make the 
 game think your 2 is a 7 and since you get penalized for making mistakes, this can be quite frustrating. 
 The microphone also works pretty well, but it could also mistake one thing for another, but most 
 of the time it works pretty well. It should be noted that the game is meant for native speakers, 
 so if you have an accent of some kind, you might run into problems.
  
  The game isn't thriving with polygons or the biggest graphical effects, but that really doesn't 
 matter, because this is more of a tool than it is a game. You shouldn't be expecting too much from 
 the audio department, because you really wouldn't need to hear music or any sound effects for that 
 matter. You shouldn't worry about the presentation too much, because it really isn't needed, but 
 it would have been nice.
  
  The appeal of the main game doesn't last too long if you don't have another person to compare progress 
 with, but if you do have someone that could be potentially interested in this game, it might be 
 worth looking into, especially since it's at a budget price. There is also a bunch of sudoku puzzles 
 to keep you interested. The game also features multiplayer, but this is just a basic test to see 
 who can math problems the quickest. The game could have lasted much longer with the ability to 
 transfer graphs with your friends, or possibly, around the world with online play.
  
  Brain Age is an interesting application and it might be worth looking into, whether because of 
 the basic puzzles it features or whether you're just looking for something new or interesting at 
 a budget price. Puzzle fans are bound to like it, but they should question whether or not if it's 
 worth buying if they won't be playing it for anytime too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emperor26
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:57 am PT
Review:  "Brain Age" is an unusual game that is somewhat surprisingly fun and challenging, and it shouldn't 
 a surprise that it was created for everyone, even to those who hasn't played a videogame before.
 
  
  The objective of the game is simple: you have to go through a series of test, which will then determine 
 the age of your brain (20 being good and anything higher is bad) . In order to reduce the age of 
 your brain, you have to play through a series of challenges, from math to English, and the more 
 you finish them, the lower your brain age gets.
  
  Simple design, challenging tasks and puzzles makes Brain Age a good choice for the Nintendo DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 6:34 pm PT
Review:  If this game were to get an award for "Most Innovative Game of the Year", then it would definately 
 win. Where have we seen educational games before? They are rare finds, but I'm glad that this game 
 is successful for the most part. This is basically a game that will test your mind and see how 
 well it functions. It's not like you learn something new or anything, but it is a good warm up 
 to start your day. Brain Age is like your morning cup of coffee, it will keep your mind going.
 
  
  Some of the excercises are simple arithmetic, reading out loud, memorize numbers from least to 
 greatest, etc. Because of the arithmetic, I highly recommend this game for a young child so they 
 can sharpen their skills. All I can say is that this is a game for all ages.
  
  As far as value goes, it isn't too much or none at all. It is basically a daily 15 minute routine 
 each day. There are Sudoku puzzles and they are interesting, but it might get boring after a while.
 
  
  Think what you want to think, but this game will really keep your mind fresh. Don't think of yourself 
 as Dr. Ryuta Kawashima's guina pig or pet monkey, but consider that this is a fun game. Don't let 
 the fact that this game has educational values fool you. In fact, we need to train the brain 24/7 
 whether you go to school or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hallway_Giant
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age, a game supervised under Dr. Ryta Kawashima, aims to provide both an entertaining 
 and educational experience on the DS.
  The fundamental premise behind Brain Age is this, just as you would go to the gym to exercise your 
 muscles, the software that is Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day can provide similar 
 of exercise for your brain through various logic puzzles. This is an interesting concept; however, 
 the actual execution of this concept inside the game is debatable.
  
  As the title suggests the first point of Brain Age is to identify your brain age that ideally would 
 be being your age or lower. While you continue to do training activities and/or sudoku each day, 
 you can occasionally test yourself by doing a Brain Age Check. This check gives you three random 
 tests to complete as fast as possible and then awards you a Brain Age depending on your performance. 
 This essentially keeps you moving forward since the Daily Training is what helps you to get sharper 
 as you play; you gain stamps for each day you complete. It is a clever way to keep you going as 
 you are always striving to lower your brain age and unlock more and more through your daily play.
 
  
  Since the game centers on training your brain through activities, one would think that they would 
 be diverse and interesting, right? The activities (nine in total) can range from simple arithmetic, 
 to counting syllables, to reading an entire passage aloud. These activities train your brain by 
 requiring you to memorize or add and subtract on the fly. Unfortunately, the underlying problem 
 comes from the fact that the activities share the same model of memorization / arithmetic, so the 
 games as a whole are not particularly unique in design. To give credit where credit is due, they 
 can be rather challenging which causes you to think far more than you would normally circumstances 
 and the activities do not get too tiring over long periods due to the little amount you spend playing 
 each day.
  
  An interesting feature of Brain Age is that you essentially never use the face buttons to navigate 
 the menus or carry out the activities; instead, you use the included stylus and microphone to write 
 your answers or the like. As much as this reviewer criticizes the activities, Brain Age uses the 
 DSs two screens extremely well and it never feels cumbersome to perform any particular task. In 
 addition, the game requires you to play with the DS turned on its side (vertically) ; however, this 
 is actually far more comfortable positioning than normal given that it feels much like reading 
 a book and the weight of the DS compliments that position as well. The major flaw with the use 
 of the touch pad and microphone is the handwriting and speech recognition technology. Some activities 
 feel nearly impossible if you are not writing a word or number that the game wants you to write 
 and this discrepancy usually leads to more frustration than there should be in a game such as this.
 
  
  Another point is the presentation and graphics of the game. The games graphics are almost nonexistent 
 but they do compliment the simple style of the game and it puts graphics where they count especially 
 in the slick, easily navigated menus, graphs, and puzzles. The sound compares in a similar fashion, 
 as it is almost nonexistent yet certainly not bad and very fitting.
  
  The core value of Brain Age lies in its basic concept, that it trains your brain with almost zero 
 time commitment on your part any given day. The inclusion of sudoku is novel and possibly a selling 
 point for those who enjoy it already but you will not like this game if you do not enjoy logic 
 puzzles as a whole. That is the basic dilemma of Brain Age because at its core it is not any more 
 a game than any piece of educational software is called a game, that said, it does what it is 
 intended to do surprisingly well. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 30, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  I would not call Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day an actual game. Sure, there may be 
 parts that make it feel game-like, but I feel more comfortable simply calling it software. It was 
 hard for me to rate Brian Age as a game when it has no real genre to be categorized into. 
  
  The origin of Brain Age comes from a book written by a Japanese neuroscientist, Dr. Ryuta Kawashima, 
 which talks about keeping your brain young and in shape. Brain Age is basically a set of small 
 tests or exercises that are designed to work your prefrontal cortex. Brain Age really throws this 
 word around a lot while you play, as the design for this game was to stimulate that part of the 
 brain. 
  
  You start by creating a profile and jumping into some exercises. Once you complete them, the software 
 will calculate your brain age based on how well you performed, with twenty years old being the 
 best score. After that, you are told to begin your training and get your brain younger. 
  
  When you first start off, you will only have three exercises to train in. Once you complete any 
 training exercise, you get a stamp marked onto the in game calendar. More exercises are unlocked 
 as you add more stamps onto your calendar. Brain Age only records your first successful play through 
 of each exercise. If you wish to play through any exercise again, it will not record your results. 
 The results are significant because they are plotted onto a graph and you get to see how well you 
 are progressing for each exercise. You can also check your brain age once a day as well, and watch 
 as you slowly make it towards twenty year old. 
  
  Now I want to talk about the exercises, or minigames as some people would like to call them. Almost 
 all of them are timed games, in which you will have to think quickly and solve problems or answer 
 questions. There are exercises that include doing simple math, reading a passage from famous literary 
 works, counting syllables in a sentence, answering simple questions based on what you see, telling 
 the time difference between two clocks, and a few more. You have to hold the DS on its side, as 
 if it were a booklet. The questions appear on the left side and you write on the right side. All 
 the input is either done with the touch screen or microphone - absolutely no buttons are required 
 to play, or use, this software. This pretty much sums up how you use this software. 
  
  Since you have to write numbers and letters to get through these exercises, it is important to 
 not how well the software reads handwriting. For the most part, it does a good job of understanding 
 my handwriting. If it ever did have a hard time, it would be whenever I had to write a five. I 
 do not know if I write it wrong, but it does not like my fives. As for the microphone, I can understand 
 if it messes up fives and nines because they sound the same if they are not properly articulated. 
 Nevertheless, Brain Age will not always screw up the input, but there it is definitely not perfect. 
 
  
  Another important thing to note on Brain Age is that it includes one hundred Sudoku puzzles. Sudoku 
 is a popular newspaper puzzle game that requires some keen thinking, especially on the tougher 
 puzzles. I never played Sudoku before this, but I have come away impressed. It can be quite fun, 
 but think I enjoyed it much more on the DS because inputting the numbers is cleaner than a newspaper. 
 You can write small numbers within each box to remind yourself of what numbers can possibly go 
 inside that box, and you can imagine erasing takes nothing at all. If you are going to play Sudoku 
 anywhere, it is going to be on the Nintendo DS, and it was very important to add this into Brain 
 Age because once you complete the exercises for the day, there is absolutely nothing left to do 
 in the game until the next day. 
  
  I have spent a complete month with Brain Age. I turned it on every day, completed the exercises, 
 got enough stamps to unlock everything the software has to offer, and even completed about fifty 
 Sudoku puzzles. Other people I have spoken to talk about how hard it is to get to twenty years 
 old. My first score resulted in my brain age as forty five years old, and by the end of the week, 
 I hit twenty. Even after that, I never went higher than thirty, and in my last week, I was on a 
 streak of four straight days of twenty years old. 
  
  Occasionally, you will be asked random questions like what did you eat for breakfast and they will 
 be asked again a few days later to remind you of how forgetful you can be. It will also ask you 
 to draw pictures of random things using the stylus just to stimulate the brain. None of that gets 
 graded, it is just that when you have more than one profile going on at the same time, you can 
 compare each other's work and compare each other's graphs. Having multiple profiles can make it 
 somewhat more interesting, but I just think this all wears off after about a good month. The good 
 part about it is I can stop playing and pick it up at a later date and the same graphs will still 
 be used with one long line going from my last result to my most recent. 
  
  I do not know if Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day actually makes your brain younger. 
 It seems kind of ridiculous to me, and there have been some conflicting reports since the game's 
 launch that still give no real answer as to whether or not this software really works. Personally, 
 I have not found my thinking to be any better since I started one month ago. I all know is that 
 I can do simple math quicker than I used to. 
  
  The fact of the matter is that this game was designed to appeal to all audiences, and that was 
 successfully achieved as many non gamers have gotten into it in Japan. There was actually a lengthy 
 time period where you could not find a DS in Japan because they were all sold out. As for me, I 
 was addicted to this software during the first week. After that, it began to wear thin on me. The 
 twenty dollar price tag and Sudoku saves this game from getting a bad rating. It is cheap enough 
 where you should definitely check it out, but I do not think any hardcore gamers will find any 
 value here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerox0409
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 30, 2006 2:50 am PT
Review:  I't's not something that will instantly make you smarter... but over time it does indeed help short-term 
 memory, For anyone looking for a heavy education game... keep looking but for those who would like 
 a nice change of pace (and some Funducational gaming for themselves or a relative) it's a Very 
 intuitive game that will get you thinking all the time,
  
  Activities such as Head Count and the Sudoku puzzles will have you using a bit more logic than 
 others like Calculation X20/100, other than that this game will have you do several random events 
 that will ask you to draw, remember recent happenings, that type of thing, Now the game will keep 
 comprehensive records of you're progress in each category as well as marking the days you logged 
 on to perform them using a stamp on the date These stamps will (once you've collected a set amount) 
 unlock more things to do and even more variety to the experience.
  
  I found it to be quite the best Funducation I've ever had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 7
Date: May 29, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is not a game. But you already knew that. It's a piece of DS software that is exactly 
 what any description might suggest - take it as WarioWare Lite, a bizarre set of minigames designed 
 to emphasize mental reflexes over all else. Oh yeah, and sodoku puzzles.
  
  As such, it's kind of pointless to write a review in the traditional sense. The graphics are utilitatian 
 and almost non-existent, and the music and sound could be described in the same way. You count 
 syllables and do simple math problems and watch people go in and out of a house as fast as possible 
 without screwing up. You do this for ten or fifteen minutes a day, gradually unlocking new activities 
 to sharpen your mind on. Is it fun? That depends wholly on you and your view of Brain Age. If you 
 think the idea is stupid, you'll hate it. Brain age isn't trying to be anything beyond that bullet 
 point list. But if you're into that sort of thing, the price is certainly worth it and you'll derive 
 fun from the package, if not in the traditional sense.
  
  It should be mentioned that the Sodoku puzzles are quite separate from the rest of the, uh, game. 
 There are a hundred of them (or so says the manual) and each records your best time. They are arguably 
 of more long-term value than Brain Age itself since you'll most definitely get sick of the actual 
 game (there's that word again) before you complete all the puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crimson_Raven
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 29, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  If you don't know the premise of Brain Age, it can be summed up rather easily: it is a collection 
 of mini games that are designed to help your brain stay sharp. Your brain needs this, as it could 
 possibly whither away faster than your body does. The minigames make great use of the touch screen, 
 but the mic activities have a little hard time recognizing what you are saying (like the word blue) . 
 However, don't be bummed out if you score low at first, just like school, it can take time to get 
 your brain in shape. 
  
  There are a wide variety of games to play in here divided into training and Brain Age Check games. 
 You start out with a basic selection of just 3 of them, then as you add more stamps (you get a 
 stamp for doing at least one training activity per day) , you gain more activities. 
  
  The game also includes 100 sudoku puzzles complete with tutorial. Not a bad bargain at all and 
 highly adds to the replay value. 
  
  All in all, I highly recommend this game to anyone who has a DS and is interested in keeping their 
 brain in shape. $20 very well spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1o0oDOMo0o1
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 28, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  this is a great game if u wanna train ur brain. these game was well designed nd the software is 
 amazing. there are a few problems. its a little tricky 2 write 4 and 9 and sometimes your voice 
 is picked up diffrently. this game gets boring after a while nd u will get bored of doing the same 
 things over nd over. overal i good game recomended for brain. can u make ur brain age reach 20??? 
 find out. go get brain age because ur the skills u get from the game are amazing and you will show 
 them off and amaze people and they will want to be as smart as you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PspSquad
Rating: 5
Date: May 28, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  I thought it was fun but it was like I was in school. My brain age is 34 right now and I did everything 
 correct! almost. There is this old man on the home page saying dialouge. Games, Games, Games. you 
 start out with some games and you get more if you have enough stamps.
  
  OK stamps are weird. You get an OK and nothing happens. He tells you tips. Like a good breakfast 
 pumps up your brain. Your best brain age would be twenty. Twenty it is.
  
  This specific game is overall score is weird. Weird.
  
  I thought it would be fun minigames. 
 But no.. 1+1=!
  
  So If you buy this game, better have F's on your report card. If you know what I mean.... 
  
 
  From the fabulous PSPSQUAD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akessle1
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 27, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I thought that this game was really something that all of us should get our hands on. It really 
 brings something new to the D. S which makes it more enjoyable. I didn't know that education could 
 be so fun!
  
  When the game does start to get really repetitive, you unlock new fun games that pulls you back 
 in. When you get all of the games unlocked then there doesn't seem to much of a point to play other 
 than to raise your math and reading skills. One of the most fun things in the game though is the 
 tons of different sudoku games there are. If you don't know how to play already, there is a tutorial. 
 
  
  Even though that this game does get kind of repetitive, it really is something you should try. 
 Besides, it's only $20. Just remember, for all you people who could use a little education in your 
 life, buy Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: debdebtig
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 27, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because of the Sudoku puzzles in it but I have quickly become addicted to the 
 whole thing. I can't help doing a few of the brain builders every day. If you like to do something 
 different, this is the game for you. Try it and you'll be surprised how quickly you become addicted. 
 
  
  I have already finished all one hundred twenty Sudoku games and am hoping to find a way to add 
 more. I'll let you know if I find out how you could do that. This game is extremely addicting. 
 Have a great time and you don't even have to be playing for hours every day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 25, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and a nice change of pace. It's great if you need a game you can play in short 
 sessions. I believe it will stimulate your brain to play this game, but the grading system may 
 not be an accurate diagnosis of your brain's age - just a scoring measure. 
  
  The handwriting and voice recognition will take a little getting used to. You'll probably find 
 your brain age dropping dramatically with practice. 
  Overall, it works quite well considering the technology. 
  
  At $19, there is no reason to 
 pass on this one, especially with the inclusion of sudoku. Considering there will be DS games released 
 that are centered around sudoku, the value is obvious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysour
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 23, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  The graphics arn't super flashy but they work for this type of game, the game itself doesn't have 
 much to it, and its very challenging, perfect for exercising your brain and keepi ng it in a sharp 
 and clever condition. By just spending 10-20 minutes helps immensley. Its encouraging to see the 
 results of your day to day workout by using the built in graph that monitors your progress. The 
 game itself features several exercises that test your speed, power, and cleverness of your brain, 
 some of the exercises can be fusterating, but with the the doctors continuing encouragment it kinda 
 makes you wanna keep playing.
  By fitting a few exercises into your busy day, you may end up with a clear mind, sharp, and fresh. 
 The game has an unlocking plan that alows you to unlock more exercises over the weeks you play, 
 making you want to come back and unlock all the exercises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 22, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  There are a few thoughts on this 'game'. For a guy like me, most of the game seems a little over 
 the top. Looking at sides of the game, whih seems just too basic to fathom. However, there is a 
 side in me, that is very taken with this game as a tool for the younger players to pick up the 
 IQ points. Even that is not an essential. But knowing that your 10 year old is having a ball doing 
 his math because of a Nintendo DS you bought him/her should be a soothing feeling for any parent. 
 No, for me there was only one reason to buy this. It came with Sudeko. 
  
  I just love that game. It is ok to have it on a PC or a MAC, but it is on route that this game 
 is really joy to 'play'. That game makes no sense at all on a PSP, but here, with a writing side, 
 that game has merit beyond your expectations. That is where the game is needed. On a PDA, or a 
 writable portable system, and alas, only the DS is that good.
  
  It was a little odd having to keep my DS on the side, but i got over that real fast, and even though 
 i only get 1000 sudeko's for my $49. It comes down to the fact that i can play this game every 
 day for 3 years until i need another game. That is a good track record for any console game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 22, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo is trying to teach us wile we play our DS. This $20 game is out there to do just that. What 
 you get is a lot of fast task for you to do. Such as math, counting, memory and reading.... yeah. 
 The brain age thing tells you want year your brain is in. Mine at this time is 45. You also have 
 daily traineing. Do 3 of theas every day and you'll improve your brain. The problems. This thing 
 can not read writeing worth sh*t. How dose a k look like 2 l's. Or an a look like an H? It gets 
 me very angery. Alo the voice just gusses it seems. Like i say 9 a 1 comes up. Also this thing dose 
 not know the word blue 90% of the time i had to say bu-lue. Any way for $20 you get a nice game 
 it will help you wake up in the morn and sudoku is included. So go out and buy this game and have 
 learning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 22, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  Brain Age is Nintendo's way to warm up your brain. There is no backstory or anything like that, 
 you just preform equations, suduku and other brain bending practices. 
  
  For example, one will show a color, such as red but the word will say "Black." It will be in red 
 font and you need to see what color it is. This one is tough at first but pretty easy once you're 
 used to it. Another quick challenge, the guy will tell you to draw something random like a koala, 
 then a kangaroo, then austrailia. Then he'll show you the real pictures to see how accurate you 
 were. There is also one where you get 2 minutes to try and remember 30 words then you get 3 minutes 
 to try and write them all down with the stylus. There are runs where you write in the equation 
 and even ones where you read aloud. Suduku has tons of fun puzzles and is worth about half of the 
 game.
  
  The graphics, there not really much of graphics. Just handrighting and and a 3D polyagonal Japanese 
 man wearing glasses and with rather large eyebrows. There is color, like in the one where you read 
 aloud, etc. and it's cool how you use your own handwriting a lot on the game. As for the sound, 
 there are some pretty catchy tunes and they may be kind of annoying though.
  
  Brain Age is only $19.99 new, makin gon eof the cheapest 2006 1st party DS games. I recommend it, 
 it is a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoriNibori
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 21, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I got a DS about a month ago, Then I purchased Brain age from my local EB Games, The price was 
 very affordable, I believe it was around 30-35$ Canadian.
  
  Starting it up, and starting a new game file, I did a Brain age check, I got 80, ouch, So I did 
 all the training programs for a few weeks, in fact I still am, just to keep my brain active, The 
 training programs are mini-games, like Doing simple math, Reading, Triangle Math, Reading time, 
 Remembering Numbers. It kept me going for awhile, just yesterday I unlocked the final training 
 program.
  
  The Graphics wen't there, except the Doctor's face, but it's not a game about Graphics, so Graphics 
 do not matter, But I must say, the Doctor does some amusing faces.
  
  The Game play element is huge, since this is mostly about Game play, and meant to train your brain, 
 I'm sure all will enjoy the Training Programs.
  
  Sounds are simple, including a catchy Title screen theme, and the simple congratulations, you got 
 it right sounds.
  
  A Few down sides, is that the writing of numbers can at times miss what number you're trying to 
 write, when you're doing the simple math, going as fast as you can, the game will read the number 
 wrong and you'll miss the question because it seems a nine as a Seven. Other thing is the Drawing 
 Mini-game that sometimes comes up at random times, there needs to be more of those, The mini game 
 is great I just wish they added a training program or it.
  
  All in all, I recommend the game to anyone, it is well worth the money for it, and one day I myself 
 hope to hit brain age 20, I'm 32 now, so that is getting better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artanis666
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 20, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is an almost perfect game. A lot of people would think that it sucks because it has to 
 do with learning (yech  P) , but it actually seems to be a puzzle game, with learning and brain 
 training built in. This game has many cool features, and everything seems to be so.... smart. I 
 went through 3 other Sudoku training games in the paper and on the computer, but I couldn't make 
 heads or tails of it. Brain Age taught me! This is an excellent, must have DS game, and I would 
 recommend it to anyone who likes some things other than guns (even though I like 'em too) . GET 
 BRAIN AGE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dim2192
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 20, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I expected it to actually work. Well, it didn't. Also, its not very fun. 
 Let me explain:
  
  The first thing you do in Brain Age is set up an account for yourself. Then you take a Brain Age 
 test. It asks you if you can talk, I said yes. The first test was a talking test where you had 
 to say the color of the words. Every time I said blue for a blue word, It said I was wrong. Here 
 is the problem, the speaking section of this game is flawed. It cannot read your voice correctly. 
 Same goes with the math part. Sometimes, the game gets confused when you write, even if its clear. 
 With this part also being flawed the game is broken.
  
  This game is not totally flawed. The sudoku in this game is pretty fun. It works much better then 
 the brain age training and tests. In fact, if you like sudoku, I recommend this game for you. For 
 $20, Brain Age is a hit or miss. If you like math and sudoku, buy this. If not, stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_WIG
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 18, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  There are many things that happen in Brain Age, and there are lots of fun games. The first thing 
 that happens in Brain Age is you get a brain age, 80 is the highest and 20 is the lowest. The lower 
 your brain age, the better. If you have a very high brain age, don't worry. You can do many daily 
 training exercises and try to get your brain age down to 20. It will range from a couple of days 
 to a few weeks or a month to get to 20, but once you get there, daily training holds it at a steady 
 age. There are many fun exercises, and there are also sudokus. There is always something to do. 
 But, remember the main purpose is to have fun and get smarter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mp4ever
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 18, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  The sole purpose of this game is to teach your brain and test it to get a better "brain age" (hence 
 the title) . You do word memory, math problems and connecting letters and numbers..... need a break? 
 You can always go to another screen and play the popular game, Sudoku. I actually never knew how 
 to play Sudoku until I started playing this game. I had the basic concept but I didn't really know 
 how to actually play. I feel that I have gotten even smarter than I was before I purchased the 
 game. My surprise was that I put out the game on the shelf and when I scanned the bar code to get 
 a price tag to put in front of it, IT WAS $23.97! I was in total shock when I saw this. I went 
 on my lunch break later, I bought the game and I started my brain training. Since then, my brain 
 has been on a ride and I can only thank Brain Age for making learning fun again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sylphy_33
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  simply amazing!
  i got this game from my mom, cause she thought it would keep me being somewat of not a moron... well 
 it kind of did that, but its ok cause this game is sweet! I opened it up and tried it out, and 
 although i didnt like it at first... every day i get up and do mydaily training, a few soduko puzzles, 
 and check my brain age before i do any thing else. And its not a hassle either, it actually really 
 fun. I mean dont get me rong, sometimes its kinda annoyin wen the game mixes up ur numbers and 
 u get a question wrong, but all in all this game was sweet... it gets a 10 from me, and thats a 
 really big 10... if i could id give it a  but 
 i can't, so ill go with a 10 lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spudmaster28
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok... so I go to gamestop on a cold rainy day. I have $20 in my pocket, and the feeling to try 
 something new running through my head. I browse for a bit, seeing if there are any games that are 
 cheap, and got some good reviews. Let's see... Tao's Adventure... Bass fishing... Sprung? No. This 
 is when my eyes see an unfarmiliar game case with the words "Brain Age" written in boring "Times 
 New Roman" text. Since i'm bored, and i want to go home, i say "what the hell" and check it out. 
 Little did i know that i was buying a game that would change the way i play games.
  
  So i get home and bust it out, and pop it in. First, it tells me to turn my DS on its side... ok... 
 Then, some hard to pronounce japanese guy tells me about brains... ok... If you can't tell by now, 
 i'm a little skeptical. Just then, he asks me to do MATH. "MATH?! BUT IT'S SATURDAY!" I go on, 
 despite it being saturday. I go on to complete 20 simple math problems as fast as i can. "Hm... 
 this is surprisingly interesting..." My family looks at me with looks of confusion as i yell colors 
 into my sideways DS... Screw them, this is awesome! After i go through a couple interesting IQ 
 tests, of sorts, that japanese guy that i was talking about tells me i'm stupid! My brain was 76 
 years old. Despite the 62 age difference, i'm happy with my score. After this, i'm given a menu 
 screen with the option of "Training." I do more math, more math, and some reading aloud, somewhere 
 in there.
  
  Now that my story is over, lets go on to the real stuff. Brain Age is the only thing ever that 
 can make math fun. It's one of the most unique gaming experiences ever. With surprisingly addictive 
 gameplay, and some nice voice recognition (despite the difficulty with the word "blue") this title 
 is so worth the $20 list price. Although, some of the handwriting recognition can be a little wacky. 
 How does this 5 i wrote look like a 9? For every day you do at least one training activity, you 
 get a stamp. The more stamps you get, you can unlock some new training games, such as head count, 
 or syllable count. Did i mention that you can only get your brain age once a day... well, it only 
 counts once a day. In conclusion, if you are skeptical about buying this title, don't be. The gameplay 
 makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud551
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 17, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, what do you know? It really is fun to learn. Brain Age: Train Your Brain In Minutes A Day 
 is a great game with new challenges every day. You will play through many brain building mini games 
 like x 20 calculations, x 100 calculations, syllable count, stroop tests, and reading tests. Every 
 day you do training, you will get a stamp. Collecting stamps will unlock new things, like hard 
 mode for other games. Ryuta Kashinawa (a neurologist, creator and narrator of Brain Age) will give 
 you tips and tell you your brain age, by measuring the activity of the prefrontal cortex. Watch 
 your results and brain age grow daily, and you will never be able to stop. It's that addictive. 
 Possibly one of the greatest DS games out there. I give Brain Age: Train Your Brain In Minutes 
 A Day a 9.9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mangloid
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 16, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is not what most people were expecting. Exercising the brain? math? fun? It's much more 
 intense then the cover seems to unveil.
  
  First, it's simple enough that multiple people having never touched a DS can do, with simple hand 
 - eye coordination to work the stylus. 
  For the most part it accepts what you write fairly well. It has the most problems with 7's and 
 i's, but you can overcome that obstacle the more you play.
  
  Second, it adds a bit of competition. Friends, family, anyone willing to try it out makes it a 
 blast. If you have a friends who will play it consistently, always nice for them to have their 
 own profile to compete against you with. 
  
  The more you play the more games it will unlock, or harder modes for some. Certain games seem to 
 be easier, others a bit more tough.
  
  On my Brain-Age cartridge all 4 profiles are used by friends or family who play almost daily, and 
 countless others that have done the Brain-Age test.
  The test uses a series of the games to calculate what your brain age is. 
  Also included are 
 soduko puzzle, I have not done these because I simply am terrible at them, but my fiancee gets 
 an amazing rank on most of them.
  
  It becomes greatly addicting, and fast. You can also allow others to download a demo from your, 
 or you can also do a 30 calculation battle - 30 simple math problems, and see who can solve them 
 first.
  
  The greatest thing about Brain-Age is the ability to choose if you are left or right handed, it 
 really helps for all the lefties out there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingJustinII
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 15, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  An excellent game. Ive been playing it for not even a week, and i already feel smarter. Brain Age 
 is interesting in that, you actually see yourself progress as the days go by. When you see your 
 brain age jump from 70, to 40 in a few days of play its a pretty good confidence boost. It has 
 you doing things from simple math and reading aloud, to sudoko and counting syllables. My favorite 
 part would have to be the "colored words" where, for example, the word yellow will come up on the 
 screen and the color of the font would be blue, so you have to say blue into the microphone. It 
 can be quite challenging. My least favorite part would be the ocasional voice/text recognition 
 errors, like writing the letter B and saying the word "bloo" rather than blue. However, over all 
 this is an excellent game. The sales in the us and japan dont lie, this game is an instant hit. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 13, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to make of Brain Age at first, but I thought, "hey, my brain could use some 
 sharpening up, and it's only $19, so I think I'll buy it!"
  
  Brain age is a game that gives your brain excersises by making you do various brain excersises 
 like speed math, reading out loud, puzzles and more. You do at least one excercise a day, and the 
 game records your progress, and your brain age.
  
  As I played it, I felt that it was really helping in some aspects, basically because I improved 
 each time. However, if you are feeling tired, or not in the zone, you will probably get a very 
 old brain age, as opposed to if you are feeling sharp and rested.
  
  The game also gives you lifestyle tests on how to improve your brain age (read billboards as fast 
 as you can on the way to work, count your brush strokes when brushing your teeth) . Hoestly, these 
 are helpful, but if you are not into that sort of thing, or you find it annoying, you will not 
 like the activities, and the game will proabably get old quick.
  
  Once you get an ideal brain age, 20, there is not much more to do, except to keep practicing and 
 keeping it. 
  
  The graphics and sound are average, they are what they need to be, surely nothing more. They serve 
 their purpose. They are not very flash, but if they were too flashy, that might detract from the 
 game's purpose.
  
  This "game" may not be for everyone, but if you are open to trying it, and don't mind spending 
 20 bucks, I suggest you pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imm
Rating: 7
Date: May 12, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  I have serious doubts with regard to the claims that this game improves your brain function. But 
 it has a small collection of mostly fun mini games which can be fun to pick up and play. Best in 
 small doses, it makes you want to see your score improve day to day. But once you reach "brain 
 age" of 20, (which doesn't take long) there is nowhere left to go. I lost interest after that. 
 If I believed that it really clears the cobwebs out of my noodle, I might continue. But things 
 you do in your daily life such as figuring out sales tax in a restaurant and watching Jeopardy 
 on T. V. probably has about as much benefit, making this game superfluous for those wanting to exercise 
 their brain. 
  
  The bargain price and fun Sudoku puzzles are what give this title real value. Once you've unlocked 
 all the games and completed the Sudoku puzzles, there is nothing left to do. 
  
  I'd also like to add that the speech recognition wasn't always accurate for me, which can frustratingly 
 skew your "brain age" calculation, as is handwriting recognition. But overall it is decent and 
 worth taking a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKRool01
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 7, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  In the past, I have heard many things about how good video games are for you. Ive heard that they 
 helped with hand-eye coordination and could even help increase knowledge. Of course, I never understood 
 how, in anyway, it could help you. Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day has become the 
 first game that I have played that actually made my mind feel like was working. It had a series 
 of mini-games and mathematical problems that made me focus hard on my DS screen, as well as actually 
 think. Now, if this game makes you smarter or not isnt really something I can confirm to be true, 
 but I can admit that after playing Brain Age for 1 week straight, I can now add and subtract small 
 numbers without using my fingers.
  
  Brain Age can be summed up as Hooked on Phonics for all ages can enjoy. The entire idea of Brain 
 Age is for you to activate your prefrontal cortex, which is the part of the brain that tells you 
 how to apply what you know. Dr. Ryuta Kawashima, who wrote the book Train Your Brain, is responsible 
 for making Brain Age possible. As your brain grows older, it starts to decrease in functionality. 
 The more mature you get, the more you tend to forget things, or the more you have trouble finding 
 out what exactly to say. By playing Brain Age, you can help exercise your brain and prevent things 
 like this from happening to you. By training your brain with Brain Age, you can help prevent a 
 decrease in brain function. 
  
  You are given a series of mathematical problems to solve and some selections to read to train your 
 brain. You can easily remember the times tables by using this game, as well as remembering simple 
 addition and subtraction problems, such as 13-7 and 2+15. Judging by the 2 math problems I just 
 gave you, you may be thinking that this game is very simple. For some, basic math problems are 
 nothing, but to others like myself who do not remember their times tables all too well, this can 
 get a tiny bit tricky. The game isnt all that difficult at all but it did take me a 5 or 6 seconds 
 for some math problems to process in my brain. You can also enjoy Brain Age with your family, since 
 up to 4 people can have their own save slot on this 1 cartridge so you could have some extra fun 
 comparing Brain Age scores, as well as view each others horrid DS drawings. If you have a larger 
 family, you can always download play with another DS. Up to 16 people at a time can play calculations 
 x 30 to see who is the fastest. Download play also gives others a chance to demo Brain Age by playing 
 some Quick Play modes of Sudoku, training, and a Brain Age Check.
  
  The mini-games include Calculations x 20, Calculations x 100, Reading Aloud, Low to High, Syllable 
 Count, Head Count, Triangle Math, Time Lapse, Voice Calculation. Calculations x 20 and Calculations 
 x 100 have you doing 20 or 100 very simple math problems. Reading Aloud has you doing exactly what 
 the title says. You will have to read a certain passage from a classic book to yourself. The time 
 it took you to read the passage will be recorded. Low To High is my favorite mini-game. The object 
 is to see if you can recognize the numbers that appear on the top screen. You will be given 3 seconds 
 to remember the numbers. Once you remember them, quickly tap the position the numbers were in, 
 going from the lowest number first to the highest. Your time here is also recorded, along with 
 mistakes. Syllable count will make you count how many syllables there are in a certain short sentence. 
 You will write the number of syllables on the touch screen, and will be recorded on how many mistakes 
 you made, and how fast you recognized the syllables. Head Count is one of the more difficult mini-games. 
 You have 3 seconds to remember how many people are in a house. Once the 3 seconds are up, there 
 will be people leaving the house towards the right of it, and people entering the house towards 
 the left side. There are about 5 stages of this. The more you progress, the harder it gets. With 
 Triangle Math, you start from the top row and work your way down. Once you solve the top level, 
 you then go to the second row, then eventually getting the bottom answer. Time Lapse is a game 
 where you tell how much time has elapsed from the top clock to the second. Voice Calculation is 
 the final of these games, and has you speaking into the microphone to solve the mathematical equations. 
 In addition to these mini-games in training mode, you can also unlock hard modes to Triangle Math, 
 Head Count, and Calculations x 100.
  
  To determine your actual Brain Age, you must go through a test. The test has you speaking into 
 the microphone, writing with your stylus, and focusing hard with your brain. There are 3 parts 
 to the test and they change around every once in a while. If youre in a quiet environment, you 
 can choose to only do the tasks that have you touching DS screen instead of speaking into the microphone. 
 Each task isnt too difficult, but they will make you struggle a bit. The game measures how many 
 mistakes you have made, how many answers you got correct, and how long it took you to answer the 
 questions to determine your overall Brain Age. The greatest Brain Age you can receive is a 20. 
 The higher the number, the more practice you need. The lower is always the better in this game.
 
  
  I found it very frustrating when I was training and the game didnt recognize my handwriting. I 
 would write a 4 and the game would recognize my number as a 56 or 9. I found this very odd. 
 I also noticed that when I have to say the word blue to my screen, it thinks Im saying something 
 else. I would always get these answers wrong, and it would mess up my score for the game. Aside 
 from these 2 recognition problems, the voice and handwriting recognition is amazingly good.
  
  If youd like a break from calculations, but you would still like to train your brain in some 
 way, you can play Sudoku. Sudoku is a mathematical crossword puzzle that will make you think. On 
 the Sudoku plane, there are 9 squares, 9 rows, and 9 columns. There will be a few boxes in those 
 rows and columns that will already be filled with some numbers. The point of Sudoku is to fill 
 each square, row, and column with a number thats from 1 to 9, without overlapping. For example, 
 if you were to put a 1 in the first square on the plane, there must not be any other 1 in that 
 row, square, or column. These puzzles will take some sweet time, but thankfully, you have the option 
 to save.
  
  There really isnt much else to say about Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day, except 
 that its the best way I can think of for you to become smarter. This game is the perfect way to 
 get you and your family to learn more, or just sharpen your intelligence. Turning your DS to its 
 side like a book and writing with your stylus on the touch screen is the perfect way of activating 
 your prefrontal cortex. Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day is one of the coolest ideas 
 for a game Ive ever heard of, and I am looking forward to more of this series by Nintendo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dchispirtle
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 7, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is one of the most unique titles to come along in years and really takes advantage of 
 the unique abilities of the Nintendo DS. It's claim that it can keep your brain heathy and active 
 may be a little ambitious, however.
  
  Brain Age basically consists of about 7 different 'mini-games' that range from simple math calculations 
 to reading literary passages aloud. It isn't the range of activities that makes this game unique, 
 but rather how they're presented. The premise of the game purports that by engaging in its various 
 activities, that your brain will remain healthy and active, no matter your age. I've noticed, however, 
 that the game's assigned 'brain age' can fluctuate too much from day to day. This lends little 
 credibility to it's claims. 
  
  This is not to say that the game isn't fun for a few kicks. Before playing this game, my basic 
 math skills were pretty poor and I took a long time to answer simple addition, subtraction, and 
 mulitplication problems. Now, I am much faster. The game's Stroop test mini-game is also pretty 
 fun and the voice recognition is pretty good and there's no need for calibration. If you don't 
 know what the Stroop test is, I won't ruin it. You'll just have to find out for yourself.
  
  The real charm of the game however, is the 100 sudoku puzzles that come built into the game. 
 Fans of this puzzle craze will love the presentation format in the game. Because of the touch screen 
 capability, you can jot down numbers that could possibly fill in each of the grid's squares, with 
 a possibility of nine digits in each block. If nothing else, the Sudoku should be enough to warrant 
 the purchase of this game at its budget $20 tag.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGerlach
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 30, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Hey guys its day thirteen of my brain age training.
  
  I heard of this game and I immediately thought WOW this game looks pretty good. I waited and waited 
 and finally they came out with the DS Download Station with a demo of Brain Age. So I went to my 
 local Game Crazy and I got a Demo. I started out with the Sudoku. This was the hook for me to get 
 this game because I can get hours of fun playing Sudoku. After I owned like 5 puzzles I tried out 
 the 20x math and then I went to Brain Age Check. My age was in the 60s, ya I know that totally 
 su*cks. But right after I played the demo I knew I had to get this game.
  So the next day I went and put my 5 bucks down on Brain Age. ( you must think mix crazy for actually 
 preordering it but owell.) After finally getting the game I stunk so bad its not even funny.
  
  And now its the 13th day and I own practically every game. My 20x math is 13 seconds and I 
 jus unlocked triangle math, which mix horrible at. And I am definantly seeing results. Mix paying 
 more attention and im way more alert!
  
  Ok enough about me and now onto the actual review since that is what this is. Ive played this 
 game for many hours and I truly believe that with this game you truly get the most out of your 
 DS and the Touch Screen. This game is great and the touch screen makes it worth the buy. With this 
 game it really puts the DS TS really to work and I think if youre really love using your Stylus 
 you will have fun with this game forever!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ch0zNwaN
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  Now I personally wasn't a fan of Nintendogs or Electroplankton, or any other game in their genre, 
 which i label "different," but i can honestly say that Brain Age for the Nintendo DS is a great 
 game that I believe works. I find myself less stressed out and sharper when it comes to application 
 of things, and its just a sweet all around game that will challenge you the more you play it. It's 
 a great game to play with your friends because its basically like taking a test to see who's smarter 
 but its not gay. It is so much fun. The first time I picked up this game I was quite skeptical 
 but i found myself not being able to put it down. And when you get Jet Speed on Calculations X20 
 itreally puts a smile on your face. So I say that If you are really skeptical and live for the 
 passionate rush of shanking innocent people and running over the law. The don't go get brain age. 
 But if you are willing to try something new and surprisingly fun, then I certainly reccommend Brain 
 Age: Train Your Brain In Minutes a Day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGameWizard04
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day!
  
  Nintendo has been dedicated in bringing some of the most unique and interesting titles ever. Brain 
 Age for the DS is no exception. Well except if it can even be called a game at all.
  
  Brain Age is created and inspired by Dr. Ryuta Kawashima's, a Japanese neurologist, study that 
 working your brain with simple task everyday could cure and help prevent brain functions. And that's 
 what this game offers you, simple task to help improve (and work your prefrontal cortex) your overall 
 brain functions. But does the game really help improve brain power?
  
  Time to train that Brain: (Gameplay)
  This is actually a very unique game as you'll find yourself 
 holding your DS just as you would with any book. It almost make you feel as if you are holding 
 a book, but don't let that fend you off, it doesn't feel uncomfortable at all. You'll be playing 
 the nearly most of the game using your stylus, but there are a few games where you have to use 
 the mic. There was only one problem in the game, and that was that during some of the training 
 task the hand recognition is way off, so you'll end up having to tweak the way you write your 4's 
 for example. This gets frustrating, especially when you are trying to beat your own record. On 
 the other hand games like Sudoku it's the writing recognition is nearly perfect. It makes you wonder 
 why those other task didn't play out the same way. Once you've learned how the game works (and 
 how to get over the horrible handwriting recognition) you will really enjoy the unique experience.
 
  
  Looks arn't everything: (Graphics)
  There really isn't anything visually amazing in Brain Age, but that is something that is irrelevant 
 to this game, as most of the game is pretty much text driven. There is however the face of Dr. 
 Ryuta Kawashima who looks pretty creepy, but some of the face expression he makes are just hilarious, 
 and will make you laugh.
  
  Music to my Brain: (Sound)
  There really isn't any music here except in the title screen and throughout the menus (and it sounds 
 like some weird Science Techno music) . The sounds are pretty basic, menu clicks and victory bells, 
 nothing really amazing.
  
  Let's play minutes a day! (Value)
  You start off with a few training task and as you progress (the more you play) you unlock about 
 a handful more. Within a month of so you should have unlocked all the tasks the game has to offer. 
 The task include solving 20 basic math calculations, to reading out loud as fast as you can, to 
 memorizing two dozen words in two minutes and writing them out, and many others. There is also 
 over 100 Sudoku puzzle games that work really well, and are just plain fun.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  I've been playing Brain Age for a little over 3 weeks now, and although my IQ 
 isn't 150, I have freshened up on my math skills (especially multiplication) . I've also notice 
 that I can read a lot faster. And although there really isn't any data to back up the claims made 
 by Dr. Ryuta Kawashima about this game helping your brain functions, it's still a nice and unique 
 game that you'll enjoy while it last. Besides it's only $20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Mazing-D
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Okay, I first saw the commercial for this game and said that is a load of a dumb and worthless 
 game. Than my sister got the game and I saw her play it and it looked okay. I than tried it and 
 liked it. It really helps you with your Math, and so on and so forth. He tells you what each thing 
 is and what it is helping your brain with and how. Also you can get a Brain Age check once a day 
 to see how well or how much better your brain has got. Also you can train to get a better Brain 
 Age. With 20 being the lowest, you really need to train hard and do well on tests in the game. 
 I would really give this game a good score and you should try and get it to help your brain and 
 you have a little fun helping your brain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Easy to pick up and play. Interesting mechanics. Great Sudoku.
  
  THE BAD: Doesn't allow for long periods of play. The mini-games can become tiresome.
  
  Brain 
 Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day makes full use of the Nintendo DS.
  
  GAMEPLAY is quite good. The game tests your ability to do basic math and memorization. The microphone 
 recognizes words well, and the touch screen is surprisingly accurate. Plus, it does Sudoku well 
 since the use of the stylus works great. However, the game only allows you to do a few things each 
 day which is unfortunate if you want to play the game for more than a few minutes.
  
  GRAPHICS are simple but sharp. The text is legible and the game sports a lot of white. It's easy 
 on the eyes and suits the game. Nothing fancy, but that's okay.
  
  SOUND is okay. There isn't anything great in the game, but it's sort of similar to the music found 
 in Nintendogs. Some voice dialogue could have made the game more lively and the instructions easier 
 to understand.
  
  VALUE is pretty good. For a game that costs $20, it's worth the price. The game can easily be something 
 owners will come back to every now and then. In fact, fans of Sudoku should buy this game just 
 for that reason alone.
  
  OVERALL Brain Age has the potential to last forever. It's a good game to play in bursts (especially 
 since it forces you to do so) and the Sudoku alone pays the $20 admission. However, if you for 
 some reason you hate sudoku (or doing math) there isn't enough content to recommend owning this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coldash
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  A really run game, if it's actually helping exercise my brain then that's just a bonus. 
  
  Excellent use of the DS's capabilities. A game that everyone in the family can play with, right 
 through to your grandparents.
  
  I've been playing for a couple of days now, each day so far has proved something new. It's nice 
 to have a game that multiple family members can use the same cartridge, added to this you get to 
 compare your results with each other family member using the device.
  
  I've no had a chance to use the link up game features, but they look to be entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pat206
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  The first game in a series of several games that are not really games but a series of exercises 
 that came from our neighbors from Japan. This game is great in my opinion because even though it 
 is just several basic exercises used to flex the mental muscle, it gives you a real sense of accomplishment 
 to take your virtual brain from the age of a senior citizen to the age of a twenty something. Another 
 positive feature is the ability to save up to four different person on one card so you can compare 
 your abilities with those of your friends or family. The small problem I had with the game is the 
 short re-playability because once you unlock the seven or eight exercises and you take your brain 
 to as far as it can go you really have nowhere else to go. Hopefully the next game we see in the 
 series has more variety of tasks and maybe more too do than just the tests, but overall a great 
 game especially with the low price of just $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyLupeGirL
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  At first I was a like sceptical about buying this game... but I must say I'm very glad I did. As 
 I soon learned after playing this game for about 10 minutes that I'm not as book smart as I thought 
 I was... lol.. anywayz I would recommend this game to anyone who wants to challenge there mind. 
 My husband even played it and said it was a bit hard but he liked it cause it was challenging his 
 mind.. I like the fact that it isn't repetitive.. there is alot to this game so you don't get bored 
 easily. As far as what age group should own this game I would have to say atleast high school level 
 and above. Simply because some of the challenges really test your reflexes with timing.. (ex: the 
 what color is it game) .... It is also a good game for those of you who have been out of school for 
 several years now and just want to sharpen your brain skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fhaid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow ... Dr. Ryuta kawashima (the creator of the game) THANK YOU !! when I first played this game, 
 My brain age was 65 !!!!! day by day it gets younger (The best Brain Age is 20) the game keeps 
 yourmind working hard, keeps the blood flee into those viens !! I mean really you feel that you 
 accomplished sumthing (I know it sounds cheesy) but seriously the game will grow on anyone who 
 plays it ... There are many different kinda games :-
  
  Calculation, Counting syllables, Reading Aloud, Low To high ( you get to memorize numbers in like 
 1-2 seconds and arrange'em "Low to High" .. AND many others !!
  
  So if you think your brain needs refreshing and reworking you'll be surprise of what this game 
 offers ... I love the daily Tips you get each day you play !
  
  + My favourite part of this game is Sudoku !! I just found out bout it in this game !! It really 
 is great and time waster (SERIOUSLY) and brain worker. So this a game you wont be damaging your 
 brain when you play... Ull fix it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillplaygbc
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! I cant believe there is a low score, but then again it does make sense. GAMEspot, 
 this game is educational and so people dont like it, but I enjoy it alot, the sudoku is amazing, 
 and so is just the regular brain train. I think if you like sudoku and dont mind learning outside 
 of school get this game. If not, get it anyway, it helps memorization skills! I really an starting 
 to remember things better! So this game deserves a 10 and I await June 5th when Big Brain Academy 
 comes out! Long Live Ryuta Kawashima Y'all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THEWINDWAKER10
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  The definition of game is different when asked to any gamer. But one thing is for sure, Brain Age 
 isn't part of it. By definition, Brain Age isn't really a game; it's a tool. Whether it truly trains 
 the brain of the player is up to them, although the game was inspired by Professor Ryuta Kawashima, 
 a prominent Japanese neuroscientist, and the game drills into the player that certain exercises 
 work different areas of the brain.
  
  The main focus of Brain Age is to simply "train" one's brain. This is done through a series of 
 daily "workouts" where one can do twenty simple math problems as fast as they can. From there, 
 there's a harder version with one hundred problems, a reading "game," one that makes the player 
 memorize numbers from low to high (hence the title, Low to High) , another one that requires players 
 to count the number of syllables in a sentence, and so forth. This is all done to improve the player's 
 "Brain Age," which requires them to say the color out loud displayed on the DS screen. The trick 
 is, while the word may be written in yellow, the word reads "Red" or any combination of four colors/color 
 words. Players brains can go as low as twenty, which players won't achieve right away, giving them 
 something to strive for.
  
  While the voice recognition works fairly well, there are some problems. Along with the voice recognition, 
 there's a handwriting one as well, which suffers the same problem. They both work well for the 
 most part, but occasionally the game will mistake it for something else. For example, eighths can 
 be read as twos, and "Yellow" won't be recognized as "Yellow." This can get frustrating, as players 
 are penalized when they make mistakes, even if the mistake was made on behalf of the game.
  
  This affects how players do daily, which is tracked through the game, showing the players improvement 
 (or lack there of) . Along with performance, speed is also ranked. An animation will play at the 
 end of each "game" showing how fast the player completed it. This ranks from Walking Speed to Jet 
 Speed. Most modes don't factor in speed, but some do. It doesn't affect gameplay at all, but it's 
 just another way to rank the player.
  
  Each day that the player comes back to train, they'll gain a stamp. Gaining stamps will gain the 
 player new modes, the ability to create their own custom stamp, hard mode for some "games," and 
 more. It takes nineteen stamps (or nineteen days) to unlock basically everything in the game, although 
 there is one thing that will keep players around for a while.
  
  The Soduku is going to be the main draw of this game for many players. It's what gives Brain Age 
 its lasting appeal. There are a large amount of puzzles, also timed by the game, but there's no 
 improvement chart, only a fastest time chart. Once again, this gives Brain Age its value, and almost 
 sells the game itself.
  
  Besides the Soduku and brain training, there are a few multiplayer modes and Quick Play modes. 
 Quick Play lets other players view their Brain Age, complete Soduku puzzles, and train their brain 
 without registering a profile. Multiplayer mode pits up to fifteen people in a calculation battle 
 with a single copy of the game. Players can also transfer a Brain Age demo to their friends, but 
 it's pretty average.
  
  The presentation of Brain Age is nothing special. Again, it's not a game by definition, so the 
 presentation doesn't have to be mind-blowing. The menu is very well executed, and the DS is even 
 turned sideways to give it more of a "book feel," although that's not what the players will get, 
 as it will more likely confuse them than remind them books. The same goes for sound. While there 
 is an animated head, he doesn't talk, and the only real standing audio is the scribble sound of 
 the stylus on the touch screen. So as far as presentation goes, the game is meant to train the 
 brain not to entertain (which is does do, but not on the same level) .
  
  In the end, players come for the training and stay for the Soduku. Besides that, Brain Age: Train 
 Your Brain in Minutes a Day doesn't have much else to offer. What it promises to do it executes 
 well. Players will most likely see improving results, but the fact that it's one of those games 
 where it can only be played for fifteen-to-twenty minutes at a time will drive away a lot of people. 
 If that's what the player's looking for, than take a look at Brain Age. It's one of the first games 
 to utilize the DS Download Stations, and can be downloaded from a friends DS to try. If it's a 
 sit-down, have-fun game that the player is looking for, then look elsewhere. Brain Age is a game 
 for those gamers who don't have time to devote to a story, and simply want to sharpen their brain, 
 which is just what Brain Age does to a fairly good level. 
  
  This review can also be found at www. randomnintendo. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjmage16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is a game designed by a neuroscientist to stimulate your brain. You do training each 
 day, and then take a test to see how you're doing. You have to strive to keep your "brain age" 
 down to a minimum, as close to 20 as possible.
  
  The game is fun, and addicting, and doesn't have to be played for a long time. Just a few minutes 
 a day, and you're set. It has voice recognition, which is very very good, and handwriting recognition 
 which is also superb. The game is great.
  
  Sudoku is an addition that will keep you playing for a long time.
  
  Get the game, it's only 
 $20. Well worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterLink01
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 24, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I was a little skeptic when i first saw Brain Age, so i wouldn't know to expect. But when i learned 
 that my brain was the equivalent of a 67-year-old, i think that i needed to improve. The games 
 require quick thinking and a sharp mind so don't play this when your high. The only thing is the 
 game gets repetitive, but it keeps you busy with extras like Sudoku. since it has about a hundred 
 different puzzles on three difficulty levels it can keep you busy for quite a while. the basic 
 object is aget your "brain age" to its peak of 20 years old. The game makes great use of the microphone 
 and the touch-screen, so nintendo is headed in the right direction on it's multifuncioning machine. 
 The best part is it will keep your mind sharp and on the spot for a while and gives you tips to 
 get your mind ready during different times of the day. if you are looking for a good and can spare 
 20 bucks, this is a good game for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g0t12ic3
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 23, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age was first released in Japan a while back I think during the year of 2005? I could be 
 wrong though all you need to know is this. If your looking for something totally unique with this 
 game you may be a little disappointed. As the game is mostly a bunch of math problems, counting 
 numbers and such, connect the dots, and syllable reading, ahh yes Sudoku also if your into that 
 kind of thing. So basically yeah supposely your brain, by playing this game *hint*, you unlock 
 your brains prefrontal cortex. Now whether or not this actually works it says that it will help 
 your brainpower so whether that be thinking and solving a problem or just enhancing your reflexes 
 I'm not sure but I can tell you this. This game is actually fun and presents itself in a rather 
 simple way making everything pretty much straight forward like it should be. The graphics and the 
 sound get the job done and will not get in the way of gameplay. Even though there are some instances 
 where your g's may look like a's or your interpretation of red somehow be made into blue. These 
 little quirks and bugs are marginal and will not affect the experience you'll have with this game. 
 The value though varies between people as if you play this game everyday you'll eventually unlock 
 different activities and decrease your brain age in which the ideal age is 20. Unfortunately, if 
 you're still in elementary, junior (like me ) , or high school this may not be worth the purchase 
 as we are still growing and as the Doctor says we should take these readings with a grain of salt.
 
  If your into the whole unique experience DS thing this game could be for your unless your actually 
 trying to train your brain I'm not sure this will help as it says, but one thing you need to know 
 is this game gets really repetitive and my get tiring fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mack10
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 9:04 pm PT
Review:  initially, I wasn't expecting much from Brain Age, and never really got much from the game either. 
 Like Gamespot's Jeff Gerstmann, I too don't know if this game makes you any smarter, but whether 
 it does or not, it's in no doubt a fun addition to any collection of DS games.
  
  The core idea behind Brain Age is to "work out" your brain. Brain Age does this by providing you 
 with small daily activities (that make up the main part of this title) that require you to use 
 your mind to succeed. Starting off, your brain age will, most probably, be a high number; 45, 50, 
 60 or perhaps 70 and higher. As you go through your daily training you get better and better and 
 will eventually reach a brain age of 20, which is the lowest and best brain age you could possibly 
 reach. The game is good at making the activities fun and stress free; in fact, this game requires 
 little skill when it comes to games, a little more when it comes to school. Dont' let this turn 
 you off, because the school skill you need is some grade three math and as long as your not color 
 blind and good at memorizing on the run, you'll be fine.
  
  The game has four files available to keep track of four different users' completed daily activites 
 and updating their improved or unimproved brain age. To keep the game more interesting, the developers 
 provided users with unlockable activities that are playable (in due time - as you get better) . 
 Brain Age starts you off with three activities (for training purposes) : CalculationX20, CalculationsX100 
 and Reading Aloud. CalculationsX20, and X100 are self explanatory really, they are a series of 
 20 or 100 (based on what you choose) of basic math questions that you have to complete as fast 
 as possible (the faster, the better) . Reading aloud tests your reading skills and records the number 
 of syllables per second, so the faster you read the better you are. The game requires you to go 
 through a set of daily activities that take up about 10 minutes of your time - the scores you get 
 in such activities reflect your brain age.
  
  Apart from the main "campaign", the game has a "quick play" option that allows other family members 
 or friends, with no intent of playing through the main game, to wet their fingers with some of 
 the games available. The game does a good job at providing a fun atmosphere without going out of 
 its way.
  
  Overall, Brain Age is a simple, fun, productive game that does little to ammuse and ammuses much. 
 With the petty price tag of $20, Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day shouldn't be overlooked 
 by any DS owner looking for a unique experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassplayer27800
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  I really enjoy this game. In gamespot's review they said voice reconition and writing reconition 
 can be bad, but I don't have any problems with that, occasionly I will wright something and it 
 takes it in a different way, but that doesn't happen to me very often. I don't know if you play 
 this game you will somehow get smater is true, but even if you don't, this game is deffinetly worth 
 the $20. I wish there were a few more games to play, but with 2 more brain age game's coming, I 
 am hoping they will add more.
  
  I also really like the sudoku, they are really good ones, and there is many of them to keep you 
 busy for a long time, I am going to play this everyday, so I can get a stamp, I have a feeling 
 I will be playing this one untill the next one comes out.
  
  To wrap things up, If you have $20, pick this game up, you will be playing it everyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendokid891
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! It is so cool. Like the Gamespot review said the mic games can be a little 
 wrong when they pick up, but this game is aweasome!
  
  GAMEPLAY- The gameplay is great. Finally a game were when your mom says get off or that game or 
 your brain will turn to mush. You can say NO IT WONT.
  9 out of 10
  
  GRAPHICS- The graphics are ok. Not an amazing design, but nice and simple.
  
  8 out of 10
 
  
  SOUND- Interesting music. I love it!
  
  8 out of 10
  
  LEARNING CURVE-You got to get used to talking to the machine, but it should only take 0-30 minutes.
 
  
  0-30 Minutes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superbomber64
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Wait a minute, a game... to learn?? You have to be crazy. Just hold on, fellow gamer, Brain Age 
 offers a completely unique look on learning. Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day helps 
 you work your prefrontal cortex with the help of a freaky, but real, neuroscientist, Dr. Kawashima.
 
  First off, the game is not ment to be played three hours straight, but it is ment to be played 
 everyday. The game would calculate which days you have exercised your brain. Games range from sudokus 
 to a 100 problem dash with math equations. Yes, it may seem like a game that can grow old in about 
 five days, but the idea of exercising your brain and finding out your "brain age" is very intriguing.
 
  There is a multiplayer mode hosting a whopping 16 people, though there really is much you can 
 do, except brag that your brain age is younger than your friend's. Yes, the multiplayer could of 
 been better, but Brain Age is obviously geared toward induvidual achievement, so there really shouldn't 
 be a big deal about it.
  Brain Age does have some gameplay flaws that could of been tweaked. This includes the voice recognition 
 and some of the stylus writing. For the voice, I found that I had to say one word several times 
 before it would accept my voice. With the stylus, sometimes it had trouble picking up what I was 
 writing, but a lot had to do with the fact that I had to write the number really fast.
  All in all, Brain Age offers someting educational, and innovative. They mix that together to blend 
 a fun overall experience that would keep your mind exercising. Who knows, a popualr genre may rise 
 with a sucess of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cornercutter
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age IS a fun game (for me at least...) Being able to save your results only once a day is 
 a down side, because there arent very many training games. (what is it? 8?) On the other hand, 
 the games like head count and syllable count are fun., and the x20 and x100 games arent too easy, 
 and thats a good thing. 
  A very bad thing about Brain age is the VOICE recognition. if you want your Stroop Test to be completly 
 accurate, you have to be in a completly silent eviroment, or else it wonk work. The handwriting 
 recognition is better with numbers than that with letters. if you write numbers without taking 
 the stylus off of the touch screen, it will give you better reslts.
  Final Verdict: Brain age is fun, and its also fun to compete with the other 3 people who can have 
 files, and the Sudoku is a great touch. On the Down side, you can only save results for each game 
 once, but the handwriting and voice recognition are this games greatest downfall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: putoasco
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 21, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Ok so let's see... I buy a educational game for 20 bucks, I get addicted to it, I become smarter, 
 I addicted to Sudoku, and I have fun... Now to the point... This game is about stimulating your 
 "Prefrontal Cortex". It firsts calculates your "Brain Age", then it starts giving you puzzles and 
 thinking games to stimulate your brain. Soon your brain age starts to decrease showing that you 
 are improving. Now I began the game at a brain age of 80 years... Now after a week I am only 56 
 years old! Great Game! Get it now!
  
  Pros and Cons
  +Cheap 20$ Price
  +Makes You Smarter
  +Addictive
  +Fun For All
  
  -Not Many Training Games
  -Not So Great 
 Multiplayer
  -Graphics are not "Ultra Super"
  
  So yep.. For 20$ this is way worth it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 21, 2006 12:36 pm PT
Review:  My copy of Brain Age arrived in a package with a chocolate-flavored Power Bar, a Gatorade instant 
 mix, a brain-shaped stress ball, a gym tag and a towel. Included was a sheet with my exclusive 
 membership to the Mental Gym, courtesy of Nintendo. 
  
  Roughly three weeks away from the official release, would I have enough time to see results? Read 
 on and find out. 
  
  My first workout served to acess my current mental acuity. The Stroop Test shows you the words 
 black, red, blue and yellow appearing on the screens in any of those four colors and in 
 random positions. The purpose is to say the color that theyre written in and ignore the word altogether. 
 Let me tell you, it wasnt good. At a disappointing 48 years of age, my brain apparently needed 
 some serious help. Fortunately, I had the tools, so I started a strict daily exercising program 
 on my DS. 
  
  Brain Age cant really be classified as a game. Its a piece of software inspired by Professor 
 Ryuta Kawashimas (a Japanese neuroscientist) research about brain activity. His research proved 
 that certain reading and mathematic exercises and good impact in stimulating the brain. He is also 
 the avatar hosting the game and your own personal brain trainer. 
  
  The software is composed of several activities that take only a few minutes to complete. These 
 activities include reading a text out loud, counting syllables in random sentences or solve simple 
 math problems in either groups of 20 or 100. More complicated exercises and a "Hard" difficulty 
 mode become available as you complete a certain number of training sessions. 
  
  Low to High requires you to memorize a series of numbers in different positions, then tap the 
 positions in order on the touch screen. Head Count begins with a number of people in a house, 
 then people begin entering and leaving, and at the end you have to guess how many are still inside. 
 "Triangle Math" has you calculate two semi-totals and a final answer starting with three numbers 
 (and it includes negatives) but you can only write down the final result. "Time Lapse" shows you 
 two clocks and you have to write down how much time has passed between the first and the second. 
 "Voice Calculation" is like Calculations x20 but includes divisions and instead of writing, you 
 say the answer.
  
  The random drawing sessions are quite fun and unexpected. You might be in the middle of moving 
 through menus and the doctor will ask you to draw three things, but without showing you an actual 
 likeness. These usually catch me by surprise and let me tell you, its a bit awkward to draw Henry 
 the VIII with no reference! Even something simple like a rhino turned out to be a hipopotamus (I 
 tend to confuse both a bit) . I won't even mention my attempts at Mona Lisa, the Sphynx or a paramecia. 
 Anyway, after youre done drawing your picture, the doctor shows you the real one, telling you 
 what you should have focused on. If more players use the same DS, he will also show you how other 
 people did. The results are often giggle inducers. 
  
  Another surprise element that the doctor likes to throw at you are questions such as What did 
 you have for dinner/lunch/breakfast yesterday? or "What was the first thing you did this morning?". 
 Then some days later, he will ask you again that same question and compare answers. Sneaky! I usually 
 dont remember what I ate two days ago, let alone last week. It keeps you on your toes though. 
 
  
  Brain Age actually tracks your progress through a series of charts for each exercise and for your 
 brain age changes. If you actually do it everyday, you will notice right away how being tired, 
 not sleeping well or trying to do the test in a noisy environment can affect it. Different hours 
 of the day also have a slight influence in your performance. 
  
  Up to four users can have their profiles on a single game card, giving them the chance to compare 
 graphs and drawings. 
  
  Brain Age plays like a book though, you hold your DS sideways, which is a little uncomfortable 
 on the wrist after a while. The advantage is that you can pick if youre right-handed or left-handed. 
 The word and writing recognition are quite good, but it fails a little at times. In the Stroop 
 Test, saying blue several times in a row to the word blue written in blue wasnt working, while 
 sometimes in Calculations the game would guess the number before I was even done writing it, 
 turning out in something completely different from what I had written. Maybe its just my handwriting 
 and the way I lift the stylus at certain times, but my 5s, 7s, Ds and Ks constantly give me 
 a hard time during exercises. 
  
  Aside from all the exercising, you can chill with a Sudoku puzzle (and there are 100 of them) . 
 I never really got into Sudoku, and now I quite like it (mostly because now I understand how to 
 solve the puzzles) . 
  
  Although this isnt your typical game, you will find yourself coming back to it for competitive 
 purposes, either to beat your friends scores or improve your own. Brain Age is a great workout 
 for the gray matter that lets you flex those mental biceps and improve your overall brain activity 
 in the long run. As for my personal results after three weeks, Ive been standing at around 25. 
 Much better than 48, isnt it? 
  
  There is no excuse for me not to go to the gym anymore. The Brain Gym, that is. The other type 
 of exercise is another story. 
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text, screenshots and list of unlockables at the following 
 link:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=brainage 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyBobby85
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 21, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those quirky non-games you just shouldn't be without. When I heard about this game, 
 I was skeptical at first, but once I saw how it worked and how much it would cost, I was instantly 
 sold. I've been playing this game for days now, and it's quite entertaining to test your grey matter 
 to its limits and track your progress. The game offers plenty of unlockable tests and puzzles, 
 and theres even sodoku to boot, which is something that I never heard of until this game, but am 
 quickly becoming a big fan of. 
  
  The first thing you'll notice about this game is that it must be held sideways like a book, as 
 to help secure the feel of writing in a notebook or journal. As with most DS games using the touch 
 screen, there are options of alternating between left-handed and right handed users, which equates 
 to merely turning the Unit the other way around so the touch screen is on the left side adjusting 
 positions accordingly. A nice touch if I may say so myself. 
  
  After a few minutes of playing around with the various challenges the game throws at you, it may 
 come to your attention that the handwriting recognition can sometimes misread what you put down 
 for answers. This isn't too bad for the most part, but when the game incorrectly penalizes you 
 for your handwriting even when you know the right answer and the number written looks legible enough 
 to the eye, you somehow feel cheated. Eventually, you learn to adjust to the game's mechanics, 
 but no matter how well you alter your play style, you'll still occasionally run into some unjust 
 touch-screen miscalculations of your scribbles. The game seems to have the most difficulty recognizing 
 the numbers "4", "7" and "9", and the list grows when it comes to the alphabet. Thankfully, the 
 game waits confusedly when it can't comprehend your answers, so it's not like you don't have the 
 opportunity to fix your response. The only downfall to this quick-fix correction scheme is that 
 if your answer has multiple digits or letters, you must erase it rewrite the entire thing even 
 if you get one part wrong, which can eat away at your completion time. At least in the Stroop color 
 test, all you have to do is say the word again, which is less stressful than writing again and 
 again. Oddly enough, there are less concerns with the accuracy of the microphone voice recognition 
 than with the touch screen controls.
  
  In terms of graphics, there's not much to talk about, save for Dr. Kawashima's polygonal disembodied 
 head. Most of what you'll see is black text on white backgrounds, but there are the occasional 
 color themed puzzles and Stroop tests. You do see some scaling effects on numbers and letters that 
 resemble GBA visuals, but the effect is mainly used to disorient you and challenge you, so it's 
 not like fancy polygons are necessary when it comes to testing. As far as rewards go, you get some 
 cute little animations depending on your completion speed which vary from simplistic walking animations 
 to airborne jets. Dr. Kawashima even does some goofy facial expressions depending on your performance, 
 and often provides encouraging advice for when you finish. Other than that, there's not much else 
 to this category, but from a hardcore gamer's perspective, this isn't the kind of title that should 
 rely on visuals to get its point across.
  
  You do get some nice catchy tunes to listen to in between tests, but in-game arithmetic and reading 
 tests have no music at all. Hardly a bad thing, since when do you really need music to distract 
 you during mental exercises? This aspect of the game is a double-edged sword, since high-budget 
 sounds and visuals aren't needed in a game of this kind, but could still help to make the presentation 
 a little more user-friendly. However, we mustn't forget that this isn't a conventional game, so 
 simple buzzes for incorrect answers and satisfying chirps for right answers are really the bare 
 essentials for a "quiz" game. Personally, I find all the extra music and sound effects to be icing 
 on the cake, since I wasn't expecting to much from this category in the first place. I really like 
 the fact that they included some convincing scribbling sounds for when you are writing, even if 
 they are carbon copied from pictochat. All in all, it's not super amazing, but it gets the job 
 done well enough.
  
  The tests themselves are very fun to play around with, but you are only monitored for your first 
 daily input when calculating your brain age. This is kind of unfortunate, but you are still permitted 
 to repeat tests to practice even more for your next outing, if you so desire. Most of the time, 
 you won't fare too well your first time out, but this is precisely what motivates you to do better 
 in the future. Many of the tests offer differing brain teasers to stimulate mental activity, which 
 most of the time can catch you off guard, no matter how confident or expedient you may think you 
 are with your upstairs smarts. I could easily see parents and teachers alike digging this game 
 for it's "real-world" challenge especially for it's attractive learning appeal and sense of style. 
 I mean, when was the last time an educational title was even remotely fun?
  
  In conclusion, there's not much of a reason to pass this up for a mere $20. The fact that you can 
 exercise your brain daily, improving thought processes for the better in a fun, effective manner 
 should be reason alone to get this game. There's plenty to strive for, and long term self-help 
 for a cheap price is something everyone could use these days. You'd have to be stupid (pun intended) 
 to not at least try this game. DS just got one more unique thing going for it, so here's to hoping 
 this isn't the last of these kinds of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuBbLeZmAtT
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 4:55 am PT
Review:  This game is a great game if you are a thinker (like me) and its a LOT about math!! so if you dont 
 like math dont get this game! if you do like math (me again) this will be a perfect addition to 
 your game collection.
  
  I highly recommend this game to sudoko lovers also (guess what... me again!! haha) there are hundreds 
 of sudoko's on this game its the best!
  By the way getting off of the brain age game I have a game for anybody who likes sudoko's, there 
 is a new game for Gameboy Advanced caled Dr. Sudoko and its all about sudoko's so you should check 
 it out.
  
  Defenitly buy this game its the best if you like this type of game.......... actully just buy it 
 anyway!!! Its cool!!!!!!
  
  -----Matt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shear1017
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  In Brain Age you literally train your brain. After playin with it today i can accually feel blood 
 rushing through my head which is cool. The brain training activities and the Sudoku is fun and 
 addicting. Each day you have to play 1 brain check and one other activity to get your date stamp. 
 The more dates stamped, the more you unlock more things. The only problems with the game are the 
 handwriting and voice recognition. This game is definitally not for people with really sloppy handwriting. 
 With the naming the colors thing i have to say blue in a very weird way to get it right. Other 
 than that Brain Age is a solid title and for twenty bucks i definitly recomend you try it out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MONSTER99999
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 19, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Brain age is a great game. I wouldn't buy it if you are a gamer who will just get a new game and 
 that keep playing it for like 24 7. It is only meant to be played a little each day. That said 
 it is a completely different game from anything else. I said i played it 10 hours or less thats 
 because you are only supposed to play like 10 minutes a day. There will soon be copies of this 
 game like big brain academy. please always remember this is the original. in Japan they have number 
 2. One can only Dream it will come to North America. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: emm333
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:15 am PT
Review:  Take a Professor who has written negative press about video games in the past and tell him to make 
 a game. Then let him design it in his own way. Of course, he'll put his disembodied floating head 
 into the game, right? Right. Ok, Weirdness aside, Brain Age isn't truly a game in the gamer's definition 
 of game, but it's definitely a fine exhibit of what makes gaming itself fun. 
  
  I'm going to have a hard time writing this review as I don't want to use the word "game" to describe 
 this... er... game, but I don't want to use exercise or test either... which is exactly what Brain 
 Age is comprised of... but don't let those words turn you off either. Brain Age is undoubtedly fun 
 and compelling. 
  
  
  In terms of things on the cart: First off, there's Quick Play, Daily Training, and Sudoku, and 
 Download. I'm not sure what Download is as I haven't played it, but it seems to be some WiFi competition 
 of the calculations exercise from what I can tell. Sudoku is Sudoku. Quick Play involves doing 
 the Daily Training exercises without a program or graphing or charting your progress. As for the 
 Sudoku on the cart, hey, it's Sudoku. You can get them in USA Today or NY Times or AM News or nearly 
 any other newspaper nowadays and that doesn't make the Brain Age cart wholly appealing. The things 
 that are engaging are the Brain Age check and the daily training. Brain Age check uses the exercises 
 from the daily training to calculate your Brain Age. The ideal Brain Age is 20 and with relative 
 ease of most of the exercises it seems an easy target. But it's not. The exercises are deceptively 
 complet in their simplicity. There's simple math facts x20 and x100, there's Reading Aloud, which 
 are all self-explanatory, but exericises like Word Memory, Head Count, Syllable Count, Number Crunchers 
 test your thinking and your noggin in unique and entertaining ways. I'm not going to talk about 
 all of them as discovery of the exercise is part of the game's appeal and fun, but I'll speak about 
 Head Count as way of example.
  Head Count is simple. You see some people, a house falls on them, covering them so that you can't 
 see them. Some people go, some people stay, more people come along. As these changes keep happening 
 you have to keep tabs on who comes and who goes from the house. It seems simple, but is challenging 
 and fun. Remember once the house falls, you can't see the people and the number in the house at 
 first is nearly never the number in the house by the end of the run. It's addictive and it gets 
 you thinking. That should be the motto of Brain Age. It's fun, thoughtful, and game-like to the 
 extent at which you feel like you're gaming. Heck, it's supposed to be good for you too... but who 
 knows.
  
  Besides the fact that you have to listen/read the explantion of how each exercise is played everytime 
 you play one (they're short and I'm sure it was done because there needed to be some loading time) , 
 I have only one real complaint about this cart. My chief complaint is that there is no way to probe 
 or test the good doctor's advice. For instance, when you Brain Train to test your age, your Brain 
 Age is recorded but the time of day at which you tested your Brain Age isn't. The Doc contends 
 that your brain is more active in the morning. I've scored way lower in the morning then I do at 
 night or even in the middle of the day. Being able to test the doc's advice would make these exercises 
 even more engaging. (There is a graph that maps your daily progress, but nothing you can write 
 notes on or see what time of day you tested at)
  
  All in all, if you're not a fan of videogames this game may get you hooked on playing something 
 videogame-like. If you're a casual or hardcore gamer there's enough competitive spirit and imbedded 
 puzzle gameplay here to keep you satisfied and happy... who knows you may even get smarter in process... although 
 that belief requires a great deal of faith and practice... and much more than Brain Age and a DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ra7krz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  wow its hard in times like these to make original games, you know with all the sequels and well 
 all the sequels. Nintendo just keeps finding new and fresh ideas, Brain Age is a perfect example 
 of this, it is a very innovative game. It will keep you busy when you just want to take a break 
 from the problems of life. There are different ways to train your brain in this game, so you wont 
 feel stuck with a crappy mode, in like most games you risk your money for. The gameplay is very 
 addictive, and it will entertain you for a very very long time. If you like great new games, fresh 
 ideas, and just plain fun you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilteo12
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age is a game meant for those gamers who are looking for more than just brainless button 
 mashing in the hopes of seeing blood spilled. It tests your ability to calculate math problems, 
 draw pictures from memory, speed recognition of colors and numbers, use logic to solve sudoku puzzles, 
 and much more.
  
  At first, the game seems to be simple, but it slowly becomes engrossing and addictive as you struggle 
 to beat your already saved time on the 100 calculations in the hopes that you can achieve the ideal 
 brain age of 20 years. The game keeps track of when you play (by use of a calendar) and encourages 
 you to continue 'training' your brain so that you can get that 59 year old 'tired' brain whipped 
 into shape.
  
  The game really shines with the sudoku puzzles (for those that love them) and through the many 
 games that require quick recognition of numbers, order, etc. 
  
  Unfortunately, it does have a few drawbacks, namely the voice recognition... something which should 
 have just been left out. At times, the game also fails to recognize your handwriting with the stylus, 
 though this does not occur as often as you might think.
  
  Overall, this game is quite unique and will keep you writing away with your stylus through the 
 early morning. The best part is that it rings in at just under $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kantaroth
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I get tired of hearing people that are constantly bashing videogames saying everything from, "videogames 
 promote mental retardation to brain atrophy." Well here's a game that will silence them and give 
 gamers a chance go gain some HP in the brainpower stats. 
  
  An incredibly addictive, cognitive enhancing, fun game. I could see this game having application 
 in a school-age classroom as a fun way to practice math tables, and increase reading skill. 
  
  Innovative is the word for this game. Nintendo can add another home-run to the list. It's clever 
 in it's ability to hide academic training in a fantastic game for all ages. 
  
  It makes excellent use of the DS touch screen and mic. 
  
  I also like the challenge of trying 
 to lower my brain age. I didn't do as well as I thought so now it compels me to get it lower, how 
 ingenious. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staryoshi87
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 18, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Brain Age is a truly unique and innovative creation. Through a rigorous series of simple but challenging 
 tests you are assigned a brain age, and your goal is to lower your brain age to the optimal age 
 of 20 through daily "work-outs." I myself got a score of 20 my first try (w00t) , but there is still 
 an incentive to play of staying sharp. Brain Age utilizes the touch screen as well as built in 
 mic, and aside from the occasional misread number or letter, or the mic not recognizing the word 
 "blue" for me, it functions quite well.
  All-in-all, Brain Age is a bargain at $20 for the much-needed workout your brain will recieve (and 
 by the way, it also includes Sudoku, z0mg) So stop reading this and buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryehngeocef
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  --------------------
  -Excellent Value
  -Stimulates Right Brain Activity
  -Up to 4 User's Data on 1 Cartridge
  
  The Bad
  --------------------
  -Spotty Voice Recognition 
 for Some Users
  
  Nintendo's DS has been a hotbed of innovation and creativity since it's launch. It's software library 
 is easily the most unique among the current platforms available. Developed in co-operation with 
 Dr. Ryuta Kawashima, a professor at Tohoku University in Japan who specializes in brain imaging, 
 Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day is no exception. In fact, it turns the DS on it's 
 side.
  
  You'll be suprised how comfotable the DS is to hold in this position, especially if you've imported 
 a DS Lite. You may also wonder why more titles don't take advantage of this more vertical perspective.
 
  
  When you first start up the software, you'll be greeted by a polygonal representation of Dr. Kawashima's 
 disembodied head. This is about the extent of the graphical power you will see in this title. Rest 
 assured, though as the presentation of mostly simple text and numbers works perfectly against a 
 white backdrop. Any sort of bells and whistles would most likely distract you from the training 
 excercises you perform.
  
  After you sign your name and do an initial test, the training excercises become available. They 
 range from rapid fire math questions to reading passages from literature and voice calculation 
 games. The more days you train with the software, the more stamps Dr. Kawashima will give you on 
 your calendar. Accumulating these stamps unlocks new training excercises and difficulty levels. 
 You can check you Brain Age once a day.
  
  After using the software for a few weeks, you'll probably want to start trying the hard modes. 
 I'm not sure if my brain is in better shape, or if I've learned how to play the excercises better, 
 but either way it feels good to see a measurement of your improvement over time. As an example, 
 when I got my copy from GDC my Brain age was 58. On the software's release day, it was 34. My real 
 age is 29. You'll probably have good days and bad. Some days you may reach the software's ultimate 
 Brain Age of 20, and others you may be in your 70's. 
  
  I have not had a single issue with the voice recognition. My wife is French Canadian though, and 
 has trouble getting the game to recognize the word "blue". Apparently this is an issue for alot 
 of people. If you happen to have an accent, you may want to be aware of this. You do always have 
 the option to not do the spoken tests.
  
  I find it best to use the software at the same time every day. I usually use it after breakfast 
 with my morning coffee. You'll see a marked difference if you do the excercises at different times 
 of day. My wife finds it best to use it after work, when her Brain has been used already.
  
  You can store 4 people's data on on 1 cartridge, and Dr. Kawashima encouages you to share the 
 experience with your friends and family.
  the software will compare all of the pictures you draw for the doctor, and encourages you to discuss 
 the results with the other players.
  
  There's a great mulitiplayer mode for up to 16 players, and 100 sudoku puzzles designed by puzzle 
 experts NIKOLI Co., Ltd. included as well. Although you only spend 5-15 minutes a day with it, 
 this title is an amazing value.
  
  The software's sound is adequate, offering a simple theme and some indicators to tell you if you're 
 doing good or bad. The highlight for me is the inclusion of the pencil on paper sound. It may seem 
 like a small touch, but it really does add to the experience.
  
  Nintendo has a good chance of making the edutainment genre popular with titles like this. Everyone 
 I've showed the title to has come away with a positive impression, and even my 70 year old grandmother 
 enjoyed it. This same lady made me turn down the volume on countless NES, Master System and TurboGrafix 
 16 games in the 1980's, and would even force me to leave the worlds of Metroid and Mega Man for 
 the outdoors. No matter what your age or background, Brain Age offers something for you. I showed 
 the software to my mother who is a middle school teacher, and she found it a great way to get kids 
 interested in mathematics also. 
  
  Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day is a great title for your Nintendo DS. Highly reccommended 
 to anyone with an interest in self-challenge. I also find it great as a tool to get the brain working 
 before big events, or even getting warmed up to play other games. An active Prefrontal Cortex is 
 a happy Prefrontal Cortex. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bawishe
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Let me get this out of the way before I go on : Brain Training is unique but is sometimes not done 
 well, but it doesn't fail in offering a new experience only available on the Nintendo DS. First 
 off the control scheme is awkward, mostly because of the way you hold your DS, as a book. The Voice 
 recognition is done ok, but in Quick Play mode it didn't recognize the word "Blue" until after 
 around 3 tries. Handwriting recognition is also not done as well as it could have been, to recogize 
 the number "5" it had me write it in a certain way. But the presentation is extremely well done 
 , and little touches like writing your own signature, and that the doctor laughs when you say his 
 name on the title screen, add personality to the game. Overall Brain Age is addictive, the puzzles 
 are fun though a little repetitive, but it shows great promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SyBerWoLff
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  The game itself is more of a tool than a game, its a great way to work out your mind and a great 
 way to practice some simple math, however when the game starts thats about all you can do. Theres 
 are 4 excercises you can do your first day, as you go on and practice every day you get more exercises 
 to try. I have only tried the first 4 as today is launch day.
  
  If your unsure whether you want to buy this or not, Heres a way to decide:
  Do you like simple 
 math problems, and reading things, or Sudoku? This is a great game for you.
  
  Are you looking for more of a 'game' than a tool? wait another 2 months for "Big Brain Academy" 
 to come out.
  
  Anyone else, you shouldk now if you would like this type of game or not.
  
  Great fun. Sudoku keeps the mind challenged for hours.
  
  Also: Although it doesn't measure 
 your memory it does test it and make you remember such as each day before you acn play Sudoku it 
 will ask you a quesiton such as "What did you eat for dinner last night", and each day before you 
 can test your brain age it will have you draw pictures of things such as animals and continents. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Brain Age Train Your Brain In Minutes A Day might win the longest title award this year! But the 
 game is an oringal game from Nintendo for only $20 bucks you can get it. I went to my local game 
 shop last night they had it I pre-ordered it and haven't slept yet. But today is Easter break so 
 I'm playing this!!! 16 players can play this!!! Here is my review of Brain Age Train Your Brain 
 in Minutes a Day! 
  
  Gameplay: Is very good the sudoku is fun and confusing! My first Brain Age was 26 which is good 
 considering a 20 is the best. Me and my friends should love this game because we suck at MATH.
 
  
  Graphics: There are none but the talking head is in 3D which helps it to a not so surprising two.
 
  
  Sound: It was okay but the head should talk more... it would an element to the game. While this 
 game is only the 4th game to use the microphopne actually 6th.
  
  Value: A perfect 10.
  
  Tilt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neeker
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 3:17 am PT
Review:  Im not entirely sure whether I can call a game like Brain Age: Train Your Brain in Minutes a Day 
 a video game. Its graphics are hardly groundbreaking, its audios are almost monotonous, and its 
 core gameplay involves reading aloud, counting syllables and solving mathematical problems. Surely, 
 thats not what video gaming is all about, is it? Well, not if you hail from the Nintendo school 
 of gaming, no. As mundane as Brain Age sounds, its actually strangely addictive, and once you 
 begin your journey of improving your brain age, youll find yourself deeply immersed in the various 
 activities aimed at giving your brain a daily workout.
  
  The primary objective of Brain Age is to exercise your brain. This is done through doing activities 
 that are designed to stimulate your prefrontal cortex, which is the part of your brain that influences 
 how you apply what youve learnt (whatever) . Its believed that doing these activities on a regular 
 basis will have a positive effect on your brain. Whether or not this holds any truth, Im not sure. 
 But with 15 activities to choose from, at least the game can keep you occupied for quite a while, 
 even though some of these activities are less desirable to do than others.
  
  Some of these activities include a calculation game, which puts you through a series of simple 
 mathematical problems. 2+6, anyone? Or 8x7, for that matter? Well, you get the picture. The idea 
 is basically to get the brain to start thinking quickly with a succession of simple questions, 
 instead of forcing the player to spend too much time dwelling on one. Therere different variations 
 of this calculation module, but the underlying gameplay doesnt divert from the idea of rapidly 
 solving a problem.
  
  Reading aloud is another activity in Brain Age. Obviously, this makes use of the DS mic, and it 
 basically requires you to read through an article as quickly as possible. While you may have problems 
 pronouncing words like epoch, you can actually breeze through this activity by simply bulldozing 
 through without pronouncing the words properly. Just remember to wipe the saliva off your DS screens. 
 Counting syllables is another mini-game on Brain Age. This one requires you to count the number 
 of syllables in a short sentence, and then write the answer down on the touch screen. If youre 
 not exactly sure about what is a syllable, just remember that the word syllable itself has 
 three syllables, and you should be fine.
  
  Of course, therere more to just calculation, reading aloud, or counting syllables in Brain Age, 
 but as you can see, the activities in the game are not exactly the saving the world from an evil 
 force kind. Yet, the games appeal comes in the form of its simplicity. At times, when playing 
 this game, I feel like Im doing one of those online IQ tests, and the eagerness to score well 
 is impetus enough for me to keep going despite the dryness of the questions. This basically sums 
 up the charm of Brain Age.
  
  To spice things up a little, Brain Age also included a substantial amount of Sudoku puzzles. Now, 
 if you can believe my wife, Sudoku is the best thing on Earth since sliced bread. The popularity 
 of this grid-based puzzle game is immense, and its not surprising to see it being included in 
 the game. As with the usual Sudoku books, the Sudoku puzzles in Brain Age are sorted according 
 to difficulty. The easy ones are, well, pretty easy to solve, while the advanced ones require more 
 logical thinking. Anyhow, Brain Age contains more than 100 Sudoku puzzles, which should keep fans 
 of Sudoku occupied for quite some time. Having Sudoku as one of the 15 activities in Brain Age 
 basically provides additional value for an already value-for-money budget game.
  
  And, to top it up, Brain Age also has a multiplayer mode, which allows you to host up to an amazing 
 15 players with one cartridge. Unfortunately, the only playable activity in this mode is the calculation 
 module, which lets you take on others in 30 mathematics questions. This gets old really quickly. 
 Itd be fun if you can challenge your friends to a game of Sudoku (duh!) , really.
  
  Brain Age also requires a unique way of playing. You play it with the DS being held vertically, 
 much like reading a book, with the touch screen on the right. The concept is to recreate the scenario 
 of solving puzzles in a puzzle book, and to a certain extent, this blends in very nicely with the 
 objective of the game. And, true to the games out-of-the-box nature, Brain Age is played entirely 
 with the DS features. That is, via the touch screen and the mic. These make the game more book-like 
 than the usual DS games. The game also caters to left-handers. If youre a leftie like me, simply 
 tell the game so, and you can turn the DS the other way round so that the touch screen switches 
 to the left. This is a nice touch, or the game may just lose a lot of potential buyers!
  
  The problem with how the game plays, however, lies in the sensitivity of the touch screen and the 
 mic. Somehow, it seems to have problem registering my pronunciation of black, and doesnt really 
 recognize my 8 on the touch screen properly. As a result, Ive an initial brain age of 76 (!) 
 because of unnecessary errors. It appears that players will need to adapt to how the game receives 
 input to do well in their own results. This is not exactly a big issue, but it could be frustrating 
 when youre trying to beat a certain timing, only to be let down by your poor handwriting or diction.
 
  
  In conclusion, Brain Age is a very different sort of game, even by the DS selection of quirky 
 titles. It may not boast the usual features that sell a video game, but in their place, weve something 
 that is simple, unassuming, and ultimately very addictive. Moreover, the game is supposed to improve 
 the functionality of your brain, so whats there to lose? Brain Age is highly recommended. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
