-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Break 'Em All
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/breakemall/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A wide variety of stages to play through.
 Some interesting power-ups.
 Catchy soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ball movement can be unpredictable.
 Too much of the game relies on chance, rather than actual strategy or skill.
 Bland presentation.
 Multiplayer isn't much fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 23, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.7, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.5, 73 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: D3
Developer: Warashi
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 20, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This budget-priced Arkanoid clone has its moments of creativity, but mostly it's just a serviceable 
 puzzler that offers little outside of well-worn territory. 

  Did you like Breakout back in the late '70s? How about Arkanoid in the '80s? Are you still playing 
 some variation or another of these classic but aging titles? Then D3's Break 'Em All for the Nintendo 
 DS ought to be like Christmas come early for you. Taking the classic block-breaking concept of 
 the aforementioned games, and adding in some varying mode types and a Gradius-like power-up structure, 
 Break 'Em All has some merit as an update to those classic games. But it also doesn't necessarily 
 pull off everything it tries to do. The ball physics sometimes come across as rather haphazard, 
 and most of the game's multiplayer functionality just isn't much fun at all. And for all its purported 
 variety and depth in terms of available stages and puzzles, the lack of ball precision ultimately 
 lends the game too much to chance, rather than actual strategy.  

          This  Manos: The Hands of Fate -esque boss looks tough, but isn't, really.     

  Break 
 'Em All takes advantage of the DS's touch screen by having you hold the stylus on the paddle and 
 then moving it back and forth manually. Every now and then you'll tap the power-up button to enact 
 one of several power-ups that come via a progressive chain over time. You actually start out by 
 picking your power-ups first. There are several available choices for power-ups, set up in pairs. 
 You pick one of each pair through all of the available pairs, and eventually you end up with several 
 power-ups in a string that build up over time. You earn power-ups by scoring more points and hitting 
 combos. In a nod to classic shooters like Gradius and Life Force, you can simply choose to hold 
 off on early power-ups in favor of letting the score build even higher and grabbing bigger, more 
 useful power-ups. Power-ups range from larger paddles, to multiball splits, to bombs that destroy 
 chunks of blocks in one shot.  

  The controls are tight, and the power-ups add some variety to the mix, but none of that would make 
 any difference if there weren't variety to the levels -- fortunately, there is a good bit. Break 
 'Em All features some duly challenging level designs, with blocks that can't be broken, blocks 
 that can only be broken from specific sides, blocks that take up to five tries to destroy, and 
 conversely, blocks that can be cut like a hot knife through butter. The game even tosses some boss 
 battles at you in the main quest mode, although for reasons that are about to be explained, these 
 are almost never much fun.  

  If Break 'Em All has one severe flaw in its gameplay, it's that there is a degree of randomness 
 to the action that belies the back of the game box's tagline of, "Placement, precision, perfection..." 
 It's not impossible to get angle on the ball when you want it, yet there are plenty of occasions 
 where you'll try to grab a sharp angle on the ball, and it will inexplicably shoot straight up, 
 or even in the opposite direction. Try as you might, the ball just isn't as controllable in this 
 game as it often tended to be in previous takes on the gameplay formula. Nowhere is this more apparent 
 than in the boss battles. Bosses are weird stages that toss random barriers and obstacles at you 
 to try to prevent you from hitting the one-shot weak spot to end the level. Throw in these random 
 roadblocks with the unpredictable ball movements, and you'll find yourself hanging on a wing and 
 a prayer that the ball will eventually find its way into exactly the right spot. It typically does, 
 but it would be nice if you had a little more control over things.  

  Beyond the quest mode, there's also the Tokoton mode and a multiplayer survival mode. Tokoton mode 
 has two variations: standard play, which is a progression of 50 different levels; and random play, 
 which tosses you into a progression of a reported 3 million randomly generated levels. In both 
 cases, the goal is simply to survive as long as possible and to get the highest scores and stage 
 ranks you can. While this mode is fairly straightforward, the survival mode is anything but. You 
 can play survival mode with up to seven other players (or seven computer opponents) , and you're 
 given the choice between four different paddle types. Essentially, everyone exists on the same 
 playfield, and balls are tossed around with reckless abandon. Your paddle has multiple defensive 
 points to knock balls back into opponents, as well as a weak spot that defeats you when hit. The 
 pure chaos of this mode is amusing for about one or two plays, and then you'll realize that, much 
 like the ball physics, the mode lends itself almost exclusively to random action, and it's nearly 
 devoid of strategy. There is also a multiplayer version of the quest mode for up to four players, 
 but all you do there is compete for the highest score.  

          This is the multiplayer. Can you tell what the hell is going on?     

  Though Break 
 'Em All comes with a simple, but oddly catchy soundtrack, just about every other aspect of its 
 presentation is bland and, at times, downright ugly. The graphics are fully simplistic, with bare-minimum 
 menu screens, dull-looking scrolling backgrounds, and some multicolored but same-looking blocks. 
 Even the paddle and ball are exceedingly boring. The ball is almost too small to properly see at 
 times, and the paddle is plain old ugly. None of the boss stages look impressive or all that intimidating, 
 either. Beyond the soundtrack, all you get on the audio front are some tinny-sounding plinks and 
 cracks of breaking blocks. Not very exciting.  

  Break 'Em All isn't an altogether bad update to the Breakout family of action puzzlers, but so 
 little of it stands out as particularly interesting or unique that it's hard to really justify 
 spending money on it, especially with so many superior puzzle titles already available for the 
 DS. There are certainly worse ways to spend $20 for your DS, but there are considerably better 
 ones too.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  This is as close as Araknoid as you are going to get for the Nintendo DS. For those that do not 
 know, this game involves you moving a line at the bottom of the screen to bounce a ball off of 
 it so that it moves to the top of the screen to hit blocks and make them disappear. When all the 
 blocks are gone, the stage is complete. There are some variations in this game from the original 
 Araknoid, but nothing stands out as THAT creative or original.
  
  + Fun if you are bored, easy to pick up and play, lots of levels
  
  - Graphics on the DS should 
 have been ALOT better, more interesting and flashy
  
  - Gameplay seems dated at times, stylus could have been used more creatively
  
  This game is 
 quick fun for Araknoid and puzzle fans, but don't expect a masterpiece. If you are interested, 
 I recommend buying this game if it is cheap, mostly because the game itself Feels like cheap fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Break 'Em All
  Break 'Em All? We already have.
  
  Graphics (12.5%) - 4.5
  Controls (15%) - 7
  Variety (25%) - 5.5
  Replay (25%) - 5
  Sound (7.5%) - 4
  Depth (15%) 
 - 6
  
  OVERALL - 5.44
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay Outline
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Break 'Em All is the age-old game of Breakout. That consists of breaking a series of blocks using 
 a ball while you control a paddle at the bottom of the screen that prevents the ball from falling.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dedication Meter - 70%
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Dedication Meter is too high for Break 'Em All's own good. The game is really about high scores, 
 and getting that high score can take a while. In order to reach the highest score plateau, it took 
 an hour and a half. It's a very simple game to get into and play, and learning everything about 
 the game can take as little as a half hour, but once that is done, in order to get the most out 
 of the game, you have to be willing to play for long sittings -- not ideal for a handheld game.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Graphics - 4.5
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The visuals work for the game, but there is absolutely no flare. Even the power ups are just changed 
 colours. The backgrounds are bland and lifeless and the blocks are all very sterile and simply 
 coloured. It's easy to tell what's going on though, as due to the blandness, the look is very clean.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Controls - 7
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  If Break 'Em All has one thing going for it, it's the stylus control. I can honestly say that this 
 is the most enjoyable Breakout game I've ever played, and it's due to the stylus control. Where 
 there are issues though, are that your hand can get in the way due to how close to the bottom the 
 paddle is; it really would have been a better idea to have players play vertically by turning the 
 DS on its side ALA Brain Training. For the first time ever, Pausing is also an issue as you must 
 relinquish paddle control to press the start button. And finally there's no way to choose a lesser 
 power up once you have been upgraded from one to another (the power-ups are progressive as you 
 hit more blocks) . Using the power-ups, though, is conveniently mapped to UP on the D-pad.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variety 
 - 5.5
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  There's is honestly more variety in modes than I would have expected from this game. There's 
 the standard game in which you can play through 50 preset levels (and repeat through them if you 
 make it to the end) or a series of Randomized levels (they can feel VERY similar to previous ones) . 
 Then there's Quest Mode in which you hit the ball through a hole at the top of the screen to the 
 next level and repeat until reaching a boss whom you must hit in its red section. The bosses are 
 interesting, though at times frustrating. And the last mode is Battle mode which you are in a screen 
 that you can move around both vertically and horizontally and avoid getting hit the in the weak 
 point. This mode is just too hard to tell where the balls are coming from and it comes down very 
 much to luck.
  
  Power-ups are also available. While a nice addition, the use of some becomes very impractical, 
 such as the ones that make it more difficult in exchange for more points. The best tactic is by 
 far to use Wide (to widen your paddle) , Bomb (destroys adjacent blocks to the one you hit) and 
 Safe (protective guard at the bottom of the screen that can survive two hits) . While those prove 
 to be the clear best combo, there are also Catch (catch the ball) , Mirror (bounces are inverted 
 off the paddle. Pointless) , Slow (slows the ball) , Fast (speeds up the ball in exchange for more 
 points) , Multi (3 balls) , 5-ball (5 balls that disintegrate once hitting a block) , Laser (ball 
 flies through blocks for a short period of time) , one in which I forget the name that creates a 
 duplicate paddle in the spot in which you activate it, and one other that I can't recall.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Replay 
 - 5
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  For Breakout, the game is pretty fun. The problem I briefly addressed in the Dedication Meter. 
 While it's fun to jump into and play, you get no sense of accomplishment unless you play for hours 
 in order to challenge the highest score you can get. Honestly, with practice, the game could easily 
 go on for days; then what do you have to play for? The budget price is a bit of a saviour for this 
 game, as less is required for satisfaction given there is less investment, but even then Break 
 'Em All still underdelivers.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Sound - 4
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  It's very much background noise and nothing more. Traditional Breakout sounds for the ball bouncing 
 around and hitting things and extremely generic musical accompaniment with little variety.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Depth - 
 6
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Without power ups, Break 'Em All can prove to be a challenge, though partially out of tedium. The 
 power-ups add some depth, but as I previously stated, there is a clear best strategy with circumvents 
 the concept of strategy once it becomes routine and repetitious.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall - 5.44
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  There isn't a whole lot of game in Break 'Em All, which very well fits the typical description 
 of a budget title. But for what little it sets out to do, it achieves it pretty well and will be 
 entertaining in that. Break 'Em All is definitely worthwhile for big Breakout fans, but do any 
 still exist? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avail447
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  if your looking for any break the blocks game this is definetily the best one.
  difficulty is extremely easy
  learning the controls is ridicuolisely easy and this is by far 
 the best in the series.
  you get powerups in the game such as fast ball slow ball wide paddle laser and even bombs plus 
 multi ball
  gameplay NEVER ends 4000000 levels c-mon and 7 bossses which sadly repeat themselves though.
 
  the graphics are great c-mon how good can you animate blocks and balls
  sound effects are great buoop , buuop. music can be better though.
  replay value is only to be 
 used when bored which in my case is very often
  and overall this game is worth 20 buks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asheric
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jul 14, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  At first Break Em' All may sound like it's the perfect Breakout game for Arkanoid fans; lots of 
 powerups, bosses, tons of levels, etc. However it tries some concepts that are new to the genre 
 and proves that the tried and true formula works best.
  
  The gameplay is divided into three modes, Tokoton, Quest, and Survival. Tokoton mode consists of 
 50 levels that they created or over 3,000,000 randomly generated levels. Quest mode consists of 
 12 stages, each with 3 rooms and a boss at the end. Survival mode, however, is pointless and you 
 will most likely try it once and never play it again. There are also records if you get a high 
 score. For both Tokoton and Quest you can control the paddle wit the L and R buttons or with the 
 stylus while the D-pad or the X Y A and B buttons can be used for power ups and for launching the 
 ball. 
  
  Survival mode is remarkably simple. First, you pick from one of four barriers consisting of blocks 
 surrounding the paddle. When the game starts you and 7 other computer or human opponents will be 
 floating in space. The area is pretty big and not all of it can be seen on the touch screen at 
 a time while a radar on the top screen indicates what section you are in, where the opponents are, 
 and where the balls are. The general idea is there are a lot of balls flying through space and 
 you can deflect them off of your blocks but if the paddle gets hit three times you lose. Every 
 time you hit a ball a letter of "level up" will light up, when they all light up you gain more 
 blocks around the paddle to a maximum of 3 levels. You can use the stylus to move around, but not 
 the L and R buttons while the D-pad and buttons are used to move to different sections of the area. 
 There is absolutely no strategy or skill involved as there is no difficulty setting for the mode 
 nor for the computer players so as long as you can avoid getting hit for about a minute you win 
 and the words "You are best survivor!!" appear. 
  
  For both Tokoton mode and Quest mode there is an identical power up system in place that is remarkably 
 similar to Gradius. Before you start you choose between 12 different powerups, each in sets of 
 two. For example, for the first powerup you may choose Slow, which slows the ball down when used, 
 or Fast, which speeds up the ball but adds more points. For those that have played Gradius the 
 line power up system should be familiar in which all of the power ups are in a line and you can 
 only select one at a time. The bar goes up to the next powerup whenever the ball hits anything, 
 such as a wall or a block. This can lead to some interesting opportunities, such as hitting the 
 ball into the center of a big chunk of blocks and then using the multiball powerup to quickly destroy 
 almost all of them. However, this system is also flawed in several ways. First, 2 of the 12 powerups 
 are powerdowns that give you points. Both the "fast" and "small" powerups affect you negatively, 
 but boost the amount of points you can gain. These would be fine additions if the typical "powerups 
 from destroying blocks" system was used, but with having only 6 types of powerups the entire time, 
 they are generally not worth giving up the very valuable slow and wide powerups for. Many of the 
 other powerups are fairly ineffective as well. Along with the slow and fast powerups which determine 
 the speed of the ball and the wide and small powerups which affect the size of the paddle, there 
 are other choices such as catch and mirror, multiball and 5-way, safe and option, and laser and 
 bomb. The 5-way and option powerups both seem to be very ineffective compared to the safe and multiball 
 powerups and the mirror ability, while good at times, generally hurts more than it helps. This 
 leave the choice between laser and bomb as the only major decision you will probably need to make 
 while playing unless you want a high score. The final flaw with this system is it is too easy to 
 pass up a powerup that you may want. You can't go back to what are considered "lesser" powerups 
 until you choose the one that you have or wait for a higher tier one. This means if you have the 
 choice to use the "laser" powerup you must choose it and then hit enough walls and blocks to upgrade 
 it through slow/fast and catch/mirror before you can choose multiball/5-way. While this system 
 works fine in games such as Gradius where you can easily choose if you want to take a powerup item 
 to gain access to a higher tier powerup, it does not work in Break Em' All. It is very easy for 
 the ball to get caught for a while between a few walls or blocks and at later levels it will go 
 so fast that it becomes very easy to miss powerups that you may want, such as slow. 
  
  The ball physics are actually odd in Break Em' All as well. While the ball will sometimes go where 
 you want it, it will all too often go bouncing nearly horizontally up and down the screen. This 
 usually happens if you are moving the paddle when you hit the ball and you will here a swishing 
 sound effect, but it sometimes doesn't happen even if you are moving the paddle and sometimes it 
 occurs even if the paddle is still. Other times it will just completely ignore which part of the 
 paddle you touch it with and just ricochet off of the paddle as if it had only hit a wall. The 
 stylus does work well for the game, but the L and R buttons feel awkward and make the paddle move 
 at an odd speed.
  
  Tokoton mode could probably be considered the main mode of the game. It has a 50 level mode and 
 a 3,000,000+ levels randomly generated mode. In Tokoton mode there is an evolution system. Basically, 
 whenever you break a block an experience bar on the right of the screen will fill up slightly and 
 when it gets to the top you "evolve" into the next level. There are 10 levels of evolution, after 
 level 10 the whole thing begins to loop again with the word "super" in front of the name (such 
 as super amoeba) and you have a little gold medallion near the picture. The leveling system would 
 be fun, but it goes very very slowly. I had to reach level 110 in standard Tokoton mode (the mode 
 loops after level 50) to finally reach level 11 for example. Tokoton mode also has no continue 
 or save function so once you lose you need to start all over from level 1. Many of the levels are 
 more annoying than fun. As expected, the entire point of every level is to clear the screen of 
 blocks. There is also a ranking system for each level which seems to be based upon how fast you 
 clear the level. It is generally impossible to get the highest rank, S, on most levels unless you 
 start the level with the ability to use the laser or bomb powerup from the previous level. For 
 anyone that thinks this will add up to a lot of replay value as you try to get an S rank on all 
 50 levels, I am sorry to say that the game does not keep track of your rank on any of the levels. 
 Aside from the standard blocks, there are also glass blocks, 1-sided blocks, and 2-4 hit blocks. 
 The glass blocks don't affect the ball and are mainly for gaining points and experience to evolve, 
 although they do still need to be destroyed to complete the levels. The 2-4 hit blocks are the 
 way they sound and take from 2 to 4 hits to destroy depending on their color. These blocks would 
 not be so bad if they were only used occasionally, but towards the higher levels there are entire 
 rooms almost filled with them that basically force you to use the laser or the bomb powerup. If 
 you ever get down to one single hard-to-hit block that takes four hits to destroy and you don't 
 have laser, you can expect to spend at least a minute just trying to destroy it at times. While 
 the multi-hit blocks can be annoying at times, the 1-sided blocks take a lot of the fun out of 
 the game. These blocks can only be hit from the top, bottom, left side, or right side. The dark 
 half is invincible to all attacks while the white half can be damaged. The blocks that need to 
 be hit from the bottom, or even from the top, are generally simply to destroy and can be a welcome 
 addition. However, if a block needs to be hit from the left or the right, you will probably waste 
 a lot of time. Despite the fact that half of the block may look like it can be hit, if you hit 
 the white section from the bottom nothing will happen. The game throws these types of blocks at 
 you often and it can be very hard to hit a block on the side when it's in the middle of an otherwise 
 empty room, especially since the ball physics in the game can act strangely at times. There is 
 no reward for completing level 50 in standard Tokoton mode and the game simply loops back to level 
 1 and calls it level 51. Aside from the annoyance factor from 4 hit blocks and 1-sided blocks, 
 standard Tokoton mode is very easy and I actually got passed level 50 on my second attempt. Random 
 mode may sound like it adds endless replay value, but it's actually pretty boring. While there 
 are admittedly a few random blocks in the center of the screen, there are mostly a bunch of pre-made 
 setups placed in random positions. For example, there may be three columns of 1-sided blocks in 
 the top-left corner of the screen with a bunch of random normal blocks in the center in one level 
 and in the next level there will be a slightly different amount of blocks in the center with the 
 same three columns of 1-sided blocks now in the top-right corner of the screen. More than once 
 I felt like I completed a level only to end up in a nearly identical level and it makes the boast 
 of 3,000,000 random levels seem questionable.
  
  Quest mode has quite a bit of potential, but it doesn't really take advantage of it. There is absolutely 
 no storyline, which isn't a major factor, but I would really like to know why I'm apparently near 
 a giant fish skeleton or in an ancient temple judging by the backgrounds. Despite the very name 
 of the game, you do not need to break every block in quest mode. Instead, there will be an opening 
 at the top of every level that you need to hit the ball through to proceed to the next level. There 
 are twelve stages which each consists of 3 levels and a boss at the end. There are unfortunately 
 no normal enemies coming down in the stages such as in Arkanoid. The stages themselves are pretty 
 interesting though. All of the blocks from Tokoton mode make appearances in Quest mode, but there 
 are several other things as well. One addition is water that slows the ball down until it comes 
 out of the water and instantly goes back to normal speed. Another interesting addition is the magnet 
 block. This block repels the ball away from it, which makes you need to aim the ball carefully 
 (assuming the physics aren't acting weird) in order to reach the exit. The final addition is the 
 trigger block, which you will need to hit in order to remove invincible blocks that are blocking 
 t he exit or other trigger blocks. All of these are welcome additions, but they are only used in 
 a handful of levels and would have been a welcome addition to Tokoton mode. There are unlimited 
 continues in Quest mode, but you will probably only need to use one or two continues at most before 
 you complete it. The bosses themselves look impressive, but are generally boring. Almost all of 
 the bosses again borrow from Gradius by having a "core" that you need to destroy. Some of the bosses 
 borrow from Gradius even further by having several line barriers that need to be destroyed in order 
 to reach the core. Many of these bosses only require patience as you attempt to hit the ball in 
 a straight line or at an odd angle. None of the bosses attack you directly so it may be disappointing 
 for fans of the Arkanoid series that are expecting to need to try to hit the ball and dodge lasers 
 at the same time. Several of the bosses are also repeated in later stages and fight exactly the 
 same except you need to hit the core a few more times to kill them. 
  
  The graphics of Break Em' All are not necessarily bad, but are unimpressive. It is safe to say 
 that they are of SNES quality. All of the blocks are bland looking, as well as the paddle and ball. 
 The scrolling backgrounds are decent, but there are very few of them and they are all either of 
 a giant skeleton or of what appear to be ancient ruins.
  
  The sound and music in Break Em' All are both very irritating. Although the music is of good quality, 
 there seem to be about 5 songs in the entire game, and that includes the title screen music. While 
 I'll admit the songs are pretty good, it does get annoying to hear the same exact song looping 
 for over an hour. The sound effects, however, are horrible. Every time the ball hits a wall it 
 makes a weird spongy and springy sound, every time it hits a brick it makes a beeping sound, every 
 time you get a new powerup available it makes a higher pitched beeping sound, and every time you 
 hit a whopping 3 or more bricks before the ball comes back down it makes a happy, sparkly sound 
 at you. This can get annoying after only 5 levels, and due to the easy difficulty it is not very 
 hard to reach levels well over 50 in Tokoton mode. Thankfully, you can always just turn the sound 
 off. 
  
  Overall, the only things that save Break Em' All are it goes for $20 new and it is for a handheld 
 system. The powerup system is innovative, but flawed. Rankings are pointless and the evolution 
 system is too slow Tokoton mode is too easy and random Tokoton mode is repetitive. Quest mode is 
 too short and doesn't use its full potential and most boss fights are unimpressive. Survival mode 
 is broken and I can't imagine anyone enjoying it. The graphics, while not horrible, are very dull. 
 There are very few songs and almost all the sound effects are extremely annoying. The ball physics 
 are questionable at best and all too often you will feel like you have no control. The lack of 
 any type of level editor is also disappointing. At best, Break Em' All may be good for long car 
 or airplane rides, but not for more than an hour or two at a time. If you don't care about portability, 
 than I suggest just getting one of the many free breakout-type games online or better yet, hooking 
 up a NES or SNES and playing one of the Arkanoid games that Break Em' All tries to imitate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuffedcabbage
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so, people might say this game isnt that good, only because they didn't play it long enough. 
 Like all games, you have to play it for a while to get used to it, and get good at it. After that, 
 this game is really fun. Nintendo always has a tendency to make all of there games addicting as 
 hell.
  
  If you like brick breaking games like "Breakout" and other forms of that game online, then this 
 game is perfect for you. Its only 19.99, and it is definitely worth it.
  
  There are 3 modes: Quest, Tokoton, and Survival.
  
  Quest
  In Quest mode, you pretty much 
 just go through a couple of levels and get to a boss level. Each boss has a weakness, so you have 
 to find it, and use it to your advantage.
  
  Tokoton
  In this mode, before gameplay, you set up all your powerups for the game, then you go through a 
 series of skill testing levels. You can go through the set 50 levels that test your skills. Or 
 you can go to the random levels, there are over 3,000,000 of them.
  
  Survival
  You use your stylus to manuever around the screen, keeping your core safe and evolving to get better. 
 All the while, there are a whole bunch of other players trying to kill you, you have to hit the 
 balls and aim them at the other players.
  
  Of course, there is multiplayer for each mode, one card download play.
  
  Well, im done for 
 now, but I seriosly suggest getting this game, it is totally worth the money, and really addictive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shakes731
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I guess this game is fun I played it on my friends DS. Use the stylus hit the blocks by moving 
 the bar. Just get a freeware version. Gow with Tetris instead. ITs a decent game if you enjoy that 
 kind of stuff but if not dont buy it. its a good price. ITs fun if you just want something to play 
 but if you want a game get tetris or the new mario. This is just like all the other games of it's 
 kind there is nothing new here except it uses the touch screen.
  The sound is boring. The graphix are what you would exspect and the gameplay is fun, but gets dull. 
 Dont rent it buy it, but buy it if you enjoy games like this, and have money to waist. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
