-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Broken Sword: Shadows of the Templars (Director's Cut)
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/brokensword/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Engaging story.
 Beautifully drawn.
 Clever puzzles.
 New scenes integrate well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A couple of obtuse puzzles.
 Some genre conventions now feel very dated.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  3, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.1, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 45 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Genre: Adventure
Date: Mar 24, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Superior animation, an engaging story, and clever puzzles make Broken Sword well worth investigating. 
 

 Although the heyday of point-and-click adventure games may be long gone, Broken Sword: Shadows of 
 the Templars has stood the test of time. This Director's Cut is a carefully-wrought DS version 
 that adds a host of new content to the original game and serves as an excellent demonstration of 
 how good the point-and-click genre can be. The loss of the excellent voice-overs from the original 
 is something of a shame, but this loss is more than made up for by the additional content and new 
 puzzles that the Director's Cut moniker implies.           Silent but deadly.     

 Though the original game started in Paris with a seemingly random cafe bombing -- albeit one performed 
 by a clown -- the Director's Cut opens the day before, with one of the series' two main characters, 
 journalist Nico Collard, suddenly called for an interview with a prominent French industrialist. 
 He ends up dead at the hands of a mime, and a global conspiracy slowly unfurls. The rest of the 
 tale is seen primarily through the eyes of hapless tourist-cum-investigator George Stobbart, as 
 it was in the original game. The story is engaging, spanning five countries and a variety of locations. 
 The unsolved murder quickly becomes part of a much bigger problem, revealing the existence of a 
 shadowy group seeking to revive the powers of the Knights Templar, continually sucking you further 
 in the ever-deepening mystery. The new scenes serve to flesh out Nicos character, which wasnt 
 really dealt with in the original, giving the main narrative a little more resonance to modern 
 history, rather than just the middle ages. They also introduce one of the darker elements of this 
 great plot, tying them into French colonial brutality in Africa.  

 The new animation work from Dave Gibbons -- best known for his work on comic classics Watchmen and 
 2000AD, as well as the original game -- bring the games diverse scenes and characters to life. Even 
 incidental characters have been drawn with care, from the expressions of a mute Syrian barman to 
 the detail lavished upon the Parisian skyline. Despite the lack of voice acting in this version, 
 the rest of the sound is still top notch. The music serves to build tension at the right moments, 
 the incidental sounds for each scene set the tone perfectly   

 Even without the voice-overs and with its fairly dark and involved plot, Broken Sword still manages 
 to be funny. Some of the laughs are played at the expense of  Les Americains , whereas others target 
 one's own assumptions about seemingly stereotypical characters, be it thanks to a quick-witted 
 but lazy Gendarme, or an aristocratic British lady with a mischievous streak. Despite the game's 
 age, this character-based humour ensures that the narrative never feels dated.  

 Unfortunately, the same can't really be said for the mechanics. The rigid linearity and inventory-based 
 problem solving take a little getting used to and have not aged particularly well -- but the strength 
 of every other aspect of the game makes this fairly easy to forgive. Very occasional enigmas have 
 deeper problems, based as they are on genre conventions that are not as familiar as they once were. 
 One such example involves a puzzle wherein the solution involves using an item on yourself, but 
 the only way to do this is to talk to the correct person, who then suggests using it, which opens 
 up a conversation option with another character further down the line that lets you progress.  
          The background detail is high throughout, bringing areas from Paris to the Syrian desert 
 to life.     

 That said, despite the occasional quirk, the vast majority of the puzzles play out in a pleasantly 
 logical -- if occasionally lateral -- manner. Of the new puzzles, a substitution cipher and a chess-based 
 puzzle are the most satisfying, and all of them integrate well with the more traditional point-and-click 
 conundrums. One of the new additions is a tiered hint system, so if you do get stuck, help is a 
 stylus-tap away. These tips start with a general piece of advice on where to look next, and they 
 range all the way up to full instructions on how to progress. This system works well on the whole 
 because it lets you progress when stuck without resorting to being fully walked through, and it 
 carries no in-game penalty -- though the number of hints taken is listed along with the time played 
 for each save game.  

 The clever puzzles, when combined with the excellent story and new hint system makes for a game 
 that is as engaging and accessible as it is funny and visually appealing. While sequels may have 
 dulled the lustre of the Broken Sword franchise, for the ten hours or so that this directors cut 
 lasts, you will remember why the genre had such huge success.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jprincess88
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  My love of the Broken Sword trilogy on PC made me snap up the Director's Cut of Broken Sword on 
 the DS. I played Shadow of the Templars on PC, but new additions to the DS version made it worth 
 playing. 
  
  It starts off as you control the journalist Nico Collard caught amidst a costumed murder. From 
 then on unfolds a captivating murder mystery, balanced with just the right amount of humour, mystery, 
 and fun. 
  
  It is a completely new environment, new characters, new puzzles, and you wonder whether it is the 
 same game as the PC version. Those who aren't familiar with the original Broken Sword will enjoy 
 the detailed, cartoony and colourful visuals. 
  
  The controls are fairly easy to learn, all you need is to tap the stylus within the interactive, 
 cartoon environment and certain hotspots appear. Like the traditional version of broken sword, 
 different ways to interact with objects appear - look, touch, pick up item or talk. This execution 
 is almost flawless on the DS, making the game very intuitive and easy to play. 
  
  The addition of the new hint mode available to you at every point of the story makes for an easier 
 time when playing the game, however adventure game veterans can turn it off (and on) whenever they 
 need to. 
  
  After you explore the first mysterious death using Nico Collard, our beloved protagonist George 
 Stobbard arrives on the scene of the Cafe - the very first scene in the PC's Broken Sword. 
  
  The puzzles and the story do not diverge from the original game, but there are new puzzles 
 geared to use the DS touchscreen controls and new scenes involving Nico's background story. The 
 DS version has replaced voice acting from the game with written dialogue instead, which unfortunately 
 does flatten out the personality of the characters you interact with. The DS version has also been 
 more streamlined and made easier, with less things to interact with than the PC version. It may 
 have also been geared towards a wider audience, probably attempting to capture new fans to the 
 Broken Sword trilogy. 
  
  Broken Sword DS, although a bit short (clocks up to less than 10 hours) captures the essence of 
 the original Broken Sword and makes it a worthwhile play for fans of the series. Anyone up for 
 an immersive plotline, great visuals, interactive environments and well developed characters will 
 also enjoy the game. It is now one of my favourite adventure games for the DS, and I couldn't put 
 the game down until I finished it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sal__paradise
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Whenever I play any other adventure, point and click game on the DS I always seem to compare them 
 to the broken sword series because, for me, that is the benchmark. Recent attempts to bring point 
 and click adventure the DS have been Syberia, the last king of africa and one or two others I have 
 either not played on or forgotten. 
  
  Broken Sword: Directors Cut does exactly what it says on the tin and it does it extremely well. 
 Unlike the original PC title you begin the game from Nico's point of view, investigating the murder 
 of some well-to-do chap she was supposed to be interviewing for La Liberteire. This then quickly 
 connects seamlessly to the familiar scene of George in the Parisian caf and we see for the first 
 time the story from both sides. Ever wonder what Nico was doing while George was running around 
 France chasing clowns, dropping her the odd line? Well now you'll know. It's actually an ingenious 
 way of adding content to the game without 'spoiling' it so to speak. 
  
  The mechanics of the original game are still prominent. You have your inventory bar on the bottom 
 of the touch screen and during character interactions you have the 'conversation options' appearing 
 at the top. The top screen isn't particularly utilized much during gameplay but this is not missed 
 at all - it displays some very nice scenery according to which setting you're in and during conversations 
 it provides some nice character animation. The one thing that this game is lacking is the superb 
 voice acting of its predecessor. This is what made the original Broken Sword so memorable and if 
 you ever played it, I think you'll agree. Playing Broken Sword without george's familiar voice 
 or Nico's mocking french comments is kind of difficult to get in to really. One of my main concerns 
 is that the reason I actually like this game is because I've played on the original and can patch 
 in some of this game with fond memories of my initial play.
  
  However there are still reasons to play this game even if you aren't familiar with the series. 
 For one it's the best point and click game on the DS. The graphics are smooth and the touch screen 
 feels pixel perfect. You can push your stylus around the screen and points of interest will show 
 themselves if you get near them. Don't think that this makes the game easy though - as it most 
 certainly doesn't. For example, you might be able to interact with an item (say... a drawer) and 
 then think you're done with it. Then you may go back to the drawer thinking you missed something 
 and something new will happen - you might search behind the drawer or remove it completely to reveal 
 something integral to the plot. There are 3 main actions you can take when approaching an item; 
 you can operate/interact, you can simply view the item for a description of it or you can investigate 
 it. This 'investigate' option signified by a magnifying glass more often than not leads to a close 
 up on the touch screen. For example, if you were to investigate the desk you will be presented 
 with a close up view of the desk where you can read documents.... or it may lead you to a mini 
 game such as picking a lock or solving a puzzle. 
  
  All of these elements make this a great experience for anyone - but particularly those that are 
 familiar with the series. If you played the previous games on the PC and enjoyed them you should 
 definitely give this game a look. It stays true to the original and even though there is no voice 
 acting and the score doesn't do it as much justice, the intuitive touch screen controls, added 
 storyline and character close-ups/animations more than make up for it... 
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
