-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Brothers In Arms DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/brothersinarmsds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Graphics push the DS hardware to its limits.
 Cover mechanic works well and is quite useful.
 Can be mindless fun in short bursts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controls are awkward and can cause physical pain.
 No real story and simple objectives make the experience pretty shallow.
 Too many sacrifices were made in bringing the series to the DS.
 Lots of annoying visual and camera quirks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.3, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 587 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Gearbox Software
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 21, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With Brothers In Arms DS, Ubisoft has proven that it's technically possible to bring the series 
 to the DS -- but just because you can do something doesn't mean you should. 

  World War II shooters are plentiful and popular on consoles and even on the PSP, but until Brothers 
 In Arms DS was released last week, Nintendo's handheld had been without a WWII game to call its 
 own. What Gameloft was able to accomplish with Brothers In Arms DS is impressive from a technical 
 standpoint, but it seems that most of the developer's energy was focused simply on getting the 
 game to work, not on making a great game. If you absolutely must have a handheld WWII-based shooter 
 and the DS is your only option, Brothers In Arms will probably satisfy that need. It's still not 
 very good, though.  

  Brothers In Arms DS is divided into three campaigns, each of which contains half a dozen or so 
 missions. These missions were clearly designed for the person on the go and generally take only 
 around 10 to 20 minutes to complete. The game's not terribly difficult, which means a skilled player 
 could finish the whole thing in around four hours -- though you can go back and play the additional 
 difficulty levels that unlock as you progress. Up to four players with their own copy of the game 
 can take part in ad hoc deathmatch and team deathmatch modes. There's very little in the way of 
 customization options, and you absolutely need four people for it to be remotely fun, but the inclusion 
 of multiplayer is appreciated.  

           The best way to avoid being shot is to stay behind cover.      

  The console versions 
 of Brothers In Arms may have focused on providing a strong narrative to suck you into the proceedings, 
 but on the DS there's very little setup before each mission. Once you've started a level, your 
 objectives are conveyed to you via boxes of text. Other than a few short phrases from soldiers 
 here and there, there's no audio dialogue. Another significant difference is that unlike the console 
 versions, Brothers In Arms DS isn't a squad-based first-person shooter. Instead, it's a third-person 
 shooter where your only concern is with the character you're controlling.  

  And there's plenty of reason to be concerned about controlling your character, because the controls 
 can be quite challenging. You view the action on the top screen, move with the D pad, and fire 
 with the left shoulder button -- that's simple enough. Here's the complicated part: You use the bottom 
 screen's touch-sensing capabilities to look around, aim, change weapons, reload, use your weapons' 
 sights, and throw grenades. Reloading your weapon is as simple as tapping the clip icon and dragging 
 the stylus to the center of the screen. Changing weapons is simple as well; you tap the gun icon, 
 which opens a dropdown list of your weapons, and then just tap the weapon you want. Taking cover 
 behind an object or a wall is surprisingly easy, too -- you run up to the object and the game places 
 you behind it, so all you have to do is aim and fire. Unless you're using left-hand mode, which 
 uses the face buttons in lieu of the D pad, you'll never use the face buttons at all, and there 
 are no alternate control options.  

  When you're doing only a few things at once this scheme isn't all that bad, but when the action 
 picks up it becomes quite challenging to manage. Dragging the stylus to aim works OK if you're 
 only dealing with a few stationary enemies, but it takes several swipes of the stylus to turn completely 
 around (there's no option to change the sensitivity) , and your enemies are so tiny that it's tough 
 to aim with any level of precision, even with the game's somewhat generous auto-aim feature. To 
 throw a grenade you tap the grenade icon in the lower corner of the bottom screen, and then look 
 at the top screen for the aiming reticle as you drag the stylus across the bottom screen, letting 
 up when you've reached the desired distance.  

  When it works properly this method is fine, but too often you'll find that the screen didn't recognize 
 that you hit the grenade icon, which results in your character staring at the sky; or, you'll stray 
 off the sensor area and the game will decide you only wanted to throw the grenade a few feet. Either 
 way, it's bad news. Eventually you'll come to grips with the control scheme, but you'll never become 
  physically  comfortable with it. You're forced to hold the DS with just one hand -- more specifically, 
 with the sides of your fingers while your index finder is crooked over the left shoulder button. 
 After a few levels, the pain can be excruciating to the point where you may have to take a break 
 to rest your hand.  

  Though the perspective may have changed, the types of missions you'll be participating in should 
 be familiar to anyone who has played a Brothers In Arms game, or for that matter, any other WWII 
 FPS. You'll use a bazooka to take out enemy tanks, plant charges to blow up enemy weapons and strongholds, 
 use a stationary machine gun to fend off an enemy charge, wield a sniper rifle to pick off enemies 
 from afar, and even pilot a jeep and a tank. The levels are small, and the game's rigidly linear. 
 You'll occasionally be able to flank the enemy, but nearly any time that's an option it's because 
 the game specifically says "flank the enemy," not because you were able to come up with some crafty 
 strategy. Enemy artificial intelligence is minimal -- most soldiers will stand still directly in 
 front of you as you shoot them. In fact, if you move to the side just a bit, they'll typically 
 keep firing straight ahead, as if you never left, as you plaster them with fire.  

  Even though the game's not tremendously difficult and the levels are quite linear, there are plenty 
 of checkpoints, and the markers that show you where your next objective lies are never far off 
 and are easy to find. In fact, much of the game is so darn friendly that it almost feels as if 
 the developer is apologizing for the control scheme and just wants you to have a good time by blasting 
 Nazis. If you're OK with the less-than-ideal controls and the straightforward nature of the gameplay, 
 you'll probably have a pretty good time with the game -- you've just got to be the forgiving type. 

  The first time you turn on the game you'll be wowed by the graphics that Gearbox was able to coax 
 out of the DS. The frame rate is adequate -- it never approaches 30 frames per second, but it's adequate. 
 The characters are nicely animated and show a fair amount of detail when you get close to them. 
 The levels aren't large by console standards, but they still give the appearance of being a decent 
 size -- until you realize you're constricted by barriers (both visible and invisible) to a small, 
 linear path through those levels. There are even some destructible environments, so you can have 
 the pleasure of blowing up large cannons and buildings, and you can even drive a tank right through 
 a wall.  

           The only thing that sucks worse than getting shot by a tank is getting shot by a tank 
 in the snow.      

  The first impression is a good one, but once you spend a little more time with the game you'll 
 really start to notice how much had to be sacrificed just to get it running. You'll spend a lot 
 of time behind cover, which means you'll often get to see the camera peer right through solid buildings. 
 Just as often, the camera will get stuck behind a wall, leaving you staring at a pixilated blob 
 while the enemy blows you away. Moreover, the draw distance is terrible. Buildings, trees, and, 
 worst of all, tanks will pop up right in front of you. But even with these issues, the game's nice 
 looking and a technical achievement. If you're listening to the game through the DS's built-in 
 speakers there's not much to get excited about, but if you're playing while wearing headphones 
 you'll enjoy authentic-sounding weapons fire, robust explosions, and even some chatter from soldiers. 

  How much fun you have with Brothers In Arms is purely a function of how desperate you are to have 
 a WWII shooter for your DS. If your expectations are low and you just want to run around tossing 
 grenades, firing guns, and making unintelligent Nazi soldiers miserable, then the game is worth 
 a look and you might have a pretty good time. However, if you're expecting anything near the experience 
 you'd get from the console games, or even the watered-down PSP game, you're going to be sorely 
 disappointed.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (71 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms for the ds, why did I buy this game. That's what I think after going through all 
 of it. Brothers in Arms may have good graphics for a ds game and have a good shooting experience, 
 but its main flaw is its so called single player mode that doesn't have any plot to it. It's just 
 like their no point to it other than just finding out how much guns and abilities you can get from 
 it from playing it over and over again. The only thing that got me interested in the game is to 
 shoot allot of Germans down and it's multiplayer that is not used by anybody I know and allot of 
 people don't like it. This game is like the shortest one is my collection of ds games to beat in 
 less than regular time required. The weapons in this game can be a little tricky to figure out, 
 but once you get the hang of it you can be an ace of it very quick. The one vehicle flaw in this 
 game is that an army car seems to be better that tank and somehow seems to be able to kill tanks 
 faster, than another tank. I think that's only happening because my ds hanging on its last of it 
 day's left alive.
  The grenades are bad to use because you have to aim where you want them to go and sometimes it 
 takes a very long time to do and you may get killed in the process. The sniper rifle is the best 
 weapon in the game since you can fire from far away and that you can sometimes shoot faster with 
 it than any other weapon given to you. If you drive a tank in this game it can be very hard only 
 in the first couple of tank levels because some areas can make the tank get killed faster by people 
 than other tanks.
  
  Overall this game is properly the worst game I had ever played in a long time, but you may enjoy 
 it only if your perfectionist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_Crow
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:44 pm PT
Review:  BiA DS es un juego "historic third person shooter" (accin en tercera persona) de Ubisoft, desarrollado 
 por Gameloft, para la consola porttil de Nintendo, basado en la famosa Segunda Guerra Mundial. 
 Respecto del tipo de juego no hay mucho que comentar, pero si respecto de las capacidades de la 
 franquicia en la consola. Partamos por la historia (ninguna maravilla) , no es una trama muy profunda 
 que digamos, es ms, es prcticamente la misma historia de siempre (de los juegos basados en esta 
 guerra) , con un soldado diferente. Las campaas se desarrollaran en Normandia (6 etapas) , Tunez 
 (4 etapas) , y Ardenas (3 etapas) . Cada etapa dura aproximadamente de 10 a 20 minutos, dependiendo 
 de la habilidad del jugador, por lo cual podrn concluir que es un juego bastante corto. En cada 
 una de estas podremos controlar al soldado, como tambin podremos manejar un tanque (bastante torpe 
 por cierto) , y un jeep, en el cual nuestra funcin solo ser conducir, ya que un soldado atrs 
 se encargara automticamente de disparar a los enemigos, aunque si quieres, puedes atropellar tantos 
 traseros nazis como gustes. El gameplay es bastante sencillo, aunque medio terco. En la pantalla 
 de abajo se encuentra una especie de radar/mapa que sirve para todo menos como radar/mapa. Por 
 aqu uno pasara el stylus para apuntar el arma y ver la direccin que quieres que tome el vehculo 
 o el soldado, al igual que la mayora de juegos de este tipo. Por aqu tambin podrs controlar 
 todo lo que tenga que ver con tus armas, ya sea el cargador, apuntar con precisin, y el lanzamiento 
 gradual de las granadas, etc. El botn correspondiente a apuntar con precisin corresponde a unos 
 binoculares, el cual pasara a ser un "puo" solo cuando haya algn objeto con el cual se pueda 
 interactuar en el escenario, por ejemplo controlar una MG-42, subirte a un vehculo, hacer volar 
 un objetivo con explosivos, o lanzar una granada dentro de un tanque enemigo. El soldado saltara 
 obstculos, se cubrir tras una pared, o tras lo que sea automticamente, al disparar se descubrir 
 y luego se volver a cubrir. A pesar de esto, la estrategia no es tan necesaria en este juego, 
 que posee una dificultad bien baja, que se ve desafortunadamente compensado por un ngulo de cmara 
 algo descuidado, y un torpe control (aadindole a esto, que no puedes regular la sensibilidad 
 de la pantalla a tu gusto) . El sonido es bueno, no hay problema en este aspecto, al igual que en 
 lo que a frame rate y potencial grafico se refiere, no hay mucho que destacar aparte de algunos 
 detalles "poligonalmente hablando" que no deberan molestar de mas, sacndole bastante provecho 
 a la capacidad del DS (no como el Metroid Prime Hunters, pero igual es bastante bueno) . En cuanto 
 a replay value se refiere no es mucho lo que ofrece. Puedes desbloquear la dificultad "veterano" 
 para cada una de las etapas que vas pasando, y un par de nuevas armas, incluyendo un nuevo tanque 
 (que solo usaras en las misiones que se requiera un tanque, obviamente) con las que contaras en 
 cada misin que empieces una vez termines por primera vez todas las campaas del juego. Es eso, 
 aparte las respectivas medallas de las campaas, las cuales las conseguirs una vez termines cada 
 una de ellas (no es necesario completar ningn objetivo secundario) , ms la de la medalla que ganas 
 por terminar el juego en dificultad normal, y otra por terminarlo en dificultad veterano, nada 
 mas En este mismo punto podramos destacar el modo Multiplayer, en el cual en necesario que cada 
 jugador tenga su respectiva tarjeta de juego. Sus opciones son limitadas, y la capacidad mxima 
 de jugadores es de cuatro players Nada que destacar, no es el mejor multiplayer, en especial existiendo 
 otros como el nuevamente mencionado Metroid Prime Hunters.
  
  En resumen, BiA DS, es un juego que saca provecho de las capacidades tcnicas de la consola (aunque 
 no sea al 100%) , sin embargo, se quedo atrs en el gameplay y en la profundidad de la historia 
 que caracteriza la serie, sin mencionar lo poco que demoras en terminarlo, y el (muy probablemente) 
 poco uso que le dars al cartucho una vez termines el juego por completo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorKane11
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, this game was a killer idea. But come on, when you take something good from a 
 console game and try to turn it into a portable version of it, you've got to put some time into 
 it. I mean really, what do you expect when you try to do somethign like this? 
  Ok, I really don't know how long this game took to make. How ever long it took them... they needed 
 more time. 
  This game starts off looking like it could be worthwhile. You see that the Normandy campaign has 
 6 levels in it. After you beat those 6 levels (each one takes about 6 minutes each, if your a slow 
 learner and you suck at games...) . Then you go onto the Tunis (north africa) campaign. Oh.. this 
 sucks, only 4 levels. Ok, then you beat that campaign, hoping there will be more levels in the 
 other campaign, the final campaign..... Wow. this game is crap. The last campaign has only 3 levels. 
 If you add up each level (time) the game lasts about 78 minutes. Thats one hour and 18 minutes of 
 'quality' gaming.....
  Graphics: Their good for they're time, good for the game, but now, they suck.
  Gameplay: This 
 pisses me off. FOR EVERY LEVEL YOU HAVE THE SAME GUN! Can't you think of anything else, UBIsoft? 
 You thought of rayman, why not think of.. I don't know, maybe some more guns? Ok, sorry you do 
 get some other guns. A sniper rifle, and a rpg. wow. The game is fun though. 
  Sound: Replayed VO and sounds. not so great.
  Replay: nothing
  Multiplayer: only multicard 
 play. good luck getting your friends buy this game.
  Overall, I give it a 7/10, and that is being very, VERY generous.
  Lol, that review was way to 
 hard on the game. It is fun and it is short. Good time killer. Hope you looked down here when reading 
 this.. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  While World War II games have been ten-a-penny (or should that be a shilling?) in recent years, 
 this is the first time the Nintendo DS has enlisted in the conflict against Jerry. While it falls 
 in behind both the Call of Duty and Medal of Honor series for console deployment, Brothers in Arms 
 has received medals of valour in the videogame field before, having originally parachuted onto 
 the PlayStation 2. The DS version combines the first two releases into one WWII epic.
  
  And epic it is. Pay no heed to the fact that this is a re-tred of past glories - like any great 
 Hollywood blockbuster you'll be too entertained with the action unfolding on the screen to care. 
 Once more you'll be amazed at what the developers are squeezing out of the DS hardware as Brothers 
 in Arms dolls out Spielberg spectacle with relish at every corner. 
  Be it Panzers bursting through the walls of the ruined church you're holed up in, the burning wrecks 
 of Spitfires singeing your hair as they crash into the ground around you, or blowing clock towers 
 brimming with Nazi snipers, the game's chock-full of 'wow' moments.
  And those standout moments are just from the initial batch of missions from the first of three 
 campaigns. In Normandy you parachute behind enemy lines and have to fight your way to regrouping 
 with your division, while in North Africa you take part in a larger operation on the frontlines. 
 By the time you finish in Ardennes you've ploughed through 16 missions.
  But like that big-budget blockbuster, it's over all too quickly. While the different missions hit 
 with all the explosive punch of a grenade, you'll fly through them. The majority of the Normandy 
 missions can each be clocked in around ten minutes - and that's on your first run through. There 
 are unlockable veteran and elite difficulty settings, but playing them underscores problems with 
 both the control scheme and the poorly-flagged objectives.. 
  
  
  Advertisement: War's Legacy
  
  The control setup works very well, for the most part. The D-Pad 
 moves your character, while the majority of the Touch Screen is used for the camera. The left shoulder 
 button fires your chosen weapon, which can be selected (along with context sensitive actions and 
 a camera zoom) from a top menu on the Touch Screen. When doing so we noticed that the camera control 
 froze for a few vital seconds - dicey considering we had to constantly flip between sniper rifle, 
 bazooka and SMG. It was an unwelcome misfire, for sure. 
  We'd have liked to see the ability to alter the Touch Screen sensitivity; as it stands we had to 
 flick the stylus across the screen several times if we wanted to turn 180 degrees - a real problem 
 when we were constantly being ambushed by attacks from all sides. This compounded another problem 
 - the screen occasionally becomes too chaotic during larger battles, leading you to search blindly 
 for a vital objective point. In some instances a tight time limit meant we needed to replay the 
 same ten second scenario multiple times before we worked out where we needed to go and who needed 
 killing - which can become incredibly frustrating. 
  But once you work out the layout of each mission, you can fly through the game, leading us to question 
 whether you'll still be playing it six months from now. Like the summer blockbuster, it's worth 
 playing once to experience the awesome spectacle - but whether there's enough there to warrant 
 your hard-earned 30 is another question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohfrontline
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 2, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  We've all played Brothers in Arms: Earned in Blood and Road to HIll 30, and we all know they are 
 great games. Now it's time for that series to come to the nintendo DS.
  
  This game is nothing like the games on the consoles. The squad based tactical combat is gone, and 
 the storyline isn't worth mentioning, because all you do is take out tanks or Anti-Air guns. In 
 fact, the objectives are oftentimes so badly explained you will find yourself totally lost and 
 not knowing what to do.
  
  On the good side though, this game is definitely pushing the DS to the limits graphics wise. The 
 characters have detail, and even though they're terrible compared to the consoles, for a DS game, 
 these graphics are great. Plus you can take cover, which is implemented fairly well, and it really 
 does come in handy sometimes.
  
  As for the controls, well that's where this game flops. In order to look around, you have to use 
 the touch pad. Firing is the left trigger, and weapons, reloading, and grenading are all controlled 
 by the touch pad too. It might not sound bad, but when you're in the heat of combat (as "hot" as 
 this game gets) , moving the stylus around while trying to fire, aim, and run gets pretty annoying 
 fast.
  
  Haven't tried the multiplayer, and I don't plan to, as there's only a few maps and gametypes, and 
 I have yet to see anyone else with this game, much less willing to play multiplayer matches on 
 it.
  
  All in all, this game is good for a time killer on long car rides, and even then the controls force 
 you to try harder than you should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinx6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  For Christmas my brother ask me which game i wanted for the DS it was between Brothers in Arms 
 and Orcs and Elves, i really wanted Brothers in Arms because it would be the first army game i 
 play on the DS. When Christmas came i was very astound to find Brothers in Arms DS when i open 
 the present.
  
  When i started playing the game i was blowned away by the production value that went into the game. 
 I know a lot of people complain about the game story. But i think the story was very good. I like 
 how it follow historical events that happen during WWII. The taken place in various location across 
 Eastern Europe and Northern Africa. You will know when you are in a new region because the environment 
 changes. For example, if you are in Northern Africa, you will be in a desert or safari like environment. 
 In certain parts of Europe like Poland you will have a Artic (snowy) environment, also when you 
 are in a different environment the enemy soldiers camouflage with the surrounding which makes it 
 more difficult to shoot an enemy.
  
  The control in Brothers in Arms is very good and responsive. You control the game with both the 
 D-pad and stylus. To move you use the the D-pad and the stylus is use to aim, reload, use object, 
 change weapons, throw grenades and zoom in and out. At first it might not seem like a good idea 
 to control the game by using both hand, but after a while you will get use to it and find out the 
 formula works. The D-pad and stylus control work as good as two analog stick.
  
  The graphic and sound is spectacular in the game. this game have some of the most beautiful graphic 
 you will find on the DS. The environment is beautiful and realistic, the game has a lot of destructive 
 environment change. The game have a lot of color variation, good texturing and run at a smooth 
 frame rate with no slow downs, i never play any game on the DS that has better particle effect 
 than Brothers in Arms DS.
  
  The sound and Audio in the game fits the atmosphere of the game very well. The sound goes along 
 with the action of the game really well. Everything that is going on in the game you will hear. 
 The weapons also sound good, the bazooka, shot gun, machine gun, RVs, tanks and sniper rifle all 
 have their own distinctive sound.
  
  In the end Brothers in Arms for the DS is one of the best game on the DS. It is the best third 
 person shooter on the DS and might also be the only one on the DS. I thing gamer should try this 
 game because this game is awesome. Players won't be disappointed or regret purchasing this game, 
 plus it is being selling at a budget price. The negative aspect of this game is that it is very 
 short, every mission feels like a chore and the game is very linear. But the end result is fabulous, 
 superb graphics and great sound and good game play makes Brothers in Arms a must buy for every 
 DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  Brothers In Arms DS does its absolute best in bringing the great Brothers In Arms series to a handheld. 
 Obviously several compromises had to be made, i. e. no sqaud control whatsoever. But that is what 
 made Brothers In Arms so great. The DS version is a very standard run and gun game with a surprisingly 
 good cover system. Though any chance of tactics in this game is quickly dashed out the window. 
 You simply blast you way through the game by taking cover, shooting, moving on, sometimes use a 
 vehicle - repeat.
  
  The controls are of a mixed bag. They work. They work well. Most of the time. The thing that really 
 does no favours to the game is changing the aiming sensitivity. The default setting is slow, annoying 
 and downright infuriating. Actually playing the game is similiar to Metroid Prime Hunters. The 
 D-Pad is used for movement, the touch screen is for aiming, turning and selecting the various weapons 
 and grenades you acquire. Shoulder button L is used for firing. It's pretty easy to get to grips 
 with. Until you get into battle. Firing, aiming, changing weapons and reloading weapons is a total 
 nightmare to start with. It's just a cluster mess. You can always reload automatically after firing 
 all your bullets but it takes a surprising amount of time to reload compared to YOU doing it. The 
 cover system is good though, running into a wall or hedge instantly puts you into cover. You can 
 also shoot from the corner of a wall, and that's pretty exciting and exhilirating to do.
  
  Yeah, yeah. Brothers In Arms DS looks the business. It's a fantastic looking game with set pieces 
 and destructible environments galore. The game does take a few hits in certain places however. 
 The game's framerate is extremely choppy and your main avator is poorly animated, especially sliding 
 over cover and reloading. There's no pop in, but the environment sort of does this gradual reveal 
 of the terrain. I have to admit though that this is less annoying then pop up. I just however can't 
 fault the game's graphics as a whole. The sound effects are great, with bullets ricocheting and 
 explosions sound like real explosions. What voice acting there is is a very typical Americans in 
 World War 2 scenario.
  
  Brothers In Arms DS is a good game. It looks amazing for a DS game and overall the game plays well. 
 The single player has three acts, each with 7 missions with various degrees of difficulty. The 
 multiplayer is also pretty cool though the chances of finding someone with a copy of the game is 
 pretty slim, I only managed to do thanks to my brother buying a copy also. You can do much worse 
 than this game, but you can do much better. It's worth a look but be prepared to be a little angry 
 with it as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix534
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms DS is a great game for the Nintendo DS. It is a WWII FPS which, like most of the 
 attempts to bring the genre to the DS, it is very, very awkward to play. You move with the control 
 pad, shoot with the R button, adn aim/ throw grenades with the touch screen. this gets annoying, 
 and painful, after awhile.
  
  Gameplay-8........... Like I said before, the controls are awkward. This makes the very difficult 
 to enjoy for more than about a half-hour.
  
  Graphics-8.......... The graphics are great, for a DS game. Don't buy this expecting eye-dropping 
 images of war. If you want that, go to a console.
  
  Story-4.......... There is no story in this game. All you do is blow stuff up which is fun but, 
 this game needs a story to keep it together. Instead, you go to three different areas, about fifteen 
 levels in all, just shooting Nazis.
  
  All-in-all, this is a good game for DS owners who want a good game that doesn't have a story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bren451
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2009 10:39 am PT
Review:  This game is just plain fun. The graphics push the DS to its limits (it looks even better on the 
 Nintendo DS Lite) , the environments look amazing, the game has voice-over which is really surprising 
 for a Nintendo DS game, it is intense from the beginning to the end, the replay value is moderate, 
 you can drive tanks and jeeps, enemy AI is great for a DS game, the grenade system is very accurate, 
 and the weapons sound decent. 
  
  Even though it has all of these great features, there is little selection when it comes to the 
 weapons (you can't pick up any German weapons and you only have a few weapons to choose from) . 
 Also, the game is easy even on the hardest difficulty and really short because the missions only 
 take 5-15 minutes. 
  
  In conclusion, I give this game an 7/10 because of it is very fun to play but there just isn't 
 enough extras to keep people playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_cod4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  Wow, This had to be one of the first Brothers and arms games to realese for the DS, And I think 
 this game put a dent in DS History! For the Ds, this game had to be one of the best action games 
 for the Ds but i know that this game had some let down graphics! The story in this game is pretty 
 much a let down but when they make the new one coming out this year, i think it will be a smash 
 hit! The only thing i despise about this game is when you want to turn your gun, but YOU HAVE TO 
 USE THE PEN! I got many cramps in my hands but i got used to it after a while. So if you want to 
 get this game really bad, I would suggest renting first. So the really positive things about this 
 game is that it is alot of fun, Many hours playing, and best graphics probobly for the DS. The 
 only bad thing about this game is that you would probobly get lots of hand cramps! I WOULD DEFFENTLY 
 THINK OF RENTING THIS GAME FIRST!
  
  
  
  
  Verdict: Rent first, Then buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vatterott
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 2, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  BROTHERS IN ARMS DS
  
  Pros:
  -Nice graphics
  -Can be just plain fun
  -Voices and various sound effects are good
  
  
  Cons:
  -Really short
  -You often fail 
 for no apparent reason
  -AI stand still, except for going up and down
  -Seems cheaply made; not very well rounded
  -Not many weapons
  -Glitch where you die and spawn 
 and then die. Over and over.
  
  Brothers in Arms DS is a WWII game in the third person. Sure, it can be fun, but how often, and 
 for how long?
  
  The technical aspect of Brothers in Arms is the best part. The environments do look good, and animations 
 (a tower falling, an explosion) look good, but nothing more. When driving a recon car, the sand 
 and dust behind it also looks disappointing. When soldier walk, they sort of float on the ground, 
 as if everything is covered in a thin layer of butter. Objects themselves are fine, but it's the 
 interactions that drop the score.
  
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  
  Voice acting makes a surprise appearance. Little lines will be said, so you don't have to look 
 at the messages (although, you'll fail if you don't) . Most sound effects are not very subtle; 
 they're only put in rarely. It feels like the game was made in a rush, because many details are 
 missing, or at least ones that would make the game better. Popping gunfire in the distance, or 
 maybe some alarms sounding would have been nice. There is also a complete lack of a soundtrack 
 during gameplay. 
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  If a game has mediocre everything but gameplay, it will still have a relatively high score. Brothers 
 in Arms' gameplay does not lift that score. The AI (except for vehicles) are often stationary. 
 If you fail to complete an objective, it's game over. A lot of the time if you even walk out of 
 a certain zone, game over. There are only five weapons in the entire game, and limited ammunition 
 for all guns except the main one. 
  
  The campaign is short. Really short. It takes 4-6 hours to beat it, and you don't have any [good] 
 reason to go back, except for getting frustrated again. If you like getting frustrated.
  
  Gameplay/campaign: 6.5/10
  
  Brothers in Arms really has no solid value. Sure, there are multiple 
 difficulties, but no online or single card play. Chances that you know someone else who has this 
 game are low, hopefully you would have ranted this game up by now. The value can be compared to 
 this paragraph.
  
  Value: 5/10
  
  Brothers in Arms DS looks good from the screenshots and gameplay videos, but is a lacking game 
 in many places. 
  
  Overall: 6.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  I'll freely and openly state that I'm not much a fan of war games. Sure, I'll play a title like 
 Fire Emblem, which is completely fantastical, or Advance Wars, which stresses the strategy of war 
 while not actually featuring a real war. But as soon as we get into World War II games, I start 
 to shy away. It's hard to have fun playing a game about an event that killed millions of innocent 
 young men -- for me, anyway. Yet, when Brothers in Arms DS was released, I confess I was a bit 
 intrigued. It received overall good reviews, and I longed for a quality shooter on the DS. So, 
 I picked it up. I was ashamed, and I still am. And that shame is fueled even more by the fact that 
 guiltily and reluctantly, I actually did enjoy this game.
  
  If you've played Metroid Prime Hunters before, then you will already have an excellent feel for 
 this game's controls. Depending on whether you're right- or left-handed, the D-pad or the A-B-X-Y 
 cluster controls your movement. You slide the stylus across the touch screen to change your aim, 
 and touch screen icons allow you to throw grenades, zoom in, and switch weapons. The controls are 
 intuitive and well-executed; by the time the first mission is over, you'll likely have a very good 
 grasp of how the game controls, and will be able to fire and take out enemies with ease.
  
  The weapon variety isn't that great for a first-person shooter, but it seems reminiscent of what 
 weapons might have actually been used. You begin the game with a typical assault rifle. However, 
 as you progress, you'll occasionally find new weapons, including sniper rifles, upgraded assault 
 rifles, and grenade and missile launchers. And while there may not actually be that many weapons 
 available for you to use, the developers have done a great job of really building up each weapon 
 very specifically. That is, certain weapons really are necessary for certain challenges, whereas 
 that same weapon may be completely useless in other situations. Many shooters suffer from the idea 
 that a certain weapon is the "best"; no such flaw is the case in Brothers in Arms DS, however, 
 as each weapon is best in varying situations.
  
  Grenades are also available for you to use early on in the game, and are often critical for your 
 success. For example, if you're faced with an onslaught of coming enemy soldiers, a well-tossed 
 grenade can wipe them out, and save you from wasting ammo in your weapons or potentially dying 
 at the hands of your opponent. To throw a grenade, simply tap the icon on the touch screen, then 
 touch and hold the map portion of the screen. As you hold down the stylus, the power meter builds 
 up, and an overhead aiming reticule appears. When the aiming reticule is where you wish the grenade 
 to be thrown, take the stylus off the touch screen -- and then duck.
  
  The game definitely deserves recognition for the way that it cleverly and subtlety incorporates 
 the touch screen into gameplay, in addition to merely shooting guns and throwing grenades. For 
 example, in certain situations, the grenade icon at the top of the screen will turn into a "Touch" 
 icon. This button is used in a variety of instances; for example, if you get close enough to an 
 enemy tank, tap the icon to hop up on the tank, open the door on the top, and toss a grenade in. 
 The icon is also used for entering vehicles and placing explosives on items (to be blown up at 
 a later time, naturally) . The reload feature in Brothers in Arms DS is also unique and takes wonderful 
 advantage of the touch screen. When you're out of bullets, it's possible to just fire, and the 
 gun will be reloaded automatically. However, you can reload far quicker by tapping the clip icon, 
 located at the top of the touch screen, and quickly dragging it down. It's nothing huge, but little 
 touches like this serve to improve the overall immersive quality of the game and make it slightly 
 more fun to play.
  
  The mission variety and design is also well-done, for the most part. Missions are seldom the same 
 twice; they'll have you doing all sorts of jobs in various locales. Some missions have you playing 
 in a tank or a Jeep; these are a blast (pun intended) . The on-foot levels are pretty straightforward 
 and similar, yet you probably won't notice it because the locations in which you play are constantly 
 changing. One slight disappointment with the level design is that it's a bit too linear for my 
 liking. The game has mini checkpoints scattered throughout a level (usually 10 or 15 per level) 
 that you've got to hit. This system, sadly, doesn't allow much room for exploration or "doing things 
 your way", although there is a slight bit of customization, just in terms of how actually to progress 
 to the next checkpoint.
  
  Sometimes, a checkpoint will launch you into a mini-objective -- something that you've got to do 
 in order to progress. The most common mini-objectives are sniping a foe or destroying some key 
 enemy fortification or weapon. These are neat and add some variety to the game, but it's also where 
 the title runs into a little bit of trouble. See, the game is wary of telling you what to do -- 
 all tutorials given to you come out of the mouth of your squad commander. And seeing as Gameloft 
 wanted to make this title as realistic as possible, you won't hear "Tap the zoom icon to enter 
 sniping mode" --you're going to have to figure out that stuff for yourself. So, the game tells 
 you what to do, but it seldom gives you any idea how exactly to do it.
  
  This may seem cool at first, but once you actually experience it, you'll realize that it's a slightly 
 flawed system. For example, during an objective, you're told to "Take out that [deleted racial 
 slur] !" Yet you have no idea where on Earth he is. You can try sniping some people, but if you 
 don't get your man in a matter of seconds, you lose and have to restart from the last checkpoint. 
 The camera will randomly pan off into space, and will give you no indication whatsoever as to what 
 you did wrong. This is extremely annoying, especially when an action that should be simple is complicated 
 by the games lack of guidance.
  
  Another slight problem with Brothers in Arms DS is that environmental manipulation, for lack of 
 a better phrase, sometimes gets into problems. For example, there's a neat little feature that 
 allows you to put your back to a wall and peer around the corner to see who's waiting for you. 
 You perform this action just by running into the wall you want to back up to, but oftentimes this 
 maneuver fails to work, even after multiple attempts. Needless to say, this is really annoying 
 and is crazy, especially considering all the work that Gameloft put into making this game realistic 
 (how realistic is it, really, to see an armed soldier running into a wall three or four times?) . 
 Another example is that when you run up to a sandbag or other item that can be used as cover, you 
 automatically duck behind it and assuming a firing stance. Yet, sometimes the system fails to work, 
 you're left standing next to the sandbag, out in the open and without cover. It's even more infuriating 
 when this failure of the game's to automatically put you in cover then results in your death, and 
 you've got to restart from the last checkpoint.
  
  Aside from these occasional annoyances, the rest of Brothers in Arms DS is great. The graphics 
 are particularly of note; they're easily among the best to be seen so far on the Nintendo DS. They're 
 smooth, for the most part, and the detail is great. Of course, this being a handheld game, environments 
 and people tend to fall apart (figuratively speaking) as you get really close to them; the images 
 become blocky and pixilated, and downright ugly. Still, though, as DS games go, Brothers in Arms 
 DS is one of the prettiest that I've played.
  
  The sound effects are also really well done. There's no music in the game, but the sound effects 
 contribute wonderfully to the atmosphere of the game. You'll occasionally hear foes shout out at 
 you in German, or you'll hear one of your comrades shout "I need more ammo!". The voice acting 
 isn't even that good, but the game is so immersive and fun that it's an easily overlooked problem. 
 Some might argue that music could improve the experience even more, but I really do like the lack 
 of it; again, realism was the goal, and lack of music definitely contributes to that.
  
  Normally, I'd skim right over the plot of this game. Why? Because, quite frankly, it doesn't have 
 any. At first, I was somewhat disappointed; the developers put tons of work into this game, so 
 why not go a little further and add some good storytelling scenes? Well, after completing the game, 
 I realized that the omission of a story was actually a brilliant move on the developers' part. 
 See, the whole premise of Brothers in Arms DS is that you're just a regular, unnamed soldier doing 
 his duty on the front line. Soldiers in in WWII likely had little idea what was going on in the 
 war, and neither will you, in this game. So, while it may at first seem that the dearth of a story 
 arc detracts from the story, it's actually a clever move by the developers that even further increase 
 the level of immersion present in this title.
  
  In terms of both difficulty and game value, Brothers in Arms DS stumbles a little bit. The standard 
 difficulty mode (easy) is pathetic. However, there are two other (higher) difficulty levels, that 
 increase the difficulty for players that really want it. However, even these increased difficulty 
 levels aren't incredibly tough. Additionally, the game is disappointingly short. There are three 
 campaigns, each with only about 6-8 missions each. Each mission, on your first try, will likely 
 take you around 15 or 20 minutes. Of course, there's plenty of replay value if you plan on playing 
 the entire game through on each of the higher difficulty levels, but more campaigns comprised of 
 even more missions would have been a welcome addition to this title.
  
  There's also a multiplayer mode which, while tough to set up, is definitely worth it for the fun 
 that it will provide. It's actually a rather standard multiplayer setup for first person shooters, 
 but it's just great to be able to play through the well-designed levels and take advantage of the 
 game's great controls with a friend or three. However, the big drawback to this mode is that there's 
 no download play for the DS -- instead, each player is going to have to have their own 30-dollar 
 copy of the game. This is a pretty big drawback, obviously -- unless you've got multiple friends 
 with money to burn, you may not ever get a chance to experience the great multiplayer. It's a pity, 
 really, because it's tons of fun -- it's definitely disappointing that the developers didn't include 
 download play, and online play would have also been a huge plus.
  
  Overall, despite a few minor drawbacks, Brothers in Arms DS is a solid DS shooter. The controls 
 are great, the graphics are beautiful, and the game as a package is surprisingly immersive. There 
 are a few issues with it, and it's a bit short for me to unconditionally recommend it, especially 
 with a 30 dollar price tag. Still, if you're looking for a great, fun DS shooter, you should definitely 
 check out Brothers in Arms DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rockamix
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Great usage of Touch Screen, The sensitivity to aim is just right, and the grenade launch is very 
 simplistic and easy to learn. There is good AI, Good Gameplay, I found it very easy to pick up 
 and play. The Action isn't to frantic that you will need to have to use the touch screen past its 
 limits. It has a rich duck and cover concept that doesn't complicate the game, and the mission 
 runtime keeps you entertained. Destructive environments and good graphics, The multiplayer is also 
 good if you can find people with it, but no wifi. The missions have a variety of objectives and 
 different play styles. There are Tank missions, driving tidbits, and of course, on foot infrantry 
 combat The Single Player is short, buy still enjoyable, with added difficulty settings to help 
 give you a better experience of this great game. The Voice acting is good and can really give you 
 a good sense of War, with the notations of Germans as "Krauts" or "Jerries". Overall, a great game 
 in my Ds Library, i gladly await a sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ww2gamereviewer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in arms DS is for of course, the ds. It is rated T for teen unlike the other games in 
 the seris. You play a soldier in the 101st airbourne during ww2. The game takes place in Normanday, 
 Africa, and The Battle of the Bulge. The game has 12 levels that are a good size. The game uses 
 both screeens of the DS. The bottom sceern is where u aim, throw gernades and pick weapons. The 
 top screen shows you wat u r doing. You get to drive tanks and jeeps. Grapihics are poretty good 
 for the DS. But there are some flaws. AI is isnt that good. When u first play, you can only get 
 the thompson, sniper rifle, and bazooka. When u beat the game on normal mode, u get the BAR and 
 gernade on a rifle. But u cant use the rifle which stinks. Grahpics could have been better. There 
 is no multiplayer of wi-fi which would have made the game better. You cant pick up weapons from 
 dead soldiers. Controls can get confusing if ur in the middle of a fight. But otherwise its a good 
 game. It is worth the 25.00 i payed for it. I recommend getting \,,/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adeehr01eb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I've played the new COD4 and then this game. COD4 is what you'd expect, and actually I don't believe 
 is as good as Brothers in Arms.
  
  This game offered me more action and tactical elements than what I first thought I'd get. I figured 
 this game would be run shoot, run shoot, rinse repeat. Well I can tell you it isn't. Sure this 
 game does have that element, but with being able to use cover and duck behind buildings there is 
 more tactic involved. Also the use of the tanks and anti tank weapons makes it a lot more enjoyable. 
 
  
  I am still not the largest fan of the FPS control system on the DS that this game and COD4 involve. 
 With large hands it makes it a little difficult to sometimes reach the shoulder button when I'm 
 directing my character or vehicle. I understand the need to use the touch pad, but if the game 
 would employ a control system like that of Goldeneye DS I would have rated it probably a 9. 
  
  So that being said, the game is fun and will keep you entertained. I'd pick it up if it was 
 under $30, over that and it's too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiiguyftw
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in arms comes to the DS for the first time, in fact this is the first time that Brothers 
 in Arms has ever come to a Nintendo system at all so you would hope it would make a good impression, 
 on some levels it does on others it doesn't.
  
  Brothers in Arms DS is an amazing graphical achievement the game looks stunning and i was surprised 
 to see that the DS was able to play a game that looks this good. The frame rate is steady, not 
 perfect but pretty steady and the environment is beautiful. draw distance on the other hand is 
 terrible however this is a minor complaint when it comes to what is done on the DS.
  
  Gamplay isn't so hot though, your hand will get tired and sometimes the stylus isn't as responsive 
 as you would like. Throwing grenades is a pain and reloading feels like it should have been mapped 
 to a button. moving is another problem with almost no camera control while walking and only the 
 D-pad to move it just doesn't feel right... the only positive thing i can say is that when taking 
 cover you find it automatically like company of heroes or gears of war, i really like this because 
 you didn't have to worry about more button pressing on an already crowded control scheme.
  
  On top of the problems with the gameplay there is almost no story in this game. You play through 
 different theaters of war including normandy, africa and germany but you never feel attached to 
 the characters like you do in other games on consoles, which is ashame.
  
  If your curious about this game give it a go, however don't expect much, and if you can buy it 
 used or borrow it from a friend do so. because i would not recommend buying this game full price. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitroburner1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  While this game is not perfect, it does however, deserve better than a 6.
  
  The squad tactics from the other games have been taken away, you cannot give any orders at all. 
 Also, there is no real story that lets you learn about the men around. There are a few cinematics 
 in which you witness a conversation (subtitled, not spoken) or two, but not on the same level as 
 Road to Hill 30, or Earned in Blood. The lack of tactics and story may leave BIA fans thinking 
 that this is more like a third person MOH game than a BIA game.
  
  There are many intense, sometimes difficult battles. Some levels are just right, and some are quite 
 difficult. Each level seems to have an endless supply of objectives, from blowing up tanks, destroying 
 artillery, and killing infantry. There is rarely a quiet moment, but it can get a little repetitive.
 
  
  I found the controls easy enough to pick up, as my first DS shooter. You use the stylus to move 
 the cross hair and view, and also to switch weapons, use grenades and even use aim down the sights. 
 A drawback includes the fact that it takes some practice to turn around quickly. Grenades are a 
 sinch to use.
  
  The cover mechanism works quite well, you run up to an object and stop, and you will duck or put 
 your back to it, depending on the type of cover. On the smaller types that you duck behind, you 
 can jump over which can become very handy.
  
  The graphics push the DS system to its limit, and are pretty good for the system. The frame rate 
 may lag slightly when there is a lot of action on screen.
  
  The Thompson's bah-bah-bah sound can get painfully repetitive and dull, but other than that, the 
 sounds are largely recycled from the two other BIA games, which can be a good thing. 
  
  In the easy setting, you are limited to a M1A1 Thompson, M9 Bazooka, and a M1903 Springfield. Once 
 you finish the game on easy, you get access to some more weapons. 
  
  There are a few bugs and glitches. I got stuck in random objects three times in the game, nothing 
 major. A strange part was when I was taking cover behind a concrete tower and a tank on the other 
 side managed to shoot straight through it and blow me up.
  
  It does have some flaws, but the experience is still pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms DS is perhaps one of the greatest shooters for it's system. The DS does not have 
 that many shooters, so technically Brothers in Arms DS is great. However there is some problems, 
 such as the gameplay. The gameplay is not all it is cracked up to be, but moving the stylus around 
 it kind of fun sometimes. Also there is not very much enemies in a level. There are three short 
 campaigns (Normandy, Tunis, and Ardennes) , with very short missions. You could probably finish 
 this game with in a half-an-hour.
  
  Some good things about the game is that it has 3D graphics, and is pretty good for a DS game, considering 
 that most of the game for the DS is in 2D. Sounds are pretty good, but there are no voice acting 
  which sucks because you have to read and have to read fast.
  
  I did like the game since it was a World War II game. So my recommendation is that you rent it 
 first. If it turns that you enjoy it very much, then buy it. If not then don't mess around with 
 it. But I do have to give some credit to Gearbox for trying. Who's with me?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Street_Fighter
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  World War 2 shooters are everywhere these days. Theyre on the PS2, Xbox, gamecube, and even the 
 PSP (thats right, even the PSP) . But wheres the one for the DS? Is it in under the sofa, or is 
 it in the attic? No! Its right here! Brothers in Arms DS is Ubisofts attempt at a World War 2 
 game on the DS.
  
  Brothers in Arms games have appeared on a couple of platforms, the PS2, the Xbox, and the PC. Me, 
 being a Nintendo kind of guy, never had any these systems (except the PC, but my PC was the equivalent 
 of bad manure, so no games worked on it) , so, naturally, I never played any of these games before. 
 Well, Im sorry to say that as soon as I saw Brothers in Arms DS at my local Ebgames, I quickly 
 bought it without hesitation. I really should have thought this purchase before buying it. This 
 purchase ranks among some of my worst purchases in life (another one would be Rayman Raving Rabbids) . 
 Brothers in Arms DS is a third person shooter. You have 13 missions to complete. These missions 
 are spread across 3 campaigns, which take place in Normandy, Tunisia, and Ardennes. Each mission 
 lasts anywhere from 10 minutes to 30 minutes (it only lasts thirty minutes if you continuously 
 die) . The whole game lasts about eight hours, which is pretty short.
  
  You spend all your missions as a regular soldier in a squad, but the squad isnt that important 
 because they do whatever they want, you cant tell them what to do. Youll have three guns throughout 
 the game, a rifle, a sniper, and a bazooka. Youll also ride around in tanks and jeeps in some 
 of the missions. The missions in the game are very linear. If you go off course, youll randomly 
 be shot down, even if there are no guys around you. During the missions, it tells exactly where 
 to go, so going off course is unlikely. When I say that the game tells you exactly where to go, 
 I mean that during the missions, either a place, or an enemy is highlighted. If its a place, it 
 means that you have to go to that place. If its an enemy, you have to kill that enemy. Brothers 
 in Arms DS, basically, plays out like this: run to highlighted area, hide behind wall, jump out 
 from behind the wall and shoot the living daylights out of your enemies. As you might have guessed, 
 this gets pretty repetitive, and annoying after a while. Its not horrible, and the cover system 
 actually works really well As soon as you run next to a wall, or a something you can hide behind, 
 you immediately take cover, no button presses needed. You point your gun using your stylus. This 
 is good and bad. Its good because it allows you to have perfect aim. You will have no problem 
 shooting your enemies at all. Its bad because turning can be a pain. It takes a couple of seconds 
 to make a 180-degree turn, and you might die by the time you finally make it. Its also bad because 
 of the camera. You have an over the shoulder view, kind of like the one in Resident Evil 4, but 
 this one is no where near as good. Because of this camera, you cant see everything around you, 
 and you might be getting shot at from somewhere, and you dont know where that somewhere is.
  
  Controlling jeeps and tanks are much better than controlling your trooper. For the jeep, you 
 steer with the stylus, and go forward and backwards using the D pad. You dont need to worry about 
 shooting because someone else in your squad is operating the gun. When youre on the jeep you have 
 a good sense of speed, and its very rewarding. It feels, somewhat like a real jeep.
  
  When you control your tank, its almost the same as controlling the jeep, but you get to aim your 
 gun, and it actually works well. Like the jeep, it actually feels like youre driving a tank because 
 you move kind of slowly, and when you fire a shot, it takes out many people.
  
  Though the gameplay may not be perfect, the graphics are. Well, the graphics arent perfect, but 
 they really push the DSs limits and theyre the best graphics ever seen on the DS to date. It 
 will be very difficult to surpass the level of detail put into the graphics from Brothers in Arms 
 DS. Your trooper, and all the troopers around you, all look excellent, and there is a ton of detail 
 I all the environments. The menus are also good looking. Theyre not bland, or boring. Theyre 
 not exceptional, theyre just regular menu screens, and they dont take away, or add anything to 
 the experience. The graphics arent the only thing thats great in this game, the frame rate is 
 pretty good too. Youll never see the frame rate dip throughout the whole game, even though you 
 would probably expect it. Even when soldiers, tanks, and jeeps are firing at you at full speed, 
 the game will run smoothly. This is something you wouldnt expect from a regular DS game.
  
  There is something you usually expect in a video game. Music. Usually when I play a game, I 
 expect some sort of music, and everyone else probably does too. In Brothers in Arms DS, there is 
 an apparent lack of music during the missions. Sure, theres music while youre on the menus, but 
 that really doesnt matter. Maybe Ubisoft thought that music would take away from the experience. 
 If so, then they are crazy. Music is an important part of a game (not the most important part, 
 but important non the less) . This is a big letdown. Though there is no music, there are some voice-overs. 
 Youll often hear the enemies blurt out random words in another language, and, occasionally, one 
 of your squad members will shout something out, but, usually, text just pops up on the bottom of 
 the screen and you need to read it. It would have been nice if all the text was voiced-over. I 
 know the DS isnt incredibly powerful, and maybe it couldnt handle voice-overs, but look at Transformers 
 for the DS. It had phenomenal voice acting. As I said before, Brothers in Arms DS last about 8 
 hours, and that really sucks. Youll beat it in a day (less than a day actually) . Sure, its a 
 fun game while it lasts, but why isnt it longer? All there is to do after you finish the game 
 is replay the missions on a harder difficulty. Sure, some missions are fun, and you might want 
 to replay the level, but you wont want to play through the majority of the levels. Theres also 
 multiplayer, which is only multi card play. That means everyone is going to need to have the game 
 to play multiplayer. Its not horrible, but its nothing that improves the game monumentally. There 
 is another down side to the multiplayer, and thats that has no online. Online could have really 
 helped the game. Online, probably, would have been really fun and it couldve saved this game from 
 utter doom, but since there is no online play, Brothers in Arms DS will face utter doom! Ha ha 
 ha ha ha ha! *Gets slapped and snaps out of it* Jeez sorry about that. Something took me over. 
 Its gone now I think Overall, Brothers in Arms is a technical achievement for the DS, with amazing 
 graphics, good frame rate, and its pretty fun while it lasts. This game just falls short in too 
 many categories to impress me. It has poor controls, bad camera, no music, its extremely short, 
 and it has no online play. At most, you should rent this game, beat it, and thank God that you 
 didnt but it.
  
  Ha ha ha ha! Utter doom for Brothers in Arms DS! Ha ha ha ha!
  
  Gameplay 5/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Sound 5/10
  Value 6/10
  Overall 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belmont11294
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 26, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Bringing the WW2 style to the Nintendo DS was a great idea for DS owners have been left in the 
 dust with shooters, but finally another shooter with good potentail came along. Brothers in Arms: 
 DS for the Nintendo DS is a fun game. Not to mention that it is the only WW2 shooter for the DS. 
 But that is where the positives end for this game. The biggest problem for this game is that it 
 is waay too short. To beat every mission on every difficulty setting only takes about 2-4 hours. 
 It definatly makes you regret ever spending $30 for a couple hours of entertainment. There also 
 isn't enough weapons and vehicles in the game. There is only 3 vehicles and 6 weapons and you have 
 to unlock 2 guns and 1 vehicle by beating the entire game on normal mode. In addition, there are 
 many parts of the game where you will get stuck in something and you have to restart the that part 
 of the mission all over again. This gets increasingly fustrating as you progress the the harder 
 levels.
  The multiplayer in this game flat out sucks. Like the single-player mode, it is too repetitive, 
 short, and easy. AND there isnt even wi-fi. Its like they developers threw in the multiplayer at 
 the last second to make the game seem more fun . But, the multiplayer does have some shinig aspects 
 to it. Battleing with 3 friends can make for an intense moment that involves some quick thinking. 
 Plus the fact that you can actually pick a uniform, either German or American. This lets you re-create 
 battles from the single-player campaign.
  Overall, this game has some potentail to it. Its not worth the buy, but definatly a rental at the 
 least. Even i'm hoping for a sequal that will include more weapons, vehicles, unlockables, levels, 
 and much better multiplayer. This is definatly a game to get if you want a decent shooter for the 
 DS. But I reccomend Metriod Prime Hunters if you want a better shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johno1995
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  The reason I put revolutionary in the classification is not that it's a revolutionary shooter for 
 any platform, but a revolutionary shooter for the DS. Brothers in Arms DS shows that the DS cannot 
 only be used for World War II games, but shows off that the DS could become the handheld platform 
 for the shooter genre.
  
  Tight, easy-to-learn controls are everywhere in BiA DS, something that developers should put more 
 effort into when dealing with a DS shooter. Intense World War II action is something people would 
 never think of when talking about the DS, until now.
  
  With the Call of Duty franchise heading toward DS as well, no body can never say never anymore. 
 What makes Brothers in Arms DS so special, is that it's entirely stylus and D-Pad conglomeration, 
 with only need for one other button (the Left Shoulder Pad) . The entire screen will be used much 
 like other DS PC-style controls, but there's the added ability to swap weapons using a cool pull-down 
 menu that rarely gets in the way. The ability to throw weapons is also pulled off really well: 
 tapping and holding the grenade in the corner of the screen will shift the top-screen's perspective 
 so you can see your grenade's reticule. Slide the stylus up or down will adjust how far you'll 
 throw the grenade.
  
  Now I come to the graphics... let see... BiA has some of the best graphics I've ever seen on ANY 
 handheld... period. It's very polished and the character models and enviroments are very well done. 
 While their may be a drop in framerate and a few glitches every now and then, BiA really puts the 
 DS's power to the full potential.
  
  What is the only REAL BIG problem with BiA DS is... that it's too short. There are only about 13 
 missions, which can be completed rather quickly. While a few of them are easy, most of them are 
 complicated, but still... only 13 missions? Plus, the multiplayer is only for people who have the 
 game too, which is kind of a bummer. No online also hurts it.
  
  But, what people have to realize is... BiA really sets a standard for the DS and the handheld shooter 
 genre as a whole. More developers really need to look at Brothers in Arms DS as the definitive 
 shooter game on the system, period.
  
  Kudos to Gameloft, and I hope a sequel comes soon with single and multi-cart multiplayer, online 
 modes, more missions, and the glitches fixed. One of my favorite DS games. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This was the first action army game for the DS so there is room for improvements. Not to say it 
 was bad but there could been things done to better gaming experience. First it's short, about a 
 good 4 to 6 hours and you completed the game. You do not play through the game at one shot it's 
 divide into three campaigns taking you to Normandy, Tunis, and Ardennes. Each campaign has at least 
 5 missions each and each of them is finish in about 5 minutes (less if you don't waste time killing 
 enemy soldiers) . There isn't much in original story, you are a solider fighting against the Nazis 
 during World War II. You are nothing special just the one that does most of the killing and the 
 one whom follow all the orders. You can sub stand a beating which is surprising because if you 
 were shot you are either wounded and limping or dying. Once you are not in action in which you 
 are idle for about 10 seconds you start recovering you health gauge, this makes the game forgiving 
 and more enjoyable to play. You fight on foot, with a jeep, or with a tank. The tank is the most 
 fun of all while the jeep is the most frustrating one due to it's horrible steering. The controls 
 was solid that with the stylist you aim where you going to shoot with L button to fire and the 
 cross pad to move, which work out nicely. Graphics wasn't that great in which would get great amount 
 of recognition but I may say it's the best graphics I seen on the DS so far. This is a other game 
 that isn't worth it's full retail price but its a fun experience while you have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWolff7774
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Brother in Arms is a great 3rs person DS game, Brother in Arms DS takes you on 3 parts of the WW2 
 times each part has individual mission's witch are short and simple! BIA has GREAT GRAPHICS for 
 a DS game!!! You can unlock a lot of stuff in that game like when you beat it you get 2 new guns 
 that stay in your inventory that you never used through out the single player adventure! The Pros: 
 The game has great graphics, The cover feature is great!!!!! The sound is perfect! the missions 
 are fun!
  
  The Cons: the game is to short and if you play on normal settings the missions seem to be very 
 easy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhcash
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms DS has a lot of potential, but it failed because the developer didn't put enough 
 effort into polishing the presentation aspets. I'm going to write the good and the bad of this 
 game this review around.
  
  One of the best parts is the game is the graphics. The game is in full 3-D and yet again it is 
 detailed. Another cool inovation is the cover system. Activating cover is as simple as standing 
 really close to a wall or other cover, and the cover is very useful if a tank is near or your just 
 under fire by a chaingun. There are some missions where you play as a tank and it is satifying 
 to blow up fleeing Germans or blow up other tanks. There are some cool little touch-screen mini-games, 
 like using this meter on the touch screen to throw grenades, dragging a clip down to reload and 
 changing weapons, which is decent. And just in general, the game is just a fun mindless shooter.
 
  
  Oh... now to the bad. First off, the game is pretty short. I beat it on a 6-hour bus ride from my 
 Chicago home to Michigan, even resting for a little over an hour. The missions are very dull, every 
 mission is going from place to place killing Germans or blowing up a tank. The sound consists of 
 only low-quality explosions and gun-fire. The AI is stupid and the game is so easy even on a hard 
 difficulty. The game is frusturating becuase sometimes you'll be just doing stuff and then you'll 
 get a fail screen saying that you Failed Orders , so people with A. D. D may have a problem with 
 this game. The cover system can be frusturating, becuase you'll try to get behind cover if you 
 are badly injured but can't. The framerate is very chuggy, even though a handheld game is not expected 
 to have a great framerate. Ok so overall, this is definately a decent game to rent and play to 
 pass time. But don't pay $40 like I did for only a decent game you'll play for 5-8 hours then forget 
 afterwards. Fans of WW2 games won't be extremely disappointed, but probably a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This is a port of the cell phone game brothers in arms 3d. it's nice that Ubisoft and Gear box 
 finally brought us a port that is not broken but there are a few problems holding this back from 
 greatness. For one the leanth only 13 missions long and some not even last 10 minuets is just wrong. 
 next is the game can be literately painful to play my hand was cramping in just a few minuets of 
 play. The worst problem of them all is that some missions are really scripted. leaving no room 
 to do it your way. if you don't the game will just randomly kill you with a crazy way or just flat 
 out end it. The aiming is pluntey solid and no problem hitting what you want but try a smooth turnaround 
 and you'll get a fell how clunky the controls can be it gets worst with tanks and jeeps. With all 
 it's flaws it's simple fun in short burst it looks and sounds great but it's to bad multipalyer 
 is multi card only. It proves 3rd person shooters can be done on the ds, now we need one that fully 
 dose it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms DS is a 3rd person World War Two shooter on the DS. You play as an infantryman 
 through three different six mission campaigns. Missions last very little time, but it seems like 
 every second is intense. The controls can only be described as flawless. You use the stylus to 
 look around, L to shoot, and the control pad to move forwards and backwards, or side to side. To 
 reload, you drag the clip icon into the middle of the screen, and it reloads. To aim, you just 
 tap the icon and it zooms in for you. To throw a grenade, you tap the grenade icon, and the camera 
 switches overhead where a square shows where the grenade will land when you throw it. Let go of 
 the icon and you huck the grenade. Perhaps there was one small problem, but it took nothing really 
 away from the gameplay. While you were on foot, the sensitivity is perfect. However, when in a 
 tank or manning a machine gun, the sensitivity was a little low. They could have included and option 
 to change it, but it wasn't a big deal. There is also a cover mechanism which you will recognize 
 if you play Gears of War or Rainbow 6 Vegas. Just run up to some cover and you will duck out of 
 harm. Very nifty in some spots. Your objectives are like any World War Two game. Plant charges 
 on Flak 88's, engage enemy armor and such. The latter is very fun because if you don't have a bazooka 
 handy, you can climb on top of the tank, open the hatch, and drop a grenade down. Good stuff. I 
 was disappointed that there was no variety of weapons. Until you tried on harder difficulties (which 
 you need to unlock) , all you really get is a Thompson. Here and there are sniper rifles (Springfield 
 '03) or bazookas, but that's it. On to graphics. When looking into the distance, the graphics are 
 perfect. But, when you get close to something, it gets really pixled which really annoyed me. Sound 
 is also good. All of the sounds you would expect to hear in a war. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowzzr
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  over-all this game is pretty much okay. it will keep anyone who is a fan of shooters or WW2 altogether 
 alive and raring to play for quite a short time. it will keep you playing for around 10 - 20 hours 
 or so depending, of course, on your actual playtime.
  
  GRAPHICS. the graphics are fine - they look good on the DS, but somehow, there are times when the 
 graphics aren't very helpful, as they could make you commit some mistakes and actually mistake 
 an enemy for something else. you could well say that the enemy troops' camouflage works very well 
 in this short game.
  
  CONTROLS. the controls are mediocre. it's somehow painful and difficult to actually have to use 
 the L1 button and the D PAD at the same time, however, that is how it is with shooters for DS. 
 on the contrary, though, the problem here lies with precision. the gun pointing isn't as precise 
 as that of MPH. therefore, the pain of having to keep pointing and continuous touching of the screen 
 is a must.
  
  SOUNDS. the sounds are very well done, i give it a high rating. although the game lacks in the 
 aspect of voice acting, the sounds of explosions and gunshots make it easily nostalgic. i recommend 
 playing the game on high volume with your headphones on.
  
  CAMERA ANGLE. it isnt first person - that's the problem. there are missions in the game where you 
 are required to control a tank. which is the biggest problem in the camera. after combining that 
 with the control problems, the angle of view for the tank isn't really helping. the tank seems 
 too big for the angle of the camera, and it makes it difficult to target your enemies.
  
  MISSIONS. there are none. just point and shoot.. then follow the green markings to finish the missions.
 
  
  over-all a very okay ww2 shooter to get you a little off your boredom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AjayRaz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 14, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  **First of all i gotta say, Gamespot, Wtf?? Why such a bad rating? This game is Great!
  
  This game.. Is Amazing. Yeserday I was gonna Pick up Vice city for the PC but I descided to Pick 
 up Brothers in arms: War Stories.. And I'm glad I did. I'll tell ya Why.
  
  The Good --
  Amazing Graphics for the DS
  Amazing Sound to go with the graphics.
  Insanely fun
  Very 
 Entraining at times
  Good Control
  One of the best looking DS games to date
  
  The Bad --
  A. I isnt the brightest
  The Absesnse of Wi-Fi, But it's a big game, so that's forgible.
 
  Too Short, with 13 missions. Some Missions are pretty long though.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics
  Brothers In Arms: War Stories is probely the best looking DS game that's out at the moment, then, 
 I could be wrong, But it's the best looking DS game i've seen in a while. 8/10
  
  Sound
  The Sound is Fantastic, the voices are clear. When you're near a explosion, there's 
 white noise for a moment. When a plane is flying over you hear it and it sounds great! 9/10
  
  Gameplay
  Gameplay is Insanly fun. World war 2 fun, on your DS!! What else could a shooter 
 fan ask for?! Oh, Right. Wi-fi. If Ubi-soft plans to make another Brothers in Arms DS Tittle (Which 
 I hope they do) I hope they make it with Wi-fi ^^. It's like a Gears of war camera angle, when 
 you throw a grenade there's this camera angle to tell you where it's gonna end up, it's pretty 
 unique. 9/10
  
  Value
  The Story's 3 campains will only last you about a couple of hours if you didnt play Non stop. (I 
 have 2 campains left ^^) And If you have 3 friends that own the same game, you could play Multiplayer 
 and kill each other! I heard Multiplayer was pretty fun, but unless you're the only person you 
 know that owns a DS, this game won't have much replay value, Although there is some replay value 
 left condisering the medals you can unlock and all the diffrent difficultys.6/10
  
  If you're a Fan of WWII shooters, This should be a good pickup. If this kind of game isnt your 
 style, I suggest Wait for Call of Duty 4 for the Ds. In the meanwhile, This is one of the best 
 shooters on the DS along with Metroid prime hunters, So I suggest you Pick this Game up, you'll 
 be pleased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: criyito
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I mean... what's the first thing you see when you enter the page? A huge 6!! Come on! they complain 
 about it's controls and Metroid Prime Hunters is played the exactly same way! The difference is 
 that Metroid game has a 8 point something of score.
  Tomb Raider Legends DS... a 7 point something? I'ts one of the worst games I've ever played! (and 
 bought because of that passable score of yours) .
  This game is under rated, it's visuals are one of the best i've seen on the ds, it has if not a 
 huge amount of missions, a good number of them, with a very challenging difficulty, a great sound, 
 and an instinctive control.
  I really recommend this game for every DS owner.
  That's my story.. and I'm sticking to it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepsychox247
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 1:54 pm PT
Review:  everything you have come to expect from a brothers in arms game wrapped up into a tiny bite-sized 
 package... wait.. nevermind that. its defininitely wrong, its anything but small. brothers in arms 
 ds is an amazing game with 3 entire story modes consisting of different parts of the war, and different 
 areas they are in. even though you only get 3 weapons in the game, the 3 are the best weapons you 
 could have in a brothers in arms game; the bazooka, the sniper rifle, and the assault rifle. for 
 most of this game you are going to be runnin' and gunnin' so the assault rifle really comes in 
 handy. my score: 8.8/10. believe me, play it, love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  alright to start off i need to say that this game is FREAKING AWESOME! the graphics are exceptionally 
 good sound is amazing, game play is ok and stuff like that al though im was not much but a little 
 disapointed when i found out how hard it is to duck and all that stuff if you go to a wall and 
 stop he puts his back to it, if you then put the crosshair on someone near the corner of the wall 
 and then press fire he wips around and attacks needless to say this game is awesome-i told one 
 guy about it and he likes it oh ya and if one day your playing wifi on metroid hunters.... and you 
 see a guy named NS-Flame SAY YOUR PRAYERS!!
  
  thomas_bobbypin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  I haven't had the opportunity to play any of the other Bros. In Arms titles, nor really any of 
 the other World War II video games currently out there. To be honest, I never saw much appeal in 
 them. But the novelty of this type of game on the DS wasn't lost on me, so I was excited to give 
 it a try. I'm also a glutton for good 3-D graphics on the DS, and that was certainly another big 
 factor in my wanting to play Bros. In Arms DS (BiA) .
  
  If BiA is anything, it's a great on-the-go-gaming companion. When comparing it to something like 
 Metroid Prime Hunters (MPH)  a game with which BiA shares control similarities  BiA is a lot 
 more considerate to a gamer's schedule. Whereas in MPH you were required to return to Samus' ship 
 in order to save your game  and that could take a while, depending on various things  in BiA 
 the game auto saves for you at various checkpoints and there are many of them as you progress through 
 a mission. If you die mid-mission and decide you'll come back to the game later, when you do come 
 back, you can begin that mission from the checkpoint you last left off at; a very nice feature, 
 indeed.
  
  Unlike MPH, however, BiA has no real story that you follow. The anonymous soldier you play as simply 
 follows orders through a series of missions, which are chosen from the main menu. As you complete 
 one mission, the next is unlocked. There is a progression, yes, but you don't get any character 
 development. However, that actually works for this type of game. You're in the middle of a war 
 and everything about the game makes you feel like you're right there on the battlefield, putting 
 your somewhat insignificant life on the line.
  
  The gameplay varies from on-foot missions that require you to gun your way through a village or 
 snipe enemies from afar. There are also entire missions in which you'll be controlling a tank, 
 and those missions offer a wholly different feel and experience. Some missions will be a mix of 
 various elements, including one mission where you're controlling an armored Jeep part of the way 
 through, and then sniping enemies on foot for other parts of the mission. You'll be lobbing grenades, 
 blasting bazookas, dropping explosives into tanks, and so on. There is a lot of variety to the 
 missions and, for the most part, they're pretty exciting and fun.
  
  I compared the game, initially, to MPH  as I'm sure many folks have  because the controls are 
 basically the same. I'm a southpaw (lefty) , so, for me, I use the X, Y, B and A buttons to move 
 my character or vehicle, the stylus to aim, and the R button to fire. The touch-screen also allows 
 you to zoom in when using your sniper rifle or bazooka, as well as lob grenades, or reload and 
 select various weapons you have on-hand. The controls themselves  as with MPH  work great. But 
 the flaw is in the game's graphics. Though the game looks great, the frame-rate is rather choppy. 
 This causes the gameplay to be a lot less smooth than MPH, and it's just not as easy or enjoyable 
 to shoot enemies. The collision detection is also kind of spotty, and you'll find yourself sometimes 
 caught up on a wall or other environmental object (s) .
  
  Even with all that said, it's still a very enjoyable game because the missions are very exciting. 
 The settings are dire and desperate. The look, sound and feel of every mission is very authentic, 
 and the issues with the gameplay almost add to the real frustration you could imagine would be 
 present on an actual battlefield. And though the game is forgiving in the sense of how it creates 
 checkpoints every few steps of the way, it can also be quite a difficult challenge to get through 
 each mission. You might find yourself playing through a mission segment four or five times before 
 you fully grasp what it is you're required to do in order to progress. There's an officer who's 
 always spouting out commands at you (via text onscreen) , but it flashes by so fast and there's 
 so much going on that you often miss what the current objective is and end up caught in a crossfire 
 of tank blasts. It can be frustrating, yet you'll want to keep coming back for more.
  
  The sound in BiA is really atmospheric. There is almost no music within the actual missions, and 
 this is the first time I can say that it isn't really missed either. All you hear, for the most 
 part, are the sounds of men dying on the battlefield, tanks rolling through a town, and rounds 
 endlessly firing. Considering the frame-rate of the game's graphics, the sound in BiA does a lot 
 to help keep you on track and identify certain enemies who might not be easily noticed otherwise. 
 My only gripe with the sound would be, when scrolling the menus and / or the mission selection 
 -- or at the end of a mission, when there is music -- the music gets abruptly cut out upon selecting 
 a mission. A small matter for most, but with a game like this it's all about the mood. I would 
 have enjoyed a smooth, faded transition into the missions etc. Nitpicking? Perhaps. But you could 
 otherwise really get lost in the mood of this game, and little things like that can easily break 
 that mood, in my opinion.
  
  While I'm on the subject of gripes, I would like to mention one other big one: Multiplayer. It's 
 there, but only in the form of local, multi-card gameplay. That's not going to extend the life 
 of this game for most DS owners. The simple fact of the matter is it's just not that easy for most 
 folks to find others nearby who also own the same game and are available and willing to play. Online 
 play is where it's at, and I suspect this game would have fared wonderfully in that area. The single-player 
 gameplay is surprisingly fulfilling, though, and it's probably worth the buy even though that's 
 really all most people are going to get from BiA DS. But there's just no denying, this is the sort 
 of game you'd love to get some multiplayer pwnage with.
  
  Bros. In Arms DS isn't a perfect hit. It does a lot of things right and is probably the best thing 
 Ubisoft has done on the system. If you look at the publisher's track record with this handheld, 
 you'll notice they haven't been doing anything great. But BiA is certainly a good start. If we 
 can perhaps see a little polish here and there, as well as a bit more time put into the overall 
 project, I'm sure, in the future, we could see a stellar title from these guys. The main changes 
 I'd make to this particular game would be to up the frame-rate, iron out the collision detection, 
 and add online multiplayer with some good, solid options. It's hard to not want more for your money 
 where this game is concerned, yet there's still a lot to enjoy. So, I'd say it's a must-have at 
 $20, but is certainly lacking at the full retail price. Of course, it's a World War II shooter, 
 so please keep that in mind when considering this game. It's probably not everyone's cup of tea.
 
  
  Overall: 7.5 (Look for this game at a discount price, and you should be very happy to have it in 
 your collection.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspeck_1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 9, 2007 6:48 am PT
Review:  First of all: This game is short, with only 3 campaigns and and a coouple of missions in each one, 
 now after reading the other reviews you might say, why pick this up but despite its shortcomings, 
 this is a worthy edition to any DS-owner who enjoys this genre of game.
  
  I did find this game to be a tad difficult, even on the lowest difficulty level, Normal. Athough 
 you migh be able to walk right up to an entire platoon of German paratroopers and go melee on them, 
 (which, I might add, looks so terribly presented he might be patting the Kraut in the back) , the 
 Panzers are a nightmare, and are quite skilled at killing you.
  
  Glitches: Ah, yes, the falt to every men's handheld 3D game.
  Since this is the first shooter 
 of its kind for the DS I will say not bad, but in a sequel (Brothers in Arms DS: Vengence?) i would 
 expect a bit more.
  
  1: Being able to walk over to a Panzer and blow it up, even though you were supposed to hijack 
 it
  2: Not being able to walk over to a Panzer and blow it up to a scripted part of the mission
  
 3: A tank (Allies) drives over and you are to get in, so you walk in front of it, it stops, and.... you 
 cant get in (Turn off power, Reload game, Try Again)
  
  Thats about it for glitches... and now what i didnt like about this game:
  1. The Missions are 
 confusing, with some orders that make no sense
  2. The somewhat open-ended enviorement can be confusing (where do I go)
  3. If you are lost you 
 will magiclly be blown up because you didnt go fast enough... (You'lle see wat i mean if youve 
 played it)
  
  I'd say this is better off as a rental, but i think you might still want this one along with your 
 collection... Its a gem that needs blown on and dusted off... but its stll a gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 5, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  This was one of those games that looked like it would be a disaster from the beginning, then things 
 turn out great... only to have it fall apart in the end. I had never played a Brothers In Arms title 
 until I had picked this one up. I've been a fan of the Medal Of Honor series for a while, but never 
 branched out because I was always just a casual fan of WWII titles. Even then, I only play the 
 FPS games. But I figured it was time to give another series a chance considering it's the first 
 one to make it to the Nintendo DS.
  
  I was skeptical at first of this title, but after seeing gameplay video, I decided it looked like 
 something I would enjoy. The graphics are better than most on the DS, and it's got some decent 
 sound effects and voice work (though minimal) . This is far better than the 3/4 top-down GBA Medal 
 Of Honor Infiltrator in terms of graphics, but that's about where it ends.
  
  One problem developers seem to have is getting the touch screen to work for them. I appreciate 
 that they're trying to use it in place of an analog stick, but it needs to work. Dragging the stylus 
 repetedly across the screen in order to turn around is just down-right annoying. It made for imprecise 
 aiming and unnecessary deaths when enemies would attack from behind. I'm not saying that the game 
 is overly difficult; it's just made more so by the controls. Speaking of the difficulty of the 
 game, it isn't terribly difficult at all. You'll have more trouble fighting the controls and figuring 
 out exactly where you need to be going. And that isn't very difficult to begin with. The game almost 
 holds your hand through the levels but there are some points where the objective wasn't clear enough 
 to figure out that you need to kill off certain soldiers in x-amount of time, or you need to watch 
 all sides of your ally's tank for enemies coming from behind and dropping grenades in. It's not 
 that I don't like a challenge, but some clearer objectives would have been nice.
  
  Now for the biggest problem: checkpoint saves. On numerous occasions I had the misfortune of hitting 
 a checkpoint with no way to pass it except to start the level over from the beginning. One such 
 incident left me with no grenades in my possession and the only way to advance was to destroy an 
 enemy tank with a grenade. This left me wandering the playing field only to be killed and have 
 to start from the checkpoint again with no grenades. Another checkpoint glitch left me stranded 
 on an airfield with no cover and as soon as my character would respawn, an explosion would quickly 
 end my game within 10 seconds of continuing. Try as I might, I could not continue from that point 
 without restarting the entire level. Overall, this is not a bad game, but there are too many things 
 I could point out that could be done better. If you really have a craving for WWII action, this 
 is currently your only choice on the DS, but it could be far worse. Just don't expect to enjoy 
 it for long with only 13 levels and a serious lack of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: streetkombat
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 4, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  The GameSpot review says, You're forced to hold the DS with just one hand -- more specifically, with 
 the sides of your fingers while your index finder is crooked over the left shoulder button. After 
 a few levels, the pain can be excruciating to the point where you may have to take a break to rest 
 your hand. 
  
  This issue never came up for Metroid Hunters and it was praised as one of the best control schemes 
 for the DS. I'm sorry, but this game feels exactly the same in my hand as it did with Metroid. 
 Just because its not a featured Nintendo title doesn't mean it should get the shaft.
  
  I'm sure the score of 6.0 was also reflected on the story and lack of objectives, but Aaron Thomas 
 was clearly comparing the console versions to this DS title. That's totally bias and I must say 
 is totally unfair. For a DS title, this game holds up REALLY well and I totally agree with Nintendo 
 Power's score of 9.0. The controls are amazing, the story is decent and the graphics are fantastic; 
 possibly one of the best I've seen on a DS game. If you're going to emphasize how horrible it feels 
 in your hand, you should start comparing it to a great FPS that's already on the system, and look-it-here... 
 there's Metroid Hunters, and it feels exactly the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms DS is a newer way play a WW2 shooter on your DS but due to some things in the 
 game makes you think that it might be better off letting it slide down.
  
  Graphics: Graphics and visuals has never been better on the DS. Outstanding graphics which said 
 from the employees pushes the DS graphics to the limits and keeping a steady frame rate.
  
  Sounds: There are some sounds that are delay in the game because of the lag you been shooting too 
 much. There are some voices that your troops make the game but they are really low on quality.
 
  
  Gameplay: There are 3 gameplays, gunning down germans, using the tank and blow crap out and parachuting. 
 Parachuting is the short gameplay you will have in the beginning of the game but who cares. There 
 are lots of burst fireing missions and blow stuff out with a bomb objectives. The most part i did 
 enjoy with the tank part. Blowing up tanks never been more fun. Multiplayer has a 4 player deathmatch 
 but thing that disappointing the most was there was no online mutliplayer.
  
  Extras?: theres not that much of a value in the game.
  6.4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cshadows11
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  this game may have a few camera problems but it is by far the most ambitious ds game in its genre. 
 it has shattered the definitions of what an action game can do on the ds. graphics push the system 
 to the limit and still manages to crank out 30 fps. as for gameplay, nazis r kinda dum but ur squad 
 isnt exactly retarded. they take cover and arent just cosmetic. i wanted to see if they could kill 
 nazis too, so i sat behind a wall and watched as my squad cleaned up 3 of those dirty bastards. 
 and altho ur character is expected to do most of the killing, it helps u immerse urself into the 
 game. as for multiplayer, i havent gotten a chance to test it out yet, but it seems just standard 
 2 on 2 team deathmatch, and 4 player free for all. sound is great. music is superb, although rare. 
 gunshots, explosions, and tanks driving and cars are all realistic sounding. i had a few gripes 
 with the length (dont plan on playing through this once on a 12 hour plane ride or watever) , and 
 lack of backstory or personality of your squad, but i am totally satisfied with this 30 dollar 
 investment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamsteel
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  I say this is a relatively good game first of all because it is the first of its kind on the DS. 
 Had it been designed from the ground up for the DS (as opposed to a port of a cell phone game!) 
 I have no doubt that it would have been much better. I would like to believe that the DS is more 
 capable than a cell phone when it comes to gaming. The control scheme works great and feels much 
 like the mouse-and-arrow controls of a computer game. The movements seem a little choppy and the 
 levels are a bit too linear. There are a few spots where the next move isnt quite obvious and 
 until you do it just right you will continue to die over and over again. These spots are very few 
 and mostly on the harder difficulty settings. For the most part it is a very fun game (especially 
 the vehicle driving parts) as the first of its kind on the DS but will be easily outdone by future 
 games in this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 21, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  BIA is a great series, this game adds an average addition to this series.
  
  Graphics: This is about as good as it gets on the DS, it pushes the DS hardware to the limits. 
 I was astonished, I loved that part of this game, with nice enviroments.
  
  Gameplay: Very fast paced, very exciting, never a dull moment. The gameplay is also varied, with 
 jeeps and tanks, which are nice additions. The touch-screen controls work smooth and are responsive. 
 But there was a few bad camera angle which kinda of mess with you.
  
  Sound: the sound is good, could have been better. The BIA series is none for scripted cut-scenes 
 that get you into the game, but this game doesn't have much of that, with a little voice clips 
 hear and there and the gun fire could have been better I wasn't impessed.
  
  Value: This game is very lacking in the story which there are three of with three of four missions 
 in each. Very short story. The is a multiplayer but there is no download play and no online play, 
 and you will probably have the most fun playing with four of ur friends.
  
  Overall I like the game but it was just missing some things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerframe8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game's shown what can be done on the DS (graphically) . And it really is the best DS 
 shooter out there... But I'm pretty sure the COD4 for DS will be much better than this. Graphic 
 wise, its great. Not amazing, but what can you expect from a DS game. Its detailed, and not awful 
 to look at like some DS 3D games... like Age of Empires. Sound. Explosive! Intense! Those two words 
 sums it up. Turn the ds volume full blast and play it on the train. Itll make all the 'NAM hobos 
 jump and hide under chairs. I joke, but really. Its good. Controls. SOOOO good. These are some 
 of the most simplistic and easy to use controlls on the DS.... unlike Metroid which cramped your 
 hand. Move with D-pad, shoot with L, and camera look with stylus. Switch weapons and select actions 
 on the ds touch screen too. Camera angle does get twitchy, AT PARTS. Listening to some of these 
 reviews, the people rag on how they keep getting stuck behind walls... trust me, its the least 
 of your worries in this game. Gameplay. Linear. Extremly. You are given a task, and if you die 
 by getting shot at from a tank, or if an enemy you didnt even notice blows up your tank without 
 you noticing, or even if you feel like exploring... you FAIL. You either do as they tell you to 
 (aka scripted bullcrap missions) or fail... and having to restart isnt always the greatest. I mean, 
 you get alot of checkpoints, so its not all bad if you fail. Fail... hmm. It seems that this game 
 didn't really fail that much as a game right? Oh, but it has. Its short. Ever so short. Its supposed 
 to be played 5 minutes at a time. You beat one mission, shut it off. Go back the next day. You 
 shouldnt whip through this game in 7 hours straight... cuz your hand will cramp and you'll feel 
 unsatisfied. Play in portion sized spurts. But even if you do play portionally, once you beat it 
 (even on the Veteran mode) ... your done. If only it had single card download play. Or Wifi. Wifi 
 would of done wonders for this game and I don't know why its not WIFI abled. All in all, you want 
 to know if you should buy this game. And I say yes. If only you play it in small amounts. And promise 
 you won't diehard it and then expect for from it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westsidejedi360
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  Okay, first and foremost, Brothers in Arms DS is a Brothers in Arms game in name only. Making it 
 portable for portability's sake means that it has none of the squad tactics of the console game, 
 and no story or memorable characters either. The gameplay ends up feeling more like a Call of Duty 
 game in that you rarely ever have to find cover to heal yourself up on the default setting and 
 can just blaze through enemies. This is understandable given the limitations of the DS, but it 
 would have been could if they brought in some of the characters from the console games to make 
 it feel more like Brothers in Arms. The best aspect by far is its graphics. The character models 
 are very detailed for the DS, and the levels have a nice size to them. The audio however, is a 
 different story. The biggest letdown here is the lack of music during the levels, which is noticable 
 when there are quiet moments. The guns sound passable, and there's some ok voice acting, but there 
 simply isnt enough of it. The campaign is of a relatively short length, about 3-6 hours, and there 
 is some incentive to playing it over again on higher diffuculties because you unlock some new weapons, 
 which are desperately needed. On your first playthrough on the Normal setting, you only have 3 
 weapons at your desposal besides vehicles. Once you beat the campaign once, you unlock 2 other 
 weapons, given incentives for multiple playthroughs. There's also a 4 player local Wi-Fi mode, 
 but it requires everyone to have a cartridge, making you wish for an online mode. Brothers in Arms 
 is a great choice for a portable shooter, but if you're looking for a portable Brothers in Arms 
 experience, this isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyguy11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a Review for the DS game Brothers and Arms DS or War Stories.
  
  Gameplay: Finally! A WW2 game for the DS! The gameplay for this game is awsome! you can beat it 
 on all of the difficulties and never get bored.
  
  Graphics: For the Ds the graphics for this game were great. But for the Brothers and Arms Series, 
 a little dissapointment.
  
  Sound: The sound of war are all around! But for some reasons the germans are saying stupid things. 
 I know pretty good German and they say Ich bin Kartoffeln which means Im a potatoe . but other 
 than that it is good
  
  Value: For $30, this game is a real good deal. It seems Nintendo has priced DS game down to $30.
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Again I dont know what this means so i gave it a nine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerbane
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  Brothers in arms DS is a good game all in all but it lacks what the consoles had. The controls 
 are a bit jumpy and the short missions get old fast. The gamestill is easy even on the elite difficulty. 
 Plus the ability to let you run at the enemies and lose 1 or 2 bars of health (which comes back 
 if you hide behind cover) . overall I would give the game a 6 mainly for the graphics and the fact 
 you get to drive a tank. One of the things they dont mention about the game is that you can unlock 
 weapons and a vehicle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwordWeilder1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 7, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  If you own a copy of Metroid Prime: Hunters (or at least the demo) you know that shooters can be 
 great on the DS. Since then, there hasn't really been a great shooter on the DS. Now gameloft (a 
 well known cell phone game maker) has tried to make the next great shooter for the DS. Suprisingly 
 enough, it's a pretty good (abeit short) shooter that's graphics push the DS to it's limits. Presentation: 
 Top Notch. From a plane crashing into a field some 200 yards away from where you landed to being 
 almost overwhelmed by soldiers trying to kill you from all sides this game has all the intensity 
 of games like Call of Duty. Also, the graphics and sound also add to the intensity and make the 
 world seem almost believeable. Gameloft has made a port of the cell phone game Brothers in Arms 
 3D that looks amazing and sounds great to boot.
  
  Gameplay: Changing weapons, reloading, preforming actions. zooming in and throwing grenades are 
 easy and almost become second nature. Controlling your character and looking around can be a bit 
 sluggish and frustraiting at times but after the first few missions you hardly notice it. You can 
 also hide behind cover by simply just walking into it (like GRAW 2 or Gears of War) . Overall the 
 AI is a bit weak but there are so many of them at times you'd still die. Overall the game play 
 is ok, but sometimes a bit tricky to control.
  
  Overall: Great graphics, gameplay and sound. Definitely a buy for any fan of shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xmaster888
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Brothers In Arms DS is a great WWII game for the DS and the only WWII for DS. This game brings 
 good non-stop action and you are constantly in a firefight and there are no stops in the game where 
 you can take a breath. I find this non-stop action good as it brings good gameplay to the game. 
 However single player can be a bit short and the controls are tedious and sometimes you find yourself 
 in a situation where you're character won't do what you want it to do. Another bad thing is the 
 lack of multiplayer support. It would've been better if the game had some single card and wifi 
 multiplayer. The graphics are also not very top notch and a lot of things are chappy.
  
  One thing I really like about this game is its effort to making the atmosphere a WWII battlefield. 
 You can often hear you're soldier panting for breath or the tension in the firefights and i feel 
 its this attention to detail in the atmosphere that adds to the excellent gameplay.
  
  What i reallyu hate about the game though is the lack of freedom. You have only one way to go through 
 the game and there are no alternatives. For example so say there's a vehicle. You can't get in 
 the vehicle unless the game requires you to and that just sucks.
  
  Overall you should look at the good things about this game and ignore the bad things because it's 
 a fairly good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrCruel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  This game was a surprisingly good game, given the official reviews I read - the control issues 
 I've heard of aren't a problem - the weapons are easier to control than those in Metroid: Prime 
 Hunters - and the graphics are quite good for a DS. The game scenarios are exciting and well paced, 
 although there is a track one is compelled to follow; I found considerable freedom of action within 
 the forced pacing of the scenario, more than I would anticipate for a game on this platform. The 
 sniper rifle in particular was fun, as was driving around in a tank (that could have been made 
 into a game in and of itself) . Drawbacks include the paucity of scenarious and campaigns (about 
 12 scenarios in all divided into 3 campaigns) and the fact that multiplayer is restricted to only 
 those who have a copy of the game - one can't play against someone who hasn't also purchased the 
 game.
  
  All in all, I definitely got my $30 worth, although I would have liked there to be more scenarios 
 and campaigns to the game. It plays a great deal like Medal of Honor: Frontline for the GameCube, 
 which is impressive for something like the DS to handle. Highly recommended for those interested 
 in a single person shooter for a handheld. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bstcrew
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I got this game before gamespot put up it's review. I kinda regret I did.
  But let me start by saying some good things about the game. The thing that reaky stands out is 
 the sound. Everything sounds pretty crisp and your teammates and the germans react pretty good 
 vocaly on what is going on on the screen. They do tend to say the same thing over and over again 
 but not so much it realy gets in the way.
  
  Now the actual gameplay is not too bad either. It's pretty fun to succesfully destroy the enemy 
 troops. You get extra points for headshots and such and after completing a level you unlock 'veteran' 
 mode wich gives you some replay value. Also good is the save system wich feels just rigt for me. 
 The worst thing is, in my opinion, the graphics. I'm sure they have pushed the ds very hard but 
 unfortunatly the game still looks bland and very pixelated. Also the framrate is pretty low , not 
 so bad it makes things unplayable but still...
  
  And allthough the camera tries to keep up with the action but all to often it fails miserably. 
 It gets stuck behind things and it is just too slow.
  
  So yeah here's a case of an ambitious concept that feels somewhat forced on the DS. Sure, if you 
 buy this game you will want to beat it and you'll have some enjoyable moments with it, but you 
 probably wont want to play it again after that. I'm sure I don't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: femibash
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Cool graphics (for the D. S system) , gameplay and camera angles are extremely disgusting. No storyline 
 just a shooting game with horrible camera angles. Absolutely not worth purchasing. Even if you 
 are a BIA fan, i would suggest borrowing or at very least renting if you insist on spending money 
 on it. This game is definitely below average. Cool graphics (for the D. S system) , gameplay and camera 
 angles are extremely disgusting. No storyline just a shooting game with horrible camera angles. 
 Absolutely not worth purchasing. Even if you are a BIA fan, i would suggest borrowing or at very 
 least renting if you insist on spending money on it. This game is definitely below average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leninv3l
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  OK ill admit i was somewhat dissappointed with 2 things. 1st NO GOD #$@* Wi-Fi! I mean jesus its 
 a WW 2 shooter!!! second a little on the short side but replay value is good. the game has very 
 good graphics and great controls (despite gamespots crappy reveiw) this game has a few minor bugs 
 like being able to see through walls but that only happened to me once so no worry. Multiplayer 
 is really freakin awsome with 4 players and good with less also. levels are in best places possible 
 (desert, countryside, snow) . controls are very responsive. sounds AWSOME ! you can hear everything 
 on the battlefeild. the sound are one of the main highlights of this game. But one last thing. 
 Where is the 
  
  so all in all this game is positivly worth buying for hardcore WWII fans and even if you're not 
 its still a nice thing to have in your ds game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noelveiga
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 1:08 am PT
Review:  See, Gamespot has been reworking their review guidelines for a long time. It's good that they're 
 making the effort, but though text reviews and video reviews in this site are still valid tools 
 to get info on games, scores and the reasons for them are wildly inconsistent and turn the final 
 score in an useless tool if you want to compare a game to its peers.
  
  Take Brothers in Arms DS, for instance. It's one of the most impressive games on its platform. 
 It's gameplay mechanics are lifter pretty much straight from Gears of War, no less, and it has 
 hands down the best graphics ever seen on the portable. It's also built in 10 minute sized missions 
 perfect for portable play, has a multiplayer mode and, all in all, pushes every boundary of DS 
 gaming.
  
  GS has focused on its problems, though. The camera is far from perfect, and so is hit detection. 
 It IS possible to get stuck under a car or to make the camera go crazy in a tight corner. Sure, 
 that happens. Restarting when the first issue happens is not that bothersome, given the game's 
 extensive checkpoint system and the camera... well, to be honest it's not that bad if you compare 
 it with cameras in other 3D games of the N64 or even the DS itself.
  
  Then there's the AI. It's certainly not there. Every enemy will do what it's programmed to do and 
 just that: if they're told to charge your tank and try to drop a grenade inside, that's exactly 
 what they'll do. This issue is very much solved with great level design. The situations in the 
 game are such that you can be sure if some enemy is trying to drop a grenade in your tank, or to 
 snipe you, or to provide cover fire for their partners, then that's the intelligent thing to do. 
 They can't adapt, but unless you find a way to play the level in a completely unexpected way, you 
 won't notice.
  
  And then there's the control system, which I'm guessing is part of why GS's grade is so low... 
 But it shouldn't. The reviewer complains of being unable to do several thigns at once quickly with 
 the interface. I can only say he's punishing the game for not being able to play it properly. It 
 doesn't take more time to reload while you walk than it'd take in a PC FPS... or real life, for 
 that matter. Everything is available to you with just a tap of the stylus and everything can be 
 done while you have the character moving with the D-Pad. The reviewer complains about pain in the 
 wrist while playing, which I admit will happen if you play for long (like, I don't know, if you're 
 trying to finish the game in order to review it) , but it's an issue of the DS as a system. It happens 
 also in Metroid Prime Hunters (in fact, it's much worse in that game due to more double tapping 
 being required, which will force you to hold the console tighter) . Metroid, however, got an 8.6. 
 I'm wondering if other stylus only action games like Phantom Hourglass or Ninja Gaiden will receive 
 a similar impact in their scores.
  
  Overall, I suggest you actually read GS's review and disregard the score. Brothers in Arms is a 
 fun game, packed with options and it looks and plays surprisingly well. If you're looking for a 
 mature action game or just a shooter for your DS, this is it. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 30, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms DS was a fun but a very short game. The thing that makes this game so unique from 
 the other Brothers in Arms games would be the stylus feature. Drag the stylus around to move around. 
 To throw grenades you put the stylus on the grenade icon, drag the stylus up until you hit where 
 you want the grenade to drop. There are three campaigns, Normandy, Tunis and Ardennes. All of them 
 are short campaigns with shory missions.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are, well, kind of bad. Its 3D but more of a Super Nintendo slash Nintendo 
 64 graphics.
  
  Sound: The sound is good although there is some voice acting that kind of suck. The music sound 
 great and the sound of the guns are amazing.
  
  Entertainment: It is fun, but you have to read what the people are saying and that takes some of 
 the pleasure away from the game. But other than that its a fun WW2 game experience for the DS.
 
  
  Replay Value: Very Low 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamias13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this. Remember what system you are playing on. Its not a 360 game, its 
 not a Wii game, its not a PSP game. This game MUST be given at least a nine for its spectacular 
 production. Nazis yelling at you, tanks squeak as they draw nearer to you, and bullets blow dirt 
 in your face as they hit the ground. All of this is done on the DS. This is probably the best the 
 DS can do. Game play wise this game has a few flaws. The leader of your squad will continuously 
 give you orders during battle. The way this works is a green marker will show you where to go and 
 the commander will tell you what to do. Sometimes you will get to a green marker, and the leader 
 will tell you SNIPE THOSE BARRELS. The problem here is that you can't find the barrels. Eventually 
 you will find them, but this lead me to become a little frustrated. This game, unlike brothers 
 in arms for the consoles, is a third person shooter. The player controls his characters by moving 
 with the D-pad, shooting with the L button, and looking with the stylus on the touch screen. This 
 control scheme fairly well, but there is not sensitivity adjustment option so some people might 
 not like it too much. All in all the controls worked well for me, with the exception of some slight 
 troubles getting used to the sniper scope. On the whole I think brothers in arms is a great game 
 for fans of call of duty or the original brothers in arms, who are just looking for some fun during 
 a long car ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DirkDaDig
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  right when i started the first mission you learn the controls which i believe takes about 1 minute 
 to learn and less than 10 minutes to get used to it. The way the game uses the touch screen to 
 reload, change weapon, and throw grenades, makes really feel good use of the touch screen because 
 it easy and convenient. One of my favorite thing about this game is the way you throw a grenade 
 which you by touching the grenade icon and then sliding it up a meter and you will know where your 
 throwing it exactly. The aiming in this game is pretty much like any shooter on a ds game and the 
 game lock on enemy when your close so it pretty easy to get headshots.
  
  when i started playing this game i first notice the graphics and they were pretty nice (for a ds 
 game anyway) and it pretty nice to point that it doesn't hurt your eyes at long periods of time. 
 After getting further in the game you will run into many enemies and allies on screen and i think 
 that the game really does a good job of putting a lot of action of screen. Another thing that the 
 game had was good sound affects, guns firing, explosion, and people talking which gave me a reason 
 to up the volume.
  
  Even though the gameplay is nice but the gave is pretty short and it makes you wonder if it was 
 worth the money you paid for it. It maybe have some replay value with the mutiplayer but i don't 
 think it you can go wi-fi. i also think it cant be game shared so you can only play with people 
 who have the game. One thing that kind of annoys me is that sometimes i will just be stuck in one 
 spot and cant move or anything.
  
  Overall, this game has impressive gameplay but falls short to being a really memorable game due 
 to short single player campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballman97
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  I bought this game yesterday and i was impressed right away. The graphics are pretty good. There 
 is only 3 weapons at the starts of the game but once you beat the whole game in Normal mode, you 
 get a M1 garand with a grenade on the tip. The grenade only gets 5 shots so use it well. The jeep 
 mode is awesome. Instead of you on the back shooting the machine gun, your the one driving. You have 
 a choice in this game sometimes, like choosing whether to blow up a tank with a bazooka or going 
 right up to it press the interact button and put a grenade in there. Sound is amazing as you hear, chatter 
 and bullets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:52 am PT
Review:  if they can fix the bugs in this game and keep games that look like this coming ill be a happy 
 gamer.
  pros:
  lets see the game overall is a 10 hour adventure if u play the levels in all difficulties.
  the 
 controls are similar to metroid prime hunters but this game is a third person shooter.
  when i played the game i really got into it and i felt like i was getting bombed and stuff who 
 doesnt want to run around the battlefield dodging bombs and seeing ur comrads get blown up the 
 game is rated t.
  the game has no blood in it but u could care less about that in situations. it has 4 player multiplayer 
 deathmatch which is solid enough some lagg.
  10 sec loading times when u select mission thats it.
  cons:
  the missions are short and only 
 about 15 to choose from.
  some missions vary from 5 mins some around 19 all in all u unlock harder difficulties and u replay 
 its about a 10 hour expirence with multiplayer.
  when u jump over obsticles by running foward it feels kinda weird how he does it .
  the cars 
 drive strange they take awhile to learn but it feals like halo driving.
  the game feels like a rail 3rdps u have to keep going to yello check points every 2 mins and do 
 stuff like snipe someone or blow up a tank if u dont u fail to do orders so u will be restarting 
 but the game saves every checkpoint . there is a 3 storys in this game and but there only 5 missions 
 long and it each story is a different war.
  so its not the gears of war of ds just yet but with additions to the next game it may be.
  
 
  overall the game looks great graphicly for the ds but its got alot of glitches so i say 7.2 give 
 it a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadmeat59
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Brothers in arms ds , is a great game. this is one of the first ds games to the ds that has n64 
 style graphics and great ds controlls built right in . this game feels like a world war two game 
 in the n64 / ps1 era . the controlls are easy to use . the sound is great you can even hear the 
 germans yelling. the game has the biggest maps i have seen on ds . it is also one of the most realistick 
 looking ds games. the colours look a bit muggy here and there but other then that the game looks 
 fine . there are a few weapons you get to use during the game . there is also tanks and jeeps you 
 get to drive . i love how you use nads in the game. you tap the picture of the nad and drag it 
 up the bar and on the top screen it shows where it will hit . the game has tuff gun fights with 
 good AI you also make good use of cover in the game . the maps do feel a bit short but there is 
 much to do . this game can last about 15 hours. if your looking for a shooter on the ds give this 
 game a try . it has lan m player however no wi if witch i think hurts this game alot . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trading_Zoner
Rating: 4.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Alright, imagine your standard WWII shooter. Now imagine that game on the Nintendo DS. NOW imagine 
 that, while playing you get stuck in walls and vehicles if you walk to close, sometimes you enemies 
 won't react accordingly if you sit there and shoot RIGHT AT their head, your enemies can shoot 
 THROUGH walls so no matter where you go, you are in danger of being blown to bits by a tank that 
 seems to NEVER miss. And even though this game is frustratingly and unfairly hard at some points, 
 you still manage to beat it in like 4 hrs. Sucks I know.
  
  The gameplay sucks simply because it's SO buggy, the game runs at like 12 Frames a second and the 
 controls retarded. You have hold your hand around the DS in ways that god did not intend for you 
 to.
  
  The Graphics are pretty good for DS, But they could have been better in terms of style. The sound 
 is pretty good too, there are always bulletts whizzing by your head and explosions and guys yelling 
 etc..
  
  This game game has low value becuase I beat it in under 4 hours. And it has no WiFi play.
  
 
  I just had an overall bad expierience with this game. Did Ubisoft even playtest it? seriously... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thechosenone827
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  I will first start off with the bad news by saying that this game's single player campaign is pretty 
 short, but the action is very intense. It will take you about a day or less to finish it. I have 
 not tried the multiplayer since it is a wireless DS multi-card play game. It does not have WiFi 
 which would have been very nice. With the bad parts out of the way lets get to the good parts of 
 the game which there are several. This is easily one of the best looking DS games and shows what 
 this system can do. The game is done for a Third Person perspective and the action runs very smooth. 
 The players look good and the destructible environments look very nice too. The gameplay is almost 
 similar to the way the controls are in Metroid Prime: Hunters. You use the D pad to strafe right 
 and left and to move forward and backwards. The L or R trigger is used to shoot your weapons (Depending 
 on whether you set up the game to work for either left or right handed play) . You look around using 
 the stylus, literally the same as Metroid Prime: Hunters. To reload you click and drag the ammo 
 clip on the touch screen and it has a very nice grenade throwing system. The sounds are very good 
 too, you hear bullets flying, building and vehicles exploding and the voice of the members of your 
 squad. This does not have a musical score while playing, but the sound effects really go well with 
 all the action on screen. This game is great, it could be the beginning of us DS owners seeing 
 some good quality shooters on the system. I think it is definitely worth buying, the action is 
 intense, graphics and gameplay are great, and it is one of those games that you can and will pick 
 it up again just to play after you beat the game. If you have friends who also have the game I 
 am sure multiplayer would be a blast to play, I just wish multiplayer could have been done on Nintendo 
 WiFi. Seeing this game makes me wonder if we could see DS versions of Resident Evil 4, Call of 
 Duty, Rainbow Six: Vegas, Ghost Recon Advanced War Fighter. The DS can handle some good looking 
 visuals and the stylus works quite well with shooters, hopefully we will see more good shooters 
 for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grandstroker
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  While comparing this to band of brothers isn't a very helpful comparison, It gets you thinking 
 what it would be like on the DS. Think no more, Brothers in arms for the DS is a TPS (Third Person 
 Shooter) , that uses the stylus to aim, and the buttons to move. Very simple and straightforward 
 controls, very few griefs with the controls. in my opinion it handles even easier then metroid 
 prime. On the visual side of things this one's a looker, in comparison to early ps1 games its not 
 hard to say this could well be the best looking DS game out now. The frame rate suffers a little 
 from all the detail, but it never really bothers you. Overall the visuals contribute to a great 
 WWII atmosphere. Onto the sound, It's a WWII game people, and it sounds like a WWII game, gunshots, 
 explosions, and soldiers screaming, but the little hand held pulls it off great. Overall the gameplay, 
 graphics, and the sound, all pull together really well to create an enjoyable (although short) 
 shooter for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I was so very excited for the release of this game. I have played the franchise on other platforms. 
 And knowing what the Nintendo DS is 'capable' of doing, i had a feeling that Ubisoft/Gearbox wouldn't 
 let me down.
  
  Well, maybe I wanted too much from this game.
  
  The graphics are very impressive and the layout is well done. A nice addition of historical quotes 
 and segue music. The missions are not a vast array, but there is enough here to keep you going. 
 You play several campaigns all over the WW2 historical map, much like the other games of this series. 
 The missions themselves are limited in where you can go, how long you have to do the level tasks 
 and choice of weapons. The levels closer to the end of each mission can be punishing and you'll 
 have to go through them a couple of times if you don't catch on to what is preventing your success. 
 The stylus targeting can get annoying when not very accurate. The enemy AI is only very smart when 
 they are set out to up-end a particular element to a mission (like tank killing Nazi infantry) .
 
  
  I was hoping for a bit more range of area to roam. Nope.
  I was hoping for more weapons in the early on. Not really; weapons appear to assist with whatever 
 exact task you need to perform. Then, they disappear at the start of the next level.
  
  But the missions look great and the feel is very go, go, go real war pace.
  
  I'm sure fans 
 of the series will love this game. And i hope it grows on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlysApprentice
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 24, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I really, really liked this game. It seems like a little bit of an underdog, and definatly a good 
 game to buy used or borrow off a friend.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  This game is gorgous. While its not quite as techincally stunning as Metorid Prime Hunters it can 
 pull off amazing amounts of activity with a just a suprisingly small dip in framerate. Character 
 animations are very well done as well. Particle effects were very well done which also kinda suprised 
 me
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  The gameplay is very fun, engaging and fairly fast-paced. I wanted to keep playing non stop. It 
 was fairly repetitive with the continual stop and pop gameplay, but that addition made it more 
 enjoyable that the run and gun aspects of Hunters. Finding and using cover is extremley intuitive 
 and fun, and the addition of heads up notices for headshots and nice shot!' made every skilled 
 attack an accomlishment.
  
  Controls: 9/10
  
  I have to admit, that the aiming is as easy if not easier that Hunters, a very good thing. What 
 makes the controls BETTER than hunters is the fact that the whole time I was playing, with a stylus 
 mind you, my hand never cramped up. The control layout and design worked nearly flawless (i had 
 some problems with wall cover, but I know it was just me and not the games fault) .
  
  I have two main beefs with this game. 1. No Wi-fi, although forgivable, would have really kicked 
 ass. It also would have made my next problem a little easier to swallow....
  2. Way too short. Although the main game is action packed, I kinda expected a somewhat longer campaign. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iwanttron
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:02 am PT
Review:  This is a well executed shooter, with impressive visuals, satisfying game play and controls that 
 are about as good as you could hope for from such a game on the DS. However, for me, all those 
 strengths only served to emphasize the major flaw in Brothers In Arms - its frustratingly brief 
 single player campaign. Within 2-3 hours of my first seeing the game I had completed all the levels 
 on Normal difficulty and the only reward offered up by the game was the prospect of playing through 
 all the exact same content once again on a harder difficulty setting.
  
  You could argue that there is some inherent replay value in the game due to the gold, silver and 
 bronze awards you are given for your efforts on each level. However, I don't feel that those provide 
 enough incentive to make you want to trudge through all the same, strictly linear levels multiple 
 times, which you would need to do in order to get any lasting value out of the game.
  
  In brief, Brothers in Arms is a very good, but in my opinion, fatally flawed game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the the best shooters out on the ds right now and probably one of the top games. 
 Gameplay: 3 different campaigns give you some great fun. Normandy, tunis, and Ardennes are all 
 the compaigns included. Don't forget the multi-player that is pretty fun if u have 4 friends playing 
 i had a dm already and one!
  
  Graphics: Extremely good for aa ds game especially for a third person shooter one it. Guns and 
 and figures look pretty well done and explosions look good enough on the ds to keep you wondering 
 if the make a sequel of this game how it will look next time.
  
  Audio: Voices are like the voices from the console versions and sounds are from it to. This may 
 be a really short review but this game is awsome and you can really tell that they put a lot of 
 effort into the making of it and you should diffenitly get this game if u have a ds and u like 
 shooters. The campaigns are short but u can play it over and over and not get bored cuz u can gain 
 awards 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Brothers In Arms. Well, this title would go better for a computer instead of a hand held console, 
 as many games have been released for so in the past. Being the first ever DS real life war game 
 (it's about WWII) , does it live it up it's PC standards or is this a game to avoid? Graphics: Magnificent. 
 It has the best graphics I have ever seen on a DS, everything is 3D on the screen and it just flows 
 excellent. Frame rate is good, with slight lags, but with 30+ enemies on the screen, I wouldn't 
 be surprised. An easy 10 here, and very well deserved.
  
  Sound: I'm always a little skeptic here. I mean, from one side you have the hit which is Advance 
 Wars, with it's hype music and themes, and in the other you have the annoying Tank Beat which sounds 
 awful. So mixed reactions, but Brothers in Arms pushes me again to the positive side which realistic 
 shots from you and your enemies, grenades sound great when thrown, blowing up scenes are accompanied 
 by the respective awesome sound effect. All in all, it just sounds fabulous. The voices - from 
 both sides, Americans and Krauts (Germans, in the game) , are very nice.
  
  Gameplay: Flows in well here, gaining a good reputation for it's marvelous gameplay. You just are 
 thrown in immediately into the action, where you have to complete several objectives with your 
 captain orders you to, from blowing up Panzers, to planting bombs, shooting like a madman to the 
 Krauts, etc. The speed is steady and well built, but the camera angle is sometimes quite annoying, 
 especially if you try to cover near something big (a tree, for example) , where it will block your 
 view. Slight annoyances, but easy to ignore.
  
  Value: Here is the weaker point. BiA isn't exactly what you could call a game with replay value. 
 First, it doesn't have WiFi, and I know many of you will complain, but I honestly don't think it 
 would go smoothly (four players battling may cause some lag, also with connection issues, etc) . 
 Local Multiplayer is the minimum, but it's good. Story mode is too short, with three campaigns 
 to complete, and then you get to play a re-run in veteran mode, if you wish.
  
  All in all, BiA is an instant classic for an fan of strategy games. Especially if you like real 
 time action, get this! The gameplay, sound and graphics are just unique, but the game's poor replay 
 value makes it one you'll skim through quickly. Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigburito
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  If you own a DS then you should buy this game, it has the best graphics of any game on the DS. 
 (Kinda looks like one of the original medal of honor games on the PS2, and thats not an exaggeration) 
 The audio is once again top-notch, you can here all the things happening around you, bullets being 
 fired, explosions and the enemies screaming in another language. the game play has moved away from 
 being leader of a squad like in the other games, and has moved to being a soldier in one of those 
 squads. you aim by using the stylus to look around and the shoulder button of your other hand to 
 fire (the game has two control methods for left-handed people and right-handed people movement 
 control is either with the D-pad or the A, B, Y, X, buttons depending on which control method you 
 use.) you also do special commands by pressing a box in the corner of the screen, while doing normal 
 fighting pressing this makes you go into a zoomed in mode, or if you are next to a vehicle it will 
 let you get in it, it also if you are standing next to an enemy tank let you hope on top of it 
 and toss a grenade in. the touch screen is also used to throw grenades, you do this by pressing 
 the grenade in the bottom corner of the screen and moving it up along the bars to aim how far you 
 want to throw it. (when doing this an aiming reticle appears around where the grenade will land.) 
 The game is split into three campaigns: Normandy, Tunis, and ardennes. Normandy is a forest like 
 terrain, Tunis is a desert terrain, and Ardennes is a winter terrain. each contains at least six 
 missions and has three difficulties: Normal, Veteran, and Elite. the objectives consist of defeating 
 all the enemies, blowing up certain objects or getting to a certain position. the multiplayer has 
 5 maps, deathmatch and team deathmatch game modes, sadly there is no Wi-Fi support and everyone 
 who wants to play has to have a cart. this game is a definite must buy fro all DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AEZAC
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Brothers in Arms: DS is a overall good game. There are minor bugs in it and rarely tends to freeze. 
 This games graphics are incredibly good for the DS. Showing what this game proved (ds is capable 
 of more 3d enviroments) hopefully there will be more game's with the graphic capability's this 
 game has. The worst part of this game is the length.. The entire game takes about 1 hour and 30 
 min. to 2 hours. You unlock two other difficulty's and 2 more weapon's which in the end isnt much. 
 But in that time you will be satisfied. The gameplay is action packed and the controls are good. 
 I recommend this game to anyone who likes the WWII genre's and war games in general. Hopefully 
 they will be making a even more improved Sequel :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: watzup555
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 21, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  Brothers in arms ds is a pretty fun game. You are a partrooper who fights in normandy, desert, 
 and winter campaigns. There are about 15 levels in the game and 2 skill levels. There are missions 
 where you can drive a tank or jeep. You can use a thompson, bazooka, and sniper until u beat the 
 game. Then u can use a BAR, and a gernade on an m1. There happens to be some flaws though. You 
 cant pick up german weapons. You there is a mulitplayer but no wo-fi which would added value to 
 the game. There is no bonus missions if you beat the game. But otherwise the game is good. It is 
 challanging to use the stylus to aim and stuff but its fun. I recommend buying this game. It is 
 worth the price and fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roan23
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  I loved this game. This game was amazing for a DS. The graphic a little bit disappointed, but it 
 was good enough for DS. The game play was awesome, they even allow u to ride on a tank. you also 
 can plant grenade inside the enemy tanks. but one of my big disappointed in this game is I can't 
 comment my squad the game comment me. The team mates does helpful, they help u kill the Germans, and 
 tanks. The controller is pretty nice for DS, and they make use the touched screen really confer 
 table. The only thing that I hate is, when you use the sniper rifle, if your scope didn't see the 
 enemy, it's kinda hard to find the enemy, so u have to zoom out, and re look at it.
  
  Conclusion- this is an awesome game to get for DS, so my advice is put this game in your DS games 
 collection. XD
  
  If you want to see more violence buy the European version, they show blood.
  The U. S. version 
 some how didn't show that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WuBrother2
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jun 20, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  This game is just not good enough to say any positive things about it although it has a few cool 
 features never introduced before. Sceptical in hearing what this game was all about i managed to 
 buy it full price from eb games, resulting in me returning it that very day. The movement in the 
 game is very choppy/glitchy , making it feel almost like the game has not even been fully completed. 
 The aiming is alright as it somewhat reminds me of metroid prime minus the smooth movements, and 
 it seems as though the story just goes along too quickly. Graphics were quite impressive seeing 
 as many ds games now are mainly 2d which is fine, and this game was able to pull of the 3d look, 
 but it still seems as though much work is still required. The sound in the game is fine, although 
 in the main menu the sound seems to be screeching, and over all it is not a well planned game, 
 although im sure some will like it if they would like to settle for something of the metroid prime 
 genre... but to a MUCH lesser degree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokerblk
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 19, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Untill now... one of the best games i've ever played on DS. Great graphics, and realistic scenes. 
 A big plus of realism is added due to the sounds ingame, which are absolutely marvelous.
  Very well structured missions, witch really bring you into the middle of the action. It has a very 
 user friendly control and navigation system. The weapon switching and grenade throwing are very 
 easy to use, without getting your attention away from the actual action.
  Besides, the rides with the tanks and recon cars are quite exciting, putting your skills to the 
 test (especially the tank hunters) .
  Very good game indeed! Congrats Gameloft!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltACP
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  I bought this game full price and have to say i was disapointed. While the visuals certainly impress 
 when compared to some of the DS offerrings, the games very short length and lack of any substance 
 leave you feeling short changed. I completed the game on normal difficulty in 2 hours, this game 
 is aimed at people 16 and over, they WILL breeze through this game. (completed all difficulties 
 under 10 hours) To the games credit the Touch screen controls are fun and work well. there are 
 a few occasions when your scope isn't in the right place or the aiming is a little stiff but these 
 aren't too marring to the experience. The AI of the enemies is very poor and you generally die 
 due to germans firing through crates, grenades, tanks or just not fulfillign an objective in time. 
 This overall makes it seem like the balance is just wrong, anyone who really enjoys refinement 
 in their games won't get much from this.
  
  technical difficulties aside (the camera and Z-buffer bug is just loltastic) the game is a good 
 attempt at bringing the above average Xbox series to the DS, while amny will say-oh the DS should 
 not be able to cope with it, i would certainly disagree, even Mario 64DS is better looking and 
 shifts more polygons and effects. This is a good attempt and shows the potential that the DS can 
 have, now developers just need to put in some more time, money and effort into their porting projects 
 and they WILL get a HIT out of the DS that will impress every gamer (looks like Ninja Gaiden might 
 be the game to do it *crossess fingers*) . 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
