-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bubble Bobble Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/bubblebobbleds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Includes classic Bubble Bobble arcade game.
 multiplayer modes are nice if you can take advantage of them.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Remake isn't as fun or cute as the original.
 graphics and audio in the remake are still weak by DS standards.
 glitches make remake seem sloppy.
 recurring bug in the remake makes it impossible to go beyond level 30.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 11, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.6
Critic Score: 3.8, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 114 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Taito Corporation
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Oct 3, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
One of the games included with Bubble Bobble Revolution is a genuine classic. The other is so plagued 
 with glitches that it can't even be finished. 

  The only redeeming aspect of Bubble Bobble Revolution for the Nintendo DS is that it includes the 
 classic Bubble Bobble arcade game from 1986. There are actually two games included on the cartridge, 
 but the classic is the only one worth playing. The accompanying new age remake, despite all of 
 its enhancements, isn't as fun as its predecessor. Worse, it's plagued by glitches, one of which 
 makes it impossible to access more than two-thirds of the available levels.  

          Apart from not being that much fun, the remake is so plagued with glitches that it can't 
 even be finished.     

  Both games share key aspects in common. Each has 100 levels populated by monsters. In both games, 
 you control a cute little dinosaur that can jump and spit bubbles. Bubbles can be popped by running 
 into them, or you can use them as makeshift trampolines by jumping on top of them. The goal is 
 to clear the monsters out of all 100 levels by first trapping them inside of bubbles and then popping 
 those bubbles. Monsters tend to walk or float in one direction until they run into a wall or fall 
 through an opening in the floor, whereupon they will turn around and continue on their merry way. 
 If a monster falls into a hole at the bottom of the screen, it will reappear from a corresponding 
 opening in the ceiling. You can also take advantage of these miraculous floor-to-ceiling warps. 
 In some levels, there are water, fire, and lightning bubbles that can be popped to send a long-range 
 elemental attack toward your enemies. The challenge is to figure out the best way to ensnare the 
 monsters without running into them or having them fall on top of you. Dispatched enemies leave 
 behind food items and power-ups, which are, of course, very beneficial.  

  Fans of the classic arcade game will be pleased to see that it's here in all its 8-bit glory. Each 
 level is a single room, roughly one screen in size, with a pitch-black background and colorful 
 platforms and walls in the foreground. The platforms are often organized so that a level's layout 
 will resemble a familiar object, such as a heart or a puppy dog. Bub, the dinosaur, and all of 
 his monster enemies have tiny animated feet and mouths, and they're drawn using bright primary 
 colors that make them seem cute rather than frightening. The accompanying theme music and bleep-bloop 
 sound effects are charming too, inasmuch as 8-bit audio can be described as charming. Classic Bubble 
 Bobble is generally enjoyable, in part because it's rewarding to figure out how to solve each room, 
 but mostly because it's fun to see what high scores you can rack up. Just getting to the monsters 
 in some levels can be a test, and, like in so many games of that era, you only get three lives 
 to finish the whole game. There's also quite a bit of strategy buried in the scoring system. For 
 example, you get better items and higher score bonuses when you group multiple monsters together 
 and bump them off as a group. This version of the classic looks and sounds identical to the original 
 arcade game. The developers even managed to implement the two-player cooperative mode using the 
 system's wireless link capability.  

  Less glorious is the new age remake, which incorporates a number of changes and so-called enhancements 
 that complicate the core game without really improving it, along with some bugs that cause very 
 bizarre things to happen. The graphics and audio are better in the technical sense, but the Roman-styled 
 backdrops and larger plasticine characters lack the personality of the classic backgrounds and 
 sprites. They're also way behind the curve in terms of the DS's capabilities. The levels are larger 
 too, with each level spilling sideways and filling both of the system's screens. You'd think that 
 larger levels and bigger characters would be beneficial, but they actually make the screen feel 
 cramped and give you less time to react to any unseen surprises that may be situated just a few 
 steps ahead of you.  

  Enemies in the remake are faster, and their projectiles move more quickly too. You also have to 
 watch out for spikes in the environment, as well as fans that you can make spin by blowing into 
 the system's microphone. If all that weren't enough, there's a boss waiting for you on every 10th 
 level. To compensate for the upswing in difficulty, Bub and the other main characters can now take 
 three hits before losing a life. They can also take advantage of a couple of new bubble types. 
 Power-ups and score boosters have been thrown out the window, but now you can conjure up a "charge" 
 bubble that captures four enemies at once. Or you can switch places with a misty doppelganger that 
 you create by popping "ghost" bubbles. These new bubbles don't add a whole lot to the game because 
 they take too much time to produce, but they do come in handy on the rare occasions when you absolutely 
 need them. The charge bubble, for instance, is the only way to get enemies to drop the keys required 
 to unlock certain levels.  

  For whatever reason, the developers didn't implement a co-op mode in the remake. Instead, there's 
 a competitive four-player mode that lets you duke it out to see who can earn the most points in 
 any of 10 different prefab levels. It's a decent multiplayer mode, but not nearly as nice as the 
 co-op mode that's available in the classic game.  

          At least they included the original arcade game.     

  What ultimately kills the remake 
 are all of the glitches that cause various strange things to happen, including one that makes it 
 impossible for anyone to get through more than two-thirds of the game. Enemies sometimes won't 
 appear in a level. After a few seconds alone, you'll be whisked off to the next level, which may 
 or may not have enemies on it. Even on the levels that do have enemies, there are times when they'll 
 pop away as if you'd shot them, when it's clear that you did not. The worst glitch, by far, happens 
 on level 30. The boss for that level simply doesn't appear. Fire bubbles drift up from the bottom 
 of the screen, suggesting that you'll need to toast the boss when it eventually does appear, but 
 it never does. Because you can't move on to the next batch of stages without defeating that boss, 
 you're effectively stuck. Unfortunately, this glitch isn't random -- it occurs 100 percent of the 
 time.  

  Because the remake is so buggy that it can't even be finished, it's impossible to recommend Bubble 
 Bobble Revolution to anyone other than diehard Bubble Bobble fans who want to play the original 
 classic version on their Nintendo DS systems. But even that is a stretch, seeing as how there are 
 numerous cheaper alternatives available to anyone seeking a Bubble Bobble fix.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bluorb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  After much disappointment over the news that Bubble Bobble Revolution was broken, I just kind of 
 forgot about it. About a year later I sent and email to Codemasters, and they replied saying that 
 if I sent a faulty copy of Bubble Bobble Revolution, he would send me a fixed copy of Bubble Bobble 
 Revolution plus a free copy of Rainbow Islands DS. I found myself a used copy at Gamestop for cheap, 
 hoping that it was broken. Well, it wasn't broken. No free Rainbow Islands. Durn. But the game 
 was fixed, so I guess i was happy too.
  
  The game comes with the original Bubble Bobble (which is, oddly enough the option that is highlighted 
 by default when you start the game) and the new version. The classic version is pretty much perfect. 
 The new version is fun, but i guess not quite as fun as the original. Something is missing, i guess. 
 I got stuck on a level for a long period of time because I didn't realize that I was supposed to 
 blow into the microphone to make a fan blow, thus elevating some lightning bolts to a enemy striking 
 level. The graphics are fine, nothing spectacular, but not bad. The split in the middle of the 
 screen is pretty distracting. Oh, and the bosses... pretty much a single line of programming to 
 make his moves. I think they just go straight, and sometimes they fall in a hole. Some fly, so 
 I guess they have 2 lines of code or so. But who plays Bubble Bobble for bosses?
  
  Overall I'd like to say that this game is a good bargen game for someone who likes Bubble Bobble 
 already and wants a portable version. The new version is definitely worth playing. It is not a 
 fantastic game, but I wish Gamespot would at least lift the score to a 6 or 6.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peebert
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 12, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  We've all played Bubble Bobble a billion times on a billion different systems since its debut in 
 1986, so there's little point in re-reviewing the classic content. For those that aren't familiar 
 with the original game, it's your basic dinosaur-loses-girl,  
  dinosaur-eats-fruit-and-candy, 
 dinosaur-gets-girl-back story, ripped from today's headlines and all that.
  
  The problem comes with the new content added to the game. Graphics are richer and more textured, 
 as much so as two dimensional sprites can be. Sound is also fine, with the requisite pops and clunks 
 one would expect. Sadly, the play mechanics in the new content are where it all falls down, as 
 the levels now span vertically into the top screen of the DS, and horizontally via standard scrolling. 
 Essentially, half of the play area is invisible to the player at all times, and that's the hitch. 
 Enemies constantly occupy this area, often firing projectiles at such high speed and frequency 
 that it's near impossible for your slow, low-jumping dinosaur to avoid. With two hit points per 
 life and two lives per continue, the sniping gets really frustrating, really fast. They've thown 
 in some mildly interesting powerups and given your dino some new tricks, but they're mostly useless 
 and do nothing to balance the game's new-style difficulty. There are wireless modes and such, but 
 who cares? It all just sucks too much to matter.
  
  Overall, if you're some kind of Bubble Bobble fetishist, the classic content of the game might 
 be enough reason to justify a purchase. Basing your decision on the new levels, hoping for the 
 revolution promised in the title, however, would be a regrettable mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smeetuffe
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited to see Bubble Bobble on the shelf and even happier to realize that it included 
 the original version. The "New Age" version isn't quite as spiffy as I'd have expected, but it's 
 nice enough. My biggest beef is that there's no download play. I can't imagine that too many people 
 will have enough love for the original game to merit making a purchase, so no two-player Bubble 
 Bobble for me. 
  
  That said, the original Bubble Bobble has the same charm that it always had, so I suppose if you 
 can find it in a bargain bin, it's worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakichiel
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:33 am PT
Review:  Just for nostalgic reasons I bought the new Bubble Bobble Revolution. An excellent day, because 
 maybe I could play it with a friend. 
  What a big ledown, you needed two cartridges for multiplayer mode. 
  
  In the science that 
 you only need one casette to play Mario Kart DS eight-way multiplayer while racing in detailled 
 3D circuits, it really is a shame that the 2D-Flat textures from Bubble Bobble needed two casettes. 
 
  And for the rediculous new-age design and the hideous artwork you don't have to buy this game either. 
 
  
  The only reason you would want to buy this is to play bubble bobble on you handheld, a retrofan. 
 I'm disappointed in the publisher for ruining the name of a pretty nice and nostalgic name! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
