-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Burnout Legends
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/burnout/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Many of the tracks, cars, and race types from the PSP game are available here.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Ugly cars and severely weak crash effects.
 Driving physics are broken.
 Serious clipping and collision-detection issues.
 Lame audio.
 No real sense of speed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 3.8, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 504 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Visual Impact
Genre: Racing
Date: Nov 29, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Just because Burnout Legends has the name on the box does not rightfully make it a Burnout game, 
 and this decrepit DS racer is most definitely  not  Burnout. 

  The fact that Burnout Legends for the DS bears the same name as Burnout Legends for the PSP (which 
 is easily one of the best racers ever put on a handheld system) may be one of the most unfortunate 
 circumstances of the year. It's not because anyone would expect the DS version to be just as good 
 as the PSP one -- after all, the hardware capabilities are vastly different and so directly comparing 
 the two games would be unfair. What is fair would be to expect something that actually resembles 
 Burnout in any kind of meaningful capacity. The Burnout games have always been about high-speed 
 racing, ridiculous crashes, and pure, visceral thrills. Burnout Legends for the DS has exactly 
 none of these things. The racing is pathetically underwhelming, the crashes are so painfully halfhearted 
 that they might as well not even exist, and a wide variety of graphical glitches and collision 
 problems turn the whole thing into a serious mess.  

          It certainly seems like the DS hardware could be capable of making a captivating Burnout 
 game. Not that you'd ever know it from playing Burnout Legends, of course.     

  The first time you boot up Burnout Legends, you might be tricked into thinking that the developers 
 behind this game actually got it right. The menu systems are a good approximation of what you've 
 come to expect from previous Burnout versions, and all the main car classes -- like compacts, muscle 
 cars, coupes, and sports cars -- are on hand. Many of the tracks and courses found in the PSP version 
 are available as well. But as soon as you get into an actual race, the whole thing crashes and 
 burns.  

  There's a multitude of reasons why Burnout Legends isn't fun to play, but the biggest and most 
 glaring one is that the cars just aren't much fun to drive. The car handling has this really bouncy, 
 off-kilter feel to it. When you bang off of a wall, you either seem like you're sucked in and stuck 
 there, or you bounce off in this really cartoony way that looks seriously unnatural. The same goes 
 for other cars. They'll bounce and jerk around the track like you were playing a particularly laggy 
 online game. And for a game that's all about crashes and doing massive damage to your opponents, 
 the crashing sure is broken. You can literally just run up behind a guy and rear-end him, and somehow 
 that will cause a takedown of his car. But other times an opponent's car will just clip through 
 ancillary traffic on the course, or even your car when you're trying to pull off an after-touch 
 takedown. The whole after-touch effect is completely insane, actually. The physics are just broken, 
 so as soon as you go into slow motion after your car has been wrecked, you'll see the burnt husk 
 of your car as it starts to dart around much too quickly in whatever direction you pull it in. 
 And when your opponents wreck into the scenery or into other cars, they don't look so much like 
 they've crashed as they do like they've simply merged with the scenery. How in the world do you 
 make a game based on crashing and collisions with broken collision detection? What god would let 
 that happen?  

  Another big problem is that the game really doesn't have much speed to it. It's not the frame rate -- in 
 fact, that's the one thing that is actually done pretty well. It's that the scenery just doesn't 
 seem to move by at a particularly brisk pace, and boosting somehow makes things even  slower.  
 Burnout games, by nature, have to be fast to succeed, so you can see why the racing here falls 
 so very flat.  

  Basically every race type found in the PSP version is on hand here, but they all fail for the reasons 
 cited above. Every race is too slow to be fun, everything involving takedowns suffers at the hands 
 of the weak crash physics and clipping issues, and the crash mode is like some kind of cruel, unholy 
 joke. The whole point of the crash mode is to create ridiculous pileups of cars for morbid thrill 
 (and lots of cash) . When you're physically incapable of creating wrecks larger than a small handful 
 of cars, and the crashbreaker effect looks like a pathetically dainty whirlwind of mediocrity, 
 how can you possibly hope to get anything out of such a mode? You can't, and won't in the DS's 
 rendition of the crash mode.  

  It also doesn't help matters that the game looks and sounds awful. However, the one visual aspect 
 that is handled well are the tracks. They look pretty good running on the DS hardware, and while 
 the textures are certainly blurry up close, as you're driving along it all looks OK. At least, 
 until you see the nasty fade-in effect with the background environments. There's a big wallpaper 
 texture in the background, and all the background track stuff fades in over it as you drive. The 
 problem is that this fade-in starts from being invisible and then fades completely in, and slowly 
 at that. So you get these ugly spots where the buildings and the wallpaper background are clashing 
 with one another, and it looks just really rotten. Speaking of rotten, the car models are unfathomably 
 ugly. They're lazily designed, nasty to look at, and the crash effects are just plain bad. So to 
 recap, in a game where crashing is king, the developers spent the time making the tracks look good 
 and skipped out on the cars and the crashing. Right.  

          This game's notion of crashing seems to often involve a car clipping through another car 
 or a piece of the environment.     

  As for the audio, all the sound effects are pathetically subdued. The Burnout series has always 
 had excellent sound effects, and here they're barely noticeable. Crashes clang with miserable effect, 
 the car engines all sound the same, and bad at that, and the soundtrack is just a collection of 
 lousy, MIDI-sounding techno tracks. After Tony Hawk's American Sk8land did such an excellent job 
 of bringing licensed music into a DS game, there's really no excuse now for not creating some kind 
 of real soundtrack when porting a game (which has traditionally used a licensed soundtrack in multiple 
 previous iterations) . It's just lame.  

  Burnout Legends for the DS is not a failure because it's a port of a game that appeared on a more 
 powerful system. It's a failure because it just isn't an enjoyable racer, regardless of platform 
 and regardless of name. The fact that this languid excuse for a racer bears the Burnout name does 
 make it all the more egregious. But even apart from the sullying of that series' reputation, every 
 single thing this game tries to do comes off as half-baked and worthless. If you want a Burnout 
 game, buy any other Burnout game ever made, and leave Burnout Legends for the DS very much alone. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (60 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: InsomniaBurnout
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  Burnout Legends for the DS is obviously the worst Burnout game in the bunch; however, I have trouble 
 calling this a Burnout game. There's nothing remotely Burnout about it. The PSP version was a great 
 game that solidly combined Burnout 3's fast-paced action and spectacular crashes, along with cars 
 and tracks from the original two games, in a portable package. The DS version includes everything 
 fro the PSP version, bur rather horribly. 
  
  It makes you wonder what was going through Criterions' minds during the development of this port. 
 Well, they didn't develop it. Criterion had some other developer, by the name of Visual Impact, 
 to do the dirty work for them. You should be wondering what went through Criterions' minds when 
 they decided to have someone else make a Burnout game. What were they thinking!?
  
  So, onto the game. Since it's just the same game as the PSP port, you'd expect this to be exactly 
 the same, only to have some toned-down visuals to suit the DS hardware. But no, it isn't. When 
 the PSP version first starts off, it shows a video of someone crashing and then someone else crashing 
 into him. An explosion appears, the title pops up, and licensed music plays. Then a video that 
 loops through the menus plays. On the DS version, you get all that but the licensed music. The 
 the video that you expect to be played through the menus starts to play, but then fades out, and 
 what replaces it is a dark still image. There's your menu. Pretty isn't it. Compared to the PSP 
 version, the menus are bland and unappealing. Underneath the dark still image, there's a banner 
 that scrolls across the screan saying, "Welcome to Burnout Legends." They actually welcome you 
 to this? What a first impression.
  
  Then there's the horrible music. You mean they couldn't even get a licensed soundtrack? Instead, 
 you get a bunch of crappy MIDI tracks that constantly irritate you to no end. Then there's the 
 fact that there's only about 4 of them for the menus and one for each track in the game. So when 
 you keep restarting a race because you can't beat it, the same horrible music plays from the begining, 
 and drives you insane. There's no excuse. The DS is perfectly capable of licensed music. At least 
 they have the God-danged courtesy to allow you to mute it in the options menu.
  
  Enough with the menus. Lets move on. As in most Burnout games, there's a career mode where you 
 basically have to get bronze, silver, or gold in every event possible to unlock lots of goodies. 
 You pick your car class, event, and your car to race. Well, like I said about the game not being 
 entirely the same, the events are different as well. For instance, the Compact class: The events 
 in this class for both PSP and DS ports are completely different. WHY!? It makes no sense. And 
 to add to all this nonsense, they never even included a crash mode. The PSP version has the crash 
 mode lifted directly from Burnout 3 that you could access with the square button on the map screen, 
 but the DS version simply has a race mode called Crash with entirely different setups that even 
 include setups on Burnout 2 tracks which you think would be cool, but there's only about 10 of 
 them, and they all reek of doggy waste. The cars in the game look terrible. They're low-poly, and 
 they have the look of a bad quality internet video. You know, the ones with boxes. 
  
  Judging by this review, we haven't even started a race yet, and already, there's a terrible impression 
 of the game. Now lets start the race. The only compliment that I can give this game is that the 
 loading times are faster. On the PSP, they're horrible. But that's not saying much considering 
 that the DS uses cartridges which allow for instant access times.
  
  When you start the race, you're presented to yet another DIFFERENT "Get Ready" sequence. God, why 
 can't they be the same!? The controls are not the same either. They're God-awful bad. All the Burnout 
 games have tight controls. When you turned, you turned at just the right amount, and if you turn 
 for a second, you go into a mild drift, which works out great. But here, you don't turn enough, 
 and when you turn for a second, you go into a crazy, almost uncontrollable drift that will most 
 likey send you into a wall. And when you hit a wall, there are 3 options: Bounce off like a bumper 
 kart, get stuck, or crash, with the former options being just plain annoying. The cars are also 
 floaty as heck, and there's no pure sense of speed. In fact, when you boost in the game, it actually 
 feels like you're going slower. Why? Because the camera pulls out and up a little, and the blur 
 effects don't affect the car. Basic logic: The farther away and up the camera is from the car, 
 the lower the sense of speed. And if the cars don't bur along with the environents, it looks as 
 though the car is in front of a green screen, which makes already floaty cars even floatier. Clipping 
 is also an excessive habit of this game no matter what you're doing. Overall, there is no fun to 
 have when racing.
  
  It's almost impossible to take down your enemies, as when you hit them, they most likey won't crash. 
 But wait, if you happen to "Shunt" them, (Ram into the rear.) they magically get taken out instantly. 
 Applying that to Burnout logic would simply be impossible. It's too easy to execute on your enemies. 
 Plus, the AI isn't as aggressive as it should be, so you should complete every race without a problem 
 from your opponents. There aren't a lot of opponents too. The AI is so bad that in Grand Prix mode, 
 where you have a tournament of races, driver 1 always places 2nd, driver 2 always places 3rd, and 
 driver 3 places 4th every time in every grand prix. I assure you that I've played every event in 
 this game, and that was the end result in every grand prix event in the game.
  
  Crashing is terrible too. When you crash, you can slow down time around you in Aftertouch mode 
 and steer you car slightly to wreck into other opponents for aftertouch takedowns. In Burnout games, 
 when you activate aftertouch, you get some eerie music music playing with wooshes and other sorts 
 of cool effects. In Burnout Legends for the DS, you don't get any of that. The MIDI music doesn't 
 even stop when you crash of activate aftertouch. The crashes are weak too. The cars rarely deform, 
 and the only thing that stick out is the broken glass, and it sucks too. It's also a lot harder 
 to take enemies down with aftertouch, since the control sucks, the AI sucks, and the crashes suck 
 too. Sometimes, they don't even last for half a second which doesn't even give you enough time 
 to scratch your head or say wtf. So why bother. Using aftertouch in this game is just a waste of 
 time. Good luck trying to get any good use out of it. 
  
  Speeking of crashes, lets get back to talking about the "crash mode." It's the worst aspect of 
 this game. In a normal Burnout game, crashes involved aftertouches, boosting, crashbreakers which 
 explode your car, multipliers, and causing 20-car pile ups worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
 But here, you're lucky to cause a 5-car pile up with 80,000 dollar damages. The cars involved in 
 the crashes don't do normal human actions like brake hard and swerve into a crash. Instead, they 
 just drive into it like they're blind and out for a Sunday stroll. It's not fun, it's slow, and 
 it ruins the whole point of having the mode in the first place. The whole point of crash mode is, 
 well, I just said it.
  
  The graphics just suck. All the objects are muddy and unappealing to look at. The road looks OK, 
 but it's the only thing worth nothing. Cars clip through each other too, a lot. Some objects are 
 even unrecognizable. For example, in the Palm Bay Marina level, there were these red and white 
 barriers that reminded me of racetrack barriers, but when I got the PSP version, I realized that 
 they were supposed to be guard rails. Just look at a screenshot, and you'll know what I mean. The 
 "normal guy" cars sometimes don't even look like cars at all. The busses in the game look like 
 compacted blocks of dried bird poo on wheels. But thank God there aren't many of them. You'll probably 
 see about 5 per lap. Seriously, there's nothing going on in the environments. The worst feature 
 about the graphics is the nasty fade in effect. There's a 2-D background in front of you, but then 
 all of a sudden, a building or a mountain range fades in from nowhere. Especially on Big Surf Shores. 
 There's this one part where in front of you, there's a big ocean, and then a bunch of hills pop 
 up in front of the sea. That makes sense, right? 
  
  Believe it or not, the sound may actually be worse. Already thanks to the lame MIDI music, the 
 sound effects fare no better. They're weak and unrealistic. They don't even remotely resemble what 
 they're supposed to. Crashes sound like puhs, explosions sound like kahs, and brakes, well, they 
 just sound bad too. It all boils down to total garbage, and along with the music, you'll want to 
 mute the effects as well.
  
  There's also multiplayer. You can play the game locally with 3 other buddies on one cartridge, 
 but good luck finding even one buddy who would want to play this piece of crap with you. There 
 isn't any online play either. Mabye, that's for the better.
  
  You can recieve (almost) all the unlockable cars and awards that you can in the PSP version of 
 the game, but it also exclusively includes the "I wasted 12 hours of my life playing this horrible 
 piece of crap" award for when you get 100% completion. (sarcasm) . 
  
  The really disastrous thing about this game is that it carries the Burnout name, a name that through 
 the years, has gained credibility as one of the best arcade racing series to date, if not, the 
 best. You can just about put Burnout on any game, and it'll be good, right? I bought this game 
 from seeing a commercial on T. V. for it, "hearing" good things about it, and picking up the wrong 
 version in the store, all because it had the Burnout name on it. It showed that Criterion made 
 it too right on the back of the box, so how could you go wrong? Only by reading the credits in 
 the game do you learn about who really made this bomb of a game. Well Criterion, I bet that you've 
 learned your lesson. Never let anyone else make Burnout games. The people who made this game ruined 
 every single aspect of it, whether it be graphics, controls, game modes, or even the menus. They 
 may have included everything from the PSP version, but not one thing from it came out well. They 
 made a lazy and failed attempt to port the great and memorable PSP version to the DS. Everything 
 that makes a Burnout game, well, Burnout, is gone or broken. Please do yourself a favor, and forget 
 that this game exists. Forget that there is a DS version. Forget that it's a Burnout game, because 
 it isn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 23, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 30 % This game is supposed to be based on a combat racing game but its just a game that 
 doesn't have allot of action Ea games tried to copy the game on the ds but its just not the game 
 that you think it is all the time when you drive the car you drive and when you go close to the 
 wall its like if i goes trough it and there's glitches every where every map.
  If people want this game buy it on the psp it got a 9.0 out of 10. And when you play pursuit mode 
 you always hear the siren and its hard to stop the car.
  
  Graphics 30 % This game doesn't have graphics that will impress you.
  
  Sound 20 % Every car 
 has the same sound their is not allot of music well its not from artists just simple music.
  
  
  I dont reccomend this game its just full of glitches and you shouldn't add this game to 
 your burnout collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewh94
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 21, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  It's an O. K game but it is not as good as Asphalt Urban GT 2. This game has 5 different race classes 
 like Coupe, Sports and Super and more. Although there are a lot of races to play during the campaign, 
 this game doesn't give you the sense of speed even driving at 140 MPH. Common crashes are also quite 
 annoying because you will take sometime to respawn because of the crashing scene which will result 
 you to be probably last place. This game has Download Play and Multi-Card play which makes it fun 
 to play with friends because you can Takedown them. But before long, you will get bored of the game. Although 
 this game has many varieties of fast cars, the maps are normally small and cramp which is hard 
 for you to use your NoX and go fast.
  
  Overall Pros :
  
  -Many cars
  -Different car classes
  -Ok maps
  -Long campaign
  
  Cons:
  
  -Boring
  -Campaign doesnt 
 have storyline (wish it had) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metroidfan220
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Most of the fun to be had in Burnout Legends for the DS lies in the first hour, if that, of play. 
 After playing Burnout Legends for the PSP, I had no reason to expect any less from this, but I 
 certainly recieved less. The game goals are too easily obtainable, and the learning curve is far 
 too short. Boosting seems to slow everything down, even though you are technically going faster. 
 Unfortunately, I'm a sucker for racing games, and the multiplayer holds some value, along with 
 good graphics and sound, but the gameplay itself is so atrocious that none of this seems to matter. 
 This is what happens when developers get lazy, instead of redesigning a game, they simply make 
 it fit on a system with a totally different dynamic, into a different cartridge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UrFunnybone
Rating: 2
Date: May 22, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  So I was walking at EB yesterday to pick up a copy of Pokemon Diamond but it wasn't there so I 
 got mad and bought this crap from the five dollar bin. So, the graphics are downright awful. The 
 scenery looks like cardboard boxes, and you can hardly tell if there is a turn fifty feet away 
 from you. And EA please do something about that DAMN FONT!! ITS UGLY!! The regular gameplay is 
 here, including crash mode and road rage. BUT there are only like three traffic car models and 
 the crash mode requires about three crashes for a crashbreaker. Apparently, the DS wasn't powerful 
 enough to render all the crappy car models that have no physics. Ah, physics. They are totally 
 unpredictable as you'll sometimes find yourself crashing at random times, It's hard to figure out 
 what exactly causes a car to crash, since sometimes you'll grind on the guard rail and all of the 
 sudden stop and crash. Takedowns are unpredicatble too, and there is almost no sense of speed. 
 The AI is basically non existent; you can crash as many times as you want and you'll still score 
 an easy win. The multiplyer is somewhat OK for a crappy game like this. THe only thing to say is 
 buy some other game from the five dollor bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyguyguy1234
Rating: 4.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Burnout? What the hey? This is NOT a Burnout game. If they would have taken more time on this game. 
 I could have been good! The graphics are messy and pixely. The touch screen is not used. AT ALL! 
 And on the start screen it says Burnout 2 on the car! What is with that. I beat this game 100 % 
 in less than two months. The loading takes forever on the menu. Don't buy this game, please. Buy 
 this same game for the PSP. Buy it for any other system... just not DS. I am a huge Burnout fan... 
 But they could have done a WAY better job than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ejacko
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 30, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Some bugs, and anoying stuff, but i dont care: Graphics: Not bad at all. Could be better, but it 
 is not terrible. Car models are great. Why do you say they look like bloks? I see pretty car models. 
 Sound: Nothing wrong here. I like the music. Not rock and roll, but i dont lissen to music in games 
 anyway. And the engine noise gets lower volume, when we use boost. Add to the speed IMO Gameplay: 
 Takedown: Its hard to do a takedown. Ram them from the side, only result in a rubbing or battle 
 score. You must ram them from the behind, but they keep swinging from side to side. Traffic: Why 
 on earth do people complain about too little traffic? I think finaly I keep crashing in to them 
 often enough as it is. Only bad thing is, its not easy to collect near misses Glitches: The cars 
 can pass trough an another car, or object. But why is that a problem? The problem is when my car 
 is in auto mode (during a takedown) it often dirrect me to an wall, or strait to an bend (without 
 turnig) Turning: To start with, turning can be difficult. It as an lag, witch can be anoying. But 
 with practice, you can turn and controll it. Want a game with horrible controll? Try Collin McRae 
 Rally 2 for Gameboy Advance. (or any CmrR game) Crash mode: The only dissaster here. There is not 
 traffic at all. Just 5 cars in the junktion. Lucky if you can catch more than 3 cars. After the 
 crash, you are just watching a picture... booooring. So NO this is NOT a bad game. Only a few glitches, 
 but i can enjoy the game anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gussie
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 9, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Just because this game hasn't got that great graphics doesn't mean it's a bad game. I'm a nintendo 
 fan and i'm happy with bad graphics as long the gameply is worth and in burntout's case; the gameplay 
 is good and the gameplay is what makes a game.
  
  Personaly for a DS game the music is pretty good and i'm happy with it. Burnout is the kind of 
 game you can complete and always go back to it for a quick race. With quite a large variety of 
 different races and cars. Pretty much Burnout is more of an old school game than most racers and 
 it's just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CartoonWorldVGM
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  When I bought the PSP version of Burnout Legends, I wasn't expecting it to be anywhere as good 
 as the console games. Suprisingly, it held up very well, despite a sometimes inconsistant frame 
 rate. Now it's on the DS with more multiplayer options. It should be good right? Well, it's the 
 farthest thing from it.
  
  FIrst off, I'm not sure who thought that the graphics on this game would pass as acceptible, because 
 they are an eye sore. The models on the cars are horrindously bad. If you thought that was bad 
 enough, the crashes themselves are laughingly worse than that.
  
  Gameplay is not that much better. It is functional, but the entire feel of speed just isn't there. 
 Not only that, but despite a better frame rate than the PSP version, it feels slower.
  
  Sound design is generic techno music that is more annoying than anything I've ever heard on the 
 DS.
  
  Bottomline: waste of time, money, and life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendo_ds_06
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  burnout legends ds is the best ds racing game and better than what i thoght it would be, having 
 said that it could be improved but still a good game to kill some time
  
  there is no real music tracks, so that was a dissapointment
  
  the graphics are good and better 
 than what people say
  
  i could probably play for about 1 or 2 hours at a time so the gameplay is good
  
  this game 
 is good value for money so you should buy it
  
  it's a good game and i deserves at least a 7.0 rating
  
  im giving this a 7.0 thanks for reading 
 my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cmdr_Jay
Rating: 4.7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  They tried. They really tried. But they fell very short. To put it in D&amp; D terms, the DC was 
 20 and they rolled a 10. The actual driving isn't bad, but the takedowns become too easy. Just 
 boost into the back of another car and, bam, takedown. The post-takedown clipping, was dispicable. 
 I can't believe the game was released with that kind of graphical glitch. And the pursuits? The 
 target car can clip through everything. I crashed so many times because the target drove through 
 a car that I ended up hitting. The crashbreaker graphics? Oh, wait! What crashbreaker graphics? 
 It looked like a fan was placed below the car to push dust away after the car mysteriously crumples. 
 The multiplayer is limited to races and pursuits. I was hoping for at least competitive crashes, 
 but that was not to be. The challenge was unlocking all the cars, but once that was done, there's 
 nothing else to compel you to continue playing the game. Go ahead and get it if you want to drive 
 and takeout cars for a bit, but make sure you trade it in for something else once you get all the 
 cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scifi_fan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 9, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Legends is quite addicting. When you first play it, it's confusing, but the more you play 
 it, you get use to it. But then it gets addicting, that or you adrenalin gets pumping, and you 
 get addicted to the game. The sounds is somewhat gets you moving, the sound tracks, usually go 
 with the tracks. The game play is confusing at first, and then you get use to it in time, as I 
 said. Graphics of the game are okay, but they can be improved. The value is pretty good, you get 
 bang for your buck. In conclusion, its an okay game, while addicting, it can be improved in some 
 areas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LIL_SPNKR
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 3, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I love the burnout series, even though I have (and own) only Burnout Revenge for the Xbox. Burnout 
 Legends for the DS was one of those games that great potential for being a great game, but of course, 
 it turned out to be a pile of cow crap to most people, but when I heard this game was coming to 
 the greatest handheld device that beats PSP by SOOOO much; I was like OMFG YEAH YEAH!!!!!!!! BURNOUT 
 ON MAH DS!!!!!! AUGH!!! WOOT!! and so on. so i watched this game progress through development and 
 was excited when it was relased. I checked the review and nearly shat my pants when I saw the score 
 on Gamespot and IGN. com!! I was sooo freakin dissapointed by the score. So being the money spender 
 i am, a month after it came out, i went to future shop and bought the last copy of burnout. As 
 i drooled profusevly over the game as i turned on my Ds, the intro move teased you, physcing you 
 up for a true Burnout experience. So when I chose my car and got into the race I was like "hmm, 
 wow- i got taken out by a car that fell from the sky"- which really happened, but the when I crashed, 
 i saw the cool damage that couldve been pumped up a notch. This game may have been rushed and those 
 guys at EA or whoever made this game removed WIFI, which sucked; its a fun game. Lots of cars, 
 lots of tracks, fun modes, (stay away from crash mode, ive seen better explosion come from me when 
 im on the toi- ooh, lets not go there) - The opponents are dumb as crud, they only follow a certain 
 path, they can get taken out very easily, the scenery is awsome. So everall, if you can get by 
 the crappy car handling the horrible collison detecion and NO LICENSED MUSIS, I really enjoyed 
 this game, as a matter of fact im going to go play it now.
  
  To the producers of this game (if you some how EVER come across this overly long review) i have 
 some ideas if you are ever gonna remake this game ( or create a new burnout for the DS) You should 
 have less cars, 70 was too much even for me, you should have better handling, like making the car 
 look like its actually turning, instead of it looking like the world is moving around the car, 
 more sparks from crashes and bumps, WIFI!!!!!!! LICENSED MUSIC!!!!! when you crash, debris from 
 you car should stay on the ground, not dissappear when it hits the ground. You could try and fix 
 the collision detection- like when you take a car out, you should have the car bounce of of yours, 
 not morph into it. and you should remove the crash mode. No horrible explosions for the system. 
 Oh and make teh car catch air off of large bumps and stuff, and have ramps so you can get air points 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3V0LUT10N
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 1, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  Ask any gamer what the first 2 things they think of are when they hears the word Burnout. Go on, 
 just try it. Chances are youll get something back along the lines of fast cars and stunning crashes. 
 Its true that the Burnout series has never been one to go for subtlety. The games generally revolve 
 around speeding down roads at incredible speeds, smashing your rivals off the road to the accompaniment 
 of licensed rock and pop music. I use the word generally though, because Burnout Legends on DS 
 fails all of these requirements, and the end result here is a game that bears not only no resemblance 
 to a Burnout game, but to a racing game either.
  
  When you first start up the game youd be mistaken for thinking that EA might have actually succeeded 
 in bring Burnout to the DS. The menus look clear and have all the options youd expect in a Burnout 
 game. There appears to be good selection of cars to choose from, from Muscle Cars to Super Cars, 
 and loads of circuits fans will remember from the previous games. Everything appears to be normal. 
 Its not until you start a race that you realise just how mind bogglingly awful the game really 
 is.
  
  First things first, the graphics in the game are a mixed bag. One or two of the cars do actually 
 look quite good, and there are certain sections of the environment that certainly give the illusion 
 of great visuals. However, for the most part, the cars are blocky, grainy and badly textured, and 
 the locations youll be plodding through are bland looking and just on a whole visually bad. Not 
 only that, but when you turn the level background actually turns with you, making twisting tracks 
 incredibly disorientating and plain bizarre to look at.
  
  However, its a known fact that a game can suffer crap graphics yet still turn out to be well worth 
 playing. That isnt the case here. The controls for Legends are just as abysmal as the visuals. 
 You obviously steer with the D-pad and accelerate / brake with the face buttons. Yet even this 
 feel clunky at times. The touch screen is completely unused during races save to display a simple 
 map of the course and the damage of your car. What really makes you want to pound your head in 
 frustration though is the games drifting mechanic. In previous games you held down a separate button 
 to drift. Here you have to hold down left or right for a certain amount of time. This not only 
 results in you drifting unintentionally but also makes steering round the tighter corners virtually 
 impossible. Which is a shame considering youll need it a lot
  
  But lets suppose you can cope with a game featuring sucky visuals and dodgy controls. What of the 
 gameplay you ask? Well, lets be nice and say that its just one huge buggy pile of trash. The first 
 disappointment in a very long list is that the cars just dont have that high speed feel to them. 
 Not only that, but the Takedown, the concept of smashing a rival car off the road that has lifted 
 the Burnout series to greatness, appears here broken and bearing little resemblance to its former 
 self. There are still the various types, including signature takedowns and the like. But smashing 
 into the side of a car results not in a satisfying smash, but a slight bump to both cars. In fact, 
 the only real way of getting a Takedown is to just ram your foe from the back, at which point theres 
 a 50/50 of success.
  
  Even when you crash the cars theres no real sense of excitement. They generally slide along, occasionally 
 throwing off some strange shards (presumably metal) until they glitch through a piece of environment 
 and disappear from sight. This isnt the only bug in Burnout Legends though. Sometimes youll ram 
 into the back of an opponent and instead of resulting in a takedown, your car will simply stop, 
 and youll have to build up what little speed you had again, or even worse, your own car will crash. 
 Generally during any type of collision the frame rate will drop to such an extent the cars will 
 barely move. At times its almost like the game was released half way through development. The 
 roads are almost devoid of traffic, and the enemy racers possess no AI at all (they almost drive 
 on rails, so much so its possible to see the exact same crashes race after race) . Then theres 
 the collision detection, which can result in you scraping along surfaces where theres a clear 
 gap between it and your car.
  
  Sadly not even the famous Crash Junctions have survived. Now they exist so devoid of traffic that 
 at times youll be lucky to involve 5 vehicles in a crash. Even when they do crash, theres no 
 real damage to the cars in question. They just stop. There are other modes like eliminator and 
 Grand-Prix, but they are basically just variations on the standard race. Even the Pursuit mode, 
 in which youll drive a police car and chase down and crash another vehicle isnt much fun, mostly 
 due to the wonky collision detection. The game too features a multiplayer mode, but this suffers 
 in just the same ways as its single player counterpart.
  
  And as if to top off the whole package, the sound is just as nasty as the rest of the game. The 
 car engines sound average, but the breaks sound almost cartoony, and the music in the game is just 
 abysmal (imagine the first few beats of a song, then stretch it out to fill an entire track of 
 music. Thats the music youll be hearing in Legends)
  
  Its a real shame because there was the potential here for Burnout Legends to shine as a quality 
 DS racing game, and occasionally youll find yourself having fun with it. Sadly the blocky graphics, 
 dodgy control, awful sound and downright crappy gameplay means that this is one game, for the most 
 part, to stay away from. Lets hope the next time a Nintendo console holds host to a Burnout game, 
 the end result is an at least playable game, which is more than can be said for this
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 27, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  This is a Burnout compilation, as it compiles the best modes of the series: crash mode, pursuit 
 mode, road rage and time attack. In addition to that bounty, Burnout Legends includes tracks from 
 Burnout, Burnout 2: Point of Impact and Burnout 3: Takedown. 
  
  Burnout Legends sports several classic gameplay contests, from Crash to Pursuit and Eliminator. 
 You'll get your fill of these in the World Tour, an intercontinental racing challenge that pits 
 you against some amazing racers. Winning these events unlocks other stops around the world and 
 some of the 72 cars that will end up in your garage.
  
  The sense of speed in this game kind of sucks because it's slow at turning. I mean you hit the 
 wall on lots of the sharp turns. It's still OK though but nothing to special here. The turning 
 also feels so weird that it's unexplainably awkward to talk about.
  
  Some of the modes aren't fun. When you're in the middle of the Grand Prix you can not ever save 
 in the middle and you'll definitelly want to do this because it takes soooo long to finish 3 laps 
 in this game.
  
  Crash Mode does also kind of suck because there's never really any cars to crash into and you can 
 never figure out where to crash. God it's so aggrivating I can barely stand it.
  Don't even get me started on Pursuit
  
  You can play against a single opponent wirelessly with 
 just one game card, but with multiple game cards, you can race against up to four other people.
 
  
  Most of the other ones are good like preview lap and Regular racing. Taking down people is always 
 fun in Take-Down mode and rampage. You unlock a lot of cars which is always good but there is a 
 proble. Lots of the cars suck and you can't even choose the same cars in different races. It's 
 so confusing
  
  BTW the impact time thing, on the touch screen, is completely pointless
  
  
  
  Gameplay - 6.5 out of 10
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are pretty decent, if 
 not a little dark on some tracks, but you're usually going too fast to really take the time to 
 actually notice anything good. Some of the replays of wrecks are OK, but the Impact Time slow-mo 
 crash sequences are a DS work in progress because the cars go through each other. When you wreck, 
 you're able to press R to go into Impact Time, which lets you make your wreck look more dramatic 
 (but as I said before the Impact time sucks) .
  
  The only thing that is really good about the Graphics are the blurr effects. The cars also look 
 pretty nice. A cool thing is in takedown mode, after you're car crashes the car stays looking like 
 that which I thought is awesome.
  
  The graphics aren't all that bad because the environments look pretty nice but again this game 
 fails because you go too fast to notice anything.
  
  If you want to look at this game and expect to find anything good to look at you either better 
 develop your eyes to view everything in slow motion or just go look at the PSP version.
  
  
  
  Graphics - 5.5 out of 10
  
  Audio
  
  The Burnout series has always had excellent 
 sound effects, and here they're barely noticeable. The games music sometimes sounds good but are 
 just really bumped out by bad sound effects and motors from the cars. Yes the cars crashing does 
 really sound bad.
  
  At least this game doesn't have any annoying annoucer dude like on Ridge Racer.
  
  The worst 
 part about the sound is the freakin cop car in pursuit mode. Not only does pursuit mode take so 
 long, the worst part is that you have to listen to the damn siren the whole way through.
  Best thing to do in a situation like this is to either ignore it (Which is physically impossible) 
 or just turn the volume all the way down. You're ears will be thanking god for the next 17 years 
 after this happens.
  
  Despite everything else, the music sounds decent when it's not being filtered out by crap sound 
 effects. What the hell I have to say it most of the music sounds bad but some are good. This is 
 another category that Burnout Legends fails at
  
  
  
  Audio - 6.3 out of 10
  
  Replay Value
  
  Despite all the other bad stuff going on in the game, the replay value is the 
 best part.
  Some modes like regular racing, takedown, and more are always fun to do over again.
  Although 
 I never played multiplayer, I'm sure it is fun to play again and again with 3 friends.
  
  The things you DON"T want to do again and again are listen to the freakin cop car in pursuit mode, 
 play pursuit mode, play grand prix, and try to admire the games visuals and music.
  
  Even though you don't to do these things, you're gunna have to (besides listen to the cop car crap) 
 because it's the only way to get through the game and unlock cars. Beleive me the game can be fun 
 sometimes but it also can be bad at more times.
  
  Yes replayability is by the far the best part of the game even though it isn't all that great.
 
  
  One of the best looking cars in the game
  
  Mommy look, I'm gunna rip the hair right off my head
  
  Replay Value - 8.0 out of 10
  
 
  Review Summary
  
  Gameplay - 6.5: Plenty of cars to unlock and some fun modes but very aggrivating
  Graphics - 
 5.5: Ugly cars and visuals but some stuff looks OK
  Audio - 6.3: Decent music but bad sound effects and that freakin cop car
  Replay Value - 8.0: 
 Lots of modes are fun and game is sometimes fun but not everything is good to do over again
  
  Average: 6.6 out of 10
  My Overall: 6.3 out of 10
  Average
  
  Please avoid this game 
 unless you're dieing to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCritic9392
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Legends is pretty much a port of the critically acclaimed PSP game. Compared to what the 
 other critics are giving the game, my review looks like the only GOOD one out there. Here it is:
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay here is great Burnout racing action. It's what you'd expect., and it's got 
 some great moments. There isn't too much touch screen content involved, but then again that's not 
 exactly why you bought this game. It seems like a watered-down PSP port at first, but it quickly 
 evens itself out to become an enjoyable gaming experience. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are some of the best I've seen on the DS. The cars and tracks are rich with 
 detail and various colors, and everything whirs by quickly and evenly.
  
  Sound: The sound in the game isn't quite as good as the graphics, but it's competent nonetheless. 
 It's just what you'd expect from a Burnout game, but on the DS.
  
  Value: With some multiplayer action going for it, Burnout Legends DS has a lot of content with 
 it's satisfyingly long main game and modes. It's a good deal now that it's only $20.
  
  Bottom Line: I know this review feels rushed and haphazardly put together, but that's because there's 
 not too much more I can say about this game. It isn't as good a racer as Mario Kart, but Burnout 
 comes in a close second. Pick it up unless you already have the great PSP version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paronga
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  The good: Impresive graphics; a fair amount of events and cars; replicates fermiliar tracks on 
 the DS quite well; pretty good sense of speed.
  
  The bad: Terrible control; No real sound track; terrible physics; Cop car is annoying; disorienting 
 takedown camera, which looks alot like you getting taken out; uninformative; doesnt feel ANTHING 
 like the console counterparts; incredibly difficult to achieve aftertouch takedowns; did i mention 
 the cop car? its THAT BAD; more of a cheap trick than goldeneye rogue agent. good one EA...
  
  Its plain and simple, and this is going to e the first inocuous review i have ever written. 
 Burnout Legends for the Nintendo DS conveys some good potential for an incredibly enjoyable burnout 
 game. But the physics, and the car control let it down into a hole. With very little user friendly 
 interface, the game fails to tell the audience who maynot have played a burnout game before, how 
 to play, and even then those who have played a burnout game before will have to addapt to the new, 
 and uncanny control scheme
  
  The graphics, and sense of speed in this game, are quite good but are let down dramatically by 
 the NO sound track, and the bad control. To really enjoy this game you must be very tolerant and 
 even then, its really hard. Despite the low level of effort in the soundtrack and the game control, 
 the game features a hefty amount of events and cars for those who may be tolerant enough to play 
 the game, but as far as i am concerned, it is merely wasted effort
  
  In conclusion, Burnout Legends for the Nintendo DS conveys graphic, and racing enjoyment potential 
 for the DS which has already been conveyed by other games such as Mario Kart DS. If only EA werent 
 so half assed in terms of DS games, we could all be burning on Nintendo WFC..... hopefully they 
 will learn from their mistakes and patch up, but i doubt that will ever happened due to the fact 
 that they probably sold less than 10,000 copies of this game.... probly less than 1000! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chain_saw
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jul 4, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  We all love Burnout, the speed, the thrills the realistic imact damage.
  
  Well, forget all that, and imagine a world where Burnout = Slow, tedious racing 'action' with brick 
 like collision animation and a set of graphics that look fine while static, look dreadful when they 
 move.
  
  The sad thing is, this game isn't terrible, there have been plenty of racers worse, but with the 
 Burnout name on the box you at least expect that kind of quality from the game, and it disappoints 
 on pretty much every level.
  
  An ambitious game for sure Burnout Legends ultimately fell victim to that age old issue of making 
 the handheld version mimic the console version. The PS2 version of Burnouts 1 and 2 were slow and 
 tedious compared to Burnout 3 and Revenge, so how did anyone think that the DS version would work 
 out?
  
  I bought this purely out of curiousity. The DS has managed some gems, and I had some vague sense 
 of trust in the Burnout license to at least deliver a handheld version of the mighty console racers. 
 Instead I got a bad port, leaving in a great selection of cars, tracks and options (the game really 
 does resemble a good Burnout game until you play) . Instead of realising the limitations of the 
 handheld format the developers have simply squashed the first three games down, stuck them in the 
 tiny DS cart, and hoped for the best.
  
  Without expectation, and without ever playing a Burnout game prior to the DS version I may have 
 enjoyed it, but as it stands it is the poor cousin of the Lordly console versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spikyspaz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 3, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  out of all the racing games for DS this one has the best physics for collisions (car hitting car) . 
 In many other DS racing games (ridge racer, need for speed 2 and most wanted) when you hit a car 
 you get shot back and they get a boost. As far as playing modes go theres enough variety to keep 
 you busy for a while. The NPC was programed fairly well, they act humanish. They aren't perfect 
 (they get into crashs and don't turn perfectly) so you don't feel like your racing a god. The only 
 flaw in gameplay is the glued to the road feeling. When you go off a jump you don't get any air. 
 Its annoying, but you get used to it.
  
  I give gameplay a 7.0
  
  GRAPHICS:
  There ok. very mediocore. I mean it is a Nintendo DS so there not bound to be great, but whatever. 
 Sometimes its easy to miss a turn because your not completely sure where the turn is. This mostly 
 happens on small European towns with no defined roads, this isn't a huge problem because only like 
 1 or 2 levels are like this.
  
  I give graphics a 5.0
  
  SOUNDS:
  As far as music goes the songs are actually pretty good, its easy to get into the feel of the distruction. 
 Some things in sound effects bug me. The police car always has the siren going, and when your in 
 a long race the constant "EH ON EH ON EH ON" can get on your nerves. The motors are quiet so that 
 it doesn't effect the music. That is another problem i found in some other racing games, the motors 
 sounded bad.
  
  I give Sounds a 7.0
  
  VALUE:
  I myself found this game in a discount bin, so it only cost me 15.99$. It was quiet the bargain. 
 but this game is only good not great so you would be dumb to pay more then 29.99$.
  
  I give Value a 5.0
  
  REVIEWERS TILT
  i got this game a little while ago without reading 
 the review. i played it a whole bunch, then when i came to gamespot to see if there were any cheats, 
 hints or secrets i saw it got 4.0. This game isn't that bad and at it discount price its actually 
 one of the better ds racing games. 
  
  I use my reviewrs tilt to give a 7.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khankster
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 22, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I had the PSP version and liked it; it looks more like a real Burnout port there. However, I don't 
 like the PSP console in general because load times are horrendous and too many games favor that 
 stupid joystick way down at the bottom; I much prefer the control style of the DS with the 4-way 
 D-pad. 
  
  Anyway, I don't understand all the putdowns on the DS version of Burnout Legends. What are people 
 expecting? If you want to be thoroughly impressed, you should be playing the PSP or Xbox versions 
 rather than knocking the DS version. The gameplay on the DS certainly holds true to the original 
 feel of the game: speed, speed, speed, and lots of crashes! The whole gaming experience on the 
 DS is exactly what you'd expect from a typical DS game. There's nothing that's going to shock you 
 here, but this is by no means a 4.0-rated game. (You wanna see a bad racing game? Check out Need 
 For Speed for GBA - now THAT'S bad!) One thing I like is that quite often this game is very forgiving 
 when it comes to close-calls or hitting railings. I really hate when racing games are so touchy 
 that they make you crash if you get too close to things like guardrails, etc. I paid $30 for this 
 game, and I'd buy it again. Challenging, yet I can get through it without 50 tries.
  
  For me it's an 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SouthPark_Fan13
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks! the grphics suck, the gamplay sucks, and the enemy ai sucks! this game is crap 
 crap crap crap crap crap crap!!! i hate it! even if the price goes down to $5 do not buy it! go 
 buy some candy instead. i tried to give this game away and no one wanted it. that's how bad it 
 is. never buy this game instead buy burnout 3 at the same price as this!!! whoever buys this game 
 is a DEE DEE DEE!!!! it's just so bad that i can't recommend it to anyone. stay away from this 
 game!!!!! if someone says this game is good turst me they're are wrong!!!! don't even think about 
 spending 1cent on this game!!! it's totally not worth it!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cool_Grant
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 12, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Burnout Legends for the DS starts out as a great game that looks exactly like a Burnout game, but 
 soon you start to see the real image. 
  The graphics look very good at first and the cars are al very different in style. But it really 
 looks bad when you begin to crash. Its like right when you crash the game forgets it has objects 
 and you can pass right through them. Once i even fell through a bridge.
  The gameplay is also decent but it needs a lot of work. It is very stiff when turning a corner.
 
  The sound is where the game drops off. The music is terrible and there is only one crash sound. 
 Sometimes it doesn't make a sound at all. 
  Overall if you really want a game of Burnout for a portable system and all you have is a DS, you 
 might enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: car_maniac
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  ok the game says burnout but it doesn't feel like it. instead its more of a hot wheeels game with 
 low speed race effects and no use for brakes in the entire game. i don't know why they even put 
 a braking effect or even a reverse. the game id too easy and too short. if i truely wanted to play 
 this game i would have played it through and beat it. it got boring after the first five or six 
 races. oh and the crash mode is so horrible i can't seem to get over 34,000 crash points for one 
 crash. you hit one car and its over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 24, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  the game has graphics lower than averange or maybe its the DS graphics that made the game graphics 
 like this oh well for whatever reason this was the most, he first and i hope its the last burnout 
 game that are made like this since i dont just blame criterion i blame nitendo since nitendo has 
 been making really bad games and vedio game concles yah to think about it its not really criterion 
 its the graphics concles that was made by a mistake which the company name is NITENDO
  
  the sound is bad and its just at the averange and also the gameplay but still whats still good 
 is that the games still offa the run, slammed, crash, explode and burn kind of feeling which is still 
 good and the game still has a little crash felling
  
  but still the game is still quite bad and that reminds me im gonna tell my cuz to throw that game....... just 
 in case 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame81093
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is really weak at a lot of points, but i found that killing people is fun in cars :-) 
 for some people though; rent it first. cause it is kind of sh*tty sometimes. Like, for example, 
 crashes and takedowns aren't as dramatic. the story mode is pretty cool, because you can win really 
 tight cars, like the Legend Gangster and the Muscle Cop (it has a siren!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) 
 And there are classic signature takedowns, such as pillar driller and gone fishing. Also, a new 
 mode, pursuit, was added...... It is sweet. the only thing that pisses me off is sharp turns. the 
 drift isn't as good, and i crash a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jivekibbles
Rating: 3.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Burnout Legends i would not recommend to a friend. Why?
  At first you see a bad graphiced, slow, and dull game. Then you may try to look on the bright side 
 of this game, But the light, in the darkness of this poor game is almost impossible to see.
  
  Good points: music is ok, sometimes you may get a small burst of fun crashing others.
  
 
  Bad points: Graphics, no A. I. Takedowns are pretty lame. Multiplayer is poor and very boring
 
  
  Overall: Bad Points Win!!!
  
  if anyone does like this game, Good job for finding the light in this gloomy game, i didnt 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmymann
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  the game is fun. it just sucks. the problom is that it has all the burnout fun, but none of the 
 fun. that made no sense. ok, what i mean is that the game is fun. just when you add things up, 
 it shouldn't be fun. the gameplay is really quite lame. don't use the boost. the cpu only goes 
 twice as fast as you when you're ahead. when you're behind, about 2/3 as fast as you. that's the 
 game. no rules of speed or logic, the cars turn 90 degreese stright when they turn. no fun right? 
 wrong. somehow Burnout's magic isd still there. i had a great 10, 12 hours with it. too bad i got 
 gold on evry track and spent the last four hours seeing if i could drive the speed limit around 
 the tracks and obay some laws. i hate the dentist. on the other hand...
  
  the sound will make you want to claw your ears out, or jam some pencils in them... or if you can 
 think, turn down the volume.
  
  the graphics are really quite good for DS and deserve an eight, but there's the problom of cars 
 poping through pillers...
  
  overall. don't buy this game. otherwise, buy it used and return it. good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gutspuncher
Rating: 3.8
Date: Mar 8, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this I thought it looked OK. Then I saw the gameplay movie
  it was HORRIBLE the crashbreaker is usually great on the consoles like ps2, Xbox, and psp. The 
 crashbreaker made the car fly straight up that's just plain retarted. The crahes blow even harder. 
 This game blows so bad.
  What kind of dumb f#@# would buy this piece of s#@#. 
  Good thing Criterion didin't make this piece of junk in a can. If I could pick between this and 
 playing NARC I would play NARC even though that blows too. Who would want this blower, like a vacum 
 it sucks bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arignious2254
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 19, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game from wallmart when it came out, and i beat it and i found some things in this 
 game that really pissed me off: 
  
  1: i am on the other side of the road and a car passed me that was 10 feet away and it says i crashed 
 into it, WTF?
  
  2: so many damn clipping issues, im in a crash and i go right through a building.
  
  3: there 
 is a bug in this game, when i was in first i crashed at the finish line, problem is i crashed into 
 nothing!
  
  4: the coupe part of the game is annoying as hell
  
  5: grainy sound, and drab graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanteKiller
Rating: 3.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Now you may be wondering if this game is as good as the PSP version of Burnout Legends. The PSP 
 and the DS are two different machines: the DS has more innovative games while the PSP has the better 
 graphics. Because the PSP has better graphics and widescreen support, the DS version of Burnout 
 Legends can't be compared with the PSP version. BUT, it can be compared with any of the other Burnout 
 titles that have a great sense of speed and super fast crashes. In which case, this is the worst 
 Burnout title ever. Subpar graphics, horrible audio, and a slow sense of speed keep this DS racer 
 from passing the finish line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UltimateDoom400
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I read the reviews. I did NOT want the game. I looked around and found MK DS. I have ENOUGH MARIO. 
 This looked second best. IT WASNT!!!!
  IT WAS THE BEST!!!!! The glitches are overexaggerated and the graphics are the only problem. Besides 
 graphics, It is JUST as good as PSP. The controls are a bit hard, but I got it in like 5 minutes. 
 If you have more than 5 mario games, or just hate it because the plot is SO stupid (although super 
 mario 64 is the best DS game) , get this, not Mario Kart DS. If you are a nerd obsessed with graphics, 
 then go away and get ridge racer, If graphics are not TOO important, GET THIS!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 10, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  "Burnout on the DS" I hear you cry "cool" you shout. Well............ NO
  
  This game should not exist, in fact it would seem the only reason it does exist is because of MONEY, 
 yes, MONEY. Something EA seem to want a lot of.
  
  Burnout is totally wrong for the DS, the DS is about the touch screen, mic., and the Dual Screens.
 
  Burnout NEEDS high end power for it to be fully realized, this means GREAT graphics and PHYSICS 
 and processing power.
  
  You play the game and it is incredibly underwhelming, the graphics are OK, the physics are rubbish 
 and the overall feel of the game is "why am I playing this tosh?"
  
  Please do not buy this game, you are filling the pockets of big wigs, and that is never a good 
 thing.
  
  Stick with MK: DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdogg06
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jan 27, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  I hate this game , its the worst DS game i have ever played. Why? 1st, the gameplay sucks. I mean 
 ,in PS2 you cant takedown a car by just going at full speed and hitting it from the back. And when 
 you rub your car over something (eg: wall) , it sort of creates a "black hole" , because when you 
 hit on to something , it gides me along so i will never crash. You can even play this game with 
 your eyes closed, you will never crash! The graphics is quite hoorible but still acceptable. And lets 
 talk about the touch screen, they dont make use of it. Botemline: HORRIBLE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Hey burnout for the DS. I have not seen a Nintendo burnout in years it is good to see one more. But 
 any ways burnout for the ds is a let down but not really bad. I just want to the the AI can be 
 horrid at first. It is easy but you get slammed with hard real quick and sudden. The races are do 
 not crash and you will be fine. There's lots of modes to do so if you get Bord well sorry. There's 
 a lot to unlock here. Cars, tracks, and well..... I Guss thats it. There is a world tore you can do 
 but it gets to be the same but harder. It is hard to control but I got the hang of it real quick. I 
 will not beat around the bush it is ugly it could of looked good. There is a kick ass cut seen at 
 the start so we know it could of looked like the N64. Mui-ty player is weak on one card with 1 
 track and 2 cars. But with 4 it gets good. In the end this port suffers with tacked on Ds things 
 but yet I liked it and racing fans should too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timinator18
Rating: 4.2
Date: Oct 2, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are not the best, but its still fun. The music is not bad, but could have been alot 
 better. If you just want to have fun, then this game might help. There are alot of better games 
 out there, but this game isnt terrible. Gamespot gave a low score becasue other burnout games are 
 alot better, but this isnt bad. Dont buy it. rent it. its really short. about 10 hours. Buy mario 
 kart instead. you will be glad you did. If your a big burnoutfan, then u will like this game... probably 
 if you never played burnout, then this ggame wont be as fun, but u still might like it.... maybe 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeamBoy
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2006 2:25 am PT
Review:  Burnout games are great. They have been released on almost every home console and the pc. Burnout 
 Legends is the first installment of Burnout for the Nintendo DS and Sony PSP. They are, however, 
 two opposites.
  
  When you start the game, you start the game type World Tour. Almost every game type is exactly 
 the same as in the PSP version. The Compact class is easy to complete. When you earn a lot of medals, 
 Burnout points and Takedowns, you earn new cars and maps to race on.
  
  GAMEPLAY: When you begin, it's not very easy to control the cars, but you'll get used to it.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics aren't that "bad", but the cars don't reflect the environment very well. 
 And when you crash, the parts aren't flying around, which makes the crash less spectacular.
  
  SOUND: The sound is sometimes a little distorted, but the engines have realistic sound effects, 
 and when you crash against another car, the sound cuts your ears in two.
  
  VALUE: The game is worth your money, but it is likely to disappoint you sometimes. The replay value, 
 however is definitely very high.
  
  CONCLUSION: I recommend it to every race fanatic who owns a DS, but the PSP version is a little 
 better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolutionrulez
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 29, 2005 9:39 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best ds games so far and much better than need for speed most wanted it dont 
 have bad music althogh the controls are kind of erm how can i put this confusing because of 1 simple 
 reason you dont know weather or not the car is going to start slow or fast but apart from that 
 this game rulez and anyone who calls it rubbish obviously haven't ever played the game
  
  p. s i never i repeat NEVER want a ps3 so there :P 
  
  
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
 
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
  v
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mercedes_5
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2005 7:12 am PT
Review:  ONLY BUY THIS GAME IF U LIKE BURNOUT DO NOT BUY AS UR FIRST BURNOUT GAME as u may get the wrong 
 idea. Although alot worse than the rest of the series it realy tries to do burnout on this plat 
 form. the thing is u obvously cant. The sound is the worst part it is terrible it repeats and repeats. 
 it still is 1 of the best games on ds at the moment but remember only buy if you u like burnout. 
 bla bla bla bla still good though
  I hate sci fi ihate sci fi i hate sci fi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_X
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Thie game is actually a great addition to the Burnout series and its well worth playing. The review 
 written by Gamespot makes you think that this game is crap, but its actually pretty darn good! 
 I got this game for Christmas from my sister and if I might say so I'm really darn grateful. The 
 only reason the people at gamespot gave it a bad review is because they are used to playing consoles 
 and aren't used to the DS's unique graphics. Mario Kart doesn't have perfect graphics but it's 
 still a great game! Why can't they just cut Burnout Legends some slack? THIS GAME IS FREAKIN AWESOME 
 AND YOU SHOULD AT LEAST CHECK IT OUT IF YOU HAVE A  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_rox
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 19, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  You see it's not all that bad because it took me awhile to get used to the controls. I don't own 
 a DS but my friend does and it's fun. The sound kind of sucks a little but everything else it great. 
 I never thought that it would be that good but it's better then what everyone else says. See know 
 can really know that a game is bad or not it depends on what u think. But yea the game to some 
 people might not be worth the money but I think that it would because it's fun to go from the controls 
 to the pen and move ur car onto another car. The replay value kind of sucks but the crashing and 
 bashing part is the fun part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymariolover
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  This Is Just a terrible game its graphics are rubbish the gameplay is rubbish the whole game is 
 just rubbish!! you'd have thought "hey! it was a great game on ps2 so it will be very good on ds!" 
 if you think that your wrong its nothing like the ps2 version and its just not very good at all. 
 So if you were thinking of buying this 5 simple words... PLEASE DO NOT IT'S AWFUL!!!!
  
  but if you like racing games i would certainatly recommend mario kart ds because that is just 10 
 out of 10 it is absolutey amazing! and its certainely worth trying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokurocks2442
Rating: 1.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is just no good because the framerate sucks and the graphics suck. Dont forget the unthrilling 
 crashes to. Ok first time i got this game i really thought it was gonna own the psp version but 
 once i turned it on and started playing i instintly went back to my ebgame and traded it in for 
 the psp burnout legends.
  
  First time i played it i was sitting in my car outside of ebgames and i sat there for like 10 minuts 
 and finally just relized how sucky this game was. Unfortinantly my ds screen got cracked because 
 this game stressed me.
  
  Dont get this game its the biggest flop for the Ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuiitsu
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Altogether this game looks not as good as you would all think it is when u first look at it. it 
 makes you look away! its a dissapointment and should not really be on the ds really, its just not 
 as lively and colourful and mad as its other cousins the psp's version is to perfection this version 
 just looks really dull not much is going on, when it comes to sound also very disappointing indeed 
 it needs something to keep you going this simply doesn't the racing cant be SO bad but the graphics 
 doesnt exactly help it.
  Burnout fans might feel different but it is seriously a let down before you ever think of buying 
 the game i would consider asking people who have played it first, they could have done better to 
 be honest when compared to the psp version the psp just murders it, take a look at the video clips, 
 its bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Duckets12123
Rating: 1.4
Date: Dec 10, 2005 10:01 am PT
Review:  The burnout Ds game suck butt hole and thats final. whoever determines to give this game abouve 
 a 5.0 they must be trapped in a warped time continuum where sucky games are good. The pieces of 
 reincarnated dog poo poo they called graphics are the worst things i have ever seen in my life. i 
 would rather be scalped than to have too look at that. The PSP version kicks the hell out of this 
 versions ass and i dont even see why they bother to rival the PSP this way. As a matter of fact 
 this game is so bad that it disgraces PSP. DS going against PSP this way is like overkilling a 
 crippled swan, its just not right. the developers should be burned at stake (not really) for this 
 abomination. Please dont ever let me hear the name burnout and ds at the same time ever agin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duerdest
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 9, 2005 6:53 am PT
Review:  "Burnout on the DS" I hear you cry "cool" you shout. Well............ NO
  
  This game should not exist, in fact it would seem the only reason it does exist is because of MONEY, 
 yes, MONEY. Something EA seem to want a lot of.
  
  Burnout is totally wrong for the DS, the DS is about the touch screen, mic., and the Dual Screens.
 
  Brunout NEEDS high end power for it to be fully realized, this means GREAT graphics and PHYSICS 
 and processing power.
  
  You play the game and it is incrediablly underwhelming, the graphics are OK, the physics are rubbish 
 and the overall feel of the game is "why am I playing this tosh?"
  
  Please do not buy this game, you are filling the pockets of big wigs, and that is never a good 
 thing.
  
  Stick with MK: DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmasterrof
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2005 1:07 am PT
Review:  A game like burnout to the DS would be a good idea, but still maybe asphalt urban gt will be a 
 better game to buy if you want a car game that is fast and rocks (!) . I, myself think taht burnout 
 is a okay game but it is not as i thougt. The graphic is okay, and the gameplay is good enough. 
 If you want a good game for you DS then this game is the one.
  
  Graphic: 7 Gameplay: 8
  
  Steering: 9 Totally: 7,5
  
  If you like fast, heart pumping and rocking cargaming then 
 this might be the one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaster749
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 8, 2005 11:37 pm PT
Review:  the PSP game is way better then this cheap nock off of burnout for shure this is not even close 
 to even a good burnout game it is just plan tarable if you are going to buy this game you would 
 be better off buying a PSP and then getting the burnout legends for the psp cause that game is 
 way far more better then this cheap game i cant beleave that they even created it for the DS for 
 EA i think it was just a waste of time and money to make this game after just watching the videos 
 i did not even want to go near this game for all gamers out there please stay away from this crapy 
 game and play at your own risk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TreyTable
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  I do not own a PSP. I'd like to, but I have better things to do with my money, like pay bills. 
 But PSP aside, and the PSP version of Burnout Legends is cast aside too. The DS and PSP are easily 
 a generation apart, since one is based on the PS2 and the other the N64, so comparing Burnout Legends 
 on the DS to Burnout Legends on the PSP is as asinine as comparing THPS3 on the N64 to THPS3 on 
 the PS2.
  
  With that said, I'm looking at Burnout Legends for DS as compared to other DS racers, the only 
 real way of a fail trial. First of all, it is not as appealing as Mario Kart DS, but only that 
 Burnout Legends DS lacks Wi-Fi multi-player; if both games could go online I'd score them the same. 
 
  
  The only downside to Burnout Legends is that being on the DS, with either it is a limitation in 
 software or hardware, there aren't as many non-racing vehicles on the track, which leads to a Crash 
 Mode that just plain sucks, since you ma only see six vehicles to hit. That's a disappointment 
 for many, but when I play non-career mode, I'm always finding myself in Road Rage, where they game 
 really shines. 
  
  At first I felt the game was slow, even while boosting, but that was with Compact and Muscle (the 
 car selection is set up like in Burnout 3) , but when I to unlock the Assassin Super, it all changed. 
 Suddenly the game felt almost too fast and that brought about more fun.
  
  The game makes little use of the touch screen. One can use it for navigating menus, performing 
 Aftertouch, and Crashbreaker, but all of those can be done with the standard controls. In most 
 game types the bottom screen shows a map of the race, any accomplishments during that race, and 
 for the most part, it shows a car diagram, what percentage of "health" you car has, and sections 
 of your car That have taken damage where yellow is 'no problems' and red is 'big problems'. I don't 
 look at it much, but it's still nice to have.
  
  The game controls extremely well, for a system that is pretty much the SNES controller. The game 
 offers two selections for button placement, where one can use "style A" where the A=Gas, B=Brake, 
 X=Look Back, and R=Boost, for those who like that sort of thing, and much to my surprise, "style 
 B" where R=Gas, L=Brake, Y=Look Back, and A=Boost, which is quite refreshing.
  
  The game is a bit on the easy side, with tracks taken from the first three Burnout games, but with 
 springy walls (in some places) like in Burnout 2 or 3, which is understandable since one is dealing 
 with a small screen and digital controls.
  
  The in-game soundtrack thankfully has no EA Trax, not even MIDI versions, but instead it has generic 
 rock and drum & bass, which is also generic, but not horrible by any means. If one doesn't like 
 the music, the volume for music and Sound Effects are on separate sliders. 
  
  Bottom Line, if one is looking for a portable "Crash Mode", pass this game up, but if one can overlook 
 the poor "Crash Mode", they should be delighted to find that EA does publish at least one decent 
 DS racing game.
  
  But if one is conflicted between Mario Kart DS and Burnout Legends DS, go with Mario Kart DS,
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boberson
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 7, 2005 9:36 am PT
Review:  One of my friend bought this game and I played it. If you are expecting anything even close to 
 the console versions then forget it. The A. I is terrible, they just go in a written line everytime 
 u play the game. There is pretty much no need for the bottom screen, seriously who cares to look 
 at the map on a burnout game when the game is so fast. EA needs to learn how to use the touch screen 
 function or something and maybe nintendo needs to have better developmental tools. This is just 
 plain bad.
  The graphics are pretty good compared to the other racers on DS but that just doesnt cut it.
 
  In short this game sucks and do not waste your money on it no matter how much you love burnout. 
 This game is probably the worst game for the DS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jpatnaude04
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 2:17 am PT
Review:  At first it was very disapointing, after a few hours of play it grew on me a lil. the game play 
 is very loose. steering feels like your moving the track and not the car. the graphics are mediocre, 
 the graphics feel like a poor N64 game the no one would have liked. The sound is just horrible, 
 tires screeching and crashes sound just poor, music is better left off! Now for the good (yes thier 
 are some good points) for a DS game and what they tried to port its not that bad, you will get 
 use to the game play if you give it a chance but the audio is just god awful. 
  
  If you have a PSP get it for that its amazing!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: popula91
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 2:01 pm PT
Review:  doesnt deserve to be called a burnout game you move very slow and the graphics really suck when 
 you crash its one of the worst games ive ever played the sound is pretty decent but the over all 
 gameplay sucks it has very few unlockables and the game is extremly easy it should take you about 
 a hour to beat it and it is absoulutly boring to play over again you can not do any thig to your 
 car such as add decals or paint it you might as well trow it out the door or pawn it but if you 
 really like burnout games than buy it but let me warn you will be very very very disapointed you 
 should just over well avoid this game altogether 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomas223
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 6, 2005 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Very bad graphics, doesn't use touch screen for any GOOD reasons whatsoever. PSP version way better. 
 Cars are ugly as can be. Tracks would be confusing if it weren't for the bottom screen. Not really 
 a get up and go game. Doesn't boast of DS features. Worst game in Burnout series. Played it once, 
 never will again. Would have been better if it would have cars likE NFS most wanted for ds. It 
 does have all the normal things the other burnout games have, but that didn't distract me from 
 lame physics and stupid graphics. Buy another version, not this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickMach9
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:06 am PT
Review:  Ok i played this game on the PSP and it ruled hardcore. so i figured hey! ill get it for DS cuz 
 i love the DS and why not? well i got it. *crap* yeah, the controls are really weird, very stiff 
 and akward, the game looks fine i guess, i know that the DS could handle a little bit more but 
 w/e. the game is also very repeptive and boring after about 10 minutes. The soundtrack couldv been 
 way better too! gah!
  The races are pretty fast but the dull colors and weird controls make any takedown almost impossible, 
 it becomes more of a chore rather than fun :/ yeah dont get this game for DS. you should buy it 
 for one of the consoles, and i say that only because i have a DS and dont wanna tell you to get 
 a PSP. yup thats just how it goes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColorblindMonk
Rating: 2.6
Date: Dec 5, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  The intro was okay and the pics you get for signature takedowns are sweet, but sadly, that's it. 
 The controls were clunky, the graphics were poor, and spent less than 30 minutes playing before 
 putting it in my closet. The different modes of the game makes me wonder why a crash mode was ever 
 made if you can't make more than 100,000 dollars of damage. The gameplay, during races, is just 
 unbearable. If you tap a car, you crash. If you drive headlong into a wall, there's a strong chance 
 you'll magically grind against the wall and you're still in the race. I feel like a drunken guy 
 on a tricycle. It's a game not worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore89
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 5, 2005 5:01 pm PT
Review:  when i first picked up this game. I thought it would be a fun arcade racer
  what could go wrong? but everything about this game went wrong and i mean everything there i dont 
 think there is one single strength this game has. I thought it was fun for the first 5 minutes 
 but got old very fast. the gameplay feels like a old gameboy color racer where just the background 
 moves it feels like your not even moving. the graphics can be way better. sound you might like if 
 you love just a bunch of guitar cords screeched togther i just turned the sound off. The value 
 is ok it has a lot of diffrent modes to entertain you for each about 2 minutes like crash mode 
 
  and pursuit mode. im not saying the ds is a bad sytem there are some games like tony hawk that 
 i think are awesome. just dont get your hopes up
  for a ea games ds title to a great console game cause it ends up being some mediocore game like 
 rouge agent. so do yourself a favor take the game outside and burnit just like the title of the 
 game. i only recommend
  it to raceing fans or burnout fans who dont expect to much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PunisherAB
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This game was going to be great! I wanted this game, so bad, NOT ANY MORE.... : (
  This version was going to be as good as the PSP version. But it's pure crap. This is a crappy port 
 of a a great game. EA shame on you; You should have tooking more time to made the game and A. I. 
 better, Because the A. I. is so retarded, the Graphic are bad, and the Game-play is poor.
  
  EA, Next time if you want to make money, make atleast a solid game that good, beacuse this game 
 make even My Nintendo DS system cry in pain, when "Burnout Legends" is in it.
  
  I give it a F-
  For a Crappy, Retarded port of a Good PSP game.
  
  AB Crew 2005 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comelstr
Rating: 1.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is so bad that i can not beleve this this game came from EA wtf is wrong with them they 
 havent made a good ds game yet well lest get on with it
  
  this game is like the GOOD psp verson with graphis that are kinda good well its ds anyway the game 
 play is simlar to burnout revange ot any burnout but this game is so crappy that this is the worst 
 burnout game ever made the AI is so bad that u coude win every single race 
  
  Dont Buy This game if u like raceing go buy mairo kart ds its much better or Buy the PSP version 
 of burnout legends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nanabasher999
Rating: 1.7
Date: Dec 2, 2005 8:34 am PT
Review:  This game looked good and sounded good in the trailer. But when you hold it and play it! BAH! Its 
 a crap game, id probably say they tried to attract attention with the soundtrack, But that still 
 doesnt work. The AI would be better if they would of used PACMAN, It feels like the whole game 
 is repeated while you sit and stare and move. The game is a big dissapoint ment , ITS TRUE. If 
 your skeptical and dont believe me. Buy it yourself and Then come crawiling back. Its cash going 
 straight to EA to produce MORE and more crap. 
  Please help us let EA know we demand better quality games for that price. I hope to see a better 
 burnout game for the DS later, IF THEY HAD ANY SENSE.
  So overall id say ONLY accept this game from your grandad or something, because he'd probably think 
 its the game for you, otherwise its NOT worth spending money on. Id rather just feed it to ducks...
 
  Mmm.. ducks....
  Mmm... Bucks in ducks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonofJosiah
Rating: 4.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes for this game. I had hear not-great things about the other racing games for the 
 DS and I love the Burnout series so I figured that this was my ticket: a great game on a great 
 system. Boy was I wrong.
  
  It seems like everything that was fun about the Burnout series got left out of this game. The thrill 
 of driving, the great crashes, the addictive gameplay, all not there. The cars control more like 
 gocarts than cars and even they don't do that so well. There are clipping issues with the cars 
 vis-a-vis the walls, especially when you crash. Attempting to take your opponents down is really 
 difficult because the usual bump-from-the-side doesn't seem to do anything, but there are times 
 when ramming an opponent from behind will take them down instantly. The crash mode is rediculous. 
 The interestions are massively huge and there is little traffic to be seen, let alone being able 
 to see how to hit what little there is.
  
  There are some occasional fun moments, but they get lost inside of the gamepaly issues. I love 
 racing games and I am really forgiving when it comes to them, but I am getting rid of this game 
 tomorrow. Not worth the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 1, 2005 8:11 pm PT
Review:  I love Burnout. I love my Nintendo DS. I don't love games where there is no skill to winning the 
 game. This is one of them. In Burnout DS, your opponents, instead of being ruthless on the track, 
 trying to destroy your car at any cost, just follow a simple line pattern, one after the other 
 & go around the track. They stay just far enough behind to seem like a challenge & only go far 
 enough ahead so you can easily catch back up... basically...
  
  THERE IS NO AI!!! Period, everything is on preset patterns. This is miserable junk. I refuse to 
 even right a review on the graphics or sound more than I have on forums. This is like Big Rigs 
 (if you have seen this game review, you know what I mean, if not, go read it & see what I mean) 
 just it has much better graphics. Thank you EA, you have finally made a game so utterly repulsive, 
 that I am RETURNING a DS game. Even Marvel Nemesis didn't do that to me.
  
  In conclussion, EA needs to take this graphics engine and make a game where cars have different 
 stats & there is an AI. This is garbage, plain & simple. (Look for this game to be reviewed by 
 Alex Navarro) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
