-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Bust-A-Move DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/puzzlebobble/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid touch screen support.
 A whopping 500 puzzles to play through.
 Loses the freaky art style of Super Bust-A-Move.
 Good multiplayer support.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Overly difficult to line up shots with D pad controls.
 Weak AI.
 Loses the freaky art style of Super Bust-a-Move.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 12, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.5, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 221 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Happy Happening
Genre: Matching Puzzle
Date: Dec 6, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The addition of touch screen support could have ruined Bust-A-Move DS, but its solid execution, 
 along with a great number of puzzles and economical multiplayer support, keeps things fun. 

 
  The bubble-bobbling puzzle series arrives on the Nintendo DS with the aptly named Bust-A-Move 
 DS. Hardcore Bust-A-Move fans, if there is such a thing, might be a little put off by the gameplay 
 tweaks made in this version, and, in some ways, the package feels a little spartan. Still, Bust-A-Move 
 DS delivers plenty of fun and familiar puzzle action with its five-player support and the huge 
 number of puzzles to play through.  

          Bub and Bob bring their love (or is it hate?) of bubbles to the DS.     

  This is still 
 Bust-A-Move, which means you're still launching colored bubbles from the bottom of the screen at 
 like-colored bubbles suspended from the top to clear them all. What makes Bust-A-Move DS unique 
 is the way in which you launch the bubbles. Previous Bust-A-Move games gave you an arrow to aim 
 with, but on the DS, you can use the touch screen to launch bubbles with a small slingshot -- just 
 touch the bubble with the stylus, drag down, and let go. Since you no longer have the arrow on 
 the top screen, a guideline is added that goes about a quarter of the way up onto the top screen, 
 which makes aiming much easier. The touch screen controls can take some getting used to, but they 
 prove to be a fun and tactile way to play the game.  

  The touch screen controls are also pretty sensitive, which makes them good for setting up tricky, 
 precise bank shots; but, it can make them exceedingly difficult to use if you happen to be in transit, 
 since the smallest bump can send your aim way off. For this reason, Bust-A-Move DS also gives you 
 the classic D pad control options. Though easier to use in turbulent situations, the D pad doesn't 
 provide the same precise level of control as the touch screen, and you'll often find yourself tapping 
 back and forth on the D pad just to get the angle that you need. Both control schemes can feel 
 compromised at times, but the touch screen controls are unquestionably superior.  

  No matter how you play Bust-A-Move DS, though, there's a good amount of content to play with. The 
 bulk of the single-player game lies in the puzzle mode, where you can play through a whopping 250 
 puzzles and then unlock an additional 250 puzzles after that. The endless mode tests your endurance 
 by continually pushing down fresh rows of bubbles from the top of the screen until the screen either 
 fills up or you break down crying, whichever comes first. There's also a versus CPU mode, which 
 pits you against up to four different artificial intelligence opponents at once, though the AI 
 doesn't put up an incredible challenge, and the games tend to be over rather quickly. More entertaining, 
 though, is the multiplayer mode, which is identical to the versus CPU mode, but lets you play against 
 four other flesh-and-blood opponents using a single copy of the game.  

          Touch screen support helps keep Bust-A-Move DS feeling fresh.     

  After the Flash 
 animation fever-dream art style of Super Bust-A-Move and Ultra Bust-A-Move, it was a relief to 
 see that things have gone back to the basics for Bust-A-Move DS. The exponentially increasing cast 
 of indescribably freaky misfits found in those games has been almost entirely cast aside, putting 
 the focus back on Bub and Bob -- the cute little dragons that launched the franchise in the first 
 place. Though you probably won't be paying too much attention, the character sprites have been 
 redrawn with greater care, providing them with a little more depth. It's not impressive from a 
 technical standpoint, and the art style isn't especially inventive, but the whole package has a 
 nice, clean look with a good attention to detail and a vibrant color palette. The background music 
 is equally optimistic, bouncing between circus music and poppy little jingles.  

  Though there are not many surprises in Bust-A-Move DS, the gamble taken with the touch screen support 
 ends up paying off and proves to be a good shot in the arm for what is otherwise a tried-and-true 
 puzzler. There are a good number of puzzles for you to sink your teeth into when flying solo, and 
 the multiplayer makes it easy to play a game with anyone who has a DS, making this a somewhat modest, 
 yet well-rounded, package.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ZanarkandTidus
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  This is a lot like the other Bust A Move games I've played except the aiming works better. The puzzle 
 mode has hundreds of puzzles and there is good variation in the type of challenge and strategy 
 they pose. The endless endurance mode is you keep playing until you lose and the screen fills with 
 more bubbles constantly and is quite challenging. The VS mode can be against the CPU and it's quite 
 easy but 4 human players can play eachother using one copy of the game for extra replay value.
 
  
  You can select dinosaurs, other creatures and humans as your character and they look very cute and 
 colorful.
  
  The graphics are very colorful overall, the bubbles comes in a nice variety of bright colors and 
 the environments come in variety from very colorful or with cute illustrations.
  
  The only thing I didn't like about the graphics was the orange and red bubbles look so similiar 
 on the DS's smaller screen. Also when you pick a monster you see 2 twins of that monster instead 
 of being able to pick 2 different monsters like on other versions. This is one of the most colorful, sharpest 
 and best looking versions of Bust A Move I have ever played, and even more it's on a handheld console!
 
  
  The sling shot shooting style is very cute and a nice change to the traditional mechanical launcher.
 
  
  The music is still very cutsey, so is the typical Bust A MOVE reeeeeeady gowwwww!!! sound. For more 
 difficult puzzles the music can speed up while still sounding charming.
  
  If you like puzzle games and want a good one that's portable, here is a good choice and is a nice 
 change to Tetris. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopy_101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Bust-A-Move has always been looked at a cutesy puzzle game made by Taito during the mid 90s. It 
 managed to combine the two famous game dinosaurs, Bub and Bob (from Bubble Bobble) and tag them 
 to a game which simply involved making a line of bubbles in the same colour in which they would 
 pop afterwards. 
  
  The formula worked and it led to various sequals on multiple systems ranging from the good ole' 
 Super Nintendo to the present day systems like Xbox, and more receantly, Nintendo Wii. Most of 
 this versions played the same with the exception of the obvious cosmetic face lifts made to the 
 visuals.
  
  So getting back to the review, this version of Bust-A-Move is different to the rest in the series. 
 It is different in that it tries a innovotive style of control involving both of the major features 
 in the Nintendo DS: It's touch capabilities and two screens. So just how exactly do these changes 
 actually peform when in action? Well, fantastic.
  
  Bust-A-Move isn't famous for it's graphics and it doesn't try to make tech demo out of it's 3D 
 visuals either. At best, you're looking at a bright colourful and whacky game that we've come to 
 expect from the series, which is all good even if it looks more like a GBA game with two screens.
 
  
  The game runs fast and smooth, which is always good, even in a puzzle game and the visual style 
 is just wonderful to stare at.
  
  It is the same case with the audio. Bust-A-Move DS has a very energentic soundtrack, it isn't something 
 that is perhaps as memorible as in other puzz; e games like Tetris, but you'll like it's unique 
 take on music also.
  
  Gameplay is obviously how Bust-A-Move DS attempts to sell it's copies, atleast to more serious 
 gamers anyway. The gameplay of Bust-A-Move was likeable to begin with although never in a way that 
 makes it stand out from the rest of the puzzle genre.
  
  Be glad that Nintendo invented the innovotion of the touch screen however because Bust-A-Move DS 
 uses it really well. The touch screen makes precision much easier on Bust-A-Move DS which is both 
 a positive and negative thing. 
  
  It's positive because newcomers will be able to easily pick up and play this game even if they're 
 very casual gamers. Puzzle games try desperatly hard to suit all gamers and Bust-A-Move DS has 
 come pretty close to totally delievering that experience. It's also negative though because Bust-A-Move 
 DS can sometimes be too easy and that applies to everyone who plays it.
  
  Let me explain, because of the touch guidance added to Bust-A-Move DS, control is much more free 
 compared to it's predessors, there is even a line pointing to where the bubble you're about to 
 shoot is expected to land which was never used throughout the entire game of the prequels.
  
  Also Bust-A-Move DS benefits from unlimited continues, once again unlike it's predessors, which 
 makes the game even less of a challange than you've originally expect. 
  
  Of course also, the game can become cheap and while there is swap feature for storing an extra 
 bubble for when it's needed, the game tries to make you lose by purposly giving the wrong colour 
 which could lead to possible fustrations.
  
  Gamers who don't wish to be part of the touch revolution also have the option of using the buttons 
 and control pad although unfortunatly it isn't designed anything like the old Bust-A-Move games 
 and is fiddly because of it.
  
  There is also little variety in modes and no real story mode which is a real blow if you expect 
 to see the next adventures of Bub and Bob, although Bust-A-Move does make up for this. 
  
  It is a really long game! Boasting 500 puzzles in total (counting the secret ones) . Also Bust-A-Move 
 contains a variety of secrets, not just the levels, including an extra character, sound test and 
 many others.
  
  In the end, Bust-A-Move is a likeable game thanks to mainly to the uniquely different control making 
 better use of the DS than other titles at the time of it's release. However it fails to truely 
 bring a Bust-A-Move sequal to DS despite these changes and could also be compelted alot faster 
 than the previous games in the series again, simply because of how easy it is in comparison.
  
  Casual gamers will love this game, especially if they want something to introduce them to the 
 puzzle genre and the DS itself, but other gamers are better off finding themselves Mr Driller or 
 Bomberman if they want a real challange instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  This game I had started on eons ago and just started picking it up and playing it again to try 
 to finish it and I did, well the orignal 5 levels at least.. The game is bright, colorful, and 
 addictive if it doesnt give you a headache at first like it did me.. The game based on the old 
 arcade game has you use the stylus to fire colored balls out of a slingshot into the top area of 
 the screen where the objective is to clear the top of all colored balls.. :) You can choose a character 
 at the start which I think effects the amount of colors of different types of balls you receive.. 
 There are characters from the Bubble Bobble games and some others as well.. There is a extra ball 
 that you can choose to switch with whatever color is currently in the slingshot which can be very 
 useful at times.. The next color that will be in the slingshot is also shown so you can do some 
 planning on where to fire your balls.. The game actually is really easy but can be frustrating 
 at times when you repeatedly fail a level.. The games music is somewhat annoying and the sound 
 effects add to the addictive factor of the game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimBurber
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  Bust a move DS fairs well at being a somewhat challenging single player puzzle game. It excells 
 at being a fun multiplayer battle, but has relatively limited diversity in its gameplay. This installment 
 in the series seems very lacking in certain degrees of its content. There is very little unlockable 
 content. All the puzzle stages are available to you from the get go, there is no level advancement 
 in the puzzle stages as in previous bust a move installments. There are a few unlockable characters, 
 but there is no difference whatsover in what character you are using except the pattern of the 
 color bubbles you shoot, so it is possible to beat your best times with one character with another. 
 For the most part though, the puzzles are lackluster in presentation, as you just pick from a list 
 of puzzle sets and try to set high scores in times.
  
  All in all, if you know somebody that has this game, stick to playing multiplayer with them. It's 
 not worth the buy if you don't have anyone to play against anyway.
  
  On a plus note, surprisingly, the touch screen aspect adds a new twist to the challenge of aiming. 
 It seems surprisingly easy to aim your bubbles in the exact trajectory that you are plannin on 
 shooting them. Also with the ability to bounce bubbles off the roof you get another angle to play 
 with in popping those pesky bubbles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5UPERMARIO
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  For those that do not know of Bust a Move, think of Tetris Upside down with colored bubbles. The 
 bubbles come down the screen and you have to use your DS Touch Screen Slingshot to shoot bubbles 
 up the screen to make 3 or more bubbles of the same colour connect. This makes the bubbles disappear, 
 and when all the bubbles are cancelled out and gone, the level is complete.
  
  + There are HUNDREDS of levels in this version of Bust a Move
  
  + You can switch between using 
 the D-PAD or Touch screen to aim your bubble shooter, slingshooting your bubbles is original and 
 fun!
  
  + Graphics are very colorful and bright on the DS
  
  - The D-PAD control scheme is very hard to use and aim your bubbles, use the touch screen!
  
 
  This is probably the best Bust a Move game out there and puzzle games in general rarely get as 
 good as this. Addictive and Fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Bust-a-Move DS is simply a fun little puzzle game. There isn't really that much more to say about 
 the title. The game is based on the idea of launching colored orbs into clusters that disappear 
 when more than three of the same color are touching (think Snood mixed with Columns) . The touch 
 screen control is flawless, with players having the option to use the d-pad as well. The game is 
 not overly complicated, but is well presented and is a perfect fit for the DS. From the use of 
 both screens, to the use of the touch screen, to the perfect bite-sized length of puzzles, this 
 is the perfect portable Nintendo puzzle game. Players may be surprised how difficult this title 
 is to put down once you start playing. Fans of puzzle games, or anyone looking for something a 
 little different for their DS, owe it to themselves to check this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDRGodsgift2man
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 29, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  I got hooked onto this series at the age of 8, and even now I act like a kid playing this game. 
 As far as I see it, there's really nothing new in the series, except for the fact that there are 
 two screens, and you can slingshot the bubbles to their destination.
  I've had my stupid moments with this game, such as Why are my bubbles going weird?? and my answer 
 was Duh, cause your left handed, change it. Does it really matter, though?
  Another thing that bothered me was the use of the stylus/touch screen. You can have the greatest 
 aim in the world, and still misjudge with the touch screen. After two hours of hair-pulling, I 
 was forced to change into the directional pad movement, which gave me relief that there was such 
 an option in the game.
  Despite, the somewhat weird setback, I would advise that all puzzle-lovers alike should look into 
 the bubbly-fun game.
  NO arguments! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodimus_prime85
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 29, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Bust a Move has always been an addictive game, and the DS version is no exception, adding a slightly 
 new way of playing only avaliable thanks to the DS's touch screen.
  I haven't played a Bust A Move game since Bust a Move 2 on the N64, since I was keen on all the 
 'updates' of 3, Super and Ultra, however Bust A Move DS brings back the simple gameplay that made 
 Bust A Move 2 so addictive, including a few of the decent extra's implied in later games.
  The back of the box rather stupidly lies to you, it says there are 2 modes, when in fact, there 
 are 4. Typucal Puzzle mode which asks you to pop your way through 250 puzzles (And I've just unlocked 
 an even harder set of another 250) , and my personal fave, the Endless mode which is forever bringing 
 more bubbles down on top of you as you franticly try to clear them. as time goes on, you get less 
 and less time to line up your shot and more different coloured bubbles are added. Theres a Vs. 
 CPU mode which is the same as the final mode, Multi-Play, only with stupid opponants that lose 
 every time.
  Special bubbles include the Star Bubble which will elliminate all of the cloured bubbles it touches. 
 Rainbow Ball which will get rid of the same cloured bubbles it is attached to, and the Metal Ball 
 which destroys everything in its path. The latter is a little too powerful and when used in Endless 
 Mode can completly clear screen if used right, however you won't recieve any points. Also, new 
 to the DS version is the ability to store a bubble, which is handy to keep if you have a metal 
 bubble for anytime your about to bite the bullet.
  The final feature of the game is the Chain reaction which with keep any excess bubbles you drop 
 off by popping the bubble its attached to, then flies back up on the screen popping the appropreate 
 coloured bubble in a chain, much like the classic Coloums. this is great fun to watch especially 
 when the bubbles get dangerously close to the bottom and you spot a chain reaction which keeps 
 going further then you had noticed to clear the screen in 6x chain.
  The use of the touch screen is very accurate, unfortuantly, the same can't be sad for the D-Pad. 
 And while riding in a car, the bumps of the road can oftern compermise your aim. However this won't 
 be a problem if your driving the car since you shouldn't be playing the DS anyway. Switching to 
 D-Pad controls wll fix this, but again, its just not quite as accurate. When not in the car however, 
 the touch screen is seriosuly the only way to play the game, and it makes you wonder how you ever 
 managed with a D-Pad.
  Overall, B-A-M DS is bright, enjoyable and most of all what you want froma good puzzle game - addictive. 
 Out of my 9 game collection for the DS, this is the one I can't put down, allways striving to beat 
 my 2,000,000 high score on endless mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheRRybuRneR
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a rare thing to happen, it's a DS game that feels so natural to control using the stylus, 
 you'll wonder why you hesitated to buy it in the first place. The sling shot is the revolutionary 
 way of controlling this game and boy it works! Alas if you a pro BAM player like me, you can't 
 take the guide off, but this is for the stylus to see where you are pointing on the top screen 
 - the colour of the line also refers to the colour of the bubble in play, this is useful for no 
 taking your eye off the top screen at critical decisions. The other new element is you can hold 
 a bubble to use for later on in the puzzle, this is a life saver as in old BAM's you can end up 
 "firing off" too many times, and the screen goes down too fast. This really is for both the hardcore 
 fans and the newbie BAM player, as it's not too hard too quickly. I haven't played multiplayer 
 yet, but this is one of the best modes as you can play against 2 computers vs 2 players or any 
 of the permutations in between! The best bit is you can see their screens!!!! - how many bubbles 
 they have or check out if they have a nasty "grapevine" of a dropper lined up!
  
  Conclusion - What are you waiting for? - this is what you need!
  
  (see my review on Bust a 
 Move Deluxe / Ghost - it's a whole different story!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Writer1983
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 10, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  I'm completely new to the Bust-A-Move games.. I haven't played any (unless you count the crappy 
 cell-phone rip-off, "Snood") I've never even seen one in motion! Unbelievable, for someone who 
 calls herself a hardcore puzzle-gamer, right? 
  
  Anyways, the whole idea of the game is to aim your bubble shooter so that it launches colored bubbles 
 from the bottom of the screen at like-colored bubbles suspended from the top to clear them all. 
 However, with time, more bubbles are created at the top, forcing the existing bubbles down. If 
 they reach a certain point, you lose. Its that simple.
  
  Thankfully, there are various special bubbles that you can use to help you correct mistakes or 
 otherwise simply clear the playing field more rapidly. These bubbles include a star bubble that 
 clears all bubbles of the same color as that which it comes into contact with, a bomb bubble that 
 destroys immediately adjacent bubbles regardless of their color, and 
  a metal bowling ball bubble that simply carves a canyon through any mass of bubbles at which 
 it is fired. Now, if the game simply forced you to use these bubbles when they happened to appear, 
 there might be very little strategy to their application. 
  However, since you can store a bubble for later use in a holding area, its possible to plan for 
 the use of a particular power-up, and it makes their inclusion a valuable element of the gameplay. 
 Normal colored bubbles can be stored in the holding area, as well.
  
  Special bubbles in the playing field also affect the gameplay. Namely, there are rainbow bubbles 
 that become the color of whatever bubbles are popped adjacent to it, as well as obstacle bubbles 
 that cannot be removed through conventional means  only via power-ups or by removing their foundational 
 bubbles.
  
  What makes Bust-A-Move DS unique is the way in which you launch the bubbles. On the DS, you can 
 use the touch screen to launch bubbles with a small slingshot -- just touch the bubble with the stylus, 
 drag down, and let go. To help you out, a guideline is added that goes about a quarter of the way 
 up onto the top screen, which makes aiming much easier. The touch screen controls can take some 
 getting used to, but they prove to be a fun and surprisingly tactile way to play the game.
  
  There is another way to play (say if you are playing in the car or on a bus) you can use the 
 D-pad to aim and buttons to shoot, but I found that quite a bit less accurate during play!
  
  There are three main play modes in all: Puzzle, Endless, and Versus. Puzzle mode sends you 
 through a series of ten pre-engineered situations where you have to try and clear the playing field 
 as quickly as possible. Upon completion, every second you score under the one-minute mark earns 
 you big points. 
  
  Note: If you get a Game Over during ten puzzles in a world, you have to start over from the first 
 one in that world. On several of the most challenging puzzles, it was such a pain to have to re-do 
 certain puzzle sets over again, so I simply plugged in my ds, and put it in sleep mode overnight 
 while I took a break! I beat that puzzle first thing the next morning!)
  The levels in Puzzle mode are split into five numbered worlds. Each world contains five lettered 
 sets of puzzles (A, B, C, D, E) that contain ten puzzles apiece. That makes for 250 puzzles total. 
 However, factor in the five additional unlockable worlds and youve got a whopping 500 puzzles 
 to work through!
  
  Endless mode is your traditional Bust-A-Move action/puzzle design. Youll play until you lose, 
 and each time you score a certain number of bubbles youll advance to a new background and music 
 (standard fare, but fun) . Combos really come in handy here, as its quite possible to set off a 
 waterfall of bubbles if you play your cards right. Though it takes some getting used to, Bust-A-Move 
 veterans will be pleased with the simplicity and speed of the touch-screen interface, as theyll 
 be able to rack up higher scores more quickly rather than wait for the aiming reticule to move 
 each and every time.
  
  Finally, versus mode is exactly like multiplayer mode. Youll choose up to four opponents and then 
 duke it out with them all at once. The way this works is essentially last man standing; however, 
 youll be able to take advantage of power-up jewels to make life harder on your rivals. Its easy 
 to use a power-up jewel: just drag it from its resting place at the bottom of your screen and release 
 it overtop of a picture of one of your enemies to the right. You can even counter power-ups used 
 against you if youre quick. In terms of wireless multiplayer, up to five people can play in a 
 slick simultaneous tournament  with just one cartridge (multiple-cartridge play is also supported) . 
 
  
  Thats pretty much all there is to it. Bust-A-Move DS might not be complicated, but it will keep 
 you busy for quite some time, and its pretty challenging to boot. Also, the music is really peppy 
 and fun to listen to, as well! (Though in one stage, played over and over, it can get quite repetitive)
 
  
  I, personally, haven't put down the game since I got it.. It's got a permanent place in my DS. Surprisingly, 
 it's not the Endless mode I keep coming back to, but the Puzzle Mode! And make no mistake, there 
 are LOTS of those! 
  
  I haven't got to try out multiplayer or Vs CPU, yet (too busy with the Puzzle Mode!) but I have 
 no doubt that it will be a blast! I'm almost sorry I didn't get to try this one out before, but 
 the special stylus-driven "aim/shoot" reticule gives this game it's charm.. although bank-shots 
 are sometimes hard to pull off! And, at $20 a pop, you really have no reason not to try this game 
 out, unless you really, really hate puzzle games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falcomaster
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 15, 2006 1:05 pm PT
Review:  have you played the mini game on mario 64 DS? you know the wario mini game with the bombs dropping 
 from the top screen and you have to knock them down with the sling shot at the bottom screen. its 
 pretty much the same control sceme but just different game play. but just like the mini game once 
 you begin playing you just cant get your hands off it, its a verry addictive game an is also enjoyable 
 but you can kind of get bored of the same routen. but its a great game, i kinda play it a lot myself 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KdR_Hayabusa
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I just bought game today and i been waiting for a long time to get it also because it been out 
 of stock for a long time. Any ways when i first played it . it was like playing the original 1 
 but much more unique because you aim it your self and its faster to aim when u aim it your self 
 because if you use the buttons then it would take longer. The characters are cute also. shooting 
 the ball up and finding a way to break all of em is hard because you need to be very fast and accurate. 
 Because u have with in 1 min to get the time bonus points. This game is truly fun and addictive 
 and it only cost 20 bucks !!!! cheap!!!!! BUY IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Bub and Bob, the heroes from Bubble Bobble, have been making regular appearances for the past several 
 years in their puzzle spin-off Bust-A-Move series of games. A new twist on shooting the bubbles, 
 along with catchy music and rapid gameplay, make this an addictive little addition to your DS arsenal.
 
  The game is the same as it has been for years: shoot your own bubbles at an advancing array of 
 variously colored bubbles. Get 3 of the same color to link, and they fall away. Clear them all 
 to advance to the next level, or watch your game end if they creep past an endline. Season with 
 some special bubbles that often allow to save the day at the last minute, and you get this fun 
 title.
  The game utilizes the touchscreen well by allowing you to use the stylus to pull back a slingshot 
 to fling your bubbles from the bottom touchscreen up to the top screen playfield. (Purists need 
 not worry, as you can still use the controls on the DS to rotate an aiming device instead.) The 
 tunes are jazzy enough, change up often enough, and are inoffensive enough, that you never feel 
 the need to shut off the speakers. The 500 puzzles for puzzle mode will keep you busy for quite 
 some time, with some devilishly tough to complete. The addition of both single and multi-card wireless 
 play adds to the replayability.
  The main negative is that if you get the wrong reflection off the screen, you can confuse red and 
 orange, and grey and black, leading to you thinking you've got a match, when you've actually made 
 things worse for yourself. You may also find the small screen occasionally makes it tough to line 
 things up just right, and shooting a bubble into a gap at the far end of the top screen will take 
 a bit of practice and patience.
  The pure simplicity, and occasionally frantic pace, of the gameplay are what have made this series 
 so addicting, and this version is no exception. The graphics are puzzle-game standard: not fantasic, 
 but not awful. The sounds are a notch above, with a multitude of fanfares playing across the various 
 levels. Multiple single and multi-player game modes, with a ton of puzzles to solve, keep the value 
 high. Most people like having at least on "Tetris-y" title in their handheld library, and if you're 
 only getting one, this should get serious consideration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Bust-a-Move has seen many different forms across various systems. This latest one takes all the 
 fun of former versions and, thanks to the DS' touchscreen, completely refreshes the gameplay, making 
 it worth the time of those both familiar or new to the series.
  
  Gameplay- 8- The basic Bust-a-Move gameplay is just as it has always been... get 3 or more like-colored 
 bubbles to touch by shooting them at the puzzle or bubble area to try & clear the area or stay 
 above the bottom line (in endless/vs. mode) . This gameplay is in no way new, though. What makes 
 it better is the new touchscreen mechanic to sling the bubbles. This allows for much more precise 
 aiming of the bubbles. Another nice feature is that depending on how far back you pull, will depend 
 on if there is a guiding line or not, giving a sort of in-game difficulty option.
  
  Graphics- 6- Everything here is pretty bland & 2D, its just a refreshment of older, familiar graphic, 
 but it's a puzzler, graphics aren't always that big. But everything is presented crisp & clean, 
 which is always nice to see.
  
  Sound- 6- Classic sounds, once again, refreshed
  
  Value- 9- Thanks to many puzzle levels, endless mode, and 1P vs. 4 other COM players at a time, 
 you can easily be entertained for hours on end. And up to 5 people playing off one card? You gotta 
 love that!
  
  Tilt- 9- Which is why I love this game. No more dial-like controls, I can shoot as fast as the 
 screen let's me. It's a great change. Bust-a-Move belongs here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icarus_37
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2005 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Just got this game, played it for just 15min and im already addicted to it. I picked up the game 
 in about 5 min, its simple to learn. Puzzle mode is great, fun, addictive and will have you popping 
 bubbles all day long. Char selection is 8 choices including Bub, Bob, and Dev. I use the touch 
 screen (who wouldnt? :) ) and it only takes few min to adjust to the game using them both. You 
 aim on the bottom screen and your Puzzle is on the Top screen. You have a little aimer so you can 
 make shots without having to worry about blind aim. Game is cute and fun, user friendly, all and 
 all an excellent game worth droping the $20 with out a doubt. If you like puzzle games or Bubble 
 Bobble you should enjoy this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
