-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cake Mania
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/cakemania/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It's only $20.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The gameplay is repetitive and frustrating.
 There's no creativity involved--you just tap buttons.
 It's just not fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 5.8, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 117 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Digital Embryo
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Apr 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unless your idea of fun is to stress yourself out by performing menial tasks, you'll want to pass 
 on Cake Mania. 

  It's a well-known fact that cake is awesome, so it would stand to reason then that a game about 
 cake would be awesome as well. But that's not the case with Majesco's Cake Mania on the Nintendo 
 DS. Don't be fooled by the game's cover art, which makes the game look as if it's geared toward 
 young girls. Cake Mania is repetitive, frustrating, and surprisingly difficult.  

          Cake Mania is not nearly as delicious as it sounds. In fact, it's a serious problem not 
 to be taken lightly.     

  Cake Mania places you in the role of Jill, a young woman fresh out of culinary school. When she 
 returns home from school, she's shocked to learn that her grandparents' bakery has gone out of 
 business. Determined to "show the big bad big box business who's boss," Jill sets out to reopen 
 her grandparents' beloved bakery.  

  Cake Mania was originally a Flash game, so it makes sense that its gameplay isn't overly complicated. 
 You work in a bakery and it's your job to take customers' orders, bake cakes, decorate them, and 
 then serve them. The game is played entirely with the stylus, and you move and perform actions 
 by tapping a location or item on the touch screen. When customers walk in the door, you walk over 
 to them and tap the menu icon. After a few seconds, the cake they want to order appears onscreen, 
 and then you walk over to the oven and press the button that corresponds to what type of cake they 
 want. When the cake is ready, you carry it to the bottom of the screen and ice it. If they want 
 a decoration, you pick up the cake and press a button to decorate it. When it's all finished, you 
 take the cake to the customer, collect their payment, and do it all over again for the next customer. 

  This sounds easy, but it's really anything but. You almost always have more than one customer onscreen, 
 so you're constantly multitasking, which is often difficult because the icons onscreen are tiny 
 and it's easy to tap the wrong ones. Since each step in baking a cake takes a few seconds, one 
 mistake often means the difference between meeting the quota for the day and having to do the entire 
 level over. Certain customers, like Cupid and the Easter Bunny, are less patient than normal customers, 
 so you must make sure you tend to their needs before their patience meter runs out. You can hand 
 out cupcakes to refill the meter a bit, but the time it takes to go get a cupcake negates any positive 
 effect the cupcake has. You can upgrade your kitchen in a number of ways to help serve your customers 
 better. You can purchase a display case in which you can place a premade cake with a 20 percent 
 chance of selling, but you never have time to make extra cakes. Faster ovens, better microwaves, 
 and faster frosters will in theory help you get ahead, but by the time you're able to afford these 
 items, the customers are less patient and more particular about their cakes. If you were hoping 
 for some multiplayer action or some other types of game modes, you're out of luck; there's nothing 
 else to do here.  

          You might be able to squeeze a couple minutes of fun out of it, but the gameplay gets old 
 quickly.     

  Cake Mania isn't much to look at, either. It's extremely colorful, but the graphics are grainy, 
 and it seems as if little effort was put into optimizing the visuals for display on the DS. Many 
 of the icons are small, which makes them hard to tap and see. The audio isn't any better. There 
 are a few sound effects here and there, though they're not of a very high quality. The music isn't 
 very good at all, but the songs play quietly in the background where they're less likely to grate 
 on the nerves.  

  What it all boils down to is that running this bakery isn't a whole lot of fun. There's no creativity 
 involved -- you're just tapping icons. The game's also quite difficult, so you're constantly on edge 
 while you're playing. There are several different bakeries as well as a bonus quest, but the gameplay 
 is so repetitive that you're not likely to play long enough to enjoy it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Alkins9
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I've played Cake Mania online a few times, and enjoyed it. I mean, who wouldn't like a game that 
 allows you to build your own bakery and tend to customers? So, I bought the Ds version. Which ended 
 up being everything i hoped for, my own bakery in my own hands. The game starts off at a learners 
 rate, but when you advance in the game, it gets extremely hard and quick paced. Many times I ended 
 up becoming angry when I didn't make baker's goal. The game is awfully aggravating, but worth it. 
 I got it at a reasonable price, not very expensive. First glance at the case, It seems to be a 
 girlie child's game. Don't be fooled, the game is far from it.
  
  The plot is a young girl, Jill, returns from culinary school to find that her grandparent's bakery 
 has gone out of business. She embarks on a long journey to get the deed to her grandparents bakery 
 back. Jill makes her own plans, and starts up a business. Through out the game you serve to some 
 normal, and special occasion customers, like Business men, Food critiques, Easter bunnies, Santa, 
 and many more. she serves a variety of cake shapes (rectangles, circles, stars, and triangles, 
 pumpkins, hearts, and eggs on special occasions) with a variety of frosting (red, white, brown, 
 and purple) . The more money Jill makes, the more bakery equipment you can get, like more ovens, 
 frosting machines, cupcake microwave, display case, and even decoration and toppers for the cakes! 
 Things such as decorations and toppers will make the cakes cost more, the high the price, the better 
 the income. Also, the cupcake microwave gives out 4 cupcakes (how fast they regenerate depends 
 on how far you have upgraded it) which will make customers less angered. They display case holds 
 an extra cake, which has a 20% chance that a customer will want that cake. I've used the display 
 case for when I've accidentally clicked the wrong cake shape, frosting, or decoration, so that 
 I don't have to waste money throwing it away. In the game, Jill sells cakes at some unusual place, 
 such as a beach side, circus, and a casino. 
  
  The game is quite fun, yet it lacks an interesting plot. I mean the plots simple, and boring. But 
 the game overall is challenging, and gets intense. I would recommend it to anyone who really wants 
 to test themselves. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess_Jill
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Well, Jill is cute (Obviously, like, her name is JILL!) and the title would attract you! I mean, 
 who doesn't like cake!?
  
  You'd think at first that you'll be baking cake the same way you cook in Cooking Mama, then decorate 
 your cake as you love, fun, hmm? But guess what, no you don't... all you do is clicking on the shape 
 of the cake, then place it in the oven and wait for it to get ready, then choose the color, and 
 give it to the customer who ordered the cake you made.... boning, I know. Not only that, as you 
 proceed more, you have more and more customers, which gets terribly tiring after clicking on the 
 same things constantly -___-
  
  The good things about the game are the cute graphics ^__^ suitable for the DS, you might as well 
 buy it for a child who doesn't know how to play to mess with it, who knows? They might enjoy it 
 :P
  
  I'm kinda hoping they'd make a Cake Mania like Cooking Mama, maybe someday =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever been to a bakery before? I mean a real bakery, where they make all the stuff on the 
 premise, and you can go upstairs and watch men in white aprons bake huge, fancy cakes to be later 
 sold at an exorbitant price. I, for one, have always been fascinated by such spectacles. It's people 
 like me, then, that games like Cake Mania are likely geared toward. Originally a popular PC game, 
 Cake Mania has now been ported to the Nintendo DS.
  
  My one biggest gripe with Cake Mania for the DS is simply the fact that there's nothing much that's 
 all that impressive. Many games, at least within the first hour or so, show some sort of potential. 
 Perhaps the graphics are astounding, or the game play is particularly interesting, or the plot 
 is excellently set up. Well, the thing about Cake Mania is that there's really none of that.
  
  You, the player, take on the role of Jill. Her grandparents, the owners of a successful bakery, 
 have earned enough to send their granddaughter off to culinary school. Upon her return home, though, 
 Jill is met with a nasty surprise: her grandparents' bakery has been bought out by a large chain 
 of stores! Determined to put her grandparents back in business, Jill sets up her own bakery and 
 works out of home.
  
  In order to buy back the bakery, Jill has to work hard over quite a long period of time -- five 
 years, in fact. Each gaming session takes place over the course of one month, during which you'll 
 have to make a certain, quoted amount of money. This quota ranges from just a few hundred, in the 
 earlier levels, to a few thousand, once the game gets more difficult.
  
  Making money, at least at first, is a rather simple affair. Customers will queue up in your bakery, 
 and you merely have to fill their orders and get them their cake before they get so fed up that 
 they leave. A simple word bubble will appear over each customer's head once they decide upon their 
 order; each order will be expressed in terms of a picture. You must look at the small picture to 
 determine the shape of the cake your customer wants, the number of layers, the color frosting, 
 and any decorations.
  
  Cake Mania is played exclusively via the Nintendo DS stylus. Every action you perform in the game, 
 from baking to frosting to decorating cakes, is performed via very standard use of the touch screen. 
 Clearly, the aim here is to emulate the point-and-click style of PC game play. You tap around the 
 bakery to direct Jill, and make all your baking selections by touching small icons. Once the cake 
 is complete, a few quick taps of the stylus will have Jill give the customer their desired pastry 
 and pick up the cash that they leave.
  
  I mentioned just now that the DS version of Cake Mania obviously attempts to recreate the gaming 
 experience provided by the PC version of the game, and in one rather critical way, they have failed. 
 No matter what anyone tells you, the DS stylus is just not as precise as a computer mouse. The 
 stylus tip is slightly bulky, and the touch screen is relatively small. As a result, it can often 
 be difficult to select the right icons to select, especially since they are so small. Easily the 
 most annoying part of the entire game are the times when the stylus, acting in a slightly imprecise 
 manner, is not accurate enough to register with the icon that you actually tapped, and then accidentally 
 churns out the wrong cake, icing color, decoration, etc. You're then forced to toss the cake, which 
 eats into your profit, all because of imprecise handling.
  
  In terms of graphics and music, Cake Mania is also rather lacking. Graphically, it's not at all 
 impressive. Sprites are blockily animated, roughly colored, and too small to allow any real detail. 
 The game's music, sadly, works along the same lines. It's simple and boring, all too forgettable, 
 and really doesn't at all contribute to the overall quality of the game.
  
  All its flaws overlooked for a second, there is a valid reason to consider purchasing Cake Mania. 
 If you can overlook the sloppy design, sometimes-annoying controls, and all-too-noticeable dearth 
 of a story arc, there is something underneath all the crap that can only be described as fun.
 
  
  You see, like most simple games, Cake Mania does not stay simple for long. As you progress further 
 and further into the game, Cake Mania's difficulty shoots up, sometimes to almost unbelievable 
 points. This, at least for hardcore gamers, is going to be the sole reason to pick it up. Game 
 play, thanks to the racked up difficulty level, suddenly becomes more compelling and engaging. 
 You can't make mistakes, because one single misstep will quickly result in a game over. I know 
 it seems weird that I'm recommending a game about a girl making cakes to hardcore gamers, buttrust 
 me, it's true.
  
  So, in the end, there's really two audiences that Cake Mania may appeal to. If you're buying for 
 a younger girl who just wants a cheap little game that she may be able to relate to, then Cake 
 Mania may be for her. My sister plays the game, and she does enjoy it. Be warned, however, that 
 the difficulty level later in the game will likely turn off causal players, at least once they 
 reach this point.
  
  And, as I've already mentioned, Cake Mania may appeal to lifelong gamers looking for a real challenge 
 on their Nintendo DS. Cake Mania may have crappy graphics, no story, horrendous music, and frustrating 
 (occasionally) controls, but it's one redeeming factor is that it's difficult. So, if you're in 
 the market for a game that isn't a cinch to beat, or one that you can't breeze through in four 
 or five hours, then poke around for a copy of Cake Mania. You might be happy that you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beyonce15
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Hmmmm, ok maybe cooking mama is more on the creative side of things but hey its a cake baking game 
 and your in the kitchen for countless hours serving cake savage customers lol. when your start 
 playing you do get a hang of it there is alot more to the game than just serving cakes you have 
 to think about the customers and who to serve first etc, also the speed in which you move about 
 the kitchen i think its great that you can link your moves saves you having jill stand there waiting 
 for the next command because it can get very busy.
  I've played the PC version was brilliant also but i never wanted to purchase it so to have it on 
 DS is cool, ds was defenitly made for these types of games, yes i'm 19 but hey this game really 
 gets your buzzing and can be slightly addictive at times especially when its those nothing to do 
 days.
  I think its brilliant that they included an expansion pack along with the game because to be honest 
 i was quite disheartened and ready to replay the whole game over when i finished the first half 
 :-P.
  Defenitly something to have when Dr Kawashima tells you your brain age is 70+ :- (. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Once again I have played this game on the computer and I was glad to see it come to the DS. It 
 to me is much like Diner Dash but instead of being a waitress you are a cake maker. You have people 
 come in and you make the cake they want then you frost it and add things that they ask for a sell 
 it and make some money. The more you play the more thing you can do with the money you make to 
 update your kitchen to work better to make even more money. I thought the graphics were good and 
 so was the sound. The game play was great and keeps you on your toes. This game sales for 20.00 
 most places and I think it is well worth it. This game is good clean fun for the whole family. 
 Give it try and you will see. If you are unsure I always say rent it first but I think this game 
 was great and I give it an A+! I like Cake and I like this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adeehr01eb
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I was going into this game not expecting much, but found myself addicted and having a great time 
 while playing. 
  
  Spend your month preparing and making cakes for different kinds of customers. Some customers are 
 patient and will wait a long time while others are in a hurry and have little to no patience for 
 you. That gives the game a bit of tactic that you wouldn't expect. You can allow the old ladies 
 and grown men to wait while you hurry up and make the goods for the kids off from school or the 
 business man who is on the run. 
  
  There is even a tactic to slow down the impatience of the demanding customers. You can buy an add 
 on microwave that automatically bakes cupcakes. No customers will order them, but if you are about 
 to lose a customer because you incorrectly made the cake or are behind, toss them a cupcake and 
 they will wait longer for you.
  
  At one point you can even throw down your cash for a TV that will slow all customers down from 
 being so demanding. 
  
  There really isn't too much to the game up front, but really it is somewhat tactical and very fast 
 paced. If I am looking for a game to pass a half hour of my time while having fun, this is it. 
 
  
  I say it's worth picking up at $19 for sure if you want something fun and addictive to pass a short 
 period of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ylgendronneau
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:44 am PT
Review:  This is a very addictive game!!! 
  
  Started as a lot of fun to kill time... and I ended up doing all the levels. Very simple to use 
 and good for all ages. People looking at me playing it were first laughing... until they started 
 playing themselves and got addicted.
  
  Maybe not as good as the latest 1st person shooter in terms of graphics or story, it is a game 
 that gives a lot of fun and is perfect to kill your time... until it starts using all your time. 
 So, don't start playing it if you fear to look stupid playing a relatively simple game.
  
  Enjoy playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic__323
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Cake Mania is game where you play as a girl named Jill making cakes..
  
  Gameplay (3/10) : The gameplay is boring and terrible, all you really do is make cakes for customers 
 and get upgrades, this does not sound like fun at all, the customers will sound be more impatient 
 and would make you angry, plus if you tap where Jill needs to go, it sometimes makes her to go 
 somewhere else which is irriating.
  
  Sound (3/10) : The sound could use some improvement and hearing the same music over and over again 
 could be really annoying.
  
  Graphics (2.5/10) : The graphics are terrible and not good looking at all for a Nintendo DS game.
 
  
  Extras (4/10) : There really isn't no extras, once you pass Cake Mania, you get to play another 
 game which is called Cake Mania Back to the Bakery which the same thing nothing doesn't really 
 change at all.
  
  Overall (3.5/10) : This game is not worth getting at all, if you are a fan of cooking games, you 
 might want to rent this game first because I don't really see anything great or decent in the game 
 at all, think before you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 13, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Cake Mania has a simple concept: People come into your bakery, you give them the menu, a bubble 
 above their head tells you what they want, you fix it, frost it and decorate it. A number of customers 
 will come: Delivery men, College students, kids, old ladies, ect. Your goal is to bake each cake 
 as fast as possible, so your customers leave happy and you get a better tip, making it possible 
 for you to earn your monthly goal.
  
  The customers can have a maximum of 5 hearts, and the longer you take, the more their patience 
 is drained. You can keep this up by purchasing a tv or cupcake microwave, once you have earned 
 some money. You can also purchase more ovens and frosters, even shoes that will help you walk faster, 
 which you'll need as the game gets progressively harder. Oddly enough, as shallow as this sounds, 
 it's inexplicably addictive. I've never been one for shallow games, but this one isn't bad. A game 
 like this doesn't seem like it would take you more than 2 hours to complete, but you can squeeze 
 a good amount of gameplay out of it. The difficulty does get pretty hard, but if you are prepared 
 and can keep up, then it's not a big deal. The graphics aren't exactly a high point in this game, 
 but graphics aren't everything. It is cute and colorful, just not very detailed. Overall, if you 
 are looking for a decent budget title with a simple concept but with a good amount of challenge, 
 look no further and pick up Cake Mania. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriously
Rating: 3.6
Date: Apr 15, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  The PC original game that was also on Shockwave was just a time filler like Diner Dash, Carrie 
 the Caregiver. I bought it to play on the train ride to work but there appears to be some serious 
 glitches to the game. I've encountered freezing, customers only appearing on top screen and not 
 going to front of counter and on time customers not coming at all and having to just wait until 
 the clock runs out. This not worth the money and any parents paying full price will find your child 
 probably finishing it the same day and taking it in for trade. I don't think it will be long before 
 you see it in the bargain bin with Wack a Mole. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
