-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/callofduty4modernwarfare/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The impressive 3D engine and cinematic audio deliver the true Call of Duty experience.
 Touch-screen controls make it easy to move, aim, and shoot.
 Plenty of different guns to pick up and use.
 In addition to shooting, you'll disarm bombs, control gun turrets, and pilot bomber craft.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The single-player campaign is relatively brief.
 Multiplayer is limited to four players and isn't online.
 Some minor control and design quirks may annoy you.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.6, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 704 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: n-Space
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Nov 5, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
On the DS, Call of Duty 4 is an intense first-person-shooter that's knocked down a few pegs by the 
 lack of online play. 

  The Nintendo DS rendition of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare delivers every ounce of action and 
 suspense as the console versions, save for the awesome online play. In this portable first-person 
 shooter, you play the role of a special forces operative who has to stop terrorists from detonating 
 a nuclear weapon. Your travels take you to various locations in Russia and the Middle East, where 
 you'll unleash a wide variety of realistic weapons against the bad guys who constantly appear as 
 you make your way through each 3D environment. The controls, environment layouts, and CPU behavior 
 in the DS game aren't as nicely put together as they are in the console versions, but those rough 
 spots really don't take away all that much from the couple of days' worth of Jack Bauer-style escapades 
 that the single-player campaign provides. However, the DS version doesn't offer any of the online 
 modes that its console counterparts do, which means that your interest in the game will probably 
 wane significantly after you complete that initial play-through.  

           You can melee enemies up close, but they might grab your gun and force you into a stylus-scribbling 
 struggle.      

  From the moment you dive into the campaign, you'll be struck by how slick everything looks and 
 sounds. The large, twisty 3D environments actually do resemble such places as the ghetto alleys 
 of Mogadishu or a paramilitary base hidden deep in the Russian wilderness. One mission takes place 
 on a tanker out at sea where you skirmish with terrorists and a helicopter before venturing into 
 the hold below. There are plenty of decorative details, such as trees and vehicles. You'll sometimes 
 get to watch in real time as the rockets from your air support create makeshift entryways into 
 buildings for you. The character models also look nice. They move gracefully, while their crouching 
 and shooting behavior is authentic. The level of detail is good enough that you can easily make 
 out whether someone is wearing a friendly uniform or terrorist garb. Backing up the gorgeous visuals 
 are a richly orchestrated musical score, a healthy selection of realistic gun effects, and loads 
 of recorded dialogue. This dialogue includes mission briefings and real-time battle chatter as 
 well.  

  The gameplay itself involves the typical sort of first-person-shooter gunplay mingled with some 
 of the trappings usually associated with a Call of Duty game. When the bad guys appear, you want 
 to place your targeting reticle over them and press the shoot button. Head shots are more effective 
 than shots to the body, of course, and enemies will sometimes try to crouch or duck behind cover 
 to defend themselves. For your part, you can crouch and hide behind cover too. As in the console 
 versions of Call of Duty 4, you and the enemy can throw grenades. You can even pick up and toss 
 back live grenades. The red flashing damage indicator is in here too. You don't have a health meter 
 in the traditional sense; instead, every hit you take adds some more reddish tint to the screen. 
 To heal, all you need to do is take cover and wait for that tint to dissipate. Getting through 
 each mission generally involves moving from checkpoint to checkpoint and killing any terrorists 
 that appear. However, you'll also find yourself stopping at various points to man gun turrets or 
 solve minigames that let you disarm bombs and jimmy door locks. Some missions shake things up by 
 putting you in a support role, which lets you control the gun turret on a moving armored vehicle 
 or pilot a high-altitude bomber aircraft.  

  Some aspects of the controls are sketchy, but for the most part, the stylus-heavy control scheme 
 gets the job done. You move with the D pad, shoot by pressing either of the shoulder buttons, and 
 adjust your aim or look orientation by dragging the stylus across the touch screen. Double-tapping 
 the touch screen toggles the aiming mode between the standard targeting cursor and a more precise 
 "down the sight" view. Icons on the touch screen also let you easily switch weapons, throw grenades, 
 reload clips, and pick up objects with a simple, single tap. If an enemy tosses a grenade your 
 way, the hand icon will appear, indicating that you can pick up and hurl the exploding potato back 
 at your foe. Occasionally, a binoculars icon will appear, giving you the chance to summon an air 
 strike on enemy vehicles. The one major problem with the controls is that the game has trouble 
 recognizing the aiming toggle, run, and crouch commands -- commands that require double-tapping the 
 stylus or D pad. Sometimes, you'll double-tap and nothing will happen. Other times, you'll be creeping 
 in a crouch with the scope active then suddenly revert back to the normal view and an all-out run. 
 These unexpected changes can be frustrating in the heat of battle. Thankfully, you can take a lot 
 of hits, so fiddling with the controls rarely gets you killed.  

  Other minor annoyances may also bug you from time to time. It makes sense that weapons are more 
 accurate when fired in short bursts, but even at point-blank range, an enemy can absorb 20 shots 
 to the chest with an M-16 before keeling over. Having to reload every time you turn a corner gets 
 tedious after a while. The majority of level layouts depict locations that are visually engaging, 
 but there are a couple of missions that make you wander nondescript hallways and office cubicles 
 for upward of 20 minutes. You're also liable to take issue with the enemy's spawning habits and 
 behavioral quirks, which are rather peculiar. Enemies tend to spawn when you cross invisible trigger 
 points, and they'll often do so directly in front of or behind you in an area you just cleared. 
 Watching terrorists materialize in your face with AK-47s blazing is scary. As for their behavior, 
 they're clever enough to throw grenades back at you and to try to wrestle your gun away up close, 
 but they rarely take cover when you're shooting at them. Instead of moving behind a corner or crate, 
 they'll usually just stand or crouch there in the open while you blast away.  

           There are few things more enjoyable than mowing down bad guys while manning a helicopter 
 gun turret.      

  While they're worth mentioning, you have to consider those issues in the context of a highly cinematic 
 first-person-shooter that delivers much of the same variety and frenetic gunplay as its console 
 counterparts. It's hard to dwell on the little annoyances when you're listening to your squadmates 
 bark out information and watching terrorists fly backward from your machine gun bullets as the 
 entire screen periodically shakes in response to nearby mortar fire. And the times when you get 
 to call in air strikes, man a gun turret, or pilot a bomber are just as badass as you might think. 

  The bigger issue is the lack of any sort of online play. It'll take you roughly eight hours to 
 finish the campaign, which you'll probably spread out over two or three play sessions just to give 
 your eyes and hands ample rest. Beyond that, the multiplayer mode is restricted to four players 
 who happen to be in the same room as you. There's a decent selection of environments while the 
 layouts are well suited to the different deathmatch and capture-the-flag options, but realistically 
 speaking, how likely are you to convince four of your friends to buy one DS game then arrange for 
 everyone to get together to take advantage of its multiplayer mode? Not very likely. As such, the 
 game's longevity stems mainly from its single-player campaign. That's Call of Duty 4 on the DS 
 in a nutshell: intensely satisfying, but over in a day or two.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (47 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Mastersword101
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  A fun game to play, although the gameplay can really knot-up your hands. I think the controls on 
 this game are pretty clunky but if you're tough enough you can still play with no problems. What 
 would have really made this a great game would have been if it had wifi connection... I suggest 
 that if you want to buy a C. O. D game for the Nintendo DS, you should probably stick with World 
 at War first because it has wifi. The gameplay was quite fun, some levels were just too easy, but 
 others were more difficult. If you are the type of person that likes really hard games, I can tell 
 you that this one isn't for you. To my stantards I would say the graphics were okay. Additional 
 features should have been added to this game like "what character you want to be" or something 
 like that (more weapons would've been nice too) .
  I am personally not much of a shooter-game fan... I guess the game really deserves a 7.5 but I'll 
 give it a 8.0 just to be nice. 
  If you see this game like at Wal-Mart or somewhere marked-down, be sure to pick it up. Otherwise 
 I wouldn't really recommend buying the game, but it should be rented.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omega189
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:52 am PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare DS, a port of an award winning PS3/360/PC game, has to be one of 
 the most fun Call of Duty games I have played. The graphics, while pretty much N64 quality, are 
 actually quite good. In Call of Duty 3 (PS2) , I had a little trouble distinguishing enemy from 
 ally. Not too much here. Some people think the controls are bad. I didn't really think that was 
 much of a problem, however, if you happen to have large hands... It could probably be a problem. 
 The action did get repetitive about 1/3 in, but after putting it away for the rest of the day, 
 the next day it was just as good. It takes about one level to get used to the controls, which have 
 the aiming, weapon switching, reloading, and grenades on the touch screen, the movement on the 
 X, Y, A, B or the digital pad for movement, shooting on the L or R buttons. The on foot action is 
 broken up with bomb activation and detonation mini-games, Hummer/helicopter sequences, and a mission 
 ("Spectre") that has you provide cover for a British SAS (Special Air Service) team on the ground. 
 With twelve missions in all, and Wi-Fi (Wireless Fidelity, if I'm not mistaken) multiplayer, CoD 
 4 should last... about five/six hours. Its that short, excluding the multiplayer. It's best to use 
 the multi-card play if you have the option, because it has more maps, and you can choose skin (SAS 
 or United States Marine Corps) , and weapons (M16, Shotgun, M4, Bazooka, or Sniper Rifle) . Call 
 of Duty: Modern Warfare: DS should not be overlooked for Call of Duty (or FPS in general) fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zehydra
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2009 3:52 pm PT
Review:  This game gets a few things right:
  
  - Decent graphics
  - Smooth FPS rate
  - Nice weapon selection
  - Decent in-game Minigames (bomb defusing)
  - Variety of maps and 
 missions
  - Helecopter Missions
  - Bomb Defusing Missions
  - Storm/Strike missions
  - Back of Humvee missions
  - Bomber strike missions
  - Enemies are smart enough to throw grenades 
 back.
  
  What this game get wrong:
  
  - Clunky and awkward collisions.
  - Strange controls, like double tap to zoom.
  - Player's movement is a little slow.
  - Awful 
 AI
  - The Computer cheats. Enemies spawn in places that you've already checked and known were clear.
 
  - It takes close to a million shots in the chest before the blasted terrorist is dead. You on 
 the other hand, are rather vulnerable.
  - No wifi multiplayer pretty much means no multiplayer since very few people actually own this 
 game.
  - Grenades don't explode if you leave the room, and then explode once you return.
  
  So what this game really boils down to is that it is expecting that you'd be happy enough mowing 
 down guys with no penalty, or hardly being able to take guys down at all with harsh penalties.
 
  So basically, what I mean is that most good shooters have a balance between extremely hard and 
 pointlessly easy. This game doesn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:01 am PT
Review:  The DS has had mixed reactions when it comes to shooters. This DS offering dose near everything 
 right a shooter on a hand held should. Great Graphics and sound, action packed levels, verity of 
 guns to mess with and fun multi player. The game some what follows the consol versions as you will 
 see some of the same places and some of the same story. You'll go through deserts, a ship, citys, 
 missal site all to stop a nuclear missal from going off. Each perceptive you take (either American 
 or British solider) as it's own fell with different weapons. The game will mix things up throwing 
 in a on rails shooting level making things more fun. There are only a few things holding this game 
 back for one it's short and can be beaten in an afternoon, there are control problems that get 
 annoying at first, and the AI can be mixed. The multi player is only local but still fun with friends. 
 This game is cheap now and still alot of fun for thoes who still have not picked it up yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightofdragon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is intensly fun, and I would encourage anyone who likes being the hero while throwing 
 enemies backward from your gun blasts to buy it. I almost played it non-stop while doing the campaign, 
 but after I beat it, I kind of started losing interest. The graphics are pretty good for ds, and 
 the sound effects are awesome because they sound like the real deal. The settings are realistic 
 too. On some levels, you get to man a helicopter turret and other turrets such as that while just 
 flat out mowing the bad guys down. There's a good variety of guns to pick up as well. I agree with 
 GS when they say that some of the controls are annoying. Plenty of times, I was trying to turn 
 around by slowly swiping the touch-screen, and it went to "look down scope" mode. Also, there were 
 some times when I would try to sprint or crouch and nothing would happen. If anyone is looking 
 to buy this game, you should maybe (I said MAYBE not you should) keep these annoyences in mind. 
 Still, Call of Duty is just plain fun and it's highly addictive. I also agree with GS when they 
 said that an enemy can absorb 20 shots before finally dying. I once shot a terrorist up close about 
 10 times in the chest before he finally bit the dust. Still, I would recommend this game to anyone 
 who likes a first-person shooter game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorKane11
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game was a valiant effort. They tried to pull something off that had ended up awkward, and 
 they did. Almost. 
  Call of duty had never been attempted before on a handheld. And when somebody proposed the idea, 
 it was taken up, thrown together just before the cod 4 release. It feels like that, but if you 
 actually take the time and examine the little details, you'll find that it was a great leap to 
 make this game... and they made it.
  
  Graphics: They're good, but could have been better, as proved by MOON and Call of Duty 5 ds. Enemies 
 are a little generic, but spaced apart so you get some virety. 7.5 out of 10
  Sound: Just like Cod 5 ds, lots of VO, gun sounds, vehicles, and more. Great, intense music also. 
 8/10
  Gameplay: It lacks the run and gun feel, but it is intense thanks to music. Levels are generic, 
 basically all you do is take out the sniper, or clear the building, or plant a bomb or something. 
 good, not great. Lacks alot. 7/10
  Controls: not hard to get used to, very effective and useful. Good job on that one n-space! 8/10
 
  Replay: Not much to do after you beat the very short campaign, but play single and multi card 
 play with others. Single card play is limited to only two maps and one gun to choose from, but 
 if you have a friend who has a ds and doesn't have cod 4, it is quite addicting, and fun. 6/10
 
  Value: for $30, its an alright deal... If you have some time to kill, and a friend, its a good 
 buy. 6/10
  Overall:
  Graphics: 7.5/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Controls: 8/10
  Replay: 6/10
  Value: 6/10
  Average: 7/10
  My Score: 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billybeegood
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2008 12:14 pm PT
Review:  i have never played a call of duty game this easy. uts normal difficulty but thats really easy 
 for call of duty. in this game your just a normal soldier fight almost random missions (which are 
 short) this game has moderate graphics and a 20 minute learning curve. it didnt amaze me like metroid 
 graphics but they were decent enough to play all the missions over twice. (that took 2 and a half 
 hours) what i dont like about this game is the lack of players in multiplayer and no wifi capabilities. 
 that would have made my day. another plus for this game was from the bomber giving your troops 
 cover. that was a great mission but you only get to do one of those missions. a major downfall 
 was the AI and the random enemy appearences..... which is very annoying on the battleship. the AI 
 is so bad that you throw a grenade at one of em and they yell GRENADE. but dont move.... how stupid 
 is that. you can also just run by them and they will just shrug their shoulders than turn the other 
 way..... you can pick up some crappy enemy weapons which aret too bad but lack aiming.
  
  in conclusion
  this was a solid shooter with terrible AI.
  i reccomend not buying this game... renting 
 it is enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarrod54545
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 for the Nintendo DS gives you everything that you would expect for a Call of Duty 
 game. It gives you everything that the console version do but sadly there is no online play which 
 would of made in an even more awesome game. In this game you play as a soldier from the special 
 forces and you have to stop terrorists from letting off a nuclear bomb. In the game you go to various 
 locations such as Russia and Middle East. The main problem with the DS version of the game is no 
 online play.
  
  Whats great about this game is how realistic the game looks and sounds and thats great for a DS 
 game. The music is great and so are the sounds of the guns firing and the voices of all the soldiers.
 
  
  The gameplay is very smooth and it doesn't take long to learn how to play. The controls are you 
 move with the D-pad and you use the stylus to look around and aim your gun or grenade. When you 
 double tap the stylus on the touch screen you go into down the sights mode which puts your gun 
 to eye level for a more accurate shot. On the touch screen there is a map showing where the enemies 
 and your teamates are by red and blue dots, you can also see objectives by yellow stars. On the 
 touch screen there are also icons which let you swap weapons and use grenades.
  
  It should take you about 7 hours to finish the campaign. You can play with 4 people in the same 
 room with you either by download play or if they already have the game. But in my opinion iw would've 
 been a lot better with Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection in the game.
  
  This game is an awesome game but its too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinx6
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  When Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare was announce for the Ds i was surprise, because the DS was 
 the last system i would expect Activision to make Call of Duty on. DS does not have everything 
 the other consoles have lie, the high horse power engine, the beautiful graphic or the hardcore 
 audience. I was also excited because i wanted to see how it was going to turn out. I never owned 
 a Call of Duty game before so this would be my first. When Call of Duty got release on the DS it 
 got a lot of mix review from game critics, after picking up the game a few month it was release 
 i form my own opinion of the game.
  
  Call of Duty play really good on the DS. The developers at n-Space really did a good job on creating 
 something similiar to the Console and PC game experience. Call of Duty look beautiful on the DS. 
 The environment is very beautiful and realistic, the texture is great, it runs at about 30fps (frame 
 per seconds) , good color variations, the explosion looks real, good particle effects, you can tell 
 the difference between allie and enemie soldiers.
  
  Playing this game with headphones on is plus or turn the volume up. The sound and audio in the 
 game is surprisingly good. You hear everything that is going on in the game, each gun sound different, 
 your commander and teammates talks to you and enemie soldiers communicates with each other. The 
 sound makes the game more realistic and it makes you feel like you are in a war zone, good voice 
 acting and music.
  
  The controls feel right, the game is control like Metroid Prime which is good. What makes me pick 
 this game over Brothers in Arms DS is the control. The game is control with the stylus and the 
 touch screen is very responsive, it feels good after you get use to it. Many people might get hand 
 cramps after playing the game over a period of time, but i was surprise i did not get any.
  
  If you own a DS and is in need of a good FPS (First Person Shooter) or if want a good game 
 i recommend you pick this game up. There is a few things about this game that i do not like. No 
 Online multiplayer which is a big downer for myself and other players, but do not worry the new 
 Call of Duty game for the DS is going to have online multiplayer. Which is going to be awesome, 
 cannot wait for it to release. The game ends too quick, i was surprise when i saw the end credit 
 started to show up on the screen. In the end this game is one of the best game on the DS, best 
 looking game, and alaround fun. I recommend this game to anyone who owns a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtis342
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:46 pm PT
Review:  CoD 4 is a really great game. The story is a little hard to follow, it doesn't explain a whole 
 lot. But just about everything else is great. The single player campain, is not the longest ever, 
 but it's enough to satisfy, I got it on Thursday and I finished it last night. Sure it's not super 
 long but it is very fun and innovative, and it can also become addictive. You will be satisfied, 
 but don't expect a week-month long to beat campain, it's still a whole lot 'o fun.
  
  The level design is great and immersive, Activision did a good job putting the CoD type levels 
 in a hand-held, at least for this game, it is much better than CoD: Roads To Victory on the PSP. 
 That one is shorter and the levels aren't quite cool, they're ok but CoD4 DS is the winner for 
 CoD handheld gaming.
  
  The audio, wow, almost as good as you'd expect from a console game. Every sound you hear in the 
 game sounds realistic and loud.
  
  Gameplay is great, it's fun, and addicting as I said before, you'll like it I promise, this game 
 is very under-rated.
  
  As for multi-player, I haven't tried it yet, but I'm going to bet it's pretty cool, I've checked 
 out the maps and they are fantastic, you'll have alot of fun in them, I was just amazed looking 
 around the maps, there are greatly designed. 
  
  I recommend this game, it's great for all FPS fans, the DS hasn't seen any, other than Metroid 
 and GoldenEye: Rogue Agent, GE was terrible, Metroid only has good multiplayer. CoD4 DS is fantastic, 
 if you're an FPS lover waiting for a good DS FPS, do yourself a favor and get this.
  
  You'll feel like your in the war, (a small one) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zvan92
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  this has to be one of the most intense DS shooters ive ever played. the visuals are quite impressive, 
 and the volume is raised enough to make you sit on edge of your seat as you play.
  
  although the single player campaign is plentiful and is everything it should be, the lack of online 
 play in this title is an utter shame. the game was well received on all of the next gen consoles, 
 because of its revolutionary online play system. the online play made call of duty 4 3/4 the game 
 it really was; and now, since the online play isnt there, it makes this title hard to enjoy.
  
  if you want a game that would make you have to retry levels several times and doesnt have any 
 useful unlocks, then this is the game for you. I would say the game only has replay value to those 
 who are just looking for a great sense of accomplishment in beating an "impossible" game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkovach82
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  Very innovative controls you use the touch screen as you would a mouse on any PC FPS, the directional 
 pad to move/strafe, and the left shoulder button to fire. 
  
  The radar map doubles as the stencil pad so I had to increase the aiming sensitivity to max so 
 i wasnt constantly stenciling off the screen.
  
  The firing mechanism is a little cumbersome at first because the DS Lite is so small that with 
 large hands the directional pad and left trigger seem too close together to be completely ergonomic.
 
  
  Another thing is, you gotta be wearing earphones because your squad is constantly updating you 
 with enemy info and you cannot hear it at a medium level on the speakersand if you turn them up 
 all the way then everyone around you hears the shooting, screaming ect
  
  Overall the game is extremely fun and challenging and if you play using headphones the game really 
 sucks you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: so_hai
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 3, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Your "call of duty" in this instance, is opposing some sort of terrorist plot. (I must admit, I 
 never really paid much attention to the premise) , and you play as an anonymous solider throughout 
 the handful of missions this game presents. Although the environments don't really vary (this is 
 no world-tour as in the "Big Red One") , I suppose the missions represent a realistic theatre, and 
 the as boring as the grey and brown tones of the desert and tundra get, you could argue that these 
 places are viable and believable locals; (this is why I often wonder if realism really does improves 
 gaming) .
  
  Control setup is traditional for the "shooter" genre, but the method of control is unusual. The 
 D-pad (left-hand) , controls the soldiers movement and strafing while the L-button is your trigger. 
 The aiming reticule is control with the stylus, and can (thankfully) be inverted. Although I wouldn't 
 go so far as say that the control is smooth, I would describe it as functional and competent. While 
 the control itself is workable, you never find the actual movement and aiming a unique pleasure 
 either; (though there are times when in a small room or hall where the controls really tighten 
 up) .
  
  There is a respectable sense of realism contained within this hand-held hostility simulator, and 
 this is apparent right from your orientation, or tutorial mission. The firearm you're holding occupies 
 your attention to the fullest, and with a double-tap on the screen, the aiming-down-sight mode 
 is initiated. This enables greater accuracy through a zoom function - lining up your crosshair 
 (a red pixel) with the camouflage-clad conspirators is made (a little) easier. This double-tap 
 motif is echoed on the D-pad, where a crouching and sprinting are both double-tap functions. I 
 have to admit, the feeling you first encounter with this game, the peppering these guys with an 
 assault rifle, is enjoyable. Sadly though, this is what the game offers you for ninety-percent 
 of the time. You literally are a killing machine. I have no idea what the body count would be at 
 the end of this game, but you will be going down in history with many, many notches on your tomahawk. 
 The missions do attempt to break up the game play style with various mini tasks: defusing bombs, 
 hacking terminals. These tasks are OK, but they are really a "Warioware" style distraction at best 
 - more of a micro-game. Usually, you re-trace some wires with the stylus to gain entry into another 
 room.
  
  The bottom screen is used for a layout of the current mission. I should correct that, it's a real-time 
 schematic and enemy locator in one. This is the sort of hardware the real military would kill, 
 no, invade for. It has a floor-plan layout that is 99.9% accurate, with real-time radar blips for 
 every single foe. You're practically Robocop with device, but sadly, your annoyingly organic five-fingered 
 appendage covers this screen much too often to make it useful. (I've found this with other DS titles 
 too, and I think using the touch-screen as a virtual analogue stick is an even bigger mistake.)
 
  
  What this game is really offering is a run-n-gun experience as a frontline assault squad member. 
 You're required to ice everything that moves, (friendly-fire is off, by the way) and there's no 
 drama about it, it's a true "Search & Destroy" mission, or rather "Sweep & Clean", to be politically 
 correct. Sure, it's a fun feeling to be a one-man blitzkrieg, but the bloodlust soon wears off, 
 and your battle-hardened mind looks for new stimulation. In other words, like army rations themselves, 
 this game is best taken in small portions. (The final mission for example, is one of the more testing 
 escapades, and I literally had to take mini-breaks to control my frustration!) .
  
  Admittedly, there are other "on-rail" type missions, where you sit atop a Hummer, or on the side 
 of an Apache (I presume) and let rip with the heavy calibre gear, but again, this is all in the 
 name of brute force, and it's a step down in difficulty from the on-foot missions. The inclusion 
 of these missions is appreciated, but they are not a heavy contrast and the breath of fresh air 
 as in other military-themed titles. Another odd thing about this title was its strange depiction 
 of explosions. Obviously, the DS won't process sophisticated particle effects or dynamic lighting, 
 but these explosions looked like strange blooming flowers; growing and reaching out in a dark red 
 ovoid, then disappearing to nothing as fast as it were born. Weird.
  
  So this title is a hardcore assault simulator, with respectable control and questionable level 
 design. It probably occupies an under-represented genre in the DS catalogue, so maybe it has set 
 the benchmark for this style of portable gaming, however high or low that may be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerboy8
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 2, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Call of duty 4 (DS) is definitely fun, but there's only so much you can do. The ONLY single player 
 thing available, is campaign, consisting of about 12 levels. There is no wi-fi available, and multiplayer 
 is only up to 4 players who are about right next to you. The single player campaign is undoubtfuly 
 fun, with about 6 hours of gameplay, depending what difficulty, and once you beat it on easy or 
 normal, you'll want to play it again one step up. But that's about it, single player campaign, 
 or local multiplayer. Single card play is only two maps, and a person can only use the standard 
 rifle, pistol, and grenades. Multi card play is fun enough, with many options and customizations. 
 Overall call of duty 4 (DS) is about an 8. Fun by yourself, but limited. With friends who also 
 have call of duty 4 (DS) , it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 09brandon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  
  
  The Nintendo DS rendition of Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare delivers every ounce of action and 
 suspense as the console versions, save for the awesome online play. In this portable first-person 
 shooter, you play the role of a special forces operative who has to stop terrorists from detonating 
 a nuclear weapon. Your travels take you to various locations in Russia and the Middle East, where 
 you'll unleash a wide variety of realistic weapons against the bad guys who constantly appear as 
 you make your way through each 3D environment. The controls, environment layouts, and CPU behavior 
 in the DS game aren't as nicely put together as they are in the console versions, but those rough 
 spots really don't take away all that much from the couple of days' worth of Jack Bauer-style escapades 
 that the single-player campaign provides. However, the DS version doesn't offer any of the online 
 modes that its console counterparts do, which means that your interest in the game will probably 
 wane significantly after you complete that initial play-through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PukingPug
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:20 am PT
Review:  This game CAN be fun but it can get very fustrating with the aiming and looking around. When you 
 try to turn and if you hit the screen twice you will go right in to aim mode. If you are running 
 around or away from the enemy and you go into aim mode then you better get out of it fast because 
 you WILL die. I have died so many times because of the aim mode. This game also does not have a 
 good multiplayer mode at all. Not fun and really boring. 
  
  The Good: Fun missions, good sound.
  
  The Bad: Bad aiming, no good weapons, takes like 100 
 bullets for one person, hard to under stand some of the objectives, the explosion sound is horrible, 
 the grenades don't evan work basically.
  
  I completely recomend that you go rent the game first because it is a quick easy game but the aiming 
 makes you want to snap you ds in half (and that is not good) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This first person shooter is fun, and has good graphics, but there are a few faults in the game. Sometimes, it 
 will shoot when you don't pull the trigger, but that only happens every so often in the first week 
 and not very often at all after that. In the last level there's this small hall with a door at the 
 end and if you stand with your back to the door, you'll see this guy appear out of thin air with 
 his arm spread out for a split second. Then, he turns around as if you're not even there and starts 
 shooting at your ally. Things like this happen every now and then in certain areas of the game. There 
 are only 12 levels though and I anticipated it too much. If you're used to the Xbox version of the 
 games, then you will be having a little trouble at first, but it's still pretty clever. When you zoom 
 in with your weapon, however, the gun looks totally hand drawn. You'll like this game if you're easily 
 entertained or this is your only game system, then you'll be satisfied for the most part, but other 
 than that, I don't recommend it.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albrethsen26
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 28, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 is a great game as you go through the campaign. The thing is, that the campaign 
 is too short. When i play multi-player games, i have a GREAT time! the only thing is, that not 
 everyone has a friend who has a DS. this means that the only multi-player they can play is Wi Fi. 
 Wi Fi is the PRECISE thing this game is missing. the only multi-player is single card and multi 
 card. If ONLY this game HAD Wi Fi, i would seriously rate it a 9.8! it has PHENOMONAL gameplay. i 
 hope and pray that COD5 for DS DOES have Wi FI. in conlusion, here is the good/bad:
  
  THE GOOD: Great gameplay, fun Local Multiplayer. Campaign is very fun while it lasts.
  THE BAD: 
 No online play, Pretty easy.
  ============================================================================================================================================== 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 6
Date: May 8, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  First person shooters are arguably the most popular genre on the market today -- "hardcore" consoles 
 Xbox 360 and PS3 have plenty of them. Nintendo's own systems seem to be a bit lacking, which isn't 
 all that surprising when you consider the more family-friendly approach that is one of the trademarks 
 of the Nintendo Wii. The DS in particular has very few, if any, good shooters: Metroid Prime Hunters 
 was disappointing, and the only other decent FPS of note is Brothers in Arms DS. The most recent 
 attempt at a solid FPS on the handheld is Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. But does it even come 
 close to the console iteration's goodness? And more importantly, is it a must-have for shooter 
 fans?
  
  Essentially, Call of Duty 4 DS attempts to emulate its console brethren -- and in some areas, it 
 actually does a surprisingly good job. I've not played the console version much at all so I'm unaware 
 of the story of the game, but from what I understand the DS version is essentially supposed to 
 fill in any holes in the plot of the original game. Naturally, story doesn't play a big role here 
 -- there are plenty of characters but they're all very forgettable. There was some real potential 
 here for some scripted scenes and conversations between you and your squad, but there was no such 
 effort on the part of the developer and you'll look on apathetically when one of your soldiers 
 is gunned down by some terrorists. 
  
  Where the game partially succeeds is in the gameplay. At first, this game really is a lot of fun 
 -- you take the roll of a modern soldier (hence the game's subtitle) and go through a variety of 
 missions that all involve killing terrorists. Very little background is given, but at the same 
 time not much is really needed for a game like this to be fun. It's a fairly traditional FPS with 
 controls that any player of Metroid Prime Hunters or Brothers in Arms DS will easily get a hold 
 of. You use the stylus to aim, the shoulder buttons to shoot, and the d-pad or face buttons (depending 
 on whether you're right- or left-handed) control movement. It's nothing new for the DS, but that's 
 largely because this basic control scheme works quite well. 
  
  Call of Duty 4 DS also throws in some more innovative controls and this is where the game runs 
 into a touch of trouble. For example, to enter zoom mode where you'll aim down the barrel of your 
 gun, you've got to double-tap the touch screen. The problem is, this actions can very easily be 
 misinterpreted by the game. For example, even if you're just glancing around and you accidentally 
 take the stylus up off the screen very minimally, there's a good chance you'll randomly enter zoom 
 mode when you place it back down. Crouching is rather intuitively mapped to a quick downward stroke 
 of the stylus, and this tends to work quite well. The aim function, however, really is a problem 
 -- too often you'll enter it when you didn't want to, and sometimes when you try and activate it 
 you won't be able to the first time. 
  
  Where the game manages to be fun, though, is in the intense, exciting, straight-up shooting segments 
 and in the relative mission variety that will catch your notice at the start of the game. The game 
 sports a variety of different weapons -- sadly, however, this variety is pretty much negated by 
 the fact that the default weapon tends to be the best, so it's not worth picking up fallen enemies' 
 weapons anyway. Still, the shooting component of the game is intuitive and works quite well, and 
 it's a lot of fun to find cover and go head-to-head against a group of terrorists. The missions 
 which you'll play are also fairly various at first -- after a short training segment, you'll take 
 control of the machine gun atop a humvee and gun down terrorists as you hurry to the rendezvous 
 point. Afterwards, you'll get back on foot and make your way through a terrorist-infested metropolis. 
 
  
  One significant gripe with the missions, however, is that very soon they begin to feel fetch-questy. 
 For example, as you make your way to the rendezvous, the game will constantly be throwing these 
 stupid little sub-objectives at you: rid this building of terrorists, kill the sniper, then rid 
 another building of terrorists. Rinse and repeat a few times, and you'll finally have completely 
 a level. But rather than feeling somehow authentic, it just starts to get really annoying. Even 
 worse is the fact that you can't skip over these -- you'll have to go out of your way and complete 
 this boring tasks to finish the mission. The reason for this is the fact that every once in a while, 
 there'll be an impassable blockade -- usually a door. And sadly, only one of your companions can 
 kick it down. And yep -- you guessed it -- they'll only kick it down once you've completed the 
 latest sub-mission. 
  
  One other way in which the gameplay is significantly disappointing is that it's lacking the tactical 
 aspect of play that was so prevalent in the console version. The game is quite easy, even on the 
 hard difficulty setting, and you can take a lot of hits in a row before finally dying. And even 
 if you're close to death, you can just get behind some cover or out of the way of the fire fight, 
 wait a few seconds, and you'll be back to full health. You can run into a room with guns a-blazing, 
 and you can take out hundreds of terrorists on your own (which is a good thing, because the ally 
 AI is terrible and your squad members will often just stand around waiting for you to get things 
 done) . The AI for the enemies tends to be decent -- they'll usually find cover and work together, 
 although every once in a while they act really stupid and just stand around waiting for you to 
 kill them. The game lacks difficulty aside from the fact that enemies are constantly respawning 
 and they're so freaking similar that it's annoying. 
  
  In terms of both graphics and sound, however, Call of Duty 4 DS is quite impressive. This is definitely 
 one of the better-looking games on the DS, and the variety of 3D environment in which you'll fight 
 look good and move smoothly. Character models look pretty bad up close, but aside from that the 
 game looks pretty nice. The buildings are really cool and quite complex, and it's neat to see a 
 bunch of enemies scurry out onto the balconies in front of you. Of course, at the same time, this 
 visual impressiveness is rather ruined by the situations when enemy soldiers will magically respawn 
 right in front of you. 
  
  One final way in which Call of Duty 4 DS suffers is the lack of much play value. Admittedly, the 
 game is pretty fun and pretty intense. The problem is, it's an experience that just doesn't last 
 very long. The game can be beaten in around 6 hours, and the different difficulty levels don't 
 provide much reason to replay the game -- especially if you played on hard, like myself, and still 
 found it annoyingly easy. Online play could have seriously revived this game and made it a strong 
 candidate for the newest addition to your library -- sadly, this was omitted by the dev team and 
 instead you'll have to satisfy yourself with the short campaign. There is local multiplayer, including 
 download play, and while it offers depth and variety there's not much of a lifespan to playing 
 the same mode over and over again with friends without a copy of the game. And let's be frank: 
 I doubt you'll manage to convince three -- or even one, for that matter -- of your buds to pick 
 up this game to play with you. Online play could have seriously rectified this problem and made 
 Call of Duty 4 DS a great value; it's a real shame that it was admitted. 
  
  So, I guess it's time to come back to the question I posed at the beginning of this review: is 
 it worth your time and money to pick up a copy of Call of Duty 4 DS? If you're a hardcore fan of 
 FPSs and really feel the need for a shooter on the DS, you could perhaps consider getting it. However, 
 renting it is certainly the best idea for playing this game, as I'm fairly certain you'll find 
 yourself regretting this 30 dollar purchase after you've blown through the campaign. For anybody 
 else, it's best to stick to console shooters, or just appreciate the DS for what it's really good 
 at -- which, as you have probably concluded for yourself -- is certainly not first person shooters. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainHawk1
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  When I buy games, I tend to buy used for the sole reason that I can return used games if I don't 
 like them. Well, that wasn't the problem when I returned COD 4 for the DS to Gamestop after owning 
 it for exactly 24 hours. The problem was I had the game beat on Hard after 8 hours.
  
  COD 4 for DS is similar in style and play to the Next Gen version (I have it for PS3 already) yet 
 lacks in several key areas, the most obvious being duration and depth of the game. One of the first 
 things that catches you about the game is that they attempt to solve the lack of on analog button 
 by using the stylus and the touch screen. This is effective but it forces you to use your L1 key 
 as your trigger button (if you're a righty like 90% of us) which is awkward at first but you get 
 used to it. The main problem with the control set up is that it really starts to hurt your left 
 hand after a while. Another big problem with using the touch screen to aim is that your zoom-in 
 feature on your weapon is also activated by a double tap on the touch screen and therefore you 
 wind up inadvertently zooming in or out when you don't want to which can cost you during gameplay.
 
  
  The storyline of the game although similar to the console versions is not the same. It's kind of 
 like when they tried to adapt Tom Clancy's "The Sum of All Fears" for the big-screen and everything 
 was different. COD 4 for DS is like an alternate universe COD 4. Everything is not quite right. 
 Aside from the basic storyline being askew, the missions are every short and uncomplicated. COD 
 4 for DS actually does do a very good job at incorporating some of the cool elements of its console 
 counterpart and in particular I liked the fact that it had both helicopter aspects (the black and 
 white with the three weapons and the daylight with the minigun) in this version.
  
  What was annoying was the complete lack of small arms available (including handguns, I counted 
 seven) and absolutely no access to javelins, RPG's or any other cool missile projectile weapons. 
 Also, and this really annoyed me, you can't throw grenades back but the enemies can throw them 
 back at you if you throw them at them.
  
  AI is atrocious for both your team and the enemy. Your team doesn't hardly move and rarely shoots 
 at any enemies in particular and the enemies are easily picked off because they go to one spot 
 and then don't even try to duck or take cover.
  
  This version of the game features two minigames for detonating and defusing bombs that were both 
 ridiculously easy and pointless. Calling in airstrikes was a waste of time and only used twice 
 in the game.
  
  I understand that this is only a DS game but there could have been a lot more done with it. It 
 was fun, but like I said, I beat it in 8 hours... on HARD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imask8r9999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok. lets get all the bad news done first, the game only has about thirteen single player missions 
 and will only take about 4-6 hours to beat.
  Now for a lot of good news. Considering the fact that the game is on the ds the graphics are pretty 
 impresive. The audio could use a little work but it gets the job done. The gameplay overall is 
 really fun and it sucks you into the intense battle that you are thrown into. Something that I 
 really liked was the fact that they threw in a lot of things that you wouldn't expect on a ds game 
 like theres a mission when you're in a Black Haw helicopter and your manning a 'mini gun.' And 
 theres another thing that I liked, on two or three missions your in the back of a Humvee manning 
 a machine gun!! The game has a four player wireless multi-player using the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection. 
 On single card single player you only get two maps to choose from, but on the multi card play you 
 get seven maps and numerous weapons you don't get in the single player campaighn like a RPG. Overall 
 the game turns out really nice and it's just plain fun, and I like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guerillaKZ2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  before I got this game, I was completely hyped up about it and when my uncle got the game I was 
 sooooo happy!!!!! now lets make this clear, this is a good DS game. First the negatives
  No online- wahhh
  not alot of different guns
  way too short
  no replay value
  too easy
 
  when you get the sniper rifle, there is almost no long distance shooting for you to do
  AK 47 and M 16 sound slow however when an ally of yours shoots a M 16 it sounds powerful
  No 
 cool reload animations
  You only get to use the Bazooka once in the game
  Not that great of a story line
  Now the positives
  shotgun is very entertaining to use!!!!!
 
  Micro Uzi sounds great!!!
  Fun to kill multiple guys with a bazooka
  If you do multiplayer, you get bonus maps
  Nice melee action
  Awesome to be in a vehicle turret, 
 helicopter turret or a stationary machine gun
  Pistol sounds perfect
  Steady frame rate 
  Not the best graphics, but pretty good for a DS
  fun to call in an air-strike
  fun but a little 
 bit too easy puzzles
  
  So as I said it is a fun game but to hard core shooting fans this might not appeal to you, Yet 
 a great game for new comers to FPS games. Definitely worth a rent, but a questionable buy.
  
  Still an enjoyable game
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakyl-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Ok I admit I only bought this game because right now I don't own a 360 or PS3. I just wanted it, 
 to get a taster of the brilliance that is COD4!
  
  Anyway, on first playing campaign you can chose your difficulty level which breaks you in gently, 
 giving you a chance to get used to what at first feels like impossible and awkward controls. After 
 a while though you will easily adapt to using every function on the DS at the same time, so features 
 are in no way wasted in this game! To be honest though there isn't much difference between the 
 difficulties. I played the game through first on easy and then again on hard, and found the gameplay 
 on the latter no more challenging, merely just taking my time a bit more and using the crouch feature 
 alot. 
  
  The game is very short and feels as though it comes to a very abrupt ending. There is no climax 
 to the game or massive battle sequence which even hints at the fact the finale is approaching. 
 The story though is quite good and you will be dumped in varied environments to shoot through, 
 disarming bombs and connecting circuit boards are interesting little aspects which crop up now 
 and again too. I was surprised also at the range of weaponary available and the aim feature is 
 very handy as well.
  The game in general looks and feels dramatic. (which you wouldn't think possible on a handheld) . 
 The sound effects and the music are crisp making the game seem very realistic (again which you 
 wouldn't think possible) . The graphics are also probably to one of the highest standard that the 
 DS has to offer.
  
  Now the disappointing part which is multiplayer, it's not online I mean what's that all about?? 
 Surely a series which is renowned for its hugely successful online performance should have brought 
 its 360 and PS3 success to the DS! Alas no.....
  
  I recommend this game to fans and those who like first person shooters, but it is repetitive and 
 has no re-playability. As soon as you have conquered it, you'll be straight back down the shops 
 trading it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numbersss101
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  Yup its good. REAL GOOD! 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are so-so but you cant blame them cause its the DS FOR CHRIST SAKE! Its 
 easy to see and not to colourful till you're eyes started to see rainbow eventhough its not raining. 
 Explosion is not bad too.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are quite good actually. You use the touch screen to look up or down left 
 or right. For example if you move your stylus from middle to up, you'll look up. There is 3 icons 
 on the touch screen along with a map. First icon is to pickup weapons its represent as a hand. 
 Second is your gun, hold it to open that icon so that you can click on your second weapon or just 
 click on that icon to reload. Third is grenades, same as the weapon one but instead of reloading, 
 you're weapon will change into a grenade. R and L is to fire and the up down left right and the 
 otherside button are use for moving. One bad thing though, when you shoot the enemy on the body 
 (anywhere as long its not the head) they can really take the punch. I once shot this guy with the 
 ak47 25 bullets into him. =_= if you go near to the enemy you can melee him and would instantly 
 kill him. BEWARE YOU'LL DIE INSTANTLY ALSO!
  
  Story: Well basicly, its from the same thing as the pc version but only different point of view.
 
  
  Basicly its a fun game, but if you don't like FPS game or very short games don't buy this one cause 
 theres not much replaybility. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meganscheetah
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Coming from the Call of Duty Series, I expected this game to be good. I was extremely disappointed. 
 Instead of making it for DS, it should have been for the GBA. The graphics were GBA level, (peoples 
 mouths did not even move!) and the stylus configuration was downright stupid. They made something 
 easy, into something quite complicated. Unless you are extremely good at holding your DS in uncomfortable 
 positions, or very talented, right- handed people would be better suited playing with the left- 
 handed setting. (Left-handed people will also be better off with the right-handed setting) . To 
 use an item, or switch weapons, you have to reach all the way across the screen to touch to button 
 (on your normal setting) . This becomes rather inconvenient when you have to also aim and fire at 
 the same time. Another confusing addition to the game is that there is no health. Just hope and 
 pray you do not blow up, get shot by a sniper, or get hit so many times your screen flashes. From 
 the DS, I expected more, in the way of graphics. This game was just plain sad. The only entertainment 
 I received from it was delayed boredom. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  COD 4 for the Nintendo DS is a bit different than its console counterpart. In this game you play 
 as a US soldier as well as a British SAS soldier who must, in the grand scheme of things, stop 
 a nuke from being launched by a terrorist.
  
  It may sound the same as the console version, but the levels are different and the objectives are 
 different too. For instance, you don't ever do that whole "sneak through a courtyard in a ghillie 
 suit" like the 360 or PS3 version. Or how you do the boat stage with the SAS as the first stage 
 in the consoles, its like the 5th or 5th mission in the DS version.
  
  Anyway, it may seem like your average FPS but that is exactly what the DS needs. You'll run around 
 with your team, shooting terrorist upon terrorist, hurling grenades to kill more terrorists, running 
 up to them and bashing their faces in with your weapon, shooting rockets, firing humvee & helicopter 
 turrets, running with a countdown to disarm a bomb... its pretty intense for a "game on the go" 
 and will certainly keep your interest.
  
  Weapons include shotguns, AK-47, M16. MP5s, grenades.. and a couple of other goodies like some 
 handguns, an uzi... you get the idea.
  
  Its also repetitive. You'll do the same thing over... and over... and over again. All the terrorists 
 look the same, and when they actually yell from being killed, its an "Unghh!!!" that sounds the 
 same from terrorist to terrorist.
  
  The music and sound effects are pretty boss though. The music is an energetic score that will keep 
 your heart racing well after the fighting, and the sound effects are top notch and sound semi-realistic 
 (atleast for a hand held system) .
  
  There is no online multiplayer for Call of Duty 4 for the Nintendo DS as far as I know. And I have 
 never beaten it, so I apologize.
  
  Overall, this game was pretty fun and definitely intense. It certainly helped kickstart my interest 
 in the DS system, and to me is better than the console versions. I give it an 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandonthesaint
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 for the DS is great game for those fans ons of the series, like myself, but as a 
 game in general or if you are looking for an FPS for the DS it is somewhat sub-par to others like 
 Meteroid Prime: Hunters or even Demention: The Ward.
  Don't get me wrong, COD:4 on the DS is probley the best multi-platform game. It isn't like its 
 Xbox 360 or Playsation 3 predocesor, but it delivers some new levels to the same story and mood 
 of its counterparts. The level design is good and the overall amazing graphics for a DS title help. 
 Characters aren't all the likeable, because when it comes down to it the voice acting sucks, which 
 is wierd since the sound effects are amazing, also there isn't any SGT. Price (that really sucks 
 in my opinion) . The overall game is great and it keeps all the cool effects from its counter-parts 
 like, flash bangs, running, focusing, and even throwing back gernades. But, there are some really 
 stupid "things" in the game as well. If your like me then you loved the "All Ghillied Up" mission 
 or (spoilers) even the second level where you ride in the car to your death as the president over 
 in the middle east. COD:4 for the DS diffeintly dosn't have these moments or anything like it, 
 it just turns out to be an edition to the franshice. Think of it as COD:1,2, or 3 for the DS, theres 
 no real amazing story or drama and suspense it just turns out to be a great shooter if your into 
 that kinda thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 29, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  This was one game I had a good expectation for, as the CoD series has been great on the PC and 
 home consoles. However, transporting this to the DS 3 inch screen could have revealed troublesome, 
 due to the hardware limit. Neverthless, Activision continue their great reputation with a game 
 that will please all us FPS (portable) lovers.
  
  Graphics: As seen in BiA, we had a taste back then of what the DS can really offer - good 3D graphics. 
 Now Call of Duty is out, and we experience it again. You can really see that this was a game that 
 the developers put a lot of work into, and it really shines in this category. Superb! 9/10
  
  Sound: Again, like Dementium, I advise you to play with headphones, as the sound effects are 
 really well done. Each little action is heard and the SFX really help rank this game high. There 
 isn't a moment missed, every little detail is there. Voices are made to be listened, and the game 
 ensures you do. A little poor on the music side, but then again, this isn't a fancy simulator - 
 it's a real and pure shooter. 8/10
  
  Gameplay: The main aspect and the core of the game, it's gameplay. Now, you must be wondering, 
 if the game is great in sound and graphics, it should round off with a superb gameplay? Make no 
 doubt, it's really great, albeit the times the frame rate might lower a bit, but the DS can handle 
 it great most of the time. Even with a lot of enemies and pure 3D rendering graphics, bombastic 
 sound, it rarely dips down a lot, making it more than playable, which is great. No one likes a 
 lagging game. The enemies are superbly hard to kill, even playing in Normal mode, as you can take 
 quite some shots before dying. However, a good aimed head shot will completely 1HKO them (as expected) . 
 Downsides to point out - just one. The game does actually show you (and tell) where to go by means 
 of an arrow, but it's too small and frequently mistaken for something else. Apart from that, none 
 else to point out, which totals this category's score to a good 8/10.
  
  Replay Value: The lack of WiFi.... ah, yes. This game would be the best FPS if it had WiFi, as it 
 would be sort of a Counter Strike DS. Nevertheless, it features multiplayer and download play with 
 no lag. The main story is decent, and will account for around 15 hours of gameplay. 7/10
  
  Ultimately, Call of Duty 4 makes use of the DS hardware to the extent, providing a good single 
 mode, with above average multiplay modes. However, WiFi is not present, which is really a shame. 
 Activision did a great job on this game, just our beloved online play is not present. Despite this, 
 I'd recommend it to anyone who'd like a good FPS experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiggles116
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I really had my doubts about this game when I had my hands on it. The idea of squeezing 
 Call of Duty 4 onto a puny DS system really sent me a bad signal. However, after spending some 
 time with the game, I was dearly surprised. The game works on the DS so well that it is shocking. 
 However, there is one thing everybody needs to take into account: this game was built for the DS. 
 The game suffers from most of the inevitable problems a DS shooter would have, like weak A. I., 
 grainy graphics, not-so-clear audio, lack of buttons, multiplayer flaws, (but most of the blame 
 toward the multiplayer problems should be directed at the developer n-Space, not the DS hardware) , 
 and other things like that. But regardless of those aspects, CoD 4 for the DS is surprisingly fun. 
 
  The most astonishing thing about this game is how well the CoD formula is translated onto Nintendo's 
 handheld. The shooting of CoD has always been a bit slower than your average shooter (I'd say that 
 the gameplay is a cross between Halo and GRAW) , and the DS version successfully replicates that 
 style of gameplay with ease, given that the DS is technological shrimp. In the DS version of CoD 
 4, missions are paced in linear fashion, and the bulk of the game is primarily fuelled by scripted 
 events. This is one of the biggest problems with the game. Given that the console versions seem 
 to keep away from scripted events, the gap between this game and the console versions widens even 
 further due to this unfortunate reliance on a thing that video games today try to stay away from. 
 However, anybody playing this game will have to forgive the game of this and it's other problems 
 (like dumb A. I., small environments, somewhat average fra) due to the fact that they are playing 
 a DS game, not a console game.
  However, there is one problem that no amount of kindness can forgive nor the DS's technological 
 weakness can make up for: LACK OF ONLINE. Why the hell was this feature not implemented into the 
 game I have no f***ing idea. Not having online on a shooter (even a handheld shooter) is an offensive 
 so great that, in my opinion, is punishable by death. It's rather unfortunate, too. Given that 
 the multiplayer mode is actually good (there's four different game modes, along with several not-so-diverse 
 player classes and some surprisingly well made maps, as well as DS download) , it is a shame online 
 was not included. To be honest, if there had been online this game would be the best choice for 
 DS shooting on the market. It might have even overthrown the other shooter Metroid Prime Hunters. 
 Oh well
  
  All in all, CoD 4 for the DS is a respectable translation of a beloved console shooter to a handheld. 
 While it's lack of online severely cripples the title far worse than you would believe, there is 
 still fun to be had here. You just have to be forgiving.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vatterott
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Another crappy DS Port? Nah. No, it's not as well done as the console versions, but it does succeed. 
 
  
  Good:
  -A small amount of weapons, more than Brothers in Arms
  -Looks great
  -Single card play
  -Campaign has multiple settings, quick play mode
  -There's a shotgun
  
 -Nonlinear level design
  -Fun
  
  Bad:
  -Campaign relatively short
  -AI looks exactly the same
  -No Wi-Fi
  
  
  Can a FPS on the DS have good graphics? Sure. 
 MPH and CoD 4 DS can prove it. I really liked the enemies, and the environments. Even vehicles 
 looked somewhat nice. The enemies look good too. There's even blood when you shoot, as well as 
 dust from vehicles. Some bad things about the graphics: 1. Almost all of the levels were based on 
 right angles. It got a little boring after a while. 2. The guns looked weak, but only when you 
 zoomed, or fired. It was a 2d image when you zoomed, and a shot was just varying yellow shapes. 
 3. A lot of enemies look exactly the same.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The campaign is surprisingly long, but still short. If you played Brothers in Arms DS, this is 
 at least 2 hours longer. I would say it took me 6-8 hours to beat it. 3 difficulty settings also 
 help increase the hour time. If you beat the game on all settings, you would get close to 20 hours. 
 I also liked how there were different weapons, more than Brothers in Arms and MPH. There's also 
 a shotgun. If GS were on the old rating system, that would bring it up a point or two. 
  
  The campaign also had a nonlinear design about half of the time. I think that is crucial. I also 
 liked the variation of levels, from helicopters to trucks. There were also minigames in there, 
 too.
  
  Single player: 8/10
  
  While the music consists of only a few tracks, they are all good, and fit the mood. The voice acting 
 is surprisingly well done; I think this is the best on the DS. Cries of pain and shooting guns 
 make a great appearance as well. The thing that surprises me the most is that the DS has crappy 
 speakers, but a lot of games' soundsounds good.
  
  Sound: 8.5/10
  
  The multiplayer is by far the thing that brings the game down. A Call of Duty game with no online? 
 What? Really, as long as they had matched, or passed up (which would have been easy) MPH, this 
 game would have gotten an 8 from GS. The multiplayer I have played is fun, as long as the other 
 person knows what they're doing. There are a few maps with single card, as well as different characters 
 (I think there's five or six) . Fun multiplayer is here, but not much of it.
  
  Multiplayer: 7/10
  
  It's easy to just pick up and play Call of Duty 4 DS. It may be intense, 
 but the 5 minute tutorial literally allows you to take this out of the box and play it. It's a 
 lot of fun, but sometimes the AI stands still. There's not many ways to achieve a goal, usually 
 it's just one. Different weapons for each enemy, as well as soldier you play as helps. An appearance 
 by the shotgun brings some mindless fun. The game never really gets slow; it is continuously intense. 
 It's pretty neat that all this gameness is in a game for a portable.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  In terms of replay value, it does OK. The multiple difficulty settings and quick play mode 
 up the ante, as well as single card. If you have friends who have this game, you'll easily get 
 a few more hours out of it. The entire game, if you have friends who have it, and beat all difficulty 
 settings, will get you about 20 hours. If you go solo, maybe 6-8 hours (beating the campaign one 
 time only) . I would recommend this to any DS owner who wants a good FPS other than MPH.
  
  Overall: 7.5 out of 10.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tttroy1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  CoD 4 is a really great game. The story is a little hard to follow, it doesn't explain a whole 
 lot. But just about everything else is great. The single player campain, is not the longest ever, 
 but it's enough to satisfy, I got it on Thursday and I finished it last night. Sure it's not super 
 long but it is very fun and innovative, and it can also become addictive. You will be satisfied, 
 but don't expect a week-month long to beat campain, it's still a whole lot 'o fun.
  
  The level design is great and immersive, Activision did a good job putting the CoD type levels 
 in a hand-held, at least for this game, it is much better than CoD: Roads To Victory on the PSP. 
 That one is shorter and the levels aren't quite cool, they're ok but CoD4 DS is the winner for 
 CoD handheld gaming.
  
  The audio, wow, almost as good as you'd expect from a console game. Every sound you hear in the 
 game sounds realistic and loud.
  
  Gameplay is great, it's fun, and addicting as I said before, you'll like it I promise, this game 
 is very under-rated.
  
  As for multi-player, I haven't tried it yet, but I'm going to bet it's pretty cool, I've checked 
 out the maps and they are fantastic, you'll have alot of fun in them, I was just amazed looking 
 around the maps, there are greatly designed. 
  
  I recommend this game, it's great for all FPS fans, the DS hasn't seen any, other than Metroid 
 and GoldenEye: Rogue Agent, GE was terrible, Metroid only has good multiplayer. CoD4 DS is fantastic, 
 if you're an FPS lover waiting for a good DS FPS, do yourself a favor and get this.
  
  You'll feel like your in the war, (a small one) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_am_game99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Unlike the other COD4 games, this game fails to make a huge stand agaisnt other console shooters. 
 The call of duty's on ever other consoles shocked everyone, but that is something this game fails 
 in attempt to do.
  
  If you ask me, shooters should not be realeased for the DS. THe only game that was ok was metroid 
 prime. Thanks to the anooying stylist conrtols, this game isnt a game were you can sit down and 
 play for hours or minutes leading up to that. It will swell your fingers and hand up and make you 
 swet if you play to long.
  
  The gamplay is average, and the graphics OK, since it is a DS game. It has no online muliplayer 
 play which make this game un-attractive and boring. Even the short muliplayer connection is lame.
 
  
  I would not advise that you buy this game, get it for computer or something any other console is 
 terrible! A disterioues game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Okay okay well Call Of Duty 4 may not be as good as the 360 or PS3 version but yet considering 
 what consol its for this game is a blast and is defently the FPS on an Handheld consol.
  
  The graphics is what makes this game what it is. yes it may be blocky but its got fine details 
 and amazing looking levels through out with top notch voice acting and sound effects.
  
  If you've been on CoD4 for the next-gen consols then you'll find out that this game is abit different 
 in story wise as the story starts you off playing has a US officer insted of a British SAS member.
 
  
  The gameplay is used by aiming with the stylus and moving with the D-Pad. and this runs nicly with 
 intence battles and minigames throughout the game.
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall CoD4 Modern Warfare for the DS is a must have even if you've play it on the 360 or PS3, 
 theres no dought that you'll hate this game too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shooter_dude
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  When i first got this game i thought it wouldn't be that great considering a war game for Nintendo 
 ds. so first i played the quick play mode, and i thought it was a really good war game for ds. 
 this game has surprisingly good sound and graphics and the game play is quite amazing.
  
  If you are a big fan of first person shooter games and you want to go portable, i suggest you go 
 to the store and take a look at COD 4 for ds. If any of you are looking for a good game on Nintendo 
 ds and you just cant find one that suits your style just purchase this classic COD game for the 
 ds and you wont go wrong.
  
  If you are with your friends and you want to play a multiplayer game, the game play is quite amazing. 
 you have to do certain missions and try to eliminate your opponent at the same time. very fun and 
 very addictive.
  
  Anyway look for COD 4 for the ds and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspeck_1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:23 am PT
Review:  We've all played COD 4 (YOU HAVEN'T YET?!) either the SP or MP experience on any of the consoles, 
 so you might be a little wary buying this game, I mean you probably already own Metroid, and don't 
 think that this game will be as good as the consoles. Well I'll tell you: IT"S NOT! But what would 
 you expect? Comparing the graphical achievements of such consoles as the 360 would be stupid. SO 
 ONLY GET THIS GAME IF YOU ARE LOOKING FOR A ON-THE-GO FRAG-FEST OF GOOD O'L COD.
  Really people. Think before you.... nvm.
  
  Alright now my breakdown of the game:
  
  Graphics: 
 For a DS game, surprisingly good, rick textures, lots of explosions, etc., environments are easily 
 understandable and believable unlike Goldeneye.
  
  Audio- Battle chatter is superb, and S/F are awesome, music is good, and placed at keen suspenseful 
 intervals, unfortunately hearing the music realizes that most of the game is played without it.
 
  
  Quirks: Surprisingly lacking of the bugs that plagued BIA: DS, with only 1 bug (so far) that came 
 to my attention, a scripted NPC ally that picked up a suitcase bomb failed to do so when I threw 
 a smoke grenade to cover him and he started covering his eyes, never picking up the bomb.
  
  Length: Short, but if you have enough cash you should think about buying another game, like 
 an RPG, then getting this game, so you can get your portable COD fix at regular intervals, therefore 
 extending this games life.
  
  Replayability: 
  Though they might get boring after too long, there is a Quick Play option to go back and play levels 
 under any difficulty.
  
  :
  Really a must-buy if you are a FPS DS fan, a tad inappropriate checkpoints, and fun little diversions 
 (Spectre: you provide covering fire to a friendly squad from up in a plane/helicopter (whichever) 
 in full b&w, and then when the squad breaks in to the enemy bunker you play as a member as it's 
 squad. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aquabfan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 DS had mostly everything that I expected to get out of it. In the first level of 
 the campaign mode, you will be amazed by how everything looks and sounds, the detail is so goos 
 that you will easily figure out if the person you are shooting at is a terrorist or one of your 
 own guys. The musical score is alright and the sound effects can really get you into the game. 
 Some parts of the game that I really enjoyed were disarming bombs and opening locks. There are 
 some points during the game when you really have to be careful such as when your enemy has a sniper 
 rifle, if you are hit you will die in one shot. Even if you play through the campaign mode on hard, 
 which is what I did. You will still find the game relatively easy, sure there will be a couple 
 parts on the game where you may get stuck for awhile but that won't hold you back to much and you 
 will find that you can beat the whole game in about 10 hours or less. Yes, the multiplayer is not 
 very good and is only limited to 4 players at once, if this were a wi-fi game this may be different.
 
  
  Overall this is a great FPS that I would highly recommend any FPS fan who would like to carry it 
 with them on the go, but you may find that it is to easy and short of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MindfreakMBS
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 makes it's first appearance on the Nintendo DS. It's an exellent First Person Shooter 
 and has many weapons to choose from. Some weapons are MP5s, Uzis, AK47s, M16s, and much more. The 
 graphics are exellent for the DS. Single player has long fun missions and multiplayer is very fun! 
 The down side of the game is multiplayer isn't online and there are only 4 players aloud. The game 
 is rated T for Teen for Violence, Blood, and Language. The game cost $34. Two Thumbs up I rate this 
 game a Ten out of Ten. If you have a DS and love the Call of Duty Series I highly recomend you 
 buy this game!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1313deadmandrve
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Whenever you hear FPS on the DS you always think that the game is oing to be vile, boring and horable. 
 When I read the reviews for this game it actully sounded good. S I said "What the heck. I'll try 
 it." That was the best decision in my life.
  
  Gameplay: You can sprint, shoot, duck and even set charges in mini games. You spend most of the 
 time though, taking cover and aiming for head shots, but somtimes you play as a support gunner, 
 or even a bomber. You play as an American soilder, or a British soilder. The games comes out short, 
 (12 levels,) but you will want to play them over again.
  
  Controls: Unlike Metroid, you always have to use the touch screen controls, that can get phisicly 
 tiring, but the controls are tight, if tiring.
  
  Graphics: Every thing looks sharp and realistic, and ulike in other games, the enemy actully reacts 
 to your shoots!
  
  Sound: The fist time I head my M16 reloading I knew that the sounds were going to sound amazing. 
 From the insparatinal music at the begining, to the sound of your gun man dieing, the sounds sound 
 crisp, and clear.
  
  Replay value: You will always want to play your favorate levels over and over again. My favorate 
 is Missle Away. You will find at least one great level to keep playing.
  
  Conclusion: Get this game no matter what!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jouvjouv
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 16, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  It was surprising to find that they had actually made a ds version of the newest call of duty game. 
 Without a doubt, it's inferior to the console version of the game, but it's still a good FPS for 
 the ds. Firstly, I would say I was quite addicted to the game. It wasn't very easy, but it wasn't 
 too hard either. The graphics are so-so, and the aiming was quite accurate. There is also a left 
 handed aiming for those left handed people, and there's also a multiplayer which is uselss without 
 any other players. Few of my complaints are, there aren't that many weapons, it has the problem 
 the other FPS on the DS doesn't have, A wifi multiplayer, and a WAY TOO SHORT. I''ve beaten the 
 game in 3 days, and I played for about 2 hours per day, thus it only took me about 6-7 hours to 
 beat the game. In conclusion, it'll be good for trips, but it's not a game turely worth buying, 
 unless lots of your friends have the game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adeehr01eb
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 9, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up Call of Duty 4 I was expecting this fantastic game that I've played on the Xbox 
 360 just without the graphics. What I got was surprisingly good graphics and less then steller 
 control.
  
  The whole FPS control system is not what I like about the DS. I understand wanting to use the touch 
 pad, but it's not necessary. I actually had to switch the control system to left handed to get 
 it to work for me. I used my right hand on the touch pad and therefore couldn't touch the right 
 bumper to fire my weapon. To me that is completely backwards and ill concieved. When I reversed 
 it to lefty I was able to use my left hand with the Dpad and the left bumper to fire. 
  
  I have also played Goldeneye and really enjoyed that control scheme. It felt like a large console 
 controller, no need for the touch screen.
  
  Where I was please and surprised was the graphics. This is done very well and really makes you 
 feel like you are in the game. This and Brothers in Arms are two of the best looking FPS games 
 on the DS. 
  
  Overall I'd say that COD4 is a quality game, but not what I was hoping for when I picked it up. 
 If I had to choose I'd pick BIA over COD4. 
  
  Worth picking up at $19. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdbn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  How could it get a 7? Because its too hard for some. If your good at FPS games this is the top 
 of line, doesnt get any better than cod4. The multiplayer action is the way to go. Single player 
 is great but your only tapping into the greatness of this game if you dont try the multiplayer. 
 You have to put about 10 hours into the game and youll be hooked. The game has amazing graphics 
 and was built for preformance. 60fps is more than enough. Most people have to tweak the console 
 configs a little to achieve that. I ran it in default and got about 50 fps however after a few 
 tweaks Im running at about 125 fps. I recommend the mp5 with stopping power perk and steady aim 
 perk. Anyone who comes near you will die :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoticPYRO
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:56 pm PT
Review:  When sitting down to play this game for the first time, you know not to expect ground breaking 
 graphics. You probably also expect some other things to bog the game down like poor control response. 
 
  
  The thing is about this game is that it's really going to surprise you how fun it actually turns 
 out to be. It does well on the controlling aspect and it becomes even more fluid after the first 
 hour or two. The graphics will also grow on you, they really are better then you'd expect. Mostly 
 due to the fact that there has been some really crappy looking FPS's on the DS.
  
  Your team mates do a good job of looking out for you and even directing you around levels to get 
 you to the main objectives. Most of the enemy's go down no problem, although the sniper on the 
 second level killed me about 4 times before I found where he was hiding. Looking back, that really 
 adds to the realism of the game and makes you all the more alert on the levels after that.
  
  So overall this game is really enjoyable, has room for improvement (I'm looking at you Nintendo 
 WiFi Connection) but it will still hold your attention for a while (like when your away from Counter 
 Strike) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm a sucker for shooters on the DS and the only good one IMO is MP: H. But this game has some very 
 neat features and things you can do such as: thorw grenades back at people, take control of a bomber, 
 ride in vehicles, get in a melee fight where you stroke the touch scream (rarely) , but u can melee 
 but its a one shot kill. The downside is it's a bit easy, I mean on easy mode one person can't 
 kill u. literally u can stand there and take hits and won't die, luckily they fixed that on normal (barely) 
 and hard. This game is fully voice acted which I liked very good music all around good sound. There 
 is download player on two maps but its only free fo all, and theres multi cart play with a few 
 good modes that play well, but NO ONLINE!!! (which sux) The graphics are good could have been better, 
 it felt like i was playing a rail shooter the whole time because the AI stand there and get shot 
 and the come out when you walk over a invisible line. BUT all these downsides dont make this a 
 bad game there are plenty of thing that make this a worhty buy, not a must for FPS fans (which I 
 am) but a good distraction. Also it has a very short campaign which takes about a day or two. I 
 just expected more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paintballman97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Well this game was very good. The game made great use of the touch screen. Its a fun shooter that 
 will be very fun for you. Lets review it!
  
  Graphics:10/10- You wont find a game that has better graphics on the DS. All people who said the 
 graphics wont be good coming on the DS, your wrong.
  
  Gameplay:9/10 Many guns to choose from and the switching story line is nice. This game kept me wondering 
 what my next task was-which is good.
  
  Playability:8/10 When it comes to playing a good game you gotta be able to have control right? Well 
 here the controls are good but sometimes it felt a little loose, not bad though. 
  
  Enemies are hard to kill on normal so dont think it has some difficulty. You could get ambushed 
 from anywhere. I didnt find much problems with it. This game was everything i wanted it to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massconquer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  This game has amazing graphics like the other FPS games for DS (Metroid Prime Hunters and Bionicle 
 Heros) , but unlike those games, it's modern. Modern games are one of the hardest to make since 
 you need to make it based on the conflicts we face today.
  There are some nice weapons like the M16 you start out with and the AK47 from those regulars you 
 meet almost throughout the game. Just like any other Call of Duty game, you can pick up a maximum 
 of two weapons of your choice.
  Missions are fairly easy (i've only played on regular) while you switch between a US Marine to 
 a British SAS. The switch are a bit sudden, however, for you take a role as random soldiers (with 
 are nameless) throughout each mission. They've done a excellent job as to what needs to be played, 
 like infiltrating a science building, to covering a group of US forces with a Blackhawk.
  For me, the only fun in this is gunning people on a blackhawk because that's the only unique thing 
 you'll find in a DS FPS. I also play that because going mobile is a bit tedious for you do the 
 simple run and gun.
  Despite all these goods, there are some down sides to make this game a 10 out of 10.
  1) There 
 are absolutely NO re-loading animations in the game.
  2) Allies are retarded, they just stand right in the middle of the fight and get killed.
  3) 
 Unlike the rest of the Call of Duty series, when an ally dies, YOU ARE ON YOUR OWN.
  4) Switches between soldiers are very sudden, be ALERT.
  5) Enemies pop out of every possible 
 corner, always look left to right, then back.
  6) Most maps are very clustered (no running space) .
  On the other hand, there are good things 
 about this game:
  1) Weapon and character models are very well done, looks realistic.
  2) Sounds and ambient and music gives the game an extra boost of excitement.
  3) You use almost 
 every modern weapon/vehicle we have nowadays.
  4) People actually talk on the radio and call for you, etc.
  5) Defusing and setting a C4 takes 
 patience, makes you use your brain for once!
  6) Melee very, very well done (feels like they spent more time on this than on reloading)
  
 
  Overall, it's an excellent game. It is absolutely not a disappointment. Once you pick it up and 
 play it, you never want to put it down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrjuggles
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This is my first time playing an FPS on the DS. I'm much more used to platformers on the DS, and 
 feel that CoD4 was definitely a must for this handheld. I usually go and rip it up with console 
 FPS's, but this game is definitely worth the punch. While it plays like so many other shooters, 
 it still retains that immersive, gritty feel that we've come to love from the Call of Duty franchise.
 
  
  Graphics: These definitely shine, even for the DS, but there are obvious hardware limitations. 
 However, those limitations do not detract from the gameplay. Framerate is generally solid, with 
 very few hitches. I did not experience any clipping or artifacting. It's definitely different playing 
 an FPS on such a small screen ... but it is an action-packed experience that fits in your pocket!
 
  
  Sound: Most certainly, the sound is a determining factor in this series. As others have stated, 
 it does its best when played while wearing headphones. The sound is crisper and punchier that way, 
 and you can almost feel the way the weapons sound. The dialogue is decent, especially from the 
 friendlies, but its downright repetitive from the foes. The accents and voice capture are spot-on 
 however. The music is engaging and fits the storyline well, like all CoD games have.
  
  AI: Well, the foe AI here is a little sketchy. They're not dumb, by any means, but sometimes they 
 just don't react to what is happening. They're definitely a challenge to kill, at any difficulty. 
 This is no shooting fish in a barrel type of game. The friendly AI gets in the way only rarely, 
 and is more than adequate for assistance when needed. What is missing here is the ability to order 
 the NPC squad to task, a great feature that could have lent more depth to the use of AI.
  
  Weapon models: Very solid, and feel heavy and powerful, in that way that makes you say Want some? 
 Get some! In that very CoD fashion, the ADS (aim-down-sights) feature works very well, and is accurate 
 as expected. Clean, one-shot kills work extremely well this way.
  
  Vehicle models: decent, but not great, limited only by the graphics power of the DS.
  
  Explosions: 
 Its not Call of Duty without some boom-boom! Again, the modeling and particle/smoke particle patterns 
 are hardware-limited, but there's no mistaking when something gets blown up. They're definitely 
 fist-pumping YES! moments.
  
  Level design/environments: Overall, the levels offer a diverse selection of locales and situations. 
 The design is very linear, like many FPS's, and there are no alternate routes by which to accomplish 
 missions. Some of the level designs have you re-tracing your steps a bit much, but it ends up making 
 sense in terms of the mission objectives. Depth-of-field is put to good use in each of these level 
 designs, and the locations are plausible in terms of helping the missions feel inspired and deep.
 
  
  Gameplay: Here's the all-important dealbreaker for a game's success. One thing that works very 
 well, like other CoD's in the series, is the use of a solid checkpoint system, save system, and 
 ability to check objectives on the fly. This is backed up by solid audio instruction. Of course, 
 you can only cram so much into the DS's screen, and from a gameplay point of view, the absence 
 of a healthbar is a welcome reprieve from other, cluttered FPS HUDs. When aiming, the reticle turns 
 a meaningful red against foes, and green for friendlies. This is good to know on such a small screen. 
 The action is definitely fast paced, and will keep you on your toes.
  
  The use of the DS's touch screen for game control elements I feel works very well. It allows the 
 user to make very rapid weapon switching, though the double-tap for ADS feature is a bit clunky 
 now and then. Using the stylus to allow for free-looking works very well, and won't have you staring 
 at the touch screen ... and not notice yourself getting your AI ass kicked on the screen above.
 
  
  Overall Impressions:
  
  The single-player campaign is woefully short, however, it is definitely fun and engaging. The use 
 of multiplayer is definitely needed to add replay value here, but first-time FPS players might 
 be put off by the initial learning curve. I have not played the PC or console versions of CoD4 
 yet, so from simply playing the DS little brother version (though it is not the same storyline) , 
 I can definitely say I am pleased and impressed with Activision for bringing a great franchise 
 to the portable platform. It has a go-anywhere, grab you by the seat of your pants feel to the 
 action, and it is definitely a needed addition to the catalog of games made available for the DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  This was one game I had a good expectation for, as the CoD series has been great on the PC and 
 home consoles. However, transporting this to the DS 3 inch screen could have revealed troublesome, 
 due to the hardware limit. Neverthless, Activision continue their great reputation with a game 
 that will please all us FPS (portable) lovers.
  
  Graphics: As seen in BiA, we had a taste back then of what the DS can really offer - good 3D graphics. 
 Now Call of Duty is out, and we experience it again. You can really see that this was a game that 
 the developers put a lot of work into, and it really shines in this category. Superb! 9/10
  
  Sound: Again, like Dementium, I advise you to play with headphones, as the sound effects are 
 really well done. Each little action is heard and the SFX really help rank this game high. There 
 isn't a moment missed, every little detail is there. Voices are made to be listened, and the game 
 ensures you do. A little poor on the music side, but then again, this isn't a fancy simulator - 
 it's a real and pure shooter. 8/10
  
  Gameplay: The main aspect and the core of the game, it's gameplay. Now, you must be wondering, 
 if the game is great in sound and graphics, it should round off with a superb gameplay? Make no 
 doubt, it's really great, albeit the times the frame rate might lower a bit, but the DS can handle 
 it great most of the time. Even with a lot of enemies and pure 3D rendering graphics, bombastic 
 sound, it rarely dips down a lot, making it more than playable, which is great. No one likes a 
 lagging game. The enemies are superbly hard to kill, even playing in Normal mode, as you can take 
 quite some shots before dying. However, a good aimed head shot will completely 1HKO them (as expected) . 
 Downsides to point out - just one. The game does actually show you (and tell) where to go by means 
 of an arrow, but it's too small and frequently mistaken for something else. Apart from that, none 
 else to point out, which totals this category's score to a good 8/10.
  
  Replay Value: The lack of WiFi.... ah, yes. This game would be the best FPS if it had WiFi, as it 
 would be sort of a Counter Strike DS. Nevertheless, it features multiplayer and download play with 
 no lag. The main story is decent, and will account for around 15 hours of gameplay. 7/10
  
  Ultimately, Call of Duty 4 makes use of the DS hardware to the extent, providing a good single 
 mode, with above average multiplay modes. However, WiFi is not present, which is really a shame. 
 Activision did a great job on this game, just our beloved online play is not present. Despite this, 
 I'd recommend it to anyone who'd like a good FPS experience. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
