-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/cars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Twelve fun minigames and four race stages.
 Detailed 3D graphics.
 Recognizable characters from the movie.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only 12 minigames and four race stages.
 Minigames don't hold player's interest for long.
 Paying full price for a two-hour game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 5.4, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 110 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Helixe
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date: Jun 6, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
All of the various minigames are fun, but there aren't enough of them here to hold a person's attention 
 for more than a couple hours. 

  Cars for the Nintendo DS is a collection of race missions and character-inspired minigames based 
 on events that took place in the animated feature film. The game as a whole makes good use of the 
 system's graphical horsepower and is actually rather fun, for the short time that it lasts. Despite 
 the variety provided by the different minigames, there aren't enough of them here to hold a person's 
 attention for more than a couple hours.  

          Each character stars in his or her own minigame.     

  Anyone that has seen the film 
 will appreciate how the game is presented. The game-selection menu is a 3D mockup of a drive-in 
 theater, where all of the characters have gathered to watch the latest flick. Each game is based 
 on a particular character. To pick an individual game, you simply tap on one of the characters 
 with the stylus. Before and after each game, still shots from the film and textual dialogue are 
 shown that tell you what the characters are up to and where you are in the story. All of the various 
 games are rendered using 3D graphics, but the viewpoints vary. Race levels are viewed top-down 
 across both screens. The other minigames employ side views and behind-the-back views. Typically, 
 the lower screen shows each character in action, while the upper screen shows the fruits of their 
 labor. Characters are large and look identical to their movie depictions. Meanwhile, the action 
 is generally fast paced, and the game's 3D engine manages to pump out plenty of polygons and textures 
 without so much as a hiccup. The audio portion of the presentation isn't nearly as fleshed out, 
 but the whimsical music isn't offensive, and each game has a healthy variety of appropriate sound 
 effects.  

  Like the movie it's based on, the game isn't highbrow. Players mainly use the touch screen to manipulate 
 the characters doing bizarre activities, such as fishing for garbage with Mater's tow-hook or catching 
 the trophies that fall out of the back of Mack's trailer. In the fishing game, for example, you 
 slide and pick up the stylus to cast the hook and then draw circles to reel in the bits of trash 
 that you find. In the trophy-catching game, you touch trophies to grab them and slide the stylus 
 to sort them into colored boxes. Other minigames challenge you to leap off ramps, match the DJ's 
 beat, or wake up sleeping tractors, all by tapping the stylus and blowing into the microphone. 
 Most minigames take approximately two or three minutes to complete. In total, there are 12 different 
 minigames to pick from, each with multiple rounds of play.  

  Only three minigames are available from the start. When you finish those three, a Piston Cup race 
 opens up. Winning the race will unlock three additional minigames, which you then must complete 
 to unlock the next race, and so it goes, until you've unlocked all four races and 12 minigames. 
 The Piston Cup levels are traditional racing levels. Players have to guide Lightning McQueen around 
 a track and reach the finish line ahead of Chick Hicks, while trying not to run into the slower 
 vehicles that constantly seem to be in the way. Steering, accelerating, and braking are handled 
 with the directional pad and buttons. There's also a jump button that you can use to leap over 
 oncoming hazards. Midway through each race, you'll have to replace Lightning's tires by completing 
 a pit-stop minigame, which involves quickly tapping individual lug nuts when they're highlighted. 

          In the racing levels, players have to help Lightning McQueen beat his rival, Chick Hicks. 
     

  Between all of the different minigames and the four race stages, there's a fair amount of variety 
 here. None of the tasks are particularly challenging, but they're all enjoyable while they manage 
 to hold the player's attention. It shouldn't take an average player more than two hours to unlock 
 every minigame and see every story scene. After that, you can replay minigames to set high scores. 
 The minigames aren't really intricate enough to hold up to long-term play sessions, though. There's 
 also a multiplayer-race mode that lets two players compete against one another in Piston Cup events, 
 but it requires multiple game cards to access. In all likelihood, you probably won't come back 
 to the game once you've seen the story through to the end.  

  Compared to so many other movie-inspired games, Cars for the Nintendo DS is genuinely one of the 
 more interesting ones. The care that went into each of the different minigames is impressive. Unfortunately, 
 there just aren't enough of them here to hold a person's attention for very long.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wiiplay1
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 3, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Cars being a racing game is what most of us would presume, but apparently, we were all wrong. Cars 
 is not the kind of game that you would have an all day marathon for, it's more of a game you'd 
 play at the airport if you were delayed and had absolutely nothing else to do.
  
  You start out with about 4 things you can do, you can do 3 minigames or race against your rival. 
 You can unlock more minigames as you progress, but it doesn't matter. This game is still very short. 
 I mentioned a race against your rival, or Lightning McQueen's rival for that matter. All it's really 
 is just button mashing. There really is no game play to it just like the rest of the game.
  
  Probably the worst thing about this game is the price. You are paying full price for a game 
 that doesn't even offer half of what you are paying. It is way too much.
  
  Cars might be a great gag gift for a younger sibling, but it isn't worth it considering price and 
 game play because there is no game play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gohan88888888
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS HORRIBLE!!! THERE ARE ONLY MINIGAMES, AND THE ACTUAL RACING MODE SUCKS!!! the movie 
 was totally awesome. good enough to watch multiple times. but this game is a piece of [censored] . 
 it was NOT worth $30.
  
  gameplay: like i said before: it's made of mostly minigames, and the racing mode sucks. the minigames 
 are even hard to control. in the racing mode all you do is move your car around to avoid other 
 cars. IT DRIVES BY ITSELF!!!
  
  graphics: not really too bad. but then again, most nintendo ds games DO have good graphics.
  
 
  sound: average
  
  value: $3.00. probably not even that.
  
  overall: this is a VERY sorry excuse for a game. if you buy this... never mind. just dont buy it. 
 IT SUCKS BIG TIME AND YOU WILL REGRET BUYING IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 3.7
Date: Jan 24, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Enjoy Mini Games? You'll not like playing Cars what so ever. If you loved the movie you'll not 
 like the game becuase there aren't exciting, you can use the touch screen to do the miini games, 
 and the game never follows the movie. You can't race with other cars, Mostly the same race on the 
 game if you have Wi-Fi multiplayer you'll still not like it. The graphics are poor and souding 
 is weak as it can get, might get bored with in half an hour and not worth picking for anyone who 
 likes driving-mini games on your DS so don't waste your money on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToaInikaJaller
Rating: 6.4
Date: Nov 26, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Cars for the DS is an alright game, and It's rather good in fact for a Liscensed game, which there 
 are few of. The graphics are all right, with some 3D-ness, but they could be much better, THQ. 
 Gameplay has 3 Minigames and racing. The racing part can get very fun, where you race as Lightning 
 McQueen and you're racing one of the other characters, in this mode you can also have Multiplayer.
 
  Mini-games include a driving part that isn't exactly racing, a game where you use the touch screen 
 to serve coustomers, and a pattern game. They're all pretty good, and I think the way THQ made 
 use of the touch screen for this game is fantastic. I would have preffered more racing, however.
 
  
  I am not a fan of the sound, as there is little.. Voices from the movie would have made this game 
 better.
  
  Overall, I say this game would be good to get if you find it for cheap like i did. It will grow 
 on you after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FE411
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 19, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This game seriously sucks. I got it for free at my local EB Games and it sucked just perfect!
 
  
  First of all, it is not what I expected it to be. I thought it would be a nice racing game with 
 talking Cars but no it wasn't! It was a way too easy mini game compilation! The mini games are 
 stupid. Who would want to rub a stupid car for a mini game? What about simply pressing flashing 
 lights? I can't believe you said no! Oh man... such a waste even if you got the game for free... 
 this game is worth nothing, nothing at all, not even a single look at the cover.
  
  I am serious about what I am going to say next...
  
  Do not get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackmage_Goat
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I gave this a hard rating because it will sometimes make you throw your DS at a wall. I had to 
 stop playing it before I went berserk. This game only has mingames that are sometimes seemingly 
 impossible and may take 50 trys to finally complete. For example, I was play a game where you had 
 to memorize the beats play. Every single time you mess up it plays it again. I got so sick of it 
 I almost stabbed the DS screen. This game is overly hyped and sucks in the long run. There's an 
 hour of my life I'll never get back... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  Looking at the images posted for this game, I thought "Great! I Love isometric-perspective racing! 
 Bring it on!"
  So what that it is a movie tie-in game. There have been other movie-based games that did well..... right...? 
 Didn't Rocky have a GBA game?
  So, I scooped up a copy of Cars and tossed it in for an evening of 3D racing with two screens to 
 look ahead.
  
  The game starts out as a collection of minigames, most of which are along the lines of Whack-a-mole, 
 target fishing, and other classics, but disguised in layers of very pretty 3D character renderings 
 from Disney's latest Pixar Production Cars. They claim that these minigames will lead up to unlocking 
 an actual racing game. They lie.
  When you play through the multiple versions of whack-a-mole (which you are forced to go, by the 
 way) , you enter the racing tournament proper, where you are told you may steer with the control 
 pad, and accelerate with the A button. OK, here comes the racing, right? Wrong.
  The accelerate button merely makes your car move up the screen toward the top, without getting 
 any faster, while the brake button moves your car down to the bottom to more easily avoid the traffic 
 hulring down from the top screen. The 'steering' allows you to switch lanes to avoid said traffic. 
 That's it. There is no track to speak of, since the track is scrolling underneath you at a relatively 
 constant rate. So, no track means no cornering, no negotiating s-curves no drifting... just switch 
 lanes to avoid the falling cars. There is only one other competitor-car you need to beat across 
 the finish line, and there is no way to get away from that car. This one guy buzzes around you, 
 smashing through traffic that slows you down if you were to hit it, and generally cheating its 
 way along as you swerve to avoid the oncoming cars that your competition can apparently ignore. 
 
  So, you are left with a so-called racing game where all you do is switch lanes to avoid traffic, 
 and punch the accelerate button when the finish line is coming up to make sure you are ahead of 
 the one cheating car you need to beat. Woo hoo.
  I am reminded of an old arcade game where you control a plastic car on a wire, on a track that 
 is scrolling underneath you with cars appearing for you to dodge by switching lanes. It wasn't 
 that much fun then, it itsn't much better with spiffy graphics now.
  The minigames are mildly entertaining, and there are quite a few of them (15 I think) , but when 
 you expect racing and instead get a minigame where you have to run from stall to stall in a drive-in 
 rubbing the cars to make them happy (an inappropriate metaphor, especially in what I now see is 
 a game targeting 6 year olds) , the experience is disappointing to say the least.
  I suppose if you see this for what it is, a collection of race-themed minigames, then you might 
 enjoy yourself. If you expected an isometric-perspective racing game, you have to either wait for 
 micro machines, or try to find an old copy of hot-wheels racing for the GBA. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
