-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cartoon Network Racing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/cartoonnetworkracing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of things to unlock.
 Shortcuts are useful and easy to find.
 Sketchbook minigame is as fun as the racing.
 Catchy music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphics and frame rate aren't too hot.
 Brings almost nothing new to the table.
 Takes too long to unlock certain drivers.
 Sound effects are pitiful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 6.3, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 72 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: The Game Factory
Developer: DC Studios
Genre: Racing
Date: Dec 4, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The younger crowd may find Cartoon Network Racing to be an enjoyable racer featuring familiar and 
 likable characters, but anyone else likely won't be as enamored. 

  Taking characters from a popular game or cartoon series, sticking them in some karts, and releasing 
 a racing game just in time for the holidays is such a frequent occurrence that it's almost becoming 
 a tradition. Keeping the spirit alive this year is Cartoon Network Racing for the Nintendo DS. 
 The game does nothing that other kart racers haven't already done, but there's plenty of neat stuff 
 to unlock, and the game does a decent enough job of mimicking the popular Mario Kart series that 
 children may enjoy it.  

          What are you talking about? This is totally different than Rainbow Road!     

  Despite 
 the game being full of cartoon characters, there's no story here; you're just racing karts and 
 trying to win. The game features nine playable characters from the outset, and you can unlock 11 
 more as you progress. Pretty much all of the Cartoon Network gang is here: The Powerpuff Girls, 
 Dexter, Cow, Chicken, Johnny Bravo, I. M. Weasel, I. R. Baboon, Courage, and Muriel, to name a few. 
 There are three basic gameplay modes: versus, time trial, and championship. Versus allows up to 
 four players to race against each other via Wi-Fi. There are more racing options available if each 
 person has his or her own cartridge, but even if only one person has a copy of the game, four people 
 can race against a full field of racers. Time trial lets you head out onto the track alone in an 
 effort to better your lap times. Championship is essentially the same as it is in every other kart 
 racer -- you compete in a series of races and accumulate points based on where you finished. The 
 winner is the driver with the most points after all of the races have been completed, and they 
 are awarded the trophy in a ceremony where each of the top three karts sits on the victory podium 
 as colored confetti rains down from above... Sound familiar?  

  There are four different kart speeds available in the championship mode, though only the first 
 one is initially available. After choosing the speed class, you're able to pick from four different 
 championship series: Cowardly, Booger, Pork Butt, and Chemical X. Next you'll pick your racer. 
 Each character has different attributes for top speed, acceleration, handling, and weight. The 
 heavier karts seem to be the best because they're less prone to being brought to a dead stop in 
 a collision, though all of the karts will come to a complete stop when they rear-end someone -- it's 
 very frustrating. Then it's off to the races, which take place on tracks that are ripped seemingly 
 straight from the Mario Kart series. There's even a rainbow-colored track that takes place in outer 
 space and has no walls. For the most part the courses are simple, and while they won't be challenging 
 for adults, kids should find them entertaining, particularly when taking advantage of the game's 
 many easy-to-find shortcuts.  

  The controls are pretty basic, too. You hit the A button to go, and you can use the right shoulder 
 button to powerslide. There are numerous weapons that can be acquired by driving through floating 
 boxes with question marks on them, and again, they're mostly generic: There's a blue missile that 
 takes out the first-place driver, oil that will spin out anyone who drives on it, chili peppers 
 to give you a boost, smoke screen to obscure drivers' screens, and so on. You can get an extra 
 boost by driving over speed pads, and you can also gain an advantage by collecting stars that are 
 placed throughout each course. When you collect enough stars you can hit the X button to activate 
 an autopilot feature that sends you zooming past other racers at breakneck speed. It's a good thing 
 to have handy, especially in the harder series, where the rubber-band artificial intelligence keeps 
 things close right to the end. Unfortunately, the kart physics are poor, and you'll frequently 
 come to a screeching halt when you hit another kart, graze a hazard, or bump a wall. The elastic 
 AI, which allows less-skilled players to remain competitive, can be punishing for anyone with any 
 racing experience. It's frustrating to be constantly peppered with missiles only because that's 
 the only way the game keeps the races close. It's a little easier to forgive when you're racing 
 your friends, but when it's just you and the CPU, getting blown up repeatedly doesn't make for 
 a good time. Outside of these annoyances, Cartoon Network Racing is enjoyable, especially if you 
 like unlocking things.  

  Collecting the gold coin on each track, winning races, and placing in the top three in championships 
 earn you money, which can be spent in the Toon-Up Shop. Here you can buy new drivers, get new rides 
 for the faster kart series, and unlock minigames and even cartoons. One of the minigames is a lame 
 curling knockoff, but the other one, sketchbook, is pretty neat. You're shown a basic drawing of 
 one of the Cartoon Network characters and then given a short amount of time to draw over it as 
 best you can. When you achieve 75 percent accuracy, you earn points for whatever time is left on 
 the clock, and then it's off to draw another character. It would have been nice to be able to finish 
 and save the drawings, but for a minigame it's a lot of fun. There are three cartoons that can 
 be unlocked as well, and though it will take a substantial time commitment to unlock them all, 
 they're a nice bonus.  

          There's always at least one shortcut to take on every course.     

  Even kids won't 
 find much to enjoy when it comes to Cartoon Network Racing's visuals. The touch screen is used 
 only as an overhead map, which other than for showing shortcuts isn't very useful. The karts are 
 simple looking and don't feature a whole lot of detail. Neither do the tracks they'll be racing 
 on. There's nothing wrong with the overall design, but there's hardly any detail to the courses, 
 and what the developer is trying to pass off as "cartoon-style" visuals by using bright colors 
 and then slapping black lines around poorly textured objects just doesn't cut it. If all of this 
 skimping on the visuals paid off with a speedy frame rate that would be one thing, but of course 
 it doesn't. At its best the frame rate is almost smooth, but even then it doesn't convey any sense 
 of speed. At its worst the game is almost unplayable, and things move as if they're in slow motion. 
 The sound effects aren't great, either. You'll hear a few catchphrases here and there, but most 
 everything is drowned out by the horrible-sounding karts. Thankfully the music is catchy, so you 
 can turn down the effects and crank the tunes.  

  In the end, Cartoon Network Racing is better than what is usually passed off as a licensed kart 
 racer, but it's certainly no threat to Mario Kart. Younger children who are into any of the kid-friendly 
 shows on Cartoon Network and are more concerned with seeing their favorite characters than they 
 are about great racing will probably have a reasonably good time with the game. Anyone with more 
 discerning racing tastes will probably play the game for a couple of hours, unlock most of the 
 items, and then be done with the game forever.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: squirrelboyfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  First, There are no Lightning bolts in CN Racing.
  Two, In Mario Kart DS they have no warning sign if something is getting ready to hit you (Besides 
 theres a map)
  Three, Does Mario Kart DS feature episodes of the classic shows? No.
  Four, Mario Kart DS has better graphics.
  Five, Mario Kart DS doesn't have a short cut in every 
 30 races.
  Anyway, race in Championships with your favorite characters Like Courage, Johnny Bravo, Dexter, and 
 I. M Weasel. The game was released in 2006. Due to the ratings, this version may work best. Watch 
 3 episodes from Dexters Labrotary, PowerPuffGirls and Cow&Chicken (Like a handheld TV) . In Time Trial 
 mode, try to make your best times without any racers. Two Minigames, and a Two Player Mode. The game 
 is great, but the graphics suck.
  
  Cartoon Network Racing for the DS gets a 8 out of 10 Great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacuuuuu3
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Cartoon Network racing is just a great game for the NDS no matter what reviewers say, it's just 
 great!
  Gameplay: first of all the gameplay is not THAT great because the karts are sometimes hard to control 
 but actually when you get used to it it's not THAT hard:
  7/10
  Graphics: well... at least everything looks how it's supposed to look, but sometimes you can't 
 look into the curves and it's really hard to guess which way to go, anyways for it's year the graphics 
 are ok:
  8.2
  Sound: the classic sound it's REALLY repetitive, but just not annoying, it becomes better each 
 time it is repeated, the great classic songs from Cartoon Network programs, I just loved it so 
 much to give it a 10:
  10/10
  Total:
  8.4/10
  Conclusion: Cartoon Network Racing it's one of the most unapreciated games I know, it's really 
 addictive and fun, a really good and cheap game for your DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdog199404
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 25, 2007 3:44 am PT
Review:  I've just started to play this DS game. And I thought this is cool for playing with your favourite 
 characters. Actually, it's not as fun as you think. It's a total ripped off of Mario Kart DS . 
 If you know what I mean... For example, there are max can have 8 characters in a course; The items 
 are same as Mario Kart , the Chillies are Mushrooms, the chasing bombs are the blue shells, the 
 rockets are green shells and red shells; The Touching screen's map is as the same as Mario Kart 
 (except you can only see the course map.) The Toon-Up Shop's items are too expensive after you 
 beat the Soup-up mode. If you win again in the previous championship, you only can win a few coins! 
 I mean come on! It will take months for you to even beat the game once! However, there're still 
 something good for it. Like you can watch three episodes from the shows, you can see them even 
 you went out; There's sketchbook for you to practise drawing your favourite characters!
  In my final words, it will be better if they make their own go-kart racing game instead of ripping 
 Mario Kart DS ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 2.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Everything about this game is direct plagiarism of Mario Kart DS. I am surprised that Nintendo 
 aren't suing for breach of copywrite.
  
  Instead of Mario characters you get Cartoon Network low-renters like Cow and Chicken and Dexter, 
 the track boosts are still there, as are the the track themes (desert, tropical, blah blah) , the 
 karts themselves are of the same variety, the power ups come in the form of boxes hovering above 
 the roads and the power-ups are all pretty much the same (including oil slicks and bombs) .
  
  What isn't copied is the charm that made Mario Kart DS so much fun. And the technical level 
 of the game is really poor. Graphics are boxy, edges are jagged and the sound seems like a crappy 
 MIDI file from a Sega Master System.
  
  Yuck! Honestly, stay away from this game. It is so cheap and nasty it should come with a warning. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  GOOD- Huge amount of Cartoon Network charactures to play as; lots of colourfull tracks
  
  BAD- Gameplay is dragged down by the pointless stuff on the tracks; graphics are grainy; Sound 
 is crackly; no wifi capabillities;
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Not get me wroung, this game is enjoyable but is it realy somthing you can play all day long?, 
 no, to be honnest CNR does'nt compare to the Mario Kart DS game which was brill, There is plenty 
 of CN charactures to play as which you'll unlock later in the game, and plenty of colourfull racing 
 tracks, there is'nt many racing modes, only like Normal Racing anf Grand Prix
  
  GRAPHICS:
  They are good for the DS, but it could've done alot lot better, defently after seeing 
 Mario Karts graphics, they are very grainy and dragged down, the tracks are decent though.
  
  SOUND:
  Sound is realy bad, there crackly and most bad chooice of music and sound effects 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: parkelis
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 17, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  THis game is fun with all the cartoon network characters, but the enviornments and stages are blah 
 (have a lack of good graphics) . Also, some of the characters are like what, who the hell is this 
 guy! Anyways, with all the tracks adn 20 characters, and all the extras, this game is worth trying, 
 maybe buying. Its not at mario kart par, but its fun! The karts look cool but some of the characters 
 are so small like chickem. their hard to see on their large karts. This game has a few graphical 
 problems, no ability to jump, but its okay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  http://www. n-insanity. com/modules. php? module=reviews&amp; id=342
  
  What child doesn't have a favorite tv show, whether it be an animated series or kid-targeted action 
 franchise? When I was younger, Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, X-Men and Spider-Man were must-watch 
 for me. Growing older, I became fond of more mature-driven series such as Doug, Hey Arnold, and, 
 well maybe not exactly 'mature', Spongebob too. I've stayed away from the other popular station, 
 Cartoon Network, just because I didn't have time for it. Recently, however, I received a new title 
 for my DS, known simply as Cartoon Network Racing. Well, having inherited some of Wolverine's (X-Men) 
 abilities, I smelled a Mario Kart DS clone from a mile away. Thankfully though, while that is completely 
 accurate, it really didn't turn out too shabby.
  
  Mario Kart DS was released last year as the initiative for Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Just as its 
 predecessors like Mario Kart 64 and others accomplished, it features a plethora of representatives 
 from the Mario universe, allowing them to clash on the go-kart circuits, whether in racing or spine-tingling 
 weapon combat. Having sold plenty copies to date, it appears that The Game Factory saw an opportunity 
 to capitalize on that success with a similar title of their own, just with the mascots of shows 
 featured on Cartoon Network.
  
  Were it not for CNR's obvious (not necessarily purposeful) copying of Mario Kart, it probably would've 
 turned out to be a sleeper hit for fans of the cable channel. Even with that out in the open though, 
 the game still holds a good deal of entertainment. There are at least 20 different characters to 
 choose from, each representing a particular show on Cartoon Network. All the racers have their 
 own trademark 'vehicle' so to speak, with most intended to connect the characters to their shows. 
 So fill me in, I don't watch Cow and Chicken, is there some freaky-loo obsession with Chicken and 
 a bathub, or Cow and a baby carriage? Regardless, all the models are drawn fairly well and are 
 impressively distinct. The problem lies in the driving animation, because the 'karts' appear to 
 move in a boat-like fashion since the wheels never move.
  
  There are 16 tracks in total, which is pretty solid all things considered, but I wish there were 
 more. Reasons being, a couple borrow heavily from Rainbow Road and Tick Tock Clock, while there 
 are maybe four originals that please the eye. Unfortunately a majority of your racing takes place 
 in less-than-inspired environments riddled with repetition and stiff 2D obstacle sprites. I also 
 witnessed a few instances in frame rate drop, which doesn't help when the overall difficulty of 
 the game is shockingly high.
  
  Even so, while many of the game's features stick out like a sore thumb regarding their likeness 
 to Mario Kart, don't be quick to assume it's already bad. CNR runs well and is actually pretty 
 fun for a period of time. While racing, the D-Pad takes care of kart control, and then four other 
 buttons do the rest of the work. Those of you out there that can't stand 'snakers', a term coined 
 when playing MK DS online may have an answer here. There is no power sliding or drifting of any 
 kind, as what is done at all are 'sharp turns'. The R button serves as a sort of emergency brake, 
 allowing you to shift 90 degrees instantly. It does work the way it should, but losing speed or 
 sometimes control of your character due to a strange camera issue can prove annoying.
  
  The weapon system is nearly identical to Mario in every way, as the items are different in what 
 they are and what they're named, but do the same exact thing. Peppers are your mushrooms (speed 
 boost) , missiles are your koopa shells (projectile damage) and an oil slick is your bananas (spin 
 out) . The Game Factory isn't winning a single point in the originality category here, but the available 
 arsenal works just as well as it does in any MK game. What TGF did include just for the game though, 
 are the characters' special abilities, similar to the exclusive items for each racer in Double 
 Dash. To execute these abilities, any of two tasks must be accomplished: retrieve stars placed 
 on the track or successfully attack an opposing racer. Either will fill up your meter, and when 
 it's full, it can be used whenever you like. Skills range from a constant speed boost for around 
 15 seconds (yeah, that's LONG) to a special attack ability that will deter those caught by them. 
 The only thing I didn't understand was Chicken's ability to fly, yet not OVER anything. There are 
 four separate Championships, with the titles of each also connecting to a CN show (noticing a pattern 
 yet?) . Players start on the default Normal speed, but eventually unlock Souped-Up, Soupered-Up 
 and then Flipped-Out. Depending on the amount of Cartoon Network coins that you collect through 
 each tournament, you can unlock all the hidden content in the Tune-Up Shop (haha?) . Instead of 
 merely unlocking characters and karts like in MK, you buy them with your coins, along with three 
 bonus cartoon episodes (very cool) and a couple passable mini-games, one that functions just like 
 Shuffleboard, and another that allows you to sketch CN characters on the touch screen. In the case 
 that you haven't realized, there is a good deal of content in what could've been a run-of-the-mill 
 budget title. However, the lack of Wi-Fi compatibility makes four player local wireless play seem 
 like nothing but an afterthought. But hey, if you have kids with DS systems, I'd imagine they'd 
 have some fun playing together.
  
  What should be easily considered the most noticeable downfall of the game is the ridiculously painful 
 sound production. There are maybe two songs which are worth listening to, and one that will drive 
 you insane (and probably to the point of muting) , if you dislike yodeling. On top of that, the 
 one-liners from each character prove to be more than enough virtually the minute you choose them. 
 Hearing Hey Mama! from Mr. Bravo and Oh no! in Cow's headache-inducing girly screetch will inevitably 
 make you hit the play button on something else. The effects when racing don't help either, as it's 
 all generic enough to the extent that you may not even notice them after a short while.
  
  Anyway, those that happen to purchase this game will more than likely NOT be able to shake the 
 feeling that it's Mario Kart in the Cartoon Network universe (granted that you've played MK) . Nevertheless, 
 this could be actually something worthwhile. It's unfortunate that you have to perform almost picture-perfect 
 in order to achieve victory in most of the latter Championships, but it will offer a very good 
 challenge to those that think they can just breeze through this. Ha, I'd actually love to see that. 
 Unlike most arcade-style racers, your opponents make use of EVERYTHING, just like you can and should. 
 Doesn't that just suck? Well, only if you lose of course, which has happened to me multiple times. 
 In the end, if you like the cartoons on CN, this title may just be able to strike your fancy. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
