-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/castlevaniaportraitofruin/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Team mechanic puts a new twist on the familiar Castlevania formula.
 Tons of weapons, items, and secrets to find.
 A handful of fantastic boss battles.
 Excellent music.
 Great-looking environments, character designs, and animations.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Level design is slightly dull compared to previous Castlevania games.
 There are only three short levels available for co-op play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  5, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.3
Critic Score: 8.5, 63 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 2,405 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Dec 5, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Portrait of Ruin is a great game because it stays true to the familiar Castlevania design and delivers 
 a fun, lengthy adventure. 

  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is the second game in the series to appear on the Nintendo DS, following 
 up on Dawn of Sorrow. Whereas Dawn of Sorrow stuck very close to the Castlevania template and only 
 added a few trivial touch-screen features, Portrait of Ruin instead forgoes the control gimmicks 
 in favor of some interesting, though only slightly less trivial, gameplay tweaks. But despite the 
 lack of any significant evolutionary progress, Portrait of Ruin is still a great action adventure 
 game because it remains true to the hallmarks of the Castlevania series of games, with a consistently 
 great style and level of detail; a lengthy quest with a large, interesting world to explore; and 
 plenty of great enemies to battle, weapons to master, and secrets to discover. Portrait of Ruin 
 isn't without flaws, but overall it's another great Castlevania game that shouldn't be missed. 

          When a problem comes along...     

  Portrait of Ruin takes place in 1944, during the second World War. With the world in turmoil, there 
 are a lot of tortured souls floating around and wailing, or whatever it is that souls do. All of 
 this agony and despair make the world an appealing place for the old lord of darkness himself, 
 Dracula. So Dracula's magic castle appears, and it's up to you to defeat the old bat and send him 
 on his way. You take control of not one but two vampire hunters. Jonathan Morris is a distant relative 
 of the Belmont family, who have played a major role in the previous Castlevania games. Jonathan 
 wields a special whip known as the Vampire Killer, which he inherited from his father, who was 
 also a vampire hunter. Jonathan is joined by his friend, a young female magic user named Charlotte 
 Aulin. It's a complementary duo -- Jonathan weakens evil beings with his trusty whip and Charlotte 
 finishes them off with her powerful magic.  

  The game does require you to use the unique abilities of each character at times, but it's only 
 absolutely essential in a handful of situations. So even though you have two characters, you'll 
 probably end up using Jonathan about 90 percent of the time. You can switch characters at any time 
 by pressing the X button, and you can also call your character using the A button to help you do 
 battle, push an object, or stand on a switch. The game makes very little use of the DS touch screen, 
 but you can touch the screen to direct your partner to a specific area when you summon him or her. 
 When the other character is active, he or she will stay close to you and only attack when enemies 
 come very close. You don't have to worry too much about your partner becoming a liability, because 
 you can simply tell him or her to go away at any time. If your partner does take damage, you won't 
 lose health but will lose magic power.  

  Each character has unique special skills that can often be quite useful. Jonathan can equip and 
 use classic alternate weapons like throwing axes and daggers, as well as special melee moves and 
 stances to enhance his offensive or defensive capabilities. Charlotte can equip magic spells such 
 as fire, lightning, heal, monster summons, and so on. You can use your special skill by pressing 
 up and Y, and if you want your partner to use his or her special ability, you just have to tap 
 the R button. There are also combo attacks that inflict major damage and typically have a much 
 wider area of effect than the standard or special attacks.  

  The partner mechanic works well, and it's remarkably easy and intuitive to control two characters 
 at once. The only problem is that the game isn't always designed to take advantage of the team 
 dynamic. You'll find a couple doors where one person has to stand on a switch while the other runs 
 through, and some large blocks that require two people to push, but for the most part, you'll very 
 rarely need to switch characters. Despite Charlotte being a powerful magic user, she only has a 
 couple essential spells, and even those will likely remain unused for most of the game. Of course, 
 if you want to control Charlotte instead of Jonathan, that's fine; she's quite capable of holding 
 her own in combat when properly equipped.  

          ... you must whip it.     

  Both characters gain experience as you fight enemies, and when you get enough experience you'll 
 level up, which will increase your stats in parameters like strength, intelligence, attack, and 
 defense. The enemies in the game always remain the same, so if you go back to an early part of 
 the game after you've spent a significant amount of time leveling up your characters, you'll be 
 able to wade through scores of enemies without any trouble at all. It does take a bit of the challenge 
 out of the game, but it also provides an appreciable sense of progress as your characters get stronger. 

  Jonathan can equip a wide variety of weapons that you'll find throughout the game, including swords, 
 maces, whips, and spears. There's even a special magic chain that homes in on enemy targets and 
 has a very long range, making it one of the best weapons in the game. Charlotte can't equip weapons; 
 instead, she'll equip magic books. Depending on the book she's using, Charlotte will conjure attacks. 
 Using the Tome of Arms, for example, will cause an array of sharp weapons to stab out from her 
 book as she attacks. In addition to the weapons, each character can equip armor, shoes, and head 
 gear, as well as accessories such as rings. All of these items give essential boosts to your stats, 
 meaning that it's usually worth your while to go out of your way to explore every nook and cranny 
 of the castle or stage you're in.     

  You'll take your two characters through Dracula's castle, exploring corridors, breaking walls to 
 reveal secret rooms, hopping on precarious platforms, breaking lighting fixtures, and killing all 
 kinds of monsters. In true Castlevania style, you'll start out relatively weak, but you'll collect 
 power-ups such as a double-jump that will permit you to access previously off-limits areas within 
 the castle.  

           Before the cream sits out too long...     

  In Portrait of Ruin, you aren't confined to the castle. Instead, the castle is more like a central 
 hub from which you enter cursed paintings that take you to other areas. There are four paintings 
 in all if you just go for the quick ending, but if you stop there you'll miss out on a good third 
 of the game or more, and you'll likely be pretty disappointed. If you go for the true ending, you'll 
 access four more paintings, which are just slightly rearranged versions of the first four paintings, 
 with tougher enemies and new bosses. The paintings all have themes, such as the Sandy Grave, which 
 is a desertlike stage, and Nation of Fools, which is a twisted fun-house type of stage.  

  The stages all have their own enemies and bosses to contend with, although many enemies are prevalent 
 throughout the entire game. The stages are all large and full of secret areas to explore and special 
 items to collect, but the level design isn't quite as inspired as it has been in previous Castlevania 
 games. There are a lot of plain hallways and vertically oriented rooms, but there's nothing especially 
 interesting or exciting. Instead, it feels like a bunch of template pieces that have been connected 
 in the simplest way possible to form one long, often-looping pathway. The levels are certainly 
 still fun to explore, and you'll still get a great sense of satisfaction when you finally get to 
 access a new area, but there are very few truly memorable areas in the world of Portrait of Ruin. 
 Instead of remembering an area for its unique design or style, you'll remember it for the enemies 
 that you fight there.  

  That's a good thing, because you'll fight some memorable enemies. The standard Castlevania creatures 
 like the flying medusa heads, skeletons, and axe armors are all accounted for here, but the game 
 really shines in its boss battles. Each boss has a few specific attack patterns that seem obvious 
 but are never entirely easy to avoid. Even on your third or fourth try at defeating a boss, after 
 you've memorized each and every attack pattern, you'll still have to be quick and nimble to emerge 
 victorious. There are a few weak boss battles that you'll quickly forget, but the majority of them 
 are very fun and quite challenging. Not only are they fun to fight, but the bosses just look darn 
 cool, as well.  

  In fact, the whole game looks great. It still has the same-old 2D side-scrolling perspective that 
 has been with the Castlevania series for almost 20 years now, but somehow Portrait of Ruin still 
 puts a tremendous amount of style and detail into the characters, special effects, and environments 
 in the game. All of the character animations are fluid and fun to watch, especially some of the 
 unique and fairly elaborate animations of certain enemies you'll encounter. The character sprites 
 are small but still convey plenty of emotion and are at least as detailed as any characters you'll 
 find on the DS. The backgrounds are all nice to look at, as well, with different parts of the background 
 scrolling independently to provide a sense of depth and scale. The only slight visual flaw you'll 
 find in Portrait of Ruin is a bit of annoying slowdown that occurs during some of the larger boss 
 battles when there's a lot going on at once. However, it's infrequent enough that it doesn't significantly 
 interfere with the gameplay.  

  The sound and music are uniformly excellent in Portrait of Ruin. The music is all upbeat and enjoyable, 
 with special themes for each area. It all matches the quality of previous Castlevania games, and 
 you'll definitely want to play with the volume cranked up. The sound effects are very good, although 
 they aren't particularly memorable because they are the same whipping and light-fixture-smashing 
 noises you've been hearing for years. There's a decent amount of speech in the game, as well. Jonathan 
 and Charlotte have quite a few lines, and the voices all sound great and lend a lot of personality 
 to each character.  

          ... you must whip it.     

  You can finish Portrait of Ruin in four or five hours on your first try, but that's only to get 
 the basic ending. If you want to get the good ending -- which is definitely worth it -- you'll have 
 to spend a good eight hours playing. Of course, with all of the items to collect and secrets to 
 discover, you can easily spend twice that much time playing this game. Once you beat the game, 
 you'll unlock secret characters and a couple alternate play modes. There's also a multiplayer component 
 to the game. You can play via a local wireless connection or log on to Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connection 
 service to play online. The only mode available in multiplayer is boss rush mode, which is a cooperative 
 mode where you run from one end of a short level to the other as quickly as possible. Each level 
 is filled with enemies and a couple bosses, but there's still not much to the mode and it won't 
 keep you occupied for very long. You can also set up a store and connect to friends either locally 
 or online to buy and sell items you've collected in the single-player game. However, item drops 
 are extremely common in the game, and the vast majority of the items you collect aren't particularly 
 useful, so there's little reason to go out of your way to buy items from other people.  

  Portrait of Ruin is another great installment in the long line of Castlevania games. It doesn't 
 mess too much with the formula, but the changes it implements are good ones. It may be more of 
 the same, but nevertheless Portrait of Ruin succeeds in rekindling old flames for Castlevania veterans 
 and sparking new ones for people who are just looking for a great 2D action adventure game.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (178 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: final_lap
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania Portrait of Ruin is a side scrolling platformer hack-and-slash in which you play as 
 a vampire hunters Jonathan Morris and his sidekick Charlotte, and explore a giant castle maze, 
 destroying monsters using weapons and magic, all the while finding equipment, uncovering the map, 
 and defeating fantastic bosses on the way to tracking down the villain who resurrected Dracula's 
 castle. In addition to exploring the castle itself, Portrait of Ruin introduces more diverse environments 
 to the series through paintings you must enter, which transport you to new worlds outside the castle. 
 This portal system is a pretty surreal concept, one I enjoyed very much.
  
  One of the most notable aspects of this particular Castlevania game is the fact that you're playing 
 with two characters instead of one. You control either Jonathan or Charlotte and are able to switch 
 from one to the other at any time. While you play as one, the other will automatically assist you, 
 but you can choose to retreat the other character. Either way, you are still able to switch anytime, 
 you are even able to summon your partner's secondary attack. (i. e. Charlotte's magic, or Jonathan's 
 throwing weapon)
  
  Ultimately, though, neither the team-based gameplay or the painting worlds are as dramatic a change 
 to the series as I thought it would be. I wondered if the game might be heavily puzzle-based by 
 requiring use of the two characters in special ways to overcome obstacles and puzzles, but in the 
 end the team-based abilities amount to very little more than having to stand on pressure switches, 
 or move a statue together, and even these are very few and far between, one-time instances in order 
 to gain access to the next area.
  
  As with the team system, the painting system is also not as outlandish as I thought it would be, 
 as the worlds you're required to warp through are essentially just extensions of the castle. In 
 any case I think this is a great part of the game as it gives the game world a lot of variety, 
 and it introduces I think even more fantasy to the Castlevania series and even a sense of edginess. 
 The world you will visit outside the castle include an egyptian tomb in the middle of the desert, 
 and a victorian city.
  
  The overall length of Portrait of Ruin will take you by surprise, beyond being larger than Dawn 
 of Sorrow with a lot of unique areas it may be one of the biggest games in the series. Graphically, 
 Portrait of Ruin is really nice, visuals are clean and colorful, sprites are very well animated. 
 This is definitely more polished than Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow, the dialogue scenes don't have 
 the lazy feel I complained about, and in addition, the game has english voice samples! The game 
 has a generous dose of voice, and even the enemy monsters and boss characters are voiced in english. 
 The amount of comic personality of a few of the monsters is surprising, and to think that we would 
 miss out on that if the voices were in japanese. Anyway, the game has great sound, and not only 
 that, the soundtrack is excellent. Not all of it is that great, but quite a few of the tracks in 
 Portrait of Ruin are outstanding and I might say it's overall one of the best soundtracks in the 
 Castlevania series. Not kidding here.
  
  However, all is not well with Portrait of Ruin. For one thing, the script isn't perfect because 
 at least two lines of dialogue at separate instances of the story are messed up, making no sense 
 in the context of the story. (Look out for ''That whip is a fake?'' and ''They're busy following 
 orders!'') And while it's nice that Portrait of Ruin has online multiplayer, that's not much good 
 as absolutely nobody is found online to play it with. But by and large the most serious problem 
 with this game is the low item drop rates, and the game's emphasis on farming.
  
  See, very early game you meet a character who enables side quests, which usually mean finding and 
 retrieving an item for him. This is actually a rather big part of this game, and honestly it's 
 a cool new concept for Castlevania, even though most of the items are found by defeating enemies. 
 The problem is, however, that the item drop percentages in Portrait of Ruin (if not the same for 
 any Castlevania title) is microscopically low. It's fun to retread from memory the location of 
 an unusual monster and defeat it several times for its treasure, or to be named an item and then 
 guess yourself which enemy carries it... But when you defeat an enemy, any enemy, fifty times or 
 one hundred times in a row and still not get its spoils, and do this back to back for several enemy 
 types... Call me crazy, but there is something deeply, deeply wrong about this.
  
  You could always wait until you get a certain item much later in the game, there is this item that 
 skyrockets your luck depending on how much gold you carry. You could then spend half hour farming 
 gold, causing the item drop percentages to raise to non-decimal numbers *gasp no way* but then 
 you still find that even percentages as extraordinarily high as 3.17% are, in practice, far, far 
 too low, given the effort.
  
  This problem is actually made yet more sore as it comes to the issue of map exploration and game 
 completion. The game has this bonus area that is only revealed to you if you can uncover 88.8% 
 percent of the total map, which of course requires you to seek out hidden rooms in the areas you 
 already have. Asininely, these areas are hidden behind breakable walls which look like any other 
 wall. The only reasonable way to detect these is to wear an equipment called Eye for Decay. Where 
 do you suppose you get this item? You guessed it... as a rare item drop carried by only one enemy 
 in the game. You wouldn't even know this item exists in the first place. And if it weren't for 
 this Eye for Decay I'm not even sure if I would have been able to uncover 88.8% of the map.
  
  How is it good to force the player to obssessively defeat the same enemy a hundred times in 
 a row, or more?
  
  How is it good to place hidden areas the player is forced to find, but never reasonably could? 
 Except on accident or if the player combed through all the levels, using the whip to strike every 
 single wall in the game.
  
  How does either of that make sense? Konami? Who can answer for this.
  
  Castlevania Portrait 
 of Ruin runs at $23.90 and up at Amazon
  Gamefly. com status: available now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronofire777
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This Castlevania game is cool and fun to play....
  
  The gameplay style is simmilar to "Dawn Of Sorrow", yet the story involves son of John Morris.... the 
 vampire hunter once in Castlevania Bloodlines on the genesis system.
  
  This time his son, Jonathan Morris and his friend Charlotte find themselves outside the mysterious 
 castle... which is Dracula's?
  Or somethin else happens?...
  Anyway, the scenario is pretty good and while walkthrough you'll learn the story of the Morris 
 Clan of hunters...
  It contains new characters but same evil!
  
  You're about to stop Brawner, the master count of the castle!
  Brawner claims to rule the world 
 by the means of his tragic fall into a vampire...
  You will also find out what lies behind the story of "Wind"...
  A stranger which his spirit haunts 
 the castle in tragic loneliness... but is he just a stranger for real??? 
  
  Anyway, like Dawn Of Sorrow this game has also its "anime like" intro video, a thing which really 
 counts for me as it draws you in the game and its climax.
  
  Now in the game you'll use a big variety of weapons, armory, items, relics including the "Vampire 
 Killer whip"... but you'll also discover how to unlock its true power!
  yet you will find other whips in the game like the thorn whip and nebula whip!
  Of course another 
 good news is that you can use other weapons also to fight through, such as swords axes... and heres 
 somethin new which is awesome!
  Everytime you pick a subweapon you will able to level it and at the end master it to improve your 
 abilities...
  Jonathan and charlotte can earn expirience points and improve the situation as well...
  
  Another 
 good thing this game has, is that you can play both Jonathan and Charlotte at the same time, you 
 can do combos and teamwork spells, including the grand cruz and the greatest five which summons 
 5 of the best Belmonts to release astonishing whip power.
  
  Now Charlotte has a more sorcery style gameplay!
  She is a young witch and she'll accompany Jonathan 
 all the way... How? well here it is... when you control charlotte you can cast a variety of spells 
 and other magic stuff like tornados, salamandra dragon, owl and frog transformation and such... magic 
 spells will aid you in your trip and help you defeat several bosses and stuff.
  
  About the music... what can i say? it's just great!
  the Portrait Of Ruin music follows the traditional 
 classical/orchestral style like Dawn Of Sorrow including some hits from old castlevania games remixed 
 and the classic hit
  "iron blue intention" you can also unlock the sound play mode
  in the menu after completing some challenges through the game.
  
  By completing the game under 
 circumstances, allows you to play a new game then with "Richter Belmont from Dracula X accompanied 
 with Maria Renard" wild huh? and theres more you can also play with another 2 character which involve 
 the game's story... two twin sister vampire ladies "Stella and Loretta".
  
  This game is very promising and cool and it proves its power!!!
  The level is quite challenging, 
 as if you're a hardcore fan or perfectionist it will take your time completing it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpotatofry
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  I have no problem with anime, but I must say that the Castlevania series is NOT meant to feature 
 a cartoony art style. It completely undermines the subject matter, as opposed to the grittier and 
 darker style of the GBA Castlevanias (the last one I played was Circle of the Moon) . But other 
 than that, the visuals are gorgeous and the music is fitting. Most of the levels are nice and varied 
 and the vibrant colors really make them jump out at you, but this comes at the expense of the game's 
 atmosphere.
  
  The game plays well and the locations are varied and interesting... Except for one small thing: 
 half the areas are rehashes of previously visited locations, with the only difference being a new 
 color pallette. It feels very cheap to the point where I sort of felt ripped off at the end, but 
 fortunately the core gameplay is still fun enough to justify a purchase. I do wish it was more 
 challenging, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knighthero52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  wow before i bought this i've never played castlevania before!!! but this was a wonderfull game 
 to introduce me 2 castlevania !!!!!! i heard of castle vania portrait of ruin before so i checked 
 gamespot! the game looked fabulos but it played even better than gamespot showed me! the only thing 
 that made me wonder is why does this game have 16 - 32 bit graphics??!! sure people will enjoy 
 the old feeling of the other castlevania games that started out on the nes in the 8 bit era, and 
 synphony of the night (said to be a lot like portait of ruin ) was successfull to. i guess they 
 could of at least updated the graphics to 64 bit. (most of you wont agree with me, i understand 
 why) but once i got used to the graphics i thought it was kinda neat how they did that. the game 
 play probabally for 20-30 hours and 15 for replay (considering that the player memorized the goals 
 and maps) ;) . the levels are practially "bug free" no problems with saving, no confusing puzzles 
 (except the bicycle one) no characters shakeing like they are cold ( i have experienced this glitch 
 in other ds games ) this game also has good bosses and a gameplay style that I can not describe 
 . but all i can say is this mysterous gameplay style will keep you trying one you have failed for 
 the unpteenth time!!! oh yeah the game has very easy controles too!! this is my recomended control 
 seting
  
  A= attack
  B= jump
  Y= call partner
  X= change character
  L= backdash
  R = partners sub weapon 
  
  overall: if i was you i wouldn't think twice about purchasing this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orasion_Seiz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruins
  
  Review by: Orasion_Seiz
  
  As for a handheld console popularized by games such as Super Mario, Pokemon and other family friendly 
 games; the Nintendo DS still lacks some decent action/adventure based games. Castlevania: Portrait 
 of Ruin is the second of the vampire killer series to appear on the Nintendo DS. Konami had just 
 to put another one after the success of Dawn of Sorrow. Portrait of Ruin still adopts the 2D hack 
 and slash platforming plus some RPG elements that has made the series popular. 
  
  The story of PoR is set during the Second World War, which follows the adventures of two young 
 vampire hunters, Jonathan Morris and Charlotte Aulin. They are on a mission to take down Dracula's 
 castle which was rebuilt thanks to the souls who died during the war. Jonathan is more like a weapon 
 master who can use a variety of weapons from whips, swords and guns. Charlotte on the other hand 
 is a magic user who can cast different spells on enemies. She can also use healing magic if you 
 ever need. This game features the cooperative or partner system in which you can switch between 
 Jonathan and Charlotte at any time in the game. You can also summon your partner anytime to do 
 various stuffs like using his/her equipped skills on enemies or by helping each other on certain 
 situations. 
  
  PoR is not actually a role playing game but you gain experience and levels when you kill enemies. 
 Higher level means stronger characters. The gameplay is still very much the same as with the other 
 games in the series. You explore Dracula's castle killing monsters along the way. The catch here 
 is that inside the castle are a number of portraits scattered. These portraits gives you access 
 on some stages waiting to be explored. Exploring the castle to access all of these portraits will 
 not be as easy as like a walk in a park. Monsters will be blocking your way every time. Some monsters 
 are hard to kill so you must use some effective ways. Experimenting with different weapons and 
 magic helps a lot at this kind of situations. There are also bosses before you reach the end of 
 each stage. As any other Castlevania fan should know, boss fights requires a good fighting strategy 
 and in this game the partner system is very reliable when it comes to boss fights. Another thing 
 is that at anytime you can stock up healing items by buying from another character in the game. 
 This guy also sells a variety of weapons, armors and accessories. Be sure to check out his shop 
 from time to time as there will be something new for your two vampire hunters to equip.
  
  There are three types of skills in this game. First type is the sub weapons. Its mainly consist 
 of the usual throwing weapons like knives, bones, shurikens etc. This consumes your MP as you use 
 your sub weapons. When you go to the skills menu, you will see that there is a master rate behind 
 each sub weapons. All of those start rate point 1. Every monsters has a SP rate, which decides 
 the amount of rate points you can earn by attacking with that sub weapon. If you manage to master 
 a sub weapon, the effect of it will be stronger. So try to master as many as you can. Second type 
 are the magic spells skills. Only Charlotte can use magic spells and have to be equipped also just 
 like sub weapons. Magic spells includes flames, ice spears and other spirits. Charlotte can also 
 use support spells than can increase the stats of both characters. Not to mention she can also 
 use healing spells when needed. Of course these also consume your MP when you use it. Unlike the 
 sub weapons, magic spells doesn't have to be mastered as Charlotte will already know how to cast 
 that spell the moment you acquire it. And finally the third type of skill are the dual crush. It's 
 when Jonathan and Charlotte combine there powers resulting into a powerful attack that can be use 
 on cornered situations. Dual crush consumes a lot of MP so make sure to use it only on tough circumstances.
 
  
  The graphics of the game is pretty much the same as like in Dawn of Sorrow. The 2D engine of the 
 DS makes the game colorfully at the same time elegant. The stage itself is masterfully designed. 
 Dracula's castle is still huge as well as the area behind each portrait. Also the opening movie 
 trailer at the beginning is a good addition made by the creators. The sound of the game is the 
 icing of the cake. Castlevania always features breathtaking music throughout the game. As always 
 the creators really did a good job. This gives players the excitement as they play the game. There 
 is little voice acting in the game though. 
  
  PoR also has some bonus features after completing the game once. This includes a boss rush mode 
 in which you have to fight all the bosses you have encountered in the game as fast as you can. 
 By the time you try this mode, you should already know the strategies when fighting these bosses. 
 There are also some other games modes that you can unlock and of course there is a hidden dungeon 
 somewhere in the castle. It's up to you to discover all of these nice little secrets.
  
  If you're looking for a good, long game to play then PoR is perfect. Exploring all the areas of 
 the castle will take a long time and the bonus features of the game will surely satisfy anyone 
 hungry for adventure. To end this review, PoR is a good addition to the Nintendo DS library. I 
 highly recommend this game to anyone looking for a good challenging game. With the recent release 
 of Order of Ecclesia, the series is getting the feel of the DS and is very well accepted by the 
 gaming media. Who knows what's next for Konami's vampire killer series.
  
  "I on my part give up the uncertainty of eternal rest and go out into the dark where may be the 
 blackest things that the world or the nether world holds.."
  
  End of review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unreliable_Matt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely awesome. Having the map screen up top for quick glance is very helpful! 
 No having to hit a button and wait for a map to load, however quick it may load, is a great time 
 saver. I have always enjoyed the barrage of weapons that you get and use! It is a lot of fun switching 
 weapon to weapon just to see it's unique properties and attacks! And if using all the weapons isn't 
 enough, I love treasure hunting for the new items, equipment, etc. The enemies are farily easy 
 to a point, provided you are well leveled and you use your abilities well. Then there is the monster 
 pit with a bunch of monsters just thorwn at you, and let me tell you, GREAT FUN! Doing it with 
 the fastest weapon to the slowest is one thing, but try doing it with the slowest and weakest for 
 a little added difficulty! The team work can be a little annoying at times when you get into a 
 button mashing frenzy, but overall it is new and fun! I would definetly suggest everyone interested 
 in the Castlevania series give this game a try. It's very hard to be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TSNAKE617
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  After I played Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow I knew that I wanted more but I didn't know that a game 
 so similar to Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow would still entertain me. 
  
  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin plays like Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. They add another character 
 that will assist you in battle. They add a new feature that allows you to go into paintings. It 
 works much better than I thought it would by providing an atmosphere besides the castle and they 
 can be reentered and explored. Like other Castlevania games Portrait of Ruin has tough boss fights 
 but unfortunately these fights feel a little dull compared to the fights in Dawn of Sorrow. 
  
  The graphics in Portrait of Ruin are good but not mind-blowing.
  
  The sound in Portrait 
 of Ruin also is good and draws you into the action.
  
  Overall Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is great but does not try very many new ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SymphonyOfAshes
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Alright, first off, sure, it's an 8, but that's CRAP, compared to all the more recent 2D Castlevanias. 
 
  
  Alright, first off, this game is really annoying. The stupid anime drawings with a mediocre storyline..
 
  
  Okay, this game does not feature Dracula throughout the storyline until the very end, and you only 
 get him with the better ending. Not only that, it doesn't feature any Belmont, nor does it have 
 a good storyline. 
  
  You play as Jonathan Morris, and Charlotte Aulin. The two are random kids, one with magic, the 
 other with the Vampire Killer, which is supposed to suck life out of him because he is not a Belmont, 
 but a crappy Morris. This really is never brought up in the storyline apart from one time, where 
 he states how his father died, and after that it really never even matters. Overuse?! Well anyways, 
 you get to fight Richter Belmont to make your whip stronger, which is pretty stupid, because he's 
 retardedly hard compared to your stupid Jonathan.
  
  Alright, enough rant..
  
  The game is pretty smooth, and has really smooth sprites, making the game quite appealing. You 
 go into a different vampire's castle, named somehting. I forget his name. Whatever, the guy's obsessed 
 with paintings. Like Mario and Steve Burns, you'll jump into paintings and get into separate lands, 
 depending on the painting, DUH. Well, yeah, you do all that crap, and you kill the wannabe vampire, 
 who annoys Dracula, and is then basically pwned by him. Draccy then fuses with Death (wtf?) and 
 becomes a gigantic monster. 
  Why would he only do this to some noob Vampire Killer wielder who needs his girlfriend to save 
 him?
  
  Sorry, ranting again..
  
  The game has some pretty good replay value, really. You can play as pairs of other characters. 
 There's Richter/Maria, both as their original sprites from their separate games. Richter is basically 
 Maxim from HoD, where he's super f***ing fast. And that's basically it. He just gets a whip, and 
 whatnot. Maria is in her 5-year-old looking form, and throws birds and other crap for her weapon. 
 The other pair you are able to play as is the two whatever sisters, who play as pretty big bosses 
 throughout the game. The sisters are pretty fun, if you want to call it that. You control both 
 at once, and I forget how, I THINK one is DPAD and other is buttons, and then you shoot crap with 
 tapping the screen. I forget to be honest, it was fun until the 2nd map.
  
  Alright, it's not a bad game, I just was very disappointed. It gets the score it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Platyphyllum
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  The Castlevania series has certainly found a home on portable game systems. All the way from the 
 original Gameboy to the Playstation Portable, Castlevania games have been released on handhelds 
 with quite a bit of success as most of the games follow the tried-and-true formula that Castlevania 
 has had from the very beginning which makes the games a lot of fun. Of course, the Nintendo DS 
 is not excluded from having its own Castlevania titles as so far, there are already three games 
 out for it. The first one that was released was known as "Dawn of Sorrow", a sequel to a Gameboy 
 Advance game and the third one is a brand new entry known as "Order of Ecclesia". Both of those 
 games have been met with great feedback and are surely the favorites of some fans of the series. 
 However, the second DS entry in the series, "Portrait of Ruin" is a different story. While the 
 game is definitely a solid action platformer, it definitely ranks as one of my least favorite Castlevania 
 games thanks to its numerous problems.
  
  In Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin, you play as two young heroes: Jonathan Morris and Charlotte Aulin 
 in the year 1944. The 2nd World War is occurring and has caused immeasurable amounts of suffering, 
 anguish, and grief. Because of all this negativity that's been happening, many souls have become 
 angry and evil which causes the legendary castle of Dracula to appear. It's up to the two heroes 
 (one of them holding the legendary Vampire Killer whip in hand) to travel deep into the castle 
 and find out how to destroy it, even if it means encountering the notorious Dracula himself. Things 
 don't exactly go as planned though. It is shown that Jonathan doesn't even have full control over 
 the Vampire Killer and even though they are indeed inside Dracula's castle, they do not find him 
 there, but instead find another vampire known as Brauner scheming to take over the world. Even 
 though the odds are against them, it's up to them to stop this vampire's plans by exploring the 
 castle and destroying several portraits which house Brauner's dark power.
  
  Like what I just mentioned, an interesting new aspect of this game is the fact that there are certain 
 portraits stored away in Dracula's Castle. In order to make progress, it will be necessary for 
 Jonathan and Charlotte to enter the portraits (each one containing a differently styled stage) 
 and destroy the boss in each and every one of these levels to gain new abilities and weaken the 
 vampire's dark powers. Unlike many of the previous Castlevania games in which your main goal was 
 to simply find abilities to progress through the castle, eventually finding Dracula, this added 
 goal was a nice way to try and avoid letting things get stale.
  
  Another new feature which factors into the game is the whole "Dual Character" system which has 
 you taking control of two characters simultaneously. Anytime during gameplay, you can switch simultaneously 
 between Jonathan and Charlotte or you can even have them both on the screen at the same time (obviously 
 with the AI taking control of the other character) . Jonathan is pretty much like any other Castlevania 
 hero out there, he relies on his weapons, tools, strength, agility, and flexibility to get him 
 out of tight situations and defeat enemies. Meanwhile, Charlotte is on the opposite end as she 
 isn't very versatile and definitely isn't physically strong but she makes up for it by being more 
 focused around casting spells which will be necessary to get through the game. There are also some 
 pretty cool combination attacks that the duo can use called "Dual Crushes" which are pretty strong 
 and can be used to plow through normal enemies and deal considerable damage to bosses.
  
  Other than those new features, when it comes to the basic control scheme and core gameplay, the 
 normal fan of the series will feel right at home. Ever since "Symphony of the Night" was released 
 for the Playstation, every Castlevania game has shifted from being a rather difficult 2D action 
 platformer which has you relying more on your reflexes than anything else, to an RPG/Action hybrid 
 which has a greater focus on exploration and finding new abilities. Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin 
 is just like that as well. You'll find an array of new weapons, tools, and spells to use, and the 
 castle is just littered with new platforming abilities for you to find so that you can traverse 
 new areas.
  
  While the gameplay seems pretty good right now with all the new features and core formula still 
 intact, this game still suffers from some pretty major problems when it comes to one thing: execution. 
 These new ideas which the developers tried to implement such as the dual character system feel 
 extremely unpolished and honestly, not much of their potential is even used. Sure, you'll need 
 Charlotte to open up certain places since she can cast spells and Jonathan can't but that's pretty 
 much all she does most of the time: she casts spells. This means that for over approximately 80% 
 of this game, you'll be using Jonathan since his flexibility, high strength, and constitution definitely 
 makes him an ideal person to use as he can get out of tough situations with his continuous jumps 
 and effective weapons. Meanwhile, if you decide to use Charlotte most of the time, expect to be 
 hit by your opponent's attacks a lot and be prepared to have physical attacks with long recovery 
 times (Jonathan's attacks are swift while Charlotte's book attacks take a bit longer) . The dual 
 character system also has a lot of other problems to it: there aren't even that many dual crushes 
 to use which leads to you sometimes forgetting that you even have them, there aren't enough puzzles 
 that make use of both characters, and so on.
  
  Also, I don't know if the series is just getting stale for me or if it was just a poor design choice 
 (I'm guessing it's the latter) but I found trudging through Dracula's Castle and the different 
 portraits to be tedious and uninteresting. I could easily tell that it's because the level design 
 was inexplicably dull. Here's one aspect of the game where it really felt that the developers got 
 lazy: the graphics. Despite the fact that there are different sorts of environments to go through, 
 the level design is so repetitive (you'll see similar hallways all the time) that before you even 
 finish the portrait, you'll be tired of running through identical hallways with different enemies. 
 This game's Dracula's Castle is also one of the worst I've seen, there aren't even any underwater 
 areas or anything, there are just hallways, more hallways, a vertical shaft, more hallways, maybe 
 an elevator here and there, and more dull hallways. 
  
  Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that the level design is all bad. The "City of Haze" was a nice 
 stage full of medieval European city details but even if there are certain portraits that are nice, 
 some are very unlikable (like the "Sandy Grave") that after your first visit to these places, you'll 
 never want to go back there again. I also can't help but mention the fact that the last 5 portraits 
 of the game are simply recycled from the first 5, the level structure and feel is almost the same; 
 it might just have different colors and harder enemies. Many enemy sprites are also recycled from 
 previous Castlevania games. Honestly, it's like the team working on this game's graphical design 
 just got lazy. This game unfortunately also made the same mistake as "Dawn of Sorrow" in which 
 they took away the gothic portrait design for the characters and replaced them with cheap looking 
 anime designs which definitely doesn't feel right. It is easily seen that this game is trying to 
 aim for the whole "gothic" atmosphere with dark disturbing creatures and religious statues in the 
 background, but whenever a scene happens and those cute anime faces pop up (together with the awful 
 dialogue) , it's hard to take this game seriously.
  
  My views on this game's audio are quite different from my views on the game mechanics and graphics 
 though. The game's music is pretty good, many of the tracks aren't really that memorable when compared 
 to the music from other Castlevania games but it gets the job done. Yuzo Koshiro, composer for 
 games like Streets of Rage and Etrian Oddysey, worked together with Michiru Yamane (one of the 
 main composers of the Castlevania games in general) to create a large number of long and nice tracks 
 for this game which mostly sound fitting. The sound effects also fit very well with everything 
 that happens on screen and the characters and monsters are given English voice-overs which was 
 a really nice touch. Unlike the graphics, it seems like there was actually effort put into this 
 factor of the game and it definitely deserves some praise.
  
  In terms of replayability and length, Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin lasts a good amount of time. 
 I was able to finish the game in around 10 hours on my first playthrough (without getting a complete 
 map and without doing all the quests) which is a good length for a portable title. There are also 
 several bonus modes such as Boss Rush, Sound Tests, and alternate character playthroughs that can 
 be unlocked after finishing the game which, if you are devoted to finishing them, can make the 
 length of the game last to even 20 hours. All in all, this is the perfect length for a portable 
 action game that is made to be played in short bursts. I do have a few mixed feelings regarding 
 this like how the developers recycled basic portrait designs to artificially increase this game's 
 length but that's only a minor complaint that doesn't have much impact on the length in the end.
 
  
  Overall, I just found Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin to be an unpolished bag full of good and bad 
 contents. The gameplay features never reached their full potential, the graphical design was incredibly 
 repetitive, the dialogue is really bad to the point where its laughable, and the game just has 
 an overall lack of polish which is evident through the numerous typos (Richiter Belmont) and recycled 
 portrait designs. However, by no means does this mean that Portrait of Ruin is a downright bad 
 game. It still has the core gameplay mechanics that the Castlevania series has had ever since Symphony 
 of the Night which pretty much guarantees some fun monster slaying and a certain degree of exploration, 
 the music and audio in general also sounds very nice and suitable, and in the end, the game still 
 has its good points. This game may not be that great when compared side-by-side to the other Castlevanias, 
 but as an action platformer, it still does its job well to an extent. If you've already picked 
 up the other 2 DS entries in the series and you still want more then by all means, pick this game 
 up as well, but it's easily the weakest DS entry in the series so far and unless you can't find 
 the other two or you see this for a really cheap price, I simply can't honestly say that I recommend 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dymond7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You get a whip + hundreds of enemies to kill = Crazy fun, killing things in this game 
 never gets boring, It just really fun and enjoyable its very hard to describe, you need to play 
 the game to know how good it is.
  
  10/10
  
  Graphics: Not the best on the DS, but I don't think they really need to focus on something like 
 graphics in a game like this, I mean focusing on game play is just good enough.
  
  8/10
  
  Story: It's Castlevania, so it has a fine story, I mean, in a game like this, gameplay just 
 matters, I have to say this, seriously this is a perfect example of a game that mainly focus's 
 on gameplay, which in my opinion is good, but I like good story and a one that you actually care 
 about the characters.
  
  Overall: It's a good game, you really need to get a game like this, although it has WiFi, which 
 is the most useless WiFi in a DS game, honestly, I think they should've cancelled it all out and 
 added more depth into the game, not like the game has lots of depth itself, basically.. if your 
 a DS owner and you don't own this... than just run to the game store and buy it, seriously, it's 
 very good in terms of lengh, I already have 25 hours in one of my save files and I'm not even close 
 to finishing the game 100 percent, so yes it's a very long game, but I really think people should 
 stop refering to this game as an RPG, it's a 2D platformer with some RPG elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDDZX
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania PoR ia a great platformer for the nintendo DS. You play as two main characters Jonathan 
 Morris and Charlotte Aulin. Your a two vampire slayers seeking out a mysterious new uprising in 
 the Dracula Mansion. Your new adventure makes you encounter a few friends and foes. But the main 
 goal is too stop the resurrection of Dracula.
  
  Castlevania PoR's new twist on a classic game is allowing you to play as two different characters 
 at once. You can attack with both main characters using special techniques and allow switch between 
 characters to attack with physical attacks or magic. You also must use both characters to get to 
 different areas throughout the game.
  
  This game takes 5-10 minutes to learn. The game moves and feels just like a Castlevaniia game. You 
 will find that it will take patience to get through new areas of the game, but in due time you will 
 find everything you need to succeed.
  
  With nintendo wi-fi connection you can play with people around the world in boss rush modes. Though 
 there are only 4 levels some people may like the challenges. You can also open up a online shop 
 if you would like to earn money for the main storyline.
  
  Completing this game gives you new boss modes as well as different characters and difficulties. Attempting 
 the new extreme difficulties will allow you to unlock even more new and fun exciting challenges.
 
  
  Well thats the end of my review. Be sure to check out Castlevania Portrait of Ruin., its fun and 
 easy and can be bought for about 20 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshi_Kirby
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Before picking up Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin, I'd never played a Castlevania game before. I 
 was eager to get into the series, however, and searched around for the best game to make my entry 
 into it. 
  
  In a nutshell, the story was pretty good, the graphics were pretty good and the music was great. 
 But the gameplay was what got me hooked. Finding the perfect balance between Jonathan's physical 
 attacks and Charlotte's magical attacks was fun, and I loved using Dual Crush, where they put their 
 powers together to create one ultimate and deadly attack. 
  
  At first the difficulty in PoR was a little bit much for me, but that was probably because it was 
 my first Castlevania game, or because I'd never played such an intense platformer. After awhile 
 though, I started to improve. My reactions got quicker. I was able to beat the bosses in less tries. 
 I started to become very pleased with myself. 
  
  Then came the last boss battle. I won't spoil it for you, but it was quite difficult for me. It 
 took me so many tries that I avoided the game for awhile. But wanting to beat it just got so addicting 
 that I HAD to play!!! 
  
  Well, I finally did it. I beat the game. I love the feeling after beating a good game. It's... 
 hard to describe. Happiness that you're finally done, but at the same time some sadness that it's 
 over, and satisfaction at all of your hard work. That's what I felt. 
  
  So I personally loved Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin, and I'm dying to play another Castlevania 
 game soon!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualmask
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  They never get old. They never get dull. They're infinitely replayable, 2D gaming goodness at its 
 finest. When the combination of Metroid's traditional gameplay married the Castlevania model, what 
 came to be was quite possibly the greatest form of 2D gaming this side of the fighting game.
  
  As evidence that this formula just continues to improve, yet another fine entry is produced 
 in the form of Portrait of Ruin. Like previous "Castleroid" games, starting with the still-stellar 
 (and still the best) Symphony of the Night, players take on the role of a hero out to beat Dracula 
 and his minions, traversing a huge castle, finding countless weapons, armor, accessories, spells 
 and other items to aid in the quest. The twist in this case is that there are two playable characters, 
 Jonathan Morris and Charlotte Aulin, accessible at any time. Jonathan's the physical powerhouse, 
 Charlotte's the magician, and both characters have merit. Using one does not hamper the abilities 
 of the other in any way, so it pays to use the character that matches the situation. For instance, 
 for the most part, Jonathan is the logical choice because he uses better and more powerful weapons, 
 hits harder and takes more hits, but Charlotte's magic attacks are varied and powerful, and certain 
 foes (like Legion) actually do less damage to her because of her higher magic and intelligence 
 rating.
  
  The player is able to summon and relieve an AI partner on the fly for a quick attack or a prolonged 
 presence during gameplay. The AI partner can be moved or repositioned with the stylus, sprung off 
 of for a lift, used to assist with puzzles and the like. Plus, the two characters can team up for 
 one of several available co-op attacks that fill the screen and do huge damage. Playing with the 
 two, switching in and out or having both of them present at the same time fighting side by side 
 is a treat.
  
  If you've played Symphony of the Night (PS1) , Circle of the Moon, Harmony of Dissonance, Aria of 
 Sorrow (all GBA) or Dawn of Sorrow (DS) , then you'll find little new with the actual gameplay. 
 Controls are tight and responsive and the challenge starts off a bit unforgiving but gets easier 
 as you go along thanks to leveling up and finding stronger weapons and armor. You start out at 
 the entrance to the castle and you gradually fill in the map as you go, locating teleport rooms, 
 save rooms and portals to other areas.
  
  Aside from the two character formula, there are some other differences in Portrait of Ruin from 
 past Castlevania games. All attacks except for basic weapon attacks are tethered to magic; hearts 
 are not separate as they were in previous games. When you use sub-weapons or spells, magic decreases. 
 Candles and the like give out hearts when your magic is less than full, and random amounts of money 
 when it is full. This means that you can build up money by using magic sparingly, or have an easier 
 time of battle (depending on your skills and equipment, of course) by using magic more often. Sub 
 weapons never appear in candles; they're bought, found, or obtained from enemy drops. Thus they 
 can be equipped and switched like other weapons.
  
  Another difference between Portrait of Ruin and previous Castlevanias is the structure. Now, the 
 castle is like a hub that connects to different dimensions (the titular Portraits) , each with their 
 own map, teleport rooms, save points, and boss. In the end, it feels the same -- you'll still have 
 to explore carefully to find the items needed to unlock new abilities, opening up more of the castle.
 
  
  Presentation-wise, it's gorgeous. The sprites are animated well, the visuals are vibrant and clear, 
 the music is strong and the voice work is engaging too. It's cool to hear one character call the 
 other by name when the player switches control from one to the other. As for the story, it's Castlevania... it's 
 nothing amazing. Some twists, some turns, some historical references and homage to past Castlevania 
 games, but mostly run-of-the-mill. But Castlevania's long-running mythos is rarely problematic 
 and people don't play Castlevania games for the story, but for the perfect gameplay that has withstood 
 over 20 years.
  
  The game has massive amounts of replay value too. There are two sets of hidden characters to play 
 through the game as, both playing quite a bit differently from the main characters. As usual, there 
 is little to no story in these bonus modes and items can't be collected, but the challenge of going 
 through the castle with these different characters is engaging nonetheless (though they're seriously 
 overusing one in particular) .
  
  I could be nitpicky. I recently replayed SotN, and playing Portrait of Ruin makes me miss the ability 
 to change the window color in the menu. I haven't dabbled in the online features at all, but I 
 read that the multiplayer mode is extremely limited. That's too bad...2 player simultaneous play 
 Castlevania through the whole game... that would be something else... but I guess now isn't the time. 
 Also, despite the fact that these Castlevania games are based in different time periods, one can't 
 tell by looking. The same gothic environments and enemies exist whether the game is based in the 
 1400s or the 21st century, and I think a bit more work in that regard is needed for future titles. 
 I want to see Castlevania take place among skyscrapers and other modern environments.
  
  In the end though, it's hard to find fault with Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin. These games are 
 never bad. They're rarely revolutionary, but they're always fun to play. It never gets tiresome 
 exploring every nook and cranny of the castle and finding the best equipment, even if your character 
 is strong enough to beat the last boss with the first knife you ever get in one minute. As far 
 as I'm concerned, they can keep making these games until the end of time. I can't wait until the 
 next one... looking forward to the story behind that new female protagonist... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania Portrait of Ruin is undoubtedly one of the best Castlevania, sidescroller, and even 
 ds games yet. It features a great premise along with the classic Castlevania gameplay. Lets get 
 started! The game features two vampire hunters: Jonathan Morris, heir to the famed Belmont Clan, 
 and Charlotte Aulin, a powerful spellcaster. They team up to crush Dracula once again, but get 
 sidelined. Waaayyyyy sidelined. The core gameplay has you controlling both of them. Jonathan is 
 obviously the strength, while Charlotte backs him up with her spells. Luckily, you don't have to 
 go through some horrible process to switch them. You can call one to help you, though their taking 
 damage comes from your magic supply and not health, or you can switch them off. Though it may seem 
 complicated, it works very well and doesn't take very long to learn. The game feels a lot like 
 a castlevania, however, but opposed to just drac's castle, you get different paintings you go in, 
 VERY similar to mario 64. They have their own individual map, boss and rewards. The meat of the 
 game is 4 paintings, then if you don't want the lame ending and feel like going ahead, 4 more paintings, 
 though they are just rejects of the aforementioned ones. Most of the time though, you will be simply 
 slicing, smashing, or whipping your foes down. The game features a dual crush spell system that 
 has powerful spells to harm everything on the screen. Unfortunetly, most bosses you just constantly 
 spam with it, and easily fend off otherwise. Still, the game has some moments where you really 
 have to gear up and think on your feet. For instance, the part where you relearn the "true" power 
 of the vampire killer, a battle with the ferocious Whip's Memory boss (it takes the form of richter 
 belmont) can be a real kick in the knickers. Also, the Nest of Evil, a large battle arena type 
 mode, can truly maul you by pitting you against unfamiliar enemies from other castlevanias, as 
 well as some punishing bosses. The game, by other Castlevania standards, is quite large. The map 
 of the castle is average, but combined with the 9 portraits makes a true challenge. Overall, I 
 would suggest you get this whether you are a fan of... well... any game. It is just that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icemael
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Portrait of Ruin is the second Castlevania for DS, and I'm surprised that it's worse than the first 
 one. The main change in gameplay is that you have two characters, Jonathan and Charlotte. Jonathan 
 is the warrior-type, while Charlotte is a magician.
  
  You'll probably stick with Jonathan, just pressing the R-button every once in a while to have Charlotte 
 use a spell before disappearing again. The X-button, with which you swap characters, won't be used 
 much. The only times you'll want to use Charlotte are in the very few puzzles where you actually 
 need her to proceed. There is no reason at all to use Charlotte - her offensive and defensive powers 
 are inferior to Jonathan's, and she needs to chant before using a spell, leaving her vulnerable. 
 The reason there are two characters in this game is the Julius mode in the first DS Castlevania, 
 Dawn of Sorrow, where you had three different characters to swap between.
  
  However, in Julius mode the three characters were balanced, each with their own pros and cons. 
 Charlotte, however, is completely useless. She has some good spells, but as I said, pressing the 
 R-button will cause her to appear, use her spell, and then leave. Did we really need another character 
 for that? Why couldn't they simply have Jonathan use the spells instead? Whatever...
  
  Jonathan has his own counterpart to Charlotte's spells, including a handgrenade, a throwing-star, 
 the subweapons from the old CV titles (cross, bible, holy water, knife) and much more. In a particular 
 room in the castle, there is a ghost who gives you quests. He gives you some pretty sweet rewards 
 when you complete them, like skills, spells and weapons.
  
  And yeah, then there's the story. The story is, as in most other CVs, not that important. A new 
 vampire called Brauner, accompanied by his two daughters Stella and Loretta, has taken control 
 of Dracula's castle. Jonathan, the current owner of the Vampire Killer whip, sets out to defeat 
 him, with the aid of his friend Charlotte.
  
  The setting is, as usual, in Dracula's castle. Most of the time is spent out of the castle though. 
 To stop Brauner, you need to enter his magical paintings and defeat the bosses in them. The paintings 
 will take you to eight different places (the last four are pretty much the same as the first four, 
 just recolored and with different enemies) , ranging from an Egyptian pyramid to a hotel in a swamp. 
 While these areas are nice, IMO they should have focused more on the castle. 
  
  The graphics are beautiful 2D backgrounds and sprites. While not as visually appealing as the previous 
 DS CV, the graphics are still outstanding. The horrible anime-style character design from DoS is 
 still present, but luckily we don't have to see those god-awful faces that much. The enemies look 
 good, and the boss fights are terrific. The music is, as always, great. 
  
  There are a few unlockable modes, like Sisters mode, where you play as Stella & Loretta, Richter 
 mode, where you control Richter and a child version of Maria, and Old Axe Armor mode, where you 
 use an Old Axe Armor enemy to chop up Drac's minions. Richter mode is nice, but none of these extra 
 modes can compare to Julius mode in DoS.
  
  Another new thing is the level caps in hard mode. You can choose to set the cap at level 50, 25 (?) 
 and 1. If you think this game's a piece of cake, just wait until you try playing it through with 
 level 1 cap and no equipment.
  
  All in all, this is a great game, with a few flaws. If you don't own Dawn of Sorrow, buy that instead, 
 as it's a better game IMO. If you have it and enjoyed it, you'll definitely enjoy this too.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAIW
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin had great expectations from not only incoming gamers as myself, but 
 the large fanbase it has held for a pretty long time now -- and it's easy to see why it has retained 
 such a fanbase. Konami continues the Castlevania franchise on the DS for a second time, distinguishing 
 itself from the 'Sorrows' with new characters, level design and even unique unlockables.
  
  Young Johnathon Morris and even younger Charlotte Aulin bear the lineage of vampire killers, a 
 challenging occupation to keep in the year of 1944. Dracula's castle has risen once more due to 
 the number of deaths stemming from World War II, and the dynamic duo sets out to stop a new antagonist 
 from a world takeover with only the help of a mysterious ghost and man of the church. While the 
 plot isn't a masterpiece or even close to it, the characters coming in and out of the story and 
 their backgrounds are more than sufficient for a decent storyline. The writing can take on tones 
 from humurous to serious, and the sound effects sound great on the DS; no one will be conquering 
 the game for the sake of finding out what happens to Morris and friends, but it's not as if dialogue 
 will be skipped, either (Unless you're playing through a second time) .
  
  Portrait of Ruin's music and sound effects both play beautifully, and with extra opportunities 
 included (Portraits that turn into unique worlds not restricted to the melancholy of Dracula's 
 Castle) the game definitely has one of the greatest soundtracks seen yet on the DS. Even better, 
 there's an unlockable sound room. Who needs iPods?
  
  As expected, PoR's gameplay is fun, satisfying and even challenging at times -- depending on your 
 level of difficulty selected (9 hard modes are unlockable, three for each mode) , the adventure 
 can either be an enjoyable, smooth ride to a grueling challenge of learning enemy patterns before 
 getting past any room. Collecting stronger equipments, conquering optional side quests, purchasing 
 potions and even slaughtering bosses from Dawn of Sorrow and Portrait of Ruin are all enjoyable 
 trials, and two unlockable modes are available -- one even utilizing the touch screen, if you were 
 disappointed with how Jonathon's quest was completely done traditionally. All in all, the satisfying 
 gameplay in Portrait of Ruin is full of content, and replaying the main quest on hard -- as well 
 as the other two modes -- should last 30-40+ hours (if you complete each quest 1000%) .
  
  Portrait of Ruin looks great. Its amazingly well done 2D sprites can only be matched by its background 
 art, which ranges from 2D to 3D (2.5) . Certain bosses really look great on the handheld, and the 
 game overall is a 2D accomplishment.
  
  Portrait of Ruin is a commendable platformer, with difficulties ranging from a joyride to -- dare 
 I say it -- normal mode in Contra 4. If you're looking for an epic storyline, PoR may fall short, 
 but in all other aspects it's a good game. No, it's a great game, if only a good Castlevania. It's 
 not revolutionary and won't change the way future Castlevanias are played, but after beating this 
 game once more I can't wait until Castlevania Order of Ecclesia is released in the Fall -- if it's 
 anything like Portrait of Ruin, it's a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NovaScizor75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  With it's unique story, superb gameplay, pretty graphics, balanced level of challenge, and perfect 
 soundtrack, Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is the best installment in the series since Symphony 
 of the Night. The story takes place in the year 1944, you play as Jonathan Morris and Charlotte 
 Aulin trying to stop the resurrection of Dracula after the castle has been brought back due to 
 the death and suffering caused by World War II. The antagonist is the vampire painter Brauner and 
 his daughters, Stella and Loretta, who seem to have no interest in reviving Dracula. I won't give 
 away the rest due to spoilers. The background music here is perfect for slaying hordes of enemies. 
 Both creepy and memorable, the soundtrack fits each level perfectly in which each track is played. 
 The graphics are also very nicely done. Though there aren't many 3D graphics, the 2D sprites are 
 very well designed. The levels can sometimes feel a bit bland, but only a couple of them. As I 
 mentioned, the gameplay here is pretty much flawless. In an RPG style, you have an HP and MP bar, 
 you level-up, and equip different weapons, armor, and sub-weapons. The game, of course, has the 
 same platforming action the series has always had. Another combat feature is Dual Crushes, or super-powerful 
 co-op attacks which consume a large amount of MP. You can switch between Charlotte and Johnathan, 
 or even have your CPU controlled partner fight with you. The challenge level here is balanced, 
 but theres also a hard mode in which you can set level "caps" (restricting how many levels you 
 can gain) . There are also 3 boss rush modes, which, if you beat them fast enough, reward you with 
 unique items. Though there is a co-op, there are only 3 short levels available for it. Even if 
 it doesn't bring anything new to the franchise, it's still one of the most refined, complete, and 
 superb action titles to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Story:
  Dracula's castle is back! Surprised yet? Yeah, you, a whip using young lad must go through it, 
 but find out that some crazy artist controls the castle and not Dracula. You also get a partner 
 this time who actually does something! Something I complained about in dawn of sorrow! However, 
 for every step forward, this game takes 2 steps back. The anime is more apparent in this game than 
 it was last, both in art and in the script. You get generic "friendship will prevail" junk to sit 
 through and more cliche characters and plot twist. Really not a lot to talk about, people are just 
 less interesting now. On the plus side, the 2 reoccurring baddies in this game, Loretta and Stella 
 are a challenge and more fun to fight than Dario and Dmitrii last game.
  
  Graphics:
  Technically, they have more going on than in the last game, but I don't like it at much. There 
 were occasionally those silly enemies that were fun to see last game, but now half of the monsters, 
 if not more, are silly. The drawing has really lost it's style to this new artist. Overall though, 
 a good 2d style, just not good for castlevania.
  
  Gameplay: 
  Once again, for every step forward, 2 steps back. They did something nice by letting you leave 
 the castle into these paintings around the castle. This adds veriety to what otherwise is a castle 
 crawler, but with this addition, everything feels so linear. You don't get to split off paths as 
 much as last game, and when you enter a painting, it is a strait line from where you start to where 
 the boss is. 
  
  They invented a second character for some strategy and verity, but really she is fairly useless. 
 Your strength in most situations is just handled by Jonathan, where Charlotte just seems to be 
 there to help with abilities and kill special kinds of enemies. The key they're trying to give 
 us is teamwork, but teamwork doesn't work with an AI controlled partner. Having her out while you're 
 out will just mean she'll take damage, harming you in the end. Which brings me to my biggest gripe 
 with this game...
  
  What were they thinking? They stress coop but can't give it to us? They they advertise coop on 
 the back of the box, but that's just boss rush mode. You can't go through the actual game with 
 a partner. I don't care what lag I would have gotten, this would have fixed so much that's wrong 
 with the gameplay! My dreams and love of this game were shattered with that discovery.
  
  Overall, same deal, lots to do, souls replaced with spells, ect. Still a fun game but it doesn't 
 feel as tight at all. At least boss fights are as good as ever.
  
  Sound:
  This is one area I like. The music doesn't feel quite right in some places, but the monsters have 
 been given a lot more sounds. From varied metal clings to spell sounds to voices for a lot of the 
 human-er monsters. They put more detail into an already detailed game here. Overall not a lot to 
 say though. Remixes here and there but original stuff mostly.
  
  Who wants this game?
  Big fans of the last game looking for more action. If you hadn't played the last game, it's better, 
 get that one first, THEN consider this game.
  
  Extra note:
  That online tag? Yeah, it's for trading items. I find that feature useless though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semianonymous
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 16, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so I'll start this off with a little confession. I fell for the hype, big time. Video 
 after video of the impressive animation, remarkably well designed beginning stages, and screenshots 
 of single areas, all of which made this game look, frankly, like the game to beat SotN.
  And man oh man, we got majorly lied to.
  
  Gameplay wise, PoR takes whats great about the series 
 standard gameplay, and does some extremely mild edits here and there. Smooth animation, nice and 
 loose controls, and the classic button setup. You'll have no problem with the gameplay and controls, 
 that is, if your Johnathan. The most noteable change in gameplay that any experienced CVer will 
 notice immediately is Charlotte. Sure, she moves nice and smooth, and has some decent animations, 
 but come one. She has 1 single attack: Beat stuff with her books. No combos, no learnable techniques 
 and her really powerful attacks require charging, while Johnny runs off to hit stuff. All she ever 
 does is beat things with her books, or set them on fire. With her books.
  
  Thats, of course, also ignoring the blatent fact that this is nothing new. We've had the exact 
 same style, gameplay etc since 1997, and SotN. Johnathan, with a sword, controls (and hell, looks) 
 almost identically to Alucard and Soma. With a whip, he's Richter, Julius and Juste, with a few 
 more subweapons. Mix that in with a virtually unneeded second character (you can complete most 
 of the game with just Johnny boy) , and you get disappointment.
  
  At least they gave the feeling of trying in the visuals department. Unfortunately, though, its 
 almost identical to DoS, in terms of visuals. It starts out very strong, with decent variety in 
 the rooms, and looking quite nice. Then... slowly, you get the feeling your running through the 
 same rooms repeatedly. Then you get to the Nation of Fools, and you are literally running through 
 identical rooms with absolutely no forms of variation. Every now and then, you'll run into a nice, 
 flashy room with a total change of pace, that just feels out of place. Sometimes, you'll encounter 
 rooms that change the pace with out looking obnoxious.
  Hey, at least the animation and the reused sprites looks pretty.
  And thats another thing. Reused 
 Sprites and AI. Nearly every single post RoB game has had reused sprites, and had unchanged AI. 
 Come on, seriously? Is it that hard to make a quick new skeleton sprite, or fix the AI so it wont 
 try to give your whip a hug? Please?
  
  Soundwise, Yamane and this Yuzo Koshiro (I hear he's rather famous) fellow did quite well. However, 
 there is limited variety. Action seems to be the main theme in this game, as even the cutscene 
 and shop songs aren't that laid back and relaxing. All that action sounding stuff starts to run 
 together. Interestingly, one of the calmer pieces, Silent Prison, is used in a single, basically 
 useless little prison like area, that anyone who's played Symphony, or more specifically, Nocturne 
 in the Moonlight, can't help but feel like they took the chambers of Orlox quarters, and put them 
 in an area thats as useful as the Cursed Prison. Painful, really. Doesn't even have a boss, just 
 a little connecting area, with a really nice, calm song.
  
  Now, imagine for me this: You have just read a summary of a really amazing story revolving around 
 betrayal, love, trust, courage, strength and truth, with a well done fight against evil Vampires 
 who want to take over the world. Excited, you read the story, and discover, to your overwhelming 
 disappointment, that the writing is poor and bland, the characters are annoying and dislikeable, 
 and the main antagonist is killed off so ****ing Dracula can make an appearance.
  Say hello to PoR's story. Brilliant in theory, pitiful in execution. How sad, really.
  
  Also, 
 let me just take a moment to recite a few lines of the script for you.
  Death: (HA-HA-HA-HA)
  Brauner: (Screams)
  Brilliant, isn't it? How about this:
  Vincent: 
 (ROARS) You did it! You two really are fantastic.
  Charlotte: Except it was just me who did it.
  The script writing is riddled with pitiful examples 
 such as that, mistranslations (my personal favorite: "Summons four warriors", the greatest FIVE 
 description) , spelling errors, and overall poor script writing. Hooray for dislikeable characters?
 
  
  At least, if reused background and bonus modes are your thing, then your in luck. 4, count em, 
 4 different modes: Johnathan mode, Richter & Maria mode, Sisters mode, and Old Axe Armor mode all 
 make for impressive replay. Throw in the hard modes, and you have 12 different modes.
  That is, if you can stand running through those cursed rooms over. And over. And over. And over. 
 And over. And over. And over...
  
  Sad, really. One of the highest potentials in the entire series, squandered by both the fear of 
 taking a risk, and the suits over at Konami not giving enough time to build a decent game. 9 months. 
 Thats just SAD. 
  This whole series is beginning to feel more than a touch stale at this point, and a game with a 
 barely noticeable difference is not going to change jack squat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavalampbamboo
Rating: 8
Date: May 11, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so Portrait of Ruin... Hmmm. In recent years I've come to love the simple side-scrolling 
 zombie killing fun of the Castlevania series. Dawn of Sorrow was a very good game. I have Death's 
 Scythe. Heh. But anyway, to the point.
  
  PoR enters the chronology of Castlevania in 1944, and Dracula's castle is back, or whatever, and 
 two crazy kids go off to slay him. Except it's not Dracula, it's some fella called Brauner, who 
 is a vampire also, and weirdly bald. And he has two daughters, who are vampires, but they aren't 
 actually his daughters, they're someone else's daughters. Confused? I was and that's not even the 
 half of it. I was slightly confused why Jonathan Morris wasn't off fighting on the beaches, using 
 his whip to kill some Nazis. That would have made this game much more exciting. Some Nazi killing. 
 
  
  So, Jonathan Morris and Charlotte Aulin. Jonno swears he's a descendant of the Belmonts, and that's 
 why he's allowed to use Vampire Killer. He's lying though, his name is Jonathan MORRIS. Not Jonathan 
 Belmont. So there. And he dresses like Dante, making him almost as emo as Soma. Charlotte is easily 
 the most annoying character... ever, really. "I sense a presence here" she remarks, as a large 
 blue flashing thing appears. God.
  
  Anywho, enough on the story. What's important here is the gameplay. Which is pretty much a direct 
 copy-and-paste of Dawn of Sorrow. Not that it's a bad thing, the gameplay there was awesome. The 
 controls are all easy to use, and as you progress, more buttons are brought into the mix, making 
 you more in control. The big selling point for the game was the idea of "you control two characters" 
 but it's lost a little bit. You can beat every enemy (boss, non-boss) in the game with only one 
 character, and it's obvious which one you'll use (Hint: It's Jonathan) . It seems like the designers 
 forgot this too. Every now and again, there'll be a random puzzle which involves the use of both 
 characters, but in the whole game, there's about 3, maybe 4. It seems like there could be a much 
 better use of the whole co-op aspect.
  
  Once you beat the game, (properly of course, not one of those endings that's really random and 
 doesn't finish the story properly) there's an excellent replay value. You can go through the whole 
 thing again at Level 1, but with all your items (Note: I did this by accident, don't.) There's 
 the option to play through a slightly different story with the sisters, who can fly and have attacks 
 that use the stylus well. The option that I am currently obsessed with is the Richter mode, where 
 you play as an actual Belmont (woo!) . The best bit about this mode is Richter runs faster, jumps 
 higher, hits harder, has this cool sliding jump kick move, doesn't have the need to gain new equipment, 
 AND has no storyline. Also his costume is much bluer. Another excellent part is the Nest of Evil, 
 which is a marathon of monster killin', with a load of bosses from DoS, which is always good for 
 a laugh.
  
  So overall, Portrait of Ruin is a good game. Yes, it might not have a very coherent storyline, 
 and the gameplay is unchanged from DoS, but it's good for a few hours and the alternate modes provide 
 a lot of replay value. And that's that. Now I need to go beat the Nest of Evil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  I've played through all of the NES, GBA, SNES, Sega Saturn, Playstation Castlevania games (now 
 I've completed the DS games) . In my opinion I feel that the game's fundamental side scrolling game 
 mechanics is timeless and in Portrait of Ruin it has already become a perfected art (probably perfected 
 in SoTN) . Konami made a wise decision to take out the finicky boss "seal" that was implemented 
 in Dawn of Sorrow and included the bosses from Dawn of Sorrow. Overall, I found this game to be 
 much more difficult than Dawn of Sorrow or some of the contemporary games (GBA especially) because 
 Konami wisely took out the exploit of taping down a button or summoning a familiar to farm experience 
 from infinitely respawning zombies. Some of the things that I miss are the uber-weapons from SoTN 
 such as "vorpal blade" and "rune sword" I know it spoils the game but if it could be included as 
 unlockables after you beat the game that would have been great. I also liked how they reintroduced 
 the special moves system (SoTN; Soul Steal, Dark Metamorphosis, etc) in which a certain button 
 combination (sort of like Street Fighter) could be inputted to perform a special move. Though the 
 moves themselves aren't that great (it's hard to bust a move in a middle of a battle) it's still 
 insanely to fun to beat on enemies that way.
  
  Konami has really out done themselves when it comes to different character modes in Portrait of 
 Ruin. Not only do you get to play with two different characters on the start but you get to play 
 with 3 additional character modes once they're unlocked. Not to mention the boss rush modes is 
 beefier than than Dawn of Sorrow because Portrait of Ruin also includes most of the bosses from 
 Dawn of Sorrow.
  
  I've always thought that some of the previous games suffered to balancing issues and Konami seems 
 to have taken care of that with the increased difficulty and I also thought the new quest system 
 was a really fun way to get stuff and design some peculiar stage sets. The interaction between 
 the NPC and your characters is a lot more dynamic compared to previous games (the NPC merchant 
 actually reacts to your upcoming battle with the last boss) .
  
  Final Words: It's a great game and a steal at around 30 dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akbip
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  I'll admit, this is my first Castlevania game and I am very impressed. From what I have seen in 
 the past, Castlevania games were just hack and slash side scrollers. In many cases I would be fine 
 with that because they are rather fun, for the casual gamer. However, I'm not a casual gamer. Since 
 this is still just a game and I do play it for fun, not for a living, I have to be a critic and 
 point out some bad things too. 
  Starting off, Portrait of Ruin impressed me with their entrance scene of anime graphics. I don't 
 expect too much being on the DS. Yet, after their glorious graphic triumph with in the first three 
 minutes of the game, they did not put any other enhanced graphics in the game at all. Aside from 
 the graphics, the plot was pretty good. Since, I haven't played any other Castlevania I can't compare 
 it to anything else. From what I've heard though, the story line stays about the same. Except this 
 time, you have to weave your way through annoying portraits some random vampire made to entrap 
 the world's strongest vampire which, doesn't make a lot of sense in the first place. Shame on you 
 Konami for keeping the same plot line. One more thing I'd like to point out is the lack of character 
 development. I'm a stickler on this because I like that kind of thing. The basic premise I get 
 from the main character is, "Hey I'm a arrogant dick that is good at fighting." He stays arrogant 
 and retarded through the whole game... but whatever.
  Even though, the game has it's rough edges, like spending a God forsaken amount of time trying 
 to kill an enemy repeatedly to get a dang item. Never-the-less, this game is still pretty sweet. 
 I am an RPG fan myself but, this game sooths my RPG urges and will also enjoy adventure fans. Where 
 I would spend countless hours getting that one item, they would have probably beaten the game. 
 Irrelevant... This game exceeds in game play. The variety of weapons, armor, accessories, etc... 
 is insane. When I first glanced at the skill system, I put it aside thinking that it would be ridiculously 
 hard to do but, at a second glass, near the end of the game, I did it anyways and it went pretty 
 fast. For some reason I got pleasure fighting monsters over and over again to get that one item 
 to satisfy "Wind's" quests. Even though, I screwed myself repeatedly by selling items that were 
 impossible to find elsewhere in the game. I ended up finishing the game around level 58 and I did 
 enjoy the ending. It was nothing fancy that brought tears to my eyes or would make me a Castlevania 
 fanatic but I did like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 26, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Bram Stoker's classic novel Dracula began as a trashy serial. Today, it's humble beginnings have 
 been forgotten and it is hailed as one of the greatest works of fiction of all time. Written in 
 the form of letters and journal entries, it manages to be engrossing, frightening, and an all-around 
 good book. In fact, it's been so popular that countless other media forms have been directly influences 
 by the book. Think back to all the Dracula movies that you've seen. And think about one of gaming's 
 most hallowed franchises: Castlevania.
  
  While the genre has wobbled back and forth between 2D and 3D, it's generally accepted among true 
 fans of the series that the former tend to be better games. Such titles as Symphony of the Night 
 represent the epitome of Castlevania gaming, although that game was nearly matched by Konami's 
 first Castlevania outing on the Nintendo DS, subtitled Dawn of Sorrow. And now, the company's second 
 attempt at Castlevania perfection on the DS comes mightily close to the quality of the first.
 
  
  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin chronicles the adventures of two young friends, Jonathon Morris and 
 Charlotte Aulin and their attempts to unravel the mystery of the reappearance of Dracula's Castle 
 during the catastrophic events of World War II. But this time, Dracula is not alone. As always, 
 his servant Death is present to do his will, but Portrait of Ruin brings into the picture (pun 
 very much intended) a new vampire named Brauner and his two "daughters" Stella and Loretta. Brauner 
 has his own motivations, however, and they do not necessarily align will the will of Dracula. The 
 diversification of the vampire "race", if you will, provides an interesting plot aspect to the 
 title. The game's script is very well-written, as are all of the characters. The plot is surprisingly 
 deep for such a seemingly-straightforward action game, but there are in fact plenty of twists and 
 turns, which are sure to keep you enjoying the game.
  
  But of course, what Castlevania fans really love about the series is the gameplay. There are countless 
 aspects to the game's real play mechanic, but it's best to begin simply. Portrait of Ruin is essentially 
 an action game. Yes, I know that fans of the game would love to beat me over the head with a stick 
 right now, because it's so much more than that. Yes, I know. Because in addition to being an action 
 game, there are also some strong platforming elements present in the title, as well as quite a 
 few role-playing conventions. There's a huge emphasis on exploration in this title, and the game 
 is very non-linear. There's no real direction in this game; you're apparently free to do what you 
 will. But there are a number of sills that you acquire throughout the course of the game (some 
 examples: double jumping, being able to push heavier items) . So, where you can access in the castle 
 is really dictated by what skills you've already found. Still, it's a lot of fun exploring the 
 castle, coming upon dead ends, and finally figuring out where you can make some progress.
  
  As I already mentioned, there are some very obvious RPG elements present in Portrait of Ruin. 
 The last game in the series, Dawn of Sorrow, featured a soul-collecting system, where you had to 
 kill a certain enemy a certain number of times in order to acquire that enemy's soul, and thereby 
 gain its ability. That mechanic is shot in Portrait of Ruin, and replaced by a more traditional 
 role-playing experience-collecting system. Every time you defeat an enemy, you gain a set amount 
 of experience; once reaching an experience milestone, you'll level up, and your stats will increase. 
 There is also tons of different equipment to find/buy and use, ranging from weapons and headgear 
 to shoes and accessories. The sheer variety is mind-blowing, and it's actually quite a bit of fun 
 to outfit your characters as you see best fit. It may not be anything groundbreaking, but it sure 
 is a lot of fun.
  
  The plot, detailed above, features two characters, and both of them are woven heavily into the 
 core gameplay mechanic of Portrait of Ruin. Jonathon excels in physical attacks, while Charlotte 
 has mastery of magical attacks. Throughout the game, you'll find certain items, tomes, or weapons 
 that can only be wielded by one character. The character system is, sadly, where Portrait of Ruin 
 runs into a small spot of trouble. Optimally, use of Charlotte and Jonathon would be about equally 
 split. However, the times when one really NEEDS Charlotte are few and far between; most of the 
 entire game can be played perfectly fine with Jonathon, who tends to have more powerful attacks 
 anyway. It would have been really great to see the differences between these two characters really 
 stressed and their abilities better implemented into the game. Yes, there are times when one particular 
 character is needed, or when you need to employ both at once, but these times don't occur all that 
 often.
  
  Still, though, the puzzles in which both Jonathon and Charlotte are present are brilliantly imagined 
 and perfectly executed. Puzzles are present throughout the entire game, but aren't as plentiful 
 as I'd have liked them to be. The ones that the game has created, though, are surprisingly challenging 
 and a lot of fun. Unfortunately, though, the only ones that really are "good" are the ones that 
 require you to take advantage of the abilities of both Jonathon and Charlotte. Unfortunately, though, 
 these aren't that common; such puzzles occur all too infrequently throughout the game.
  
  Boss fights, on the other hand, are one of the few venues of the entire game that really require 
 you to strategize in terms of who you choose. There are certain fights that might be completed 
 with a specific character; for example, one boss-ess casts a charm spell that will ally Jonathon 
 with herself and viscously attack Charlotte, thus forcing you to fight her with Charlotte. Many 
 others require you to well-implement both characters and multi-task, focusing on one aspect of 
 the boss with one character while working towards another end with the other. For example, one 
 boss resides in a huge cast-iron pot, and can only be awakened through repeated striking of said 
 pot. So, you deploy one character next to the pot, then climb the platforms and begin striking 
 the huge monster's head once he leaves his lair. Additionally, there's tons of variety with the 
 boss fights, and none of them ever feel the same.
  
  I've left out one of the most important aspects of Portrait of Ruin until now (Why? Because it's 
 going to transition nicely to my next point) , but it remains one of the biggest reasons that Portrait 
 of Ruin is really a fun game. The game earns its title from a number of Brauner's paintings that 
 are scattered throughout the castle. Each painting will warp you to a different area completely 
 unrelated to the castle. These different areas range from a desert to a twisted carnival to a very 
 European-looking city. These paintings really do imbue the game with what the previous title sorely 
 lacked: variety. Simply exploring the castle itself, while fun, eventually becomes somewhat monotonous, 
 just because of the lack of different scenery and new enemies. The whole portrait system, however, 
 constantly has the background and enemies changing, which really serves for a more exciting and 
 enjoyable gameplay experience.
  
  Another huge plus of the portrait mechanic of this Castlevania title is that it really gives the 
 developers a chance to show off one of the strongest aspects of any 2D Castlevania title: the beautiful 
 graphics. The visuals in Portrait of Ruin are all hand-done, and are absolutely beautiful. They're 
 not of the same brand of, say, Final Fantasy III or Metroid Prime Hunters. Instead, they have a 
 more artistic appeal, and a case could be made for Portrait of Ruin having the best visuals of 
 any DS title. The different environs in the game really allowed the graphic designers to let lose 
 their creativity in designing this game; everything is just so vibrant and atmospheric.
  
  Similarly, the sound of this game is fantastically created. I'm a fan of music and sound effects 
 that really contribute to the overall quality of a title, and for the most part, Portrait of Ruin 
 manages to achieve that. The music is incredibly atmospheric and generally fun to listen to. One 
 somewhat noticeable problem is that every time you switch characters, you'll hear the switchee's 
 name being shouted. Yeah, it's kind of cool at first, but once you hear it 500 times, it may start 
 to get a bit annoying. It's disappointing, really, because I'm afraid such an annoyance would edge 
 people toward turning off the volume; doing so would cause you to miss out on some of the best 
 videogame music I've heard in quite a while.
  
  Sadly, Portrait of Ruin is a good bit shorter than I would have liked. It will probably take around 
 10 hours to complete, and there's not much reason to play again. There are a number of side quests 
 that can net you some new skills for Jonathon or Charlotte or new items, weapons, and equipment. 
 Still, this "bonus content" is trivial, and will likely be ignored by all but the game completionists 
 out there and the huge Castlevania fans that will no doubt purchase this game. However, there is 
 some more content aside from these side quests that will have you spending more time with the game. 
 There are two different endings, and unlocking the clearly better one will allow you to play through 
 the game as different characters. This is a relatively easy feature to unlock, and it's one that 
 you probably will take advantage of, easily doubling the life of this game.
  
  So, should you purchase Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin? Absolutely. It's got some problems, yes. 
 But opting out of this game would cause you to miss what's probably one of the top 20 games on 
 the Nintendo DS. It really does have everything a game needs to be truly great: an intriguing plot, 
 a varied, complex storyline, a good amount of replay value, and brilliant graphics and music. If 
 you haven't already, scrounge around online and try and pick up a copy of this very solid Nintendo 
 DS title. Trust me, you'll be doing yourself a favor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Here is an example that 'if it ain't broke don't fix it' mainly cause castlevania PoR is the same 
 great gameplay that started back when Symphony of the night came out. PoR does do a couple thing's 
 different this time around it let's you play as two character's at once which at first you may 
 thinkthat isn't going to work' but as it turn's out it does work, quite well. The graphic's 
 are very crisp anime style with all the color and effect's you could hope for in a caslevania game. 
 Also the series new game has even more big and tuff boss's to duke it out with. Another thing is 
 the multiple ending's, which mean's you can easily squeeze 30 hour's if you choose to get the best 
 ending. The value is high thanks to all those ending's and just the amount of fun to have killing 
 all the new and classic demon's and zombie's. Another thing that's new this year is the portrait 
 system instead of just walking to all these different place's you walk to portrait's instead. When 
 it comes down to it you can't find better side scrolling out there (save contra 4) but in this 
 style there's no better choice then castlevania portrait of ruin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soval_the_Rogue
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  Portrait of ruin is the next in the long line of Castlevania game series, and for the most part 
 it does stick with the tried and true formula set down by the predecessor Symphony of the night. 
 Count Dracula has risen from the dead again and it is up to a offshoot of the Belmont family to 
 take him down this time.
  
  You play not one but two main characters through the course of the game. Johnathon Morris, the 
 next in line to receive the very whip used to kill Dracula 400 times before, Unfortunately for 
 him, it is dormant and until he proves himself he cannot use it's full power until such time. The 
 other character you play as is Charlotte, who is the magic portion of your team. You'll probably 
 find her mostly useless you need one of her spells to get to where you need to go or when you fight 
 a enemy and need to exploit it elemental weakness to defeat.
  
  You can have both characters on screen at once with you controlling the lead and the computer following 
 as the other character. Or by hitting the "B" button can dismiss or summon that follower. The "Y" 
 button to switch between Johnathon (Melee) or Charlotte (Magic) . The "A" button jumps and double 
 jumps, and the "X" button is your attack button.
  
  As is par for the series you'll go through all of Dracula's Castle as well as jump into paintings 
 to get to new areas and learn new abilities that will allow you go deeper into the castle and eventually 
 to the big man himself. 
  You'll be equipping a wide variety of weapons and armor, though you'll find swords and whips and 
 other sub weapons like throwing stars and daggers. You'll also come across books for Charlotte 
 but as explained earlier you'll want to stick with Johnathon for 80% of the game for it is far 
 simpler to just cut down everything than charge a spell.
  
  Speaking of spells you'll find a wide variety of those too. Everything from the typical fire, ice, 
 thunder, to stat buffs and even a few animal morphs that will allow you to turn into a owl and 
 fly, as well as a toad morph to get in small spaces granting you access of stronger weapons armor 
 and spells. You also receive the ability to bring both characters on screen to use a team up attack 
 to clear the screen and there is lots of options for those too.
  
  There is very little use of the touch screen, you can unlock a mode that allows you to play as 
 two hidden characters that does use the touch screen to attack but it feel very gimmicky and this 
 mode has a way shorter story. But if your a completest it can be fun... if simplistic. The main 
 action happens on the bottom screen and the top shows your map. Unless in a boss fight then it 
 is blank, which seems kind of a waste, they could have bosses that stretch both screens but no, 
 just one screen.
  
  The music is a bit of a downer. Most games that sport the Castlevania name the music is very memorable 
 but this one is just "meh" not bad but not good either. there are voice samples when you switch 
 characters and the voice acting is ok, again not bad but not great.
  
  The difficulty is pretty moderate, you'll probably see 15 hours to beat the game but 20 to find 
 everything. And unless you don't level enough you should have no problem beating this game. Boss 
 fights while intimidating always have a pattern and for every attack there is a safe spot to stand 
 in. after a few rounds you'll see the patterns and you'll adjust tactics accordingly.
  
  Portrait of Ruin is a welcome addition to the Castlevania mythos but is it the best in the series? 
 No. That honor still sits with Symphony of the night, but if you missed that one or are new to 
 the series pick this one up. Having vampire killing action on the go is a huge plus, unless your 
 driving. In that case put down the DS and swerve to avoid that tree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ignite2k3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  There have been a few Castlevanias out now since the original. And Castlevania: Potrait of Ruin 
 has been the most unique castlevania experience i have ever played. Not exactly the best, but an 
 experience you won't have on other Castlevania titles. 
  
  As Jonathan and Charlotte, two heroes this time, you venture into Dracula's castle to seal this 
 same old curse yet again, i know, its cliche. 
  But instead of killing Dracula this time, your enemy is Brauner, a painter. 
  Once Dracula's 
 servant, he now aims to 'steal' the lord's power for his own. You will encounter his 'daughters' 
 as well. 
  
  The unique part of this game is that, Jonathan and Charlotte are both in play at the same time 
 throughout the game. Unlike previous titles where the main characters are all powerful, and can 
 use all spells, skills and weapons, Portrait of Ruin now restricts each character to their specialties.
 
  
  Jonathan can only use weapon skills and wield many different weapon types, while Charlotte casts 
 massive spells at enemies. And throughout the game, you will find you need to use both characters 
 to get through an area. For example, getting on the other character's head to climb up a high ledge 
 or having both characters push a heavy statue. 
  
  The multiplayer also includes a boss rush, which can connect up to 2 players, Jonathan and Charlotte. 
 
  
  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is definately a great game, and is a good choice if you are into 
 the Castlevania series and don't mind a good change in game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: child_of_lileth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is yet another action/platformer RPG in the Castlevania series. If 
 you've played Aria of Sorrow, or Harmony of Dissonance, or any of the other games that play like 
 them you'll know pretty much what to expect for how to play. 
  
  You play as 2 characters. Jonathan Morris and Charlotte Aulin can be used at the same time as a 
 team, or you can just use one at a time. This option is totally left up to you and can be changed 
 anytime you want. The thing that makes this system good is that they both play different roles. 
 
  
  Jonathan is more of a classic Castlevania character who just uses weapons and up front combat, 
 while Charlotte relies more on magic spells than her weapons, which are significantly weaker than 
 her magic attacks. When you use both at the same time the secondary characters damage taken comes 
 out of you MP instead of both of them losing HP. If you have no MP left, the second character just 
 leaves the screen until you have more MP and summon them back.
  
  The main part of the story is basically a follow up to the story from Castlevania: Bloodlines on 
 the Sega Genesis. Alot of fans missed that game but if ya haven't played it before you won't really 
 be lost or anything if ya jump right into this one. You still run through the castle but this time 
 you enter paintings of areas that have guardians that hold a portion of the castle's power. These 
 paintings were made by a vampire named Brauner. So, of course, you are out tryin to stop him.
 
  
  There is a ton of replay value to this game because if you beat it and accomplish certain tasks, 
 you can unlock new characters to play the game as. There are sets of teams to unlock and one solo 
 character also. There's also the standard Hard mode and Boss rush modes, each with their own rewards 
 for how well you can do at each one.
  
  The music is good. The difficulty is not very hard to get used to, especially when compared to 
 the rest of the series. The graphics are pretty good for the DS. This game also has tons of things 
 to keep you playing for weeks without finishing everything available in it.
  
  Overall, this game is very good and definitely something any Castlevania fan should have in their 
 collection. If ya aren't already a fan of the series, but you have a DS and wanna try an action 
 platforming RPG, this is definitely something that is worth at least a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_DRUGGIE
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Running into the same castle feels like a new experience with Portrait of Ruin. The familiar art 
 and gameplay style is still present, but a new mechanic in the game allows for some extra strategy. 
 While I myself have never played all of the games, it is safe to say that this game is an essential 
 for your DS.
  
  The story of Portrait of Ruin takes place during World War II. You start the game as Johnathan 
 Morris, a Vampire hunter from a different family than the previous heroes. Accompanying Johnathan 
 is Charotte Aulin, a young Sorceress who can attack enemies with spells and magical books. Both 
 characters have their strengths and weaknesses. Mainly, Johnathan specializes in physical attacks 
 and sustaining physical damage, and Charotte specializes in spells and resisting magical attacks. 
 Another character is Vincent, who is the only shopkeeper in the entire game. Although having a 
 single shopkeeper in the game can be a small pain, it doesn't derive from the experience. There 
 will be other characters you'll meet as you progress, but they're best left unmentioned so I don't 
 spoil the surprises for you.
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, Portrait of Ruin is not that different from other games in the series. 
 You have your 2D scrolling, level system, and the ability to equip weapons and gear. However, there 
 are some minor tweaks to the gameplay due to having two playable characters. 
  
  The first change you'll notice is that you can have both of the playable characters on the screen 
 simultaneously. Although you can only directly control one, you can still tap the touch screen 
 to guide the other character. Unfortunately, guiding the other character by this method feels clumsy 
 and unnecessary. Instead, the other character can simply follow the player-controlled one around 
 and attack enemies when they come close.
  
  Another change is the ability to use a special attack that involves both of the characters. Only 
 one special can be equipped by each character and are easily executable, since it only requires 
 the player to hold up and press Y. These attacks need to be collected in special areas and are 
 usually off of the normal path. Still, these attacks can make some boss battles a breeze, even 
 if they take off a massive chunk of your MP every time you use them. However, some of the special 
 attacks only work on certain enemies, as some will be able to block a few of them or resist their 
 elemental powers.
  
  The last noticeable feature is how you can create new strategies to defeat enemies. If one of your 
 characters gets a status effect, you can simply swap to the other character in one simple push 
 of a button. Also, some puzzles in the game will require utilizing both characters effectively. 
 Actions such as pushing blocks and activating floor panels will require both characters to be on-screen.
 
  
  Other than those changes, the classic gameplay has been left as is. The leveling system remains 
 the same, with the same kinds of status fields you would expect from a game with a leveling system. 
 You have HP, MP, Strength, Mind, Luck, and so on. Equipping gear to your characters can also help 
 raise the stats. There are also some special accessories that give the character special abilities, 
 such as not being knocked back when hit and gaining more experience from enemies than usual.
  
  The only real gripe I have with this game is that it doesn't utilize the touch screen as much 
 as it should. In fact, you can play through the entire game without ever having to use the touch 
 screen once. Not even puzzles require you to use the touch screen in order to solve them.
  
  Overall, this game is essential for anyone who owns a DS. Even if you don't want to buy it, 
 at least go out and rent it. Whether this is your first time experiencing the series or you're 
 a seasoned veteran, Portrait of Ruin will keep you entertained for quite some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mao6542
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Add another title to the already impressive line of Castlevania games. I purchased both Castlevanias 
 for DS and was already pleased with the first of 2 (Dawn of Sorrow) . Considering this was the lower 
 rated game of the two I am looking forward to the next one even more. The different game styles 
 you can choose from were a nice addition along with the classic sets and music themes as well. 
 A well put together theme with a decent plot, that kept me playing for hours at a time. Plenty 
 of extras and hidden items and rooms as well which are always a plus. I liked the quests and "Boss 
 Levels" along with the Nest of Evil too. I would recommend again, to any Castlevania fan or anyone 
 who is just looking for a good game that will keep you addicted that has decent reply value as 
 well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zatchbell101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  They made another Castlevania game for the ds and it is really good.
  
  Gameplay: Really simple not hard to learn. But i wish they would have added more touch screen feautures 
 but still good.
  
  Sound: It has the best sound i have ever heard. The sound really matches the mood of the game best 
 sound to date.
  
  Graphics: there fairly good but could have done better. Not to bad for the Ds but felt like they 
 could've done better.
  
  Value: It was worth the $30 bucks i spent on it.
  
  Wifi: Is really dumb what they did with the Wifi i think they could've done better with it
  
 
  Things that piss me off in the game: It starts of easy then all of a sudden it gets freakin hard. 
 And you die so fast.
  
  Overall: If your a fan of the series get the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintmanag
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely perfect. The gameplay has been altered slightly from previous Castlevanias, 
 adding a new ability to your arsenal: The ability to switch between and call upon either Charlotte 
 Aulin, the magic wielding sorceress who hates being called a kid, or Jonathan Morris, master of 
 all manner of weaponry. The game begins with the two stumbling upon a large Castle, of which they 
 believe to be Dracula's. Upon entry, you'll have to kill some Zombies in your way, and then you 
 can proceed to open the castle gates.
  
  The gameplay itself is perfect, very well rounded and you'll most likely find that you've died 
 almost as many times your enemies have if you are unprepared. The game has 30 quests to complete 
 as extras, plus, if you've beaten all of those, you still have a whole range of things to do, such 
 as master all of Jonathan's sub-weapons, or brave huge hordes of demons in the Nest Of Evil. 
 
  Portrait of Ruin returns with it's Boss Rush mode, this time with a (rather disappointing) Cooperative 
 option. There are also 4 other modes unlockable after defeating the game, each with varying levels 
 of difficulty. Boss battles are very well structured, and can get quite crazy sometimes, such as 
 when versing "Legion" who drops hundreds of people on top of you from time to time. Enemies are 
 also carefully assembled, with original attacks, and some unpredictable combinations of offense 
 and defense.
  
  The graphics are amazingly smooth, as is the system the game is running on. The frame rate is adamant 
 throughout the entire game, even with hundreds of enemies in the same room. Animations are consistent 
 and fit in perfectly with the characters and enemies you encounter. Almost all of the Dual Crushes 
 will have you wanting to use them again, just to see the carnage they unleash. Unfortunately, the 
 strongest Dual Crush in the game looks like a retarded, pixelized waltz of whip wielders. The backgrounds 
 and level design however, make up for this as well. Beautifully drawn backgrounds blend in with 
 their surroundings seamlessly. The level design makes you either pull your hair out over trying 
 to find secret areas or actually motivates you to explore. Everything fits together like a puzzle.
 
  
  The soundtrack is also very good, with a Dracula-esque air to it, but mixed with techno and rock, 
 it makes it eclectically perfect. The ability to unlock sound mode after completing the game is 
 a nice addition too, so you can listen to your favourite Castlevania songs.
  
  Konami has done it again, folks. They've released an amazing game in all aspects. As a matter of 
 fact, this is probably the best Castlevania to hit any console... If you like the Castlevania series, 
 then you'll love this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeppelin_64
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  INTRO I bought this game in the summer to keep me busy during long car rides. I still play it to 
 this very day. It is a very satisfying and replayable game.
  
  9.5/10 GAMEPLAY The game is practically perfect in this department. This is one of those times 
 that you know there's something wrong with it, you just can't describe it. Overall, it's very straight 
 forward, and there's almost never a time you don't know where to go.
  
  9/10 GRAPHICS/SOUND The graphics are very good for it being a 2D game. It's just that the legs 
 don't match the running speed. Other than that, it has very nice background pictures, good colors, 
 and the heads that pop up when Jonathan is talking to someone are outstandingly well designed. 
 As for sound, all I have to say is one word: Bravo. It's amazing. The music is the best I've heard 
 in ages. I wouldn't be surprised to see myself buy the soundtrack one of these days.
  
  8/10 PLAYTIME/REPLAYABILITY This isn't extremely replayable, even though once you finish it with 
 the good ending you could get a total of 5 secret characters to play through the story again with. 
 I only have a total of 3 files on this game. My first one, the one I beat it with and have had 
 since the beginning, one with Richter (a secret character) , and one just to screw around with.
 
  
  FINAL RECOMMENDATION
  
  I recommend almost anyone to buy this game. It is an amazing game and will keep you entertained 
 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  And i thought Dawn of Sorrow was a great game! If you are still craving Castlevania goodness, then 
 Portrait of ruin will satisfy you in every way. The Team attacks are a great addition to this already 
 phenomenal series. The boss battles are challenging and epic! Using two characters at a time requires 
 some thinking sometimes but it pays off when you execute the right moves at the right time! Power 
 up your weapons, power up your stats, power up your spells, and most importantly power up yourself. 
 this is truly a great 2d platformer/RPG. Oh and did i mention it is also highly addictive. I've 
 beat it several times already. and there are several ways TO beat the game. Have Fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: N0SoBodY
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I thought its going to be hard. However, its not that hard when you got 
 the items you need. I think this is the best game ever. The controls are easy. You can change the 
 controls in the option menu, that makes it even easier if your used to different controls. The gameplay 
 Is great! The graphics is great too. The visuals are excellent. The character and the monster designs 
 are extremely excellent. This game feels like your playing a real castlevania. I would encourage 
 everyone to buy this game. This game is a must buy game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazza28
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  I have never been a great fan of castlevania. The first castlevania on the NES was a decent game, 
 but became frustrating very quickly because of the difficult levels. Castlevania II was a bit more 
 fun, because it had a bit of a story, you could talk to people and so, felt familiair with Zelda 
 2: The adventure of Link. Super castlevania was the last game I played in the series, and I discovered 
 why these games did not belong to my favourite ones: It lacked true personality. Like mario or 
 zelda, you felt connected with the main player because it had a personality, which in my opinion 
 Simon Belmont didn't have.
  
  Many years later I read a review of Castlevania: portrait of Ruin. It scored pretty high and it 
 got my attention. A couple of weeks ago I bougt the game, because I nedded one to survive the long 
 Bus trips during my vacation in South-Africa. I played this game and thought: wow, this is nothing 
 like the first Castlevania games, this one stands on it's own!
  It really is a good sign for a game that sometimes I didn't feel like coming out of the bus when 
 we arrived at a hotel or lodge!
  
  I really like almost everything about this game! It's the beautiful graphics, amazing sound effects, 
 great creepy atmosphere, brilliant boss-fights, good story.. I don't really see anything bad about 
 this game. The only thing is you get the feeling now and then that you don't know where you have 
 to go or what to do. Aside from that, if you are looking for a great platformer, look no further 
 and give this one a try, because it's worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Raven92
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  This game rocked my world and made me inspired enough to hunt down every other Castlevania game 
 and play it. This is easily the best 2D platformer I've played in my uneventful life - Castlevania 
 Portrait Of Ruin is an addictive and magnificent port of the compelling Castlevania series.
  
  When I got this game, I played it like there was no tomorrow. I know I'm straying away from 
 my normal review template, but I don't care, cause I don't just want to summarize the different 
 parts of this game but I want to tell you all how great this game is.
  
  The graphics, for a 2D game are excellent, containing excellent panorama backgrounds and sprites 
 for the extensive range of characters, enemies, and big baddies! The enemies all pull off an interesting 
 range of attacks that look superb on the Nintendo DS. Each enemy can deal a fairly small variety 
 of different attacks to bring forth your demise quicker as you venture through the huge map of 
 Dracula's castle and the many worlds led off by portals. The portals contain a wide variety of 
 settings, Egypt, lost crypts, deserted towns, and of course, sinister carnivals! Each of these 
 worlds are brought to life by diverse music and splendid graphics!
  
  The music, as mentioned earlier, can really set the mood of each place of Drac's castle, from the 
 creepy prisons to the haunted rooms. The game also has a large amount of voice audio, which allows 
 most of the enemies, bosses and characters engage you in dialog. Castlevania Portrait of Ruin is 
 a RPG Action platformer, like most of the recent Castlevania titles. This allows you to get and 
 equip various different armour and weapons. I've spent a long time playing this game, thanks to 
 its interesting replay value. After completing the game you can play through the campaign as several 
 other characters, allowing you to experience the whole game once again in a different fashion. 
 Also, after defeating the main boss you can find a secret dungeon known as the Nest Of Evil in 
 which you can battle out with bosses from past Castlevania games. There is a large amount of items 
 to receive and a large map to explore. There are also boss rush modes outside the main game, allowing 
 you to battle the games bosses once again in a fairly standard passageway filled with the nasty 
 buggers. You can participate online and cooperate with different people in order to complete these 
 as well. There is also a neat shop feature built into the game allowing you to trade wirelessly 
 and on WI-FI connection as well.
  
  Overall, i find that this is the best 2D Castlevania game in the series, and I suggest it to anyone 
 owning a Nintendo DS. And heck, if you don't have a DS this could be the game that changes your 
 mind. You won't seem to ever get tired of battling out the forces of evil in this excellent Konami 
 production on the Nintendo DS, four thumbs up (.... i know i only got two...)
  
  Go Castlevania! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballasteve
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: PoR spices up the old castlevania recipe by adding a new character, Charlotte. adding 
 to this, the main character Johnathan isnt even a belmont! despite these changes, this game is 
 rediculously fantastic. in fact, the new direction takes the story to a whole nother plane in the 
 Castlevania universe. So, in PoR you assume the role of Johnathan Morris and Charlotte Aulin. Johnathan 
 is the melee guy, while charlotte packs a bit of a punch and can cast spells too. whats really 
 intersting about this game is the character switch system. At any time, you can switch which character 
 youre playing as, or call up the other character to help you defeat foes. It is used to solve puzzles 
 as well. this new gameplay aspect adds a whole new dimension to the game, because you experince 
 it as two characters instead of one. All in all, this game is amazing, and you should probably 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin3085
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  You go around whipping, slashing, punching, and bashing 2-D enemies pretty much like the other 
 Castlevania games. If you thought it was the old Castlevania on the the NES, you are wrong and 
 right at the same time. This time you, Jonathan, an 18-year old who has been handed down the legendary 
 vampire slayer first owned by the great Simon Belmont, will be accompanied by Charlette, a 16-year 
 old master spellcaster. Even so, it the same game on the NES basicly. But that game was awsome, 
 and as they say, don't fix it if it' not broken. As you progress and defeat over 150 types of enemies, 
 including bosses from Dawn Of Sorrow, Ritcher Belmont, possessed daughters Stella and Loretta, 
 and of course Dracula, you will come across paintings that serve as the meat of the game with a 
 boss at the end, all exept for one called the nest of evil where there are a whopping 7 bosses. 
 This does not include the two you fight but don't have to kill. In all there are 9 paintings. They 
 don't take that long to beat though. That's the problem with the game. It's short. The large number 
 of items, equipment, spells, etc you could collect makes it last longer, but that gets boring pretty 
 soon. The game does have modes where you can play as Ritcher Belmont, The Sisters, and even Old 
 Axe Armor (An enemy) . If you get a certain one of the two ending (the good ending) , you unlock 
 Boss Rush mode 2 and 3 (boss rush mode is when you try to defeat bosses in the least time possible) , 
 Sisters mode, Ritcher mode, and Sound mode. As you move on, you will unlock relics which allow 
 you to do things like a giant flaming uppercut that when used in a row can make you fly , jump 
 off of yor partners shoulders, and a critical attack. Sound
  
  The sound is awesome. There great sound effects and the music is a sensation. It's upbeat, but 
 at the same time goes along with the whole what's at the bottom of the hall, mabye I shouldn't 
 go there because there might be a monster that will kill me thing going on when you are low on 
 health and to progress you need go down the hall. I'm talking about the adrenaline rush. Not much 
 else to say here.
  
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Amazing. The monsters are so detailed and even have the own death animation. It's even fun to watch 
 them die. Like once I killed a sand worm and it started spewing blood all over. :) The backrounds 
 are extremely detailed. The coolest thing about the graphic is the in the intro cutscene it's in 
 full 3-D and it's  smooth and cool. There nothing else to 
 say now, but that the graphics are Soooooooo 
 
  
  
  Closing Comments
  
  The game is short but before it ends it's fun, extremely fun. :)
  
  
  Note: When I tried 
 getting the word sound over one of the paragraphs, for some reason the word goes right after attack. 
 i'm not sure why but it just might be it updating the review. If it is i'm not going to take down 
 this note because im lazy and am not going to keep on checking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123dcb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME!!!! It never gets boring even when yo think youve beaten the game there is a ton 
 of other stuff to do. There is highly customiibale gameplay, awsome weapons armor and eveyrithing! 
 you play as two diffrent cahracters one uses physical attacks (Swords, Daggers, Axes, Whips) . And 
 another one uses Magic. The Game has very impressive Graphics and neat lighting features. The music 
 is Very Catchy, (Though it can get annoying and thats why I Didnt GIve it a perfect score) . This 
 Game has an extremly high replay value. If your looking for a deep lengthy rpg for ds Then this 
 is the game your looking for.
  
  Thanks For Reading My Reveiw
  
  -123dcb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenpachiSama
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'm going to make note that I haven't been impressed with a lot of the past Castlevania 
 games. They all seemed very dry, lacking in character development and story, and squeezing the 
 purity that made the originals such a success.
  
  With that out of the way, I feel I can share my thoughts on the DS game Castlevania: Portrait of 
 Ruin. The game starts off with an amusing relationship between Jonathan Morris and Charlotte Aulin; 
 two aspiring young whipper-snappers looking into what's going on at Dracula's castle. Jonathan 
 is the wielder of the legendary Vampire Killer , which we all should know as being the whip, except 
 he is not able to release it's true power to which he blames his father for not teaching him. Charlotte 
 grew up with Jonathan and what seems to be a best-friends relationship, and she is beyond gifted 
 in magic, to which she is most useful in the game.
  
  The actual game kicks off by helping you understand how to control both Jonathan and Charlotte 
 (That's right. You are two people.) . You have the ability to have one person trailing the other 
 or going one person at a time. In true Castlevania fashion, weapon and armor upgrades are found 
 and purchased as the game progresses, as well as significant personal advances; double-jump, slide, 
 certain spells, etc. An evil being by the name of Brauner has temporarily taken over Dracula's 
 castle, to which his powers were awakened. He controls his powers and locks it into multiple paintings 
 throughout the enormous castle map, allowing for a more in depth game and having a series of maps 
 as opposed to just one giant castle map. This easily gives the game tons of playtime as you continually 
 warp yourself around the castle from painting to painting as you disband enemies and bosses left 
 and right. But, from a story, Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin actually allowed the player to have 
 the option of having multiple different endings depending on what they did in their quest. Certain 
 healings and killings allowed for different outcomes, and in true game fashion, the more difficult 
 options led to the more interesting endings. The Wi-Fi multiplayer is fun, but not nearly as filling 
 as the actual story-mode. You are only given a couple maps to conquer with a friend, and it simply 
 leaves you hanging. But with the unlocking of new items upon completion and the ability to have 
 alternate endings, Portrait of Ruin brings a high replay value to the game and a continual joy 
 as you find more and more as you explore the enormous maps throughout the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aries8269
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Konami went a different route with the character design in having two controllable characters 
 to choose from, one with the classic whip and the other using learned magic. The game design itself 
 is still loosely based on the megahit that is Castlevania: Symphony of the Night. Use what worked... right? 
 Controls feel just right for the use of both characters with fluid transition. Each character of 
 course offers a different style of game play that one must master to a degree in order to progress 
 in the game.
  
  The level design for each of the painting levels that you will go into as you progress are quite 
 a masterpeice unto themselves. The unique feel that you will get with each painting territory will 
 keep things moving and keep them fresh. You will revisit each of the paintings you find around 
 the castle however they will be a good deal more difficult (which of course I loved) .
  
  Graphics: It's 2D graphics at its best. What I loved was that from time to time, I would come across 
 a 3D background that as you moved, the perspective on that background would change as you progressed 
 through that area. While being a bit of a gimmick... it was still a nice touch on detail. The character 
 sprites themselves were given a large number of frames for their movements that they move quite 
 fluidly without any jerking motion (same with the monsters strewn throughout each of the levels) . 
 Very rich and colorful design... definitely one of Konomi's best in the Castlevania series.
  
  Sound: As good as the fluid gameplay and graphics (for a 2D game that is) are, the sound is 
 just that much better. The soundtrack is definitely top notch, one of the best I have heard for 
 the castlevania series which says a lot for being a portable. One of the things I like is that 
 once you find a special item, you can aquire and play various songs from around the game right 
 in the area that you are in. My favorite song being from the second desert painting.
  
  Value: The many modes of play that you can unlock when you beat the game makes for some of the 
 better replay value I have seen in the castlevania series. One of my favorite features that the 
 game has is through Nintendo's WiFi, the store mode. You can put items up for sale (which you dont 
 actually loose... its like infinite numbers of them can be sold) or you could go to other people's 
 stores and buy things from them. Any item you buy that is beyond the point in the game that you 
 are at can not be sold by you until you reach that point in the game that it appears for the first 
 time (again, another attention to detail)
  
  Konami's attention to detail has created yet another game that will claimed a classic in the near 
 future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seiryu-617
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is the latest addition to the series on the Nintendo DS. Being a 
 fan of the series there is something I've come to expect of these games, and I'm glad to say it 
 lives up to it. Having not played Dawn of Sorrow, the previous installment on the DS, I don't have 
 anything to compare this one to, but just the same I get the feeling that it works. As anyone who 
 has played a Castlevania game would expect, this game plays out on a 2-D world as a side-scroller. 
 You progress through the game by defeating bosses and collecting items to get through sections 
 of the truly immense castle. This set-up may also be familiar to fans of the Metroid series. What 
 PoR does differently, is introduce a second character into the mix. This makes for a whole new 
 level added on to the already solid gameplay. You're given the ability to change characters with 
 the simple click of a button, and can also call your partner to assist you in battle, giving the 
 ability to do combo moves known as Dual Crush that uses both characters and are very strong. This 
 helps level the playing field against some of the games harder bosses, that would surely tear you 
 to shreds alone. Also many of the small puzzles of the game are solved by the interaction of the 
 two characters. My only problem is how little I felt I needed both of them. Being a fan of the 
 series, I chose to spend most of my time playing as the Male character, Jonathan, with all the 
 attack power, normally straying from Charlotte, the young girl with magical abilities. There are 
 also a number of weapons &amp; armors that can be used to increase your stats in battle.
  Graphic-wise this game is pretty solid. As far as Castlevania games go it has some of the best, 
 and as far as DS games go you can't get much better. What it lacks realistically, it makes up in 
 its smooth show of the scenery.
  I'm no fan of DS game music to begin with, but I think this game is about average. It has a nice 
 flow that helps set the tone of the game and its setting. I just don't like the quality of the 
 music on the DS.
  Overall there is a lot that you can do in this game. It has a stellar story that I am rather fond 
 of, and it is lengthy enough to keep you playing for a while. Afterwards there is the normal amount 
 of extras to look at, as well as extra missions given throughout the game to keep it moving. Unfortunately 
 the co-op isn't very entertaining for an extended period, lacking a lot in overall presentation. 
 My personal view is that the story more that makes up for those flaws. I don't want to give anything 
 away, but players of previous Castlevania games can expect the usual castle mystery, a little bit 
 of Dracula lore, and enough surprises to keep you guessing. An excellent addition to the series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tydus121212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game can keep you busy for over 48 hours. It's online play isn't the best is still worth every 
 second. The game isn't too hard it was actually a bit easy for me. The Gameplay is really good, 
 just like old fashion 2-D combat. The Graphics are ok I guess same for sound too. I think this 
 game is worth every penny spend on it, I paid $39.99 on it and I don't regret getting it. If you 
 are a fan of the other Castlevanias then this is a must!
  
  Finnaly I give this game an 8.5 (GREAT) Enjoy the game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blace_07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay in Portrait of Ruin is basically like every other Castlevania ever made, so why is 
 this game so good? It's because it uses everything Castlevania fans like in a game and adds plenty 
 of extras to do in the process as well as some interesting new features never before used. The 
 combat is just like all the other 2-D Castlevania games, except that now you can control two characters 
 instead of one. You have Jonathon, the whip-weilding hero, and Charlotte, the magic using sidekick. 
 You can switch between them anytime you want with the press of a button, which most people will 
 enjoy playing as their preference, and you can also control one while the AI controls the other. 
 One thing good about this game that other action games don't get right is the AI. It is pretty 
 good at controlling the character that you aren't. There are times where you will just want to 
 dismiss them and only have one character on the screen, mainly the boss battles, but while exploring 
 the castle it is always good to have back-up. You can have the AI also does stuff that you want, 
 like activate magic when it is Charlotte, or use a sub-weapon when it is Jonathon. The best part 
 of the duo is the special magic attacks. They take most of the MP meter, but they are devastating 
 to the enemy. You don't even have to have both characters out to activate it either, which is the 
 best part. The character you aren't using will jump in and right back out when the move is finished. 
 This is extremely helpful on the bosses. There are parts in the castle where you are forced to 
 use both characters at once to proceed, and the way it is executed is quite clever in design, and 
 makes for a better adventure all around.
  
  The newest thing in Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is the use of the paintings. You are no longer 
 confined to just the walls of the castle. Instead, you enter paintings to take down foes and weaken 
 Dracula's hold over the castle. There are plenty of cool environments including deserts and other 
 exciting areas. Just like other Castlevania games, there is more than one ending, and experiencing 
 them all always gives the best satisfaction, but if you only want to get the bad ending, then this 
 game is definitely short. There's 9 paintings total, but 5 of them are accessible only after you 
 figure out what to do to not get the bad ending. In other words, there's a lot to do, but only 
 the devoted will get through all of it with the most satisfaction towards it. One of the letdowns 
 of the game is that it has no touch screen functionality whatsoever. There was some clever stuff 
 to be had and improved on in Dawn of Sorrow, but Konami took no chances in this game, which is 
 a bummer. Even though they didn't use the touch screen, there are still plenty of things to do 
 in Portrait of Ruin. The boss rush mode can now be played with a friend via co-op and there is 
 also a few extra levels where you get some goodies if you finish them fast enough. You can also 
 do this through Wi-Fi and hook up with someone if you don't know anyone who has this game. You 
 can also set up shop and sell items for profit on the Wi-Fi as well as purchase items from people 
 if you want. It is a very unentertaining process to do though as once someone connects and gets 
 done with your shop, or if you are done with their shop, you have to disconnect from the Wi-Fi 
 and reconnect again. This can get very annoying, especially since it takes awhile to find someone 
 to sell to or buy from. Even after all of this, Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin still stands the 
 test of time formulaically and is a fun adventure to be had.
  
  The story, although simple like other Castlevania games, is certainly not there to captivate you. 
 It is there to tell you why the heck Dracula is back again and how you are to stop him. The story 
 certainly isn't bad enough to just press buttons straight through the text, but it certainly won't 
 leave you in awe. You are Jonathon Morris, the son of a descendant to the Belmont family, the legendary 
 vampire slayers, and Charlotte, his trusty young companion. It takes place in 1944, right as World 
 War II is taking place. Dracula's castle appears once again and Jonathon is there to get rid of 
 it. He has been given the legendary Vampire Killer whip, which is passed down through the Belmont 
 family to take down Dracula, by his dead father whom which died taking down Dracula and his demons 
 a few years ago. Events take place to the point that Dracula ends up being revived, and Jonathon 
 has to be the one to take him down.
  
  The graphics have been slightly enhanced since Dawn of Sorrow, but for the most part they are reused. 
 Even though they are reused, they are still the high quality 2-D graphics that run in the Castlevania 
 series. The character sprites are all good, but what really look good are the bosses. They look 
 better than ever in this game. The games environments are all detailed nicely and bring Dracula's 
 castle to life, but they do get bland in a very few spots in the Castle. The magic and special 
 effect are all extremely well done and make for a much better experience than previous Castlevania 
 games. The sounds in Castlevania games are always good, and Portrait of Ruin keeps this tradition 
 alive. The soundtrack fits the mood nicely, while also being original. It isn't reused music from 
 previous Castlevania games. Most developers think that if the music is good, they need to reuse 
 it again, but Konami always does a good job with the sounds in their games. The voice acting, although 
 used very rarely, is well done when it is actually used. The sound effects for the magic and weapons 
 are smooth, but for the most part have remained untouched. This certainly isn't a bad thing as 
 they have sounded excellent through most of the series.
  
  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is one of the best adventures I have played on the DS so far. It 
 may not be quite as good as last year's Dawn of Sorrow, but those that have been waiting for the 
 next great adventure from this excellent, long-running series should not hesitate to go pick-up 
 this game and experience it for themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ichigo22
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  i have always loved castlevania games including the 3d castlevania games and portrait of ruin is 
 no exception. it's really fun to play, it has lots of resaons to keep playing even after you beat 
 the game, and it has online multiplayer. however i do think that the multiplayer could have been 
 better but that's my only real complaint. the only other complaint i can think of is that it doesn't 
 have the best soundtrack when compared with other castlevania games. that's not to say that it 
 doesn't have good music because it does just like every castlevania game but this one just isn't 
 as good as some of the more memorable soundtracks of previous games. but i thought this game was 
 addictive and i think anyone who likes castlevania games should play it if they have a ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Yup, the next game in the annual series is out. Having been a fan since Harmony of Dissonance on 
 the GBA, this game has some high bars to climb. Does it succeed brilliantly, or is Konami losing 
 their league?
  
  Pros
  -Good old 2D fun
  -Great music and graphics
  -Nice character designs
  
  Cons
  -Getting a bit stale
  -Redundant second half, uninspired 
 first
  -Worthless Wi-Fi mode
  
  Castlevania games are always the crme of the crop when it comes to the DS and the GBA. Taking 
 the perfection of Symphony of the Night on the PlayStation, these games have refined this gameplay, 
 made it handheld, and they have always been great. Does Portrait of Ruin keep up that legacy? Mostly, 
 though it becomes apparent that there is some work to be done in next year's installment.
  
  Taking the page from the Metroid series, the Castlevania games like this (commonly known as 
 "Dracula X" series like in Japan) are very similar in structure. You fight your way through Dracula's 
 castle, through the demons and monsters that guard your way, mainly to the next location or ability. 
 There's also an RPG level system, but only stats are awarded when you do grow more powerful.
  
  Portrait of Ruin is no different, and Konami, the game's developer, has evolved the game very 
 well. Each step in the series is shown here, and all of the other games' imperfections are not 
 to be found. Not only is it one of the best games on the DS, but it's still fun, if it's not a 
 little bit boring by now. Any gamer who hasn't played any before should dive right in, while any 
 returning gamer will still have a ball.
  
  There are a few problems here, though. While the castle is very large and filled with secrets, 
 the game just doesn't have the luster of the first DS game, Dawn of Sorrow. Usually you will be 
 battling your way through a dull string of corridors, and there are little of the typical mix ups 
 that usually happen. Few of the excellent environmental puzzles from predecessors are fleshed out 
 in this game. Of course there are exceptions; the circus area is hilarious in the way that it totally 
 turns the map on its side. But as a whole, it feels very much a soulless iteration of the castle, 
 and it doesn't help that the second half of the game is a remixed version of the first.
  
  But fear not, for the combat and the boss battles that have made the series good are here to return. 
 New and old come back from the dead (old school Castlevania gamers will enjoy the comeback of Legion, 
 a big ball of zombie bodies) , and the tactics that are required to take them down are as fun and 
 complex as ever, thanks to the dual character setup. Adding a few new commands for your friend 
 was a great move on Konami's part, and the game is that much more fun.
  
  The game doesn't really take advantage of the DS' features like last year's tried to do, and with 
 the seals gone (symbols you have to sketch onto the screen after a boss) the game is much more 
 freeing. The map is still on the top as always, and the status screen shows more than ever, although 
 you still have to check the paused menu for status ailments, which is a problem. But still, the 
 game loses very little for not using the DS totally through, so it's all okay.
  
  The graphics are finely tuned as the last installment was, though the have changed very little, 
 if at all. A few graphical flourishes top off the game, like several 3D enemies and places, but 
 that is to be expected. Everything moves nice and fast, no slowdown whatsoever. It all looks detailed 
 and impressive as ever, and the DS can pull it off with style. The only issue here is a few stolen 
 utilities from Dawn of Sorrow, as the returning enemies are exactly alike. But that's too small 
 to matter, because the backgrounds and the people alike give off a very good polish that shows 
 that Konami can deliver.
  
  The story and the character designs built off of that polish, and although the story is somewhat 
 weak, the pictures are very nice. The manga/anime look that came with Dawn of Sorrow is back, and 
 although the old sketchy style artist is missed, this does fine. Everybody has nice expressions 
 in the character portraits during cutscenes, and some of the pictures are done very well. Charlotte, 
 the girl, has an especially good range of pleasant to comically angry. The opening cut scene is 
 well animated and as stunning as ever, and looks fantastic; personally I wish Konami has thrown 
 a few more of those in.
  
  As for the story, as mentioned above, it's sort of weak, but there's a nice ring to the effort. 
 Jonathon and Charlotte, two teenagers, have been drawn to the castle to combat the new master, 
 Brauner. Several plot twists involve some of the minor characters, but nothing that will knock 
 anybody's socks off. But in the end it's in the fact that it is there and is functional that counts.
 
  
  The sound is the same kind of situation. There are some very nice voiceovers throughout, and the 
 music is well done. The only issue is that the quality isn't very good, and seems especially weak 
 when listened to as a soundtrack. The instruments used sound pretty fake and blah, but the melodic 
 themes are very well developed. But in the game, it adds some very nice atmosphere, even without 
 the kind of big bang that Square-Enix did.
  
  The game is long enough as well, giving with one playthrough the typical ten hours of fun from 
 this type of game. There are plenty of bonus modes to do and a bunch of secrets to unlock, however, 
 so be prepared to keep this one in your system for a long while.
  
  But the one mode that didn't work out, the Wi-Fi, needs to be addressed. Basically you battle alongside 
 another player as you fight your way through several rooms, each a screen big and containing monsters 
 of increasing difficulty. This gets boring really fast, as you may expect, and fails to compel 
 me to fire up the computer just to play a round. This shop mode is even more ridiculous, because 
 unlike an online economy like World of Warcraft, Castlevania's items and weapons aren't that hard 
 to get. If anyone buys anything, you'd be lucky. Although it's nice that Konami is trying new things, 
 maybe they need to step it up a bit from this.
  
  The kiddies' level is set to medium high. Although there is a big bit of blood and a few language 
 spots, as a whole the game is fine of anyone over twelve, maybe a mature eleven year old. There 
 are a few suggestive themes, namely low shirts and plentiful drawings, and the violence is no less 
 than a Metroid game, so keep those in mind.
  
  So in the end, this one seems to be s slow beginning of a decline of the folks at Konami, but whether 
 this pattern continues will remain to be seen. I sure hope not, this game is still fun even without 
 the perfection of pervious incarnations, and I wouldn't have missed it for anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 24, 2007 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  This castlevania plays pretty close to all other castlevanias but with an exciting new twist, you 
 can command 2 players. This brings a whole new level of depth to the series. Although soul collecting 
 of DOS is gone, the tactics of commanding and switching 2 characters makes up for it. In traditional 
 Castlevania manner, you run through the castle killing everything in your path with weapons you 
 come across. Jonathan and Charlotte can each equip different type weapons and armor that you can 
 either find in the castle, or buy from a vendor who also sells potions. Becoming truly masterful 
 with this new gameplay is pretty difficult and you should be fine tuning your skills throughout 
 the entire adventure. This adds to the overall game difficulty a bit making Castlevania: POR a 
 game not to be touched by those who can't handle a challenge. Another new feature is the portraits 
 that lead you to different areas to complete certain objectives. In this game, you can get missions 
 from a certain guy, complete them, and get rewards for doing so.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Although it has the same technical achievements as those in DOS, this castlevania seems to have 
 gained a bit of blandness. The areas are more fitting for a castle instead of being as varied as 
 they were in the previous game. One thing that can be said, however, is the interesting new portals 
 that take you to different areas outside the castle, which make for a good change.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Although solid, none of the sound is as interesting as in the previous game, less 
 artistic. It fits the areas nicely, but it probably wouldn't be the best to listen to on it's own.
 
  
  Value: 9/10
  Being the one of the longest castlevanias yet (courtesy of the various portraits leading to whole 
 seperate maps) , and a new online co-op mode, castlevania: POR has a lot of game in that little 
 cartridge. There isn't much reason for a second play through, but your garunteed a good sized adventure 
 from the first one.
  
  Reviewing tilt: 8/10
  Castlevania is renowned for making similar, yet solid games. With a few new features to the series 
 such as 2-character control, portrait warping, and objectives, POR does it's best to keep things 
 fresh. It succeeds on te most part and is a good one to pick up if you're in need of a good adventure 
 game. If you're new to castlevania, or haven't played Dawn of Sorrow, I recommend that one first, 
 and this one as well if you're left wanting more.
  
  / Seth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacki04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  A long time ago I had a game called 'Super Castlevania IV'. I played and enjoyed it throughout. 
 Then last year I bought Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow and I was addicted to it. I played it everyday 
 for hours and couldn't stop playing it until i completed it. Then now I had Castlevania Portrait 
 of Ruin. This game was great. It had all new features like lots of more maps (portraits) , the player 
 controlled two players and other characters are also availible after you complete the game. The 
 extra features gave me continuous gaming and I still play the game to present day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blasterboy56
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 4:51 am PT
Review:  well it started off with me getting REALLY angry with the first boss yes thats right the first 
 boss! so about 15 minutes into the game it got seemingly impossible to finish BUT what I forgot 
 about was the fact that you can instantly swich charactors which made it a heck of a lot easiar 
 and after the game got better and better...
  
  I remember that Dawn Of Sorrow was pretty short but this on the other hand will keep you going 
 for weeks even months! absoulutley tons of stuff to do secrets to find monsters to kill....
  
  One thing though was this: I started the game and looked through the options and found CO-OP 
 MODE!! I thought OMFG!!1!! CO-OP so i looked at it and then I saw ONLINE CO-OP!!! and i was like 
 OMFG!!!!!!!1!!!!!!1!1!!!!!! again buuuuuuuuut unfortunatley there arent many co-op levels... only 
 3.... but you do get an online trading shop to run and open!!
  
  In all I would recomend this game to any fan or otherwise of the castlevania whos up for a long, challenging 
 and extremely fun game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  Standard Castlevania fare. The controls are very responsive. Personally, I really loved the immense 
 variety of spells, subweapons, weapons, and gear in this game. GRAPHICS:
  I believe they were a step up from DoS. Some elements of some backgrounds were 3D, and even some 
 enemies were 3D. Even with much of the game not in 3D, everything was still pretty detailed.
  
  SOUND:
  Thouh none of the tracks really got stuck in my head (like some in DoS did) , it was 
 good music nonetheless. I never had to mute the game for the sake of my sanity.
  
  VALUE:
  With the vast number of spells, subweapons, and such, the replayability of the game is 
 huge. You can play however you want. And on top of that, there's also hard mode and up to three 
 new game modes once you beat the game. REVIEWER'S TILT:
  In addition to everything I've said above, I enjoy the fact that this game is quite different from 
 DoS. When I'm in the mood to play a Castlevania game on my DS, I actually have a choice, rather 
 than just randomly picking one. It's a good thing.
  
  BOTTOM LINE:
  If you enjoy Castlevania games, definitely pick this one up. If you're interested in checking out 
 a Castlevania game for the first time, this is a worthy game to pick up in that case as well. It's 
 just a great game, period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  After the release of Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, I didnt think another Nintendo DS Castlevania 
 game could ever be as good as that masterpiece, and I was right. Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin 
 is a very good game, but compared to Dawn of Sorrow, its not even close. The basics from Dawn 
 of Sorrow are still here in Portrait of Ruin, but a little more additions were added. One major 
 gameplay change, or addition, to Portrait of Ruin was the ability to use 2 characters instead of 
 just 1. Another addition was the Wi-Fi that was added for some serious replay value. The last addition 
 to Portrait of Ruin is how theres more than just 1 giant map. It has one big map, but it also 
 has about 8 little maps that could take you about a half hour to get all 100% of each of the small 
 maps. These changes are awesome, and were a sweet addition to the game, but they never really added 
 anything because everything else about the game is worse than that of Dawn of Sorrows.
  
  Portrait of Ruin takes place during the Second World War, World War II, and in Europe in 1944. 
 Brauner and his two daughters, Stella and Loretta are trying to end humankind by using the power 
 of magical portraits to draw power from the castle itself. Another lame story in the books of Nintendo 
 DS Castlevania, but its not the worst story out there, and I guess someone else could like it 
 out there, but it still doesnt interest me a lot. I like how it takes place during World War II, 
 but it wouldve been better if they implemented more things that had to do with the war into the 
 game to make it better. In the game, you play as both Jonathon and Charlotte, Jonathon being almost 
 exactly like Simon from Dawn of Sorrow, and then Charlotte being a whole new character that can 
 use spells instead of weapons. Just a basic sequel upgrade from Dawn of Sorrow, but they still 
 look fantastic, even in 2D for the most part. Lots of backgrounds in different areas have full 
 3D artwork that looks amazing, but it kind of seems weird when you look to the background and you 
 see a 3D building while youre in a 2D courtyard... But the sprite work looks outstanding and move 
 smoother than a babys bottom with no slowdown wherever you go. Even if theres 20 enemies on the 
 screen at the same time, no slowdown, at all. Some disappointments include character recycling 
 from Dawn of Sorrow, so youll see many, many enemies that you remember from Dawn of Sorrow but 
 mixed in with many new enemies exclusive to Portrait of Ruin. The overall design of the game is 
 outstanding though, it never looks like Dawn of Sorrow barely anywhere, so it looks like they just 
 started new again. Another disappointment though, is that the last 4 areas of the game are almost 
 the same as the first 4 areas of the game just redone to look more new, it truly is disappointing.
 
  
  Remember the catchy tunes from Dawn of Sorrow? Well, Portrait of Ruin has nearly the same catchy 
 tunes, but obviously altered to be fresh. Explosions, sword swings, and everything else has outstanding 
 sound work and sound almost real. Nothing is vastly improved from Dawn of Sorrow, but it still 
 sounds awesome. Portrait of Ruin does have instances when a character speaks, but there still isnt 
 voice acting which would be a huge welcome in the next instalment. When you switch from Jonathon 
 to Charlotte, each character says the opposites characters name, this is one example when a character 
 speaks in the game. Another place where characters speak is when either Jonathon or Charlotte get 
 hurt by an enemy, they scream in pain, and it sounds great. Sometimes bosses make a speaking sound 
 also, and it also sounds 100% like real talking and doesnt go staticy or anything like that. So 
 overall, and like I said before, Portrait of Ruin does have some great sound, but it doesnt have 
 any major improvement over Dawn of Sorrow.
  
  Dawn or Sorrow with some more gameplay additions make Portrait of Ruin an amazing gameplay experience. 
 You can play as both Jonathon and Charlotte at the same time, but you have to be one of them, and 
 the AI controls the other character. While youre a character, you can use the other characters 
 UP-Y move by pressing the R button, and this is extremely good since I usually us Jonathon, and 
 the AI Charlotte never use her magic. You can also play as one character alone by pressing the 
 A button which I like doing because if the other character gets hit, you lose MP, or magic from 
 your magic meter instead of health. You also lose Magic, or MP from the lower meter just like Dawn 
 of Sorrow when you use the Up Y move, Charlottes Up Y moves are always better than Jonathons. 
 Another cool addition to Portrait of Ruin is the Duel Attack which is done by pressing Up and X. 
 This is amazing for boss fights and some become so powerful, that it kills most enemies in one 
 hit. You can equip different weapons and different spells to each character, and you can also equip 
 different clothes to both characters which increases any of the many stats of each character. What 
 you do to beat the game is travel to lots of areas of the castle looking for Portraits to jump 
 into, and defeating the boss at the end of each one to get something useful. Once you get the useful 
 ability, you can go to different parts of the castle, and you eventually make it to the last boss. 
 Everything is almost exactly the same as Dawn of Sorrow, but with the Portraits mixed in as well. 
 Wi-Fi, is one of the key elements here. In Wi-Fi, you can do 2 things. One is set up an online 
 shop and sell items that people might want to buy to complete the game easier. The other gameplay 
 option on Wi-Fi is co-op mode where you can team up with a friend, or a random person, and fight 
 boss, after boss, and trying to get to the end. Theres also 3 courses of boss rush added to this 
 years Portrait of Ruin and theyre also extremely fun. Plus, the main quest is lengthy, so youll 
 be playing for a while.
  
  Like I said, Portrait of Ruin isnt nearly as good as Dawn of Sorrow which came before, but its 
 still an amazing game either way. The addition of the two characters and the new gameplay mechanics 
 are really cool and are really well done, but the lack of intelligent castle and map design, mixed 
 with the recycled enemies and so-so sound make it a worse version of one of the best Nintendo DS 
 games ever made, Dawn of Sorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienspider1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I have always liked Castlevania games, and I think this is the best so far. It has great graphics, 
 even for the DS, with great music, gameplay, and replay value (assuming you have unlocked the secret 
 characters) . This time, the main vampire isn't Dracula, but a new villain named Brauner, although 
 Dracula does play a part in the story, as well as Death. The two protagonists are Jonathan Morris 
 and Charlotte Aulin. You soon discover a ghost named Eric, who is called Wind for most of the game, 
 who helps you and gives you challenging quests to do to get items. The game does not have the soul 
 capture system of the previous title, but instead you wield a weapon and secondary weapon, which 
 is replaced by a book and a spell if you are Charlotte. The story is easy to follow, gameplay is 
 fun, and graphics are good, making this one of the best handheld games I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herojoe1000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is more of the same great Castlevania formula. More of the same weapons, 
 items, enemies, etc. Even though many things are the same, the game is amazing. The 2D Castlevania 
 formula is perfect, it does not need to be tampered with, but some people like some new things 
 to keep them interested in a long-running series. This is definitely included in this game. Instead 
 of one person with a whip running around, you have two characters: Jonathon and Charlotte. Jonathon 
 is basically the Belmont of the game (even though he is not really a Belmont, but that is beside 
 the point) and Charlotte is a spellcaster. You can switch between them at any time or use both 
 at once. The AI for your partner is surprisingly intelligent. Jonathon uses weapons and subweapons 
 (like the axe, bible, shuriken, etc.) that are either bought or found around the castle. The subweapons 
 are equipped and take up MP. Charlotte uses spellbooks for her weapons. When you attack, weapons 
 or other things come out of her book. She also casts spells. I'm an old-school Castlevania player, 
 so I did not find this two-character system to be very useful at all. I never really used Charlotte 
 for anything other than a backup attacker. There are special dual-crush attacks that use both characters 
 and deal devastating damage, but it's not like the second character is necessary for these attacks 
 to be performed. I think the one-character system is much more robust and works much better. In 
 terms of graphics and sound: This game includes more of the beautiful, 2D, hand-drawn graphics 
 that we have known and loved for several games. As for the music, I did not think it was that great. 
 It's very repetitive. They used a different compuser for this game than the one they've used in 
 the past. Some of the music from Castlevania: Bloodlines can be heard in the game. Also, after 
 you beat the game, you unlock more characters to play the game with, as well as a hard mode, so 
 the game does have a very high replay value. The Wi-Fi modes in this game are nothing special, 
 just a co-op mode that isn't very long, and a shop where you can sell items that you have found. 
 Like I said, nothing special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightstriker_Qc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I must admit... While being a gamer, and calling myself an hardcore, I never really played a Castlevania 
 before. What an horrible error from me.
  
  So, of course, I cannot compare this one to previous Castlevania. But I can compare this one, with 
 what I played. My first impression... Hey! A platformer. Becoming rare stuff these day. Been a 
 while since I really play a lot of those. Well... Maybe not so long. New Super Mario, Paper Mario, 
 Yoshi's Island... Wait, that's just a lot of Mario, right? Well, guess time for something else.
 
  
  But unlike those kids game, which are sadly too easy, this one isn't. If you're for a cake walk, 
 forget this game. You will have to sweat, you will DIE. A lot.
  First, the graphic on this game are truely amazing. The player and monster animation are smooth. 
 The level are all 2D, but you often see 3D background that move in perspective as you move around. 
 Quite nice. Graphicly, I haven't seen better on the DS... And even most PSP game doesn't come close 
 to that. So let's say, it's not this game that will hurt your eyes. :)
  
  Now gameplay... You play with 2 characters at once. Some fight are for one, others are for the 
 other one. And some fight are just easier if you use both. But you got to learn that by yourself. 
 Seriously, while most monster are normal on difficulty, the boss fight are just amazing. At first, 
 I tought it would be hard and not so userfriendly to manage 2 character at once. But the control 
 are just smooth and perfect. I feel like playing World of Warcraft, poking Ragnaros... But just 
 in ten time better. Insteed of just casting a single spell, I got to dodge like hundred of different 
 well designed attack, while trying to find the weakness of that particular boss. When you beat 
 a boss, it's REALLY rewarding, as you probably died ten-twenty time to learn how the attack come 
 and when to hit, and how to hit. No boss like God of War where it's just button smashing. Nobody 
 tell you to smash, when, how, with what weapon, and what attack. Figure it out! Love that.
  
  While the gameplay and the graphic are just amazingly smooth, the sound are ok. Well, most 
 music are great, but the some are a bit annoying... Up to the point your brain tell you that you 
 don't want to go back in that level because it doesn't like the music. Not a big deal, as probably 
 1 and maybe 2 level are like that. Others has sweet music. But sadly, most aren't a true symphonic 
 hit. Some metal music in some level would have rock!
  
  Aside for the hundred of hidden thing, the thousand of items, the millions of possibility to pass 
 this game... What else remain? GOD MODE!!! Once you passed the game, you can replay it with other 
 character, or the same one as before... But wait! You can replay the game in hard mode... What? 
 It let you choose a level cap. 50, 25... and 1! Let me tell you, my hat to the guy who pass this 
 game at level 1. It's just plain nuts. 1 hit = you die.
  
  Look, if you got a DS... And you're a gamer, you MUST have this game. It's a no brainer here. This 
 one go in my top 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiloD
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 29, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  i want to tell you something. its very cool but sometime is boring, cuz you to comeback in some 
 level. anyway you groing up the level almost fastess and is cool. you can switch charactere but 
 you have the same mp and hp..... i dont like that. i like the way you play the character in the 
 same time and use the magic and the strenght with the boy and the girl. the co-op mode is cool 
 but if you play with some one and his first time... is boring, but if you play with your friend 
 is cool and someone else on wfc. shop mode online its good and no good, cuz you can find what you 
 need and dont find 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertClawX2X
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 28, 2007 9:16 am PT
Review:  Ah, it's good to see that another Castlevania has graced the presence of the DS. Is it as good 
 as SoTN or DoS? Nope. But, it still is one heck of a game.
  
  The story, while not as deep as past games, still is well crafted. The year is 1944 (ya know, World 
 War II) , and the despair and turmoil of tortured and lost souls causes a certain castle of a certain 
 undead vampire lord to rise. Two vampire hunters, Jonathan Morris, son of Bloodlines star John 
 Morris, and Charlotte Aulin, descendant of the Belandes/Fernadez clan of magic users, venture forth 
 into the castle to stop another vampire named Brauner. Now, I won't spoil the entire story (that's 
 why you, the reader should buy the game for yourself) , but some interesting plot developments occur 
 during the game. The gameplay is basically unchanged from just about every other Castlevania out 
 there, but there is one interesting gameplay mechanic: the ability to switch between character. 
 In addition to that, both characters can be on the screen at once, fighting in tandem, or utilize 
 Dual Crush attacks (special attacks that require both characters, ranging from alternating slashes 
 to meteor strikes) . Like in SoTN or the Sorrow series, Jonathan and Charlotte can equip a variety 
 of weapons, sub-weapons, spells, and equipment, as well as explore a (nearly) open-ended castle. 
 But, in an attempt to bridge the older titles in the series with the newer ones, the character 
 can enter magical portraits (hence the title) that lead to linear stages. Also, most of the gimmicky 
 touch screen functionality from DoS is gone (you can use it to control your partner) . A good move 
 in my opinion.
  
  I'm amazed with the music, not necessarily because it's the best in the series, but because the 
 composers manage to keep the music so fresh even after doing about 20 games in this series. But, 
 the music is good. Whether you're rocking to the Bloodlines classic Iron Blue Intention while running 
 down 13th Street, battling (spoiler alert) Richter Belmont in all his glory, or dueling (spoiler 
 alert) Death himself (or is it itself) , the music won't ever bore you. Also, the addition of American 
 voice acting actually paid off as a good thing.
  
  There is a lot of replayability to be had in this game, whether it's a bunch of unlockable characters 
 or Wi-Fi co-op. My only complaints are that the other character pretty much go thru the same quest 
 as Jonathan and all Wi-Fi is a bunch of Boss Rushes. Next time, I expect a real co-op mode!
  
  This game (unless you are a truly dedicated gamer) might come off as short, and it does has 
 its shortcomings, but any gamer, veteran or newcomer, should whole-heartedly enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 27, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Castlevania Portrait of Ruin takes place in 1944, which apparently is a good year for evil. The 
 pain and suffering created by World War II has summoned the castle of Lord Dracula. You play as 
 two different characters at the same time: Jonathan Morris, who carries the legendary whip known 
 as the Vampire Killer and Charlotte Aulin, who is a 16-year old teenager and very advanced in magic. 
 She uses a book as a weapon. Yes that&acute; s right: a book. Expect to see many interesting characters 
 and some weird plot twists along the way, but it&acute; s all presented in that familiar Castlevania 
 style we all know and love.
  
  As a foot note I strongly recommend that if you haven&acute; t played Dawn of Sorrow yet you should 
 definitely finish that before starting to play Portrait of Ruin.
  
  Graphics have been improved since Dawn of Sorrow and now the player can witness more 3D effects. 
 Also the backgrounds sometimes move in a different pace when player is moving across them. Environments 
 are very detailed and every area has its own theme and enemies in terms of graphics and music. 
 Obviously the game engine is in full use, because in few instances the frame rate takes a hit, 
 especially when there&acute; s lots of particles in the air.
  
  Music is once again the best thing about this game and it has been like this for many years now. 
 This time you can also find or buy from a friend (wireless or Wi-Fi) a record player and earn different 
 records in the course of the game. This means that you can manually chance the music you hear in 
 that game area if you wish. Sound effects are also familiar and they work, but this time there 
 are some real voice acting as well. Unfortunately they are few and far between, but it&acute; s 
 better than nothing. The story itself is told through sharply written dialog text and these conversations 
 help to move the story forward.
  
  Core of gameplay is the same 2D side scrolling as you remember from previous Castlevania games. 
 This time the catch is that you have two characters and one of them is controlled by you and the 
 other moves by your side using the game&acute; s AI. It all works well and you quickly get use to 
 it.
  
  Collecting lots of items, weapons, spells and other gear as you progress through the game is once 
 again present and this time you get to use many different whips too. My personal favourite is the 
 Flame Whip, which brings back memories all the way back to Castlevania II: Simon&acute; s Quest 
 on the NES. Unfortunately in Portrait of Ruin you can&acute; t make your weapons better with infused 
 souls like you could in Dawn of Sorrow.
  
  Dracula&acute; s castle is again pretty big, but the map is very similar to what you probably remember 
 in Dawn of Sorrow. Luckily there is more gameplay here, since there are 9 portraits, 8 of which 
 have their own music, level design, enemies and boss fights. This brings a welcome amount of variety 
 and makes the experience longer. There is also some back tracking because you sometimes need specific 
 power-ups to proceed in some places. To me this was not a problem, but I guess it&acute; s a gameplay 
 feature worth mentioning.
  
  The use of DS touch screen is very limited and you can use three feathers in every map to mark 
 different points of interest. This is a great feature and I hope that game developers would use 
 this mechanic more often in the future. It would make games like Zelda and Metroid a lot more user 
 friendly.
  
  There are many side quests to choose from and doing at least some of them is recommendable, since 
 the items you get from them makes later portions of the game much easier. You also have an option 
 here and that is to buy rare items in Shop Mode.
  
  Shop Mode either via Wi-Fi or wireless mode is a great feature (with or without friend codes) , 
 but this mode has a few annoying flaws as well. In Shop Mode you can sell items you&acute; ve found 
 in single player mode. The thing here is that you don&acute; t lose those items you sell through 
 Wi-Fi. This means that you can sell Alucard&acute; s spear 30 times in a row and you still have 
 one at your own disposal. Unfortunately you can&acute; t re-sell items you&acute; ve bought through 
 Wi-Fi unless you&acute; ve found them yourself in the single player mode.
  
  Shop Mode makes collecting money a lot easier than it has been in previous Castlevania games. It 
 also reduces the game&acute; s difficulty, because you can use items that would normally be at your 
 disposal much later in the single player mode. There can be three customers at the same time in 
 one shop, but for some reason you always need to close your shop after everyone has left. It would 
 be so much easier just to be able to open a store and leave your DS online for hours or days and 
 people could buy stuff whenever they wish. This can be done in Animal Crossing Wild World for example, 
 so why not here in Castlevania?
  
  Boss Rush Mode is here again and as usual it&acute; s not very interesting: you just fight against 
 game&acute; s bosses in a linear succession as fast as you can. Co-op is a new feature, which means 
 that you can play with someone else in Boss Rush Mode. This can be done either in wireless mode 
 or Wi-Fi and with or without friend codes. It all works just fine, but again it&acute; s not that 
 interesting.
  
  It takes around 7 hours to get the Bad Ending (which is really lame) and somewhere around 10 to 
 15 hours to get the Good Ending. Doing different side quests takes of course more time and there 
 is a chance to have a 1000% map completion (this means 10 different maps) . Good Ending is worth 
 getting, since it unlocks a few bonus extras of which my favourite is the Sound Mode.
  
  For me it took 14 hours and 26 minutes to get 998,1% completion and after that I had 1 647 174 
 of gold. This gaming experience was worthy of purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coronatus
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me say this is not a negative review. In fact, the very opposite is the case. 
 However, as you can read in the official review as well as on the hints, cheats, easter eggs page, 
 the game offers a lot of unlockable playmodes.
  
  Konami has really done a great job at giving this game a huge potential long-time playability. 
 Some mods like the level-1-cap old axe armor mode along with the nest of evil will surely tie even 
 the most hardcore of gamers to their handhelds for months, if not years to come.
  
  What does that mean though? In the past he release of a game that contains a lot, more and just 
 about everything by Konami usually meant that this was the last game of the series released for 
 that gaming system. Just think of Soma Cruz on the GB Advance.
  
  There is no way to confirm this - and I really do hope it is not the case, however, I got a feeling 
 in my guts that at least the next Castlevania will be Wii-based. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sykil
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  My first reaction: simple gameplay. You hack, you slash. There are also spells and such, but for 
 the most part... you hack, you slash. Not that it's a bad thing, and it's made even more pleasant 
 by the horde of weapons and sub-weapons to collect. Lots of weapons. And shoes! Girls will like 
 that.
  
  Second reaction: holy crap, this music is GREAT! Now I've become a Castlevania soundtrack fiend. 
 Very gothic instrumentation (or synthesizeation) . Most of it is uptempo, using a strong forward 
 motion to propel the gameplay, with more haunting or sorrowful tunes where appropriate. Favorite 
 tracks: Gaze Up at the Darkness, Iron Blue Intention, Crucifix Held Close, Piercing Silence, Dance 
 of Sadness, Banquet of Madness, Bloodlines Bequeathed, Thirst for Blood, and... of course... Simon's 
 Theme. Also, the voice action --- though few and far between -- is top-notch. Plus, the game looks 
 great. Lots of top-notch sprite work, which is becoming more and more of a lost art. Here, though, 
 it's in full swing. Everything looks great, from the hero sprites to the enemies to the backgrounds 
 to the cutscene avatars.
  
  After you complete the game (with the good ending) , and also depending upon your actions in the 
 game, there are lots of extra modes to give a whirl, including Richter Mode, Sisters Mode (which 
 is a prequel to the events in the game) , and a Old Axe Armor mode if you defeat 1,000 of those 
 (yikes!) . Also, two new boss rush levels are unlocked. The single-player is just oozing with replayability; 
 however, the multiplayer could have been fleshed out. It's merely a co-op boss rush. Even though 
 I love co-op, it needs to be more than boss rush...
  
  Ah well. The whole package is really excellent. Out of everything I've played, this is the best 
 game on the DS. Nothing compares in terms of a single-player experience. We'll see how that holds 
 up when Phantom Hourglass is released. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid45
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  castlevania PoR is a great game. I find the game to be unique because of its combat system. The 
 graphics are all right and the music is great.
  The game has great story and awesome gameplay. The game has tons of replay value like hidden dungeons 
 extra modes etc. The multiplayer is also great you can either join with another person to go through 
 a dungeon filled with enemies and try to win prizes or visit a friends shop and buy any item he 
 has in stock. The only problem with this game was that sometimes it was too easy but don't worry 
 PoR is still a great game and if your a castlevania fan its a must but if your not then this will 
 make you a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdstoneX3
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 20, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  Castlevania Portrait of Ruin features a new style of Gameplay while staying true to the old Castlevania 
 Formula. During the second world war, millions of lifes lost, the world is covered with the souls 
 of the dead crying out in anguish
  this draws a familiar evil back into the world of man, to push us over the brink, into total destruction, 
 this Evil is Draculas Castle.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  With two characters, youd suspect it might be difficult to control both, well the opposite is the 
 fact, the controls are fairly intuitive and its easy to control both characters. You will fight 
 against a great assortment of enemies featuring classics like the Medusa heads, Skeletons, Zombies 
 and the like, while meeting a ton of new enemies. The game really shines in the boss battles which 
 features difficult bosses which give you a great deal of satisfaction once they are defeated.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  The Graphics are well done and feature 2d gameplay with part 3d backgrounds. The enemies and scenery 
 are well done for what the Nintendo DS is Capable of and it gives you just the right sense of depth.
 
  
  Sound:
  
  Where some of the Former Castlevanias had nice music, and great sound, i cannot help but feel a 
 little disapointed in the music, there was no catchy music title that just got me into that vampire 
 slaying feel. The Sound is good none the less, but unfortunately the music is merely decent.
  
  Value:
  
  ill just say it out right, this game is huge on your first playthrough, there 
 is tons to do, and alot of bonus material to keep you occupied for a long time, The Shop mode in 
 which you can trade items with your friends is unfortunately useless, and multiplayer leaves a 
 bit to be desired, but single player wise castlevania fans will be pleased., all in all i give 
 this game a 8.4 for the great single player mode, the ton of unlockables, the good story, the downside 
 is unfortunately the music and the multiplayer mode but hey, who ever said castlevania needed to 
 be played with a group of people? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghoklebutter
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Story: it's really just a typical Castlevania story.
  
  Game Play: even though most Castlevania's these days use the same formula,
  some how, it's still 
 very fun! and it has cool bosses, good items, everything a Castlevania veteran will enjoy too! 
 however, it's not for everyone.
  
  Graphics: the graphics in this game are pretty average, but everything uses
  a pretty good use 
 of colors. and some enemies look great (IE, Old Axe Armor)
  but the only problem is that most enemies are reused from past titles such
  as ectoplasm and 
 Old Axe Armor (SOTN) .
  
  Sound: I'm not really into music, but i sure people will like the music.
  and SFX is better than 
 in DOS.
  
  Replay Value: this game lasted me 61+ hours, and I'm still playing it!
  and there's a lot of things to do like getting all the unlockables!
  overall, this game is worth 
 it, and it's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kalasgalefist
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Some people say that Castlevania was better in the first few games, and I will admit, how can you 
 beat the classics? But, Castlevania Portrait of Ruin highly lives up to the Castlevania series. 
 This time, you play as Jonathan Morris, the next in line to wield the famed Vampire Killer belonging 
 to the Belmont family... wait a minute, Morris... Belmont? How can Jonathan wield the Vampire Killer 
 if he's not a Belmont!? Well, you'll learn that later on, however, I'll tell you a bit about the 
 story. Now, you play as Jonathan Morris and his friend Charlotte... I forget her last name, but 
 whatever. You play these two teens who are brave enough to venture through Dracula's castle. But 
 wait, there's a twist, Dracula isn't here! Instead. there's this Da Vinci wanna-be known as Brauner. 
 Now, unlike Dawn of Sorrow, Brauner does not want to revive Dracula, he just want's control of 
 the caslte. So, to enhance his powers, Brauner puts up magical painting around his castle and acts 
 like a da Vinci wanna-be. But now, beside the ranting of the story, I'll just give a simple pro's 
 and con's... thing.
  
  PROS: Great gameplay, great animation during dialogue, creepy levels and enemies, great opening 
 movie, great story, and some pretty catchy music, great wi-fi play, no undeterminable gender characters!
 
  
  CONS: Pretty much the same as the other Castlevania games (but there's nothing really wrong with 
 that) , pretty misleading quests... and that's pretty much it.
  
  Overall, Castlevania Portrait of Ruin is truly amazing and as unfortunate as it is, is highly looked 
 down upon. So if you have the courage to venture through Dracula's castle... once again... step 
 on up and buy Castlevania, Portrait of Ruin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianozuca
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 12, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great replay value, since it's a long-lasting adventure, and there are many unlockables, 
 besides a whole bunch of items; amazing sound track, worthy of the tradition of Castlevania's melodies; 
 good animation, especially in Dual Crush moves and in some boss battles.
  
  The Bad: Replay value is all based upon doing the same things over and over; stupid dialogue, and 
 story running faster than it should; stretched rooms just to make a bigger castle.
  
  This new installment in the Castlevania series has the right ingredients: two different characters 
 to play together or to switch between, a huge map to explore, many - really, many - items to get, 
 relics to collect, side quests to solve, skills to learn and master, a superb sound track, and 
 good animation/voice acting. So, after all, what's wrong with PoR? The problem is that under all 
 this stuff is buried a lazy production.
  The main question is about the replay value. OK, it lasts for weeks or months, but what for? By 
 unlocking some features you can play with other characters and under new difficult levels... the 
 same game. Many - really, many - times. You can also spend your time mastering your skills to become 
 more powerful; but in fact it means: killing thousands of enemies with the same weapon. Many - 
 really, many - times. And there's still a bad feeling about the level design. Seems like the map 
 was filled with huge empty rooms, just to enlarge the castle (Iga - producer - said in an interview 
 around the time the game has being made that PoR's castle will be 50% bigger than DoS's castle 
 ) . Looks like it was a goal to achieve.
  The game has its qualities, and there are many: astounding melodies and sound effects, good gameplay 
 with the partnership system (though more skill combinations would be allowed, as Dual Crushes while 
 under effect of Clear Skies, for example) , and fresh air given to old enemies as The Creature, 
 Werewolf, Medusa or even Dracula himself. But Castlevania fans should expect a little more, especially 
 when you have Dawn of Sorrow as an option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Boss11
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 4, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I have been on a Castlevania frenzy lately playing every single one I could get my hands on and 
 this one is, I must say, one of my favorites. The game takes place during WWII and puts you in 
 control of two characters one is Jonathin who is grandfather killed Dracula years ago, the other 
 is Charlotte Jonathin's best friend she is a witch and is a very bright girl who hates when she 
 is called a kid. The two of them see Dracula's Castle has risen again and knowing what it is go 
 to stop his revival. When they get there they find not Dracula but a new vampire named Brauner 
 who rose Dracula's Castle and power but not Dracula himself. The story is a bit different but you 
 don't here about it again till near the end of the game. The basic gameplay remains unchanged acting 
 nearly identical to Dawn of Sorrow but adds an additional character which lets you switch between 
 the two on the fly. Or you can let the character fight alongside you in this case the ally uses 
 the MP for there HP so use it wisely also two characters allow for combination attacks which usually 
 drain all your MP. The addition of a second characters does help and you can tell that they made 
 the enemies stronger to compensate for two which is nice other wise it would have been a little 
 to easy. The Graphics are the exact same as Dawn of Sorrow with a few touches like more 3D effects 
 and better animations. This is about as good as a 2D side scrolling action adventure game can look 
 and that's not a bad thing. The audio is improved over the last one. The sound quality is much 
 better and they add a lot more voice effects to the game which is pleasing to the ears and improves 
 on the experience. I don't have a way to play online right now but I heared it's not so great and 
 that the players share Health bars so and that they have to stay on the same screen so it's a pass. 
 When you complete the game your offered to play two other stories each with two playable characters 
 which lengthens the experience which is good because this is a short game probably one of shortest 
 and easiest games in the series to date. Also it's awfully linear compared to any that have come 
 out in recent years. The plus side of that is you don't need to back track a much. Castlevania 
 Portrait of Ruin is short, easy, and linear but for some reason I can't stop playing it I enjoy 
 it so much even with it's faults and If your a Castlevania fan Im sure you'll feel the same way 
 if not I suggest you try Dawn of Sorrow first or borrow PoR from a friend either way sugest that 
 you play this game eventually. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystic_knight
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 3, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Portrait of ruin is a game that went on a bit of a tangent from the previous castlevania the character 
 assist is a new style that allows 2people to fight the war aginst dracula. but wait how come dracula 
 isnt the big bad boss ;) .
  
  this is a game where enemies are against more enemies and the plot seems twisted it will keep u 
 trying to figure out who the bad guy really is.
  
  the weapon variety is enormous and the skills are just as great. mission mode is a bonus as well 
 as co-op for people who have a second cartridge the possibilities are astounding there are team 
 attacks as well as single powers and the last dual crush is reminiscing as well as great . every 
 person should give this game a shot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsunamiwave
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 28, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Let's get started!
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in this game are great, but not excellent. They're pretty much what the GBA could handle. The 
 3D backgrounds didn't look very nice though, as they tend to look blocky and unpolished. Still, the 
 opening movie at the titlescreen looked pretty neat (The opening movie in this game is cel shaded, not 
 like Dawn of Sorrow's animated one) . Also, the anime style that was readopted in Dos has returned. Yay!
 
  
  Music
  
  There's quite a number of nice tracks here......... Umm.. That's it I guess
  
  Soundeffects/Voices
  
  The soundeffects in this game are basic Castlevania sounds, the whipping, the 
 slashing, and whatnot. As for voiceacting there is some here, though not for the cutscene dialogues. Some 
 monsters have pretty amusing lines and the greedy money-loving priest has about 4 voice-acted lines 
 too! If you get sick of the English voices you can always change it to Japanese
  
  Gameplay
  
  The most important thing needed for a game! And fortunately it's the best thing 
 this game offers! It's all the Castlevania-packed goodness you've come to expect from a Castlevania 
 game (the 2D ones at least) !!
  It's fun, it's action packed and it keeps you coming back for more......
  Okay time for the flaws. This 
 game has a new thing called a partner. It's not a bad concept really, it's quite useful BUT the little 
 problem here is the partner's AI. Your partner usually helps to fight but they can ocassionally 
 behave stupid. In certain parts of the game you fight a couple of bosses that can chain or trap 
 your character, prompting the other one to come out to help you escape before the instant kill move...... The 
 AI can be really unreliable in things like this. OOOH! Also, there are a couple of glitched in certain 
 versions of the game, but they're not too crippling (except for the one that can screw your savefile. wait, that's 
 crippling! Don't worry too much though you probably won't get in that mess if you don't skip dialogues)
 
  
  Longevity
  
  Story mode will keep you entertained for around 10 hours, and there are quests to keep you going 
 too. After you win the game you'll unlock some special content like harder dificulties and new characters. There's 
 also multiplayer but it's not really fulfilling
  
  OVERALL
  
  It's a great game! Minor flaws but still a great game! If you like action games GET THIS NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Lafleur
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is another great game in the Castlevania series. The graphics are 
 very good, as well as the music. the game play is great, the boss battles are fun and interesting, 
 there are many skills and subweapons to find, and doing the quests are can also be quite entertaining, 
 as well as give you a reason to not sell all of the junk you think you do not need, because now 
 you may actually need it to complete a quest. Another cool thing about this Castlevania is that 
 you're not just traveling through some huge castle (not that there was anything wrong with it) , 
 you will be in different enviroments, like a desert, or a circus, ect. If you loved all the other 
 2-d Castlevanias, you will love this one as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pachinko
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of ruin is yet another in the critically acclaimed and fan adored metroid-vania 
 style of gaming. For those new to this specific style of castlevania , it started with 1997's symphony 
 of the night for Playstation (now available for xbox live arcade) . Basically instead of following 
 the classic style of castlevania made popular on the NES, whereby you have levels with end bosses, 
 the metroidvania style of game gives you 1 giant castle to explore at basically your leisure, as 
 you play you gain access to items and abilities that allow new areas of the castle to be explored. 
 In portrait of ruins case Konami have tried to mix and match the best of both metroidvania style 
 and oldstyle by giving you a much smaller then usual castle filled with paintings that transport 
 you to enclosed worlds that are more like traditional castlevania levels. The basic actual gameplay 
 is very simple in this game, you move around with the Dpad and press a button to attack and another 
 to jump, new to portrait of ruin is the constant presence of a secondary character that you can 
 switch between. John is the belmont stand in that utilizes whips and swords and such while charlotte 
 is a witch in training who uses spell books and has special attacks similar to the soul based techniques 
 in Dawn of sorrow. At it's most base elements though the game is basically running around mashing 
 the attack button to kill monsters and explore the castle and it's painting worlds. The sticking 
 point with this particular castlevania that makes it a bit worse then Dawn of sorrow is it's lack 
 of challenge, the basic default game can be completed very quickly and defeating the extra boss 
 to get the true ending is much easier then the previous game was. The other gripe I have is the 
 level design and music is weaker in this one compared to Dawn of Sorrow, all in all the game simply 
 feels more rushed then the last few games in the series have, this series is verging on megaman 
 levels of milking. Despite these complaints , portrait of ruin is still good fun and and recommended 
 to fans of castlevania and more specifically the metroidvania style of play. Here's hoping though 
 that Konami takes a breather for a couple years and makes another fantastic entry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: volumesoxxs
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  It brings a fresh feel to the series with the two main characters playing at the same time and 
 the nintendo WFC capabilities could have been better but are still well worth your time.
  
  Now the Gameplay is basically the same as all the others except for the great new addition of two 
 main playable characters at the same time. It is honestly a great addittion to the series mainly 
 because it is still well and the A. I isn't all messed up if you know what I mean.
  
  I give the graphics a 9 out of 10 since the gameplay isn't something new but it still adds a new 
 fresh feeling with the two main playable characters.
  
  The graphics are just regular castlevania but it also has some 3D elements as well along with the 
 great artwork found in all the games in the series. I give the graphics a 8 because the DS can 
 do better but it is still a great game and I love t he intros in Dawn of Sorrow and Portrait of 
 Ruin with the anime cartoon thing. I give the sound a 8 because the music is great but could've 
 been catchier but all in all the audio and sound effects are awesome and fit the game perfect.
 
  
  Value
  
  Well the game feel short and easy to hardcore Castlevania vets like myself but it is still a great 
 game to vets and newcomers alike, I give the replay value a 7 I give the reviewers tilt a 9 because 
 it could have had some extra stuff and been a bigger game but it felt kinda short and when it ended 
 you were kinda like, wait... that was it? but it is still a great game. Go get your copy today and 
 try it for yourself. I hope this review helped you somewhat but all in all everyone is entitled 
 to their opinon so go find out for yourself and get your copy today!!! (konami paid me to say this) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchconlin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is the second Casltevania game to come out on the ds. It looses its 
 soul collecting system that Dawn of Sorrow had, and gains a partner system. You can switch between 
 the two characters (charolette the Witch, Jonathan the Fighter) at any time or you can use them 
 both at the same time. This actually works really well, although at the start of the game Charolette 
 is much more powerful than the Jonathan but after a while Jonathan becomes much more powerful than 
 Charolette. Which dosnt really leave much choice of who you should be playing as.
  
  Another first in the series is that you now can leave the castle by going to the eight differnet 
 portals. They take you to various differnet locations ranging from Egypt to Rain Forest. This really 
 makes the game way less repetitive.
  
  Now for the good stuff.
  
  Gamplay: Wandering various locations killing everything you see is very enjoyable, from defeating 
 enemies your charaters gain expeirence (as a team) and become stronger to fight more diffucult enemies. 
 You gain many new abilities as you progress which allows you to access new places in the castle. 
 Overall the game play is quite exellent.
  
  Graphics: This really disapoints me, They are VERY much anime which i hate. But the levels them 
 selves look very nice (especially the backgrounds) .
  
  Sound: The music fits the game very well. Mabey not as memorable as past castlevania's but still 
 very good.
  
  Value: Unlockble characters, completing maps, Bosh Rush mode, item/weapon collecting, Quests, its 
 all there the only thing that could make it last longer is as better wifi. (you can trade items)
 
  
  Tilt: Rediculously high, exploring the caslte never gets old, Its one of the hardest games to put 
 down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMoogle
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  The Castlevania series has been running for a long time, and it has gathered many fans as it went. 
 Portrait of Ruin continues the series with a slight new twist. This time, Dracula is not the lord 
 of the castle. Instead, it is an ancient vampire (and artist!) named Brauner. He has crafted magical 
 paintings to other dimensions and is using these to draw power from the castle.
  
  So what happens when a vampire summons a dark castle? A vampire hunter comes. But not in Portrait 
 of Ruin. Nay, TWO vampire hunters come. The first is Jonathan Morris, the youngest member of a 
 family related to the Belmonts. He has the Vampire Killer but can't use its full power. The other 
 is Charlotte Aulin, a skillful and young mage. From the church comes Vincent, who will sell you 
 items. You'll also meet a strange man named Wind who will give you quests that you can complete 
 to earn new skills, stat upgrades, and items.
  
  The game allows you to switch between the two main characters on the fly simply by hitting the 
 X button. You can also summon your partner to fight alongside you with the A button, call them 
 to use their spell or subweapon with the R button, or perform a devastating Dual Crush move by 
 pressing up and X. These features are all very nifty, but some are underused, unfortunately. For 
 most of the game, you'll probably be playing as Johnathan and just calling Charlotte to help you 
 from time to time. This happens because the game seems to be designed for him. Many of the skills 
 he has Charlotte cannot perform, such as his uppercut move that launches him high into the air. 
 You'll also find very few items for Charlotte in comparison to the amount you'll find for Johnathan. 
 Still, the system is a nice change from the other games in the series.
  
  The game world is huge. Not only is there Dracula's castle, but there's also the paintings you 
 can explore. There are plenty of paintings and each one is as big as a single area of the castle. 
 Essentially, the total amount of area in the paintings is the same size as the castle itself, making 
 for a huge world to play in. There are also tons of secrets to be found, both in the castle and 
 in the paintings. The quests given to you by Wind will also unlock new areas and enemies, so be 
 sure to complete these.
  
  Throughout the adventure you'll come across a myriad of items to collect, each with their own advantages 
 and disadvantages. The selection is great and the number of slots for equipping these items is 
 nice as well. You can equip a weapon, subweapon/spell, two accessories, chest armor, leg armor, 
 and head armor. This is very similar to Symphony of the Night, which many fans can appreciate. 
 Despite all of the items, however, you'll probably end up using the Vampire Killer the most once 
 you've unlocked its power. This is unfortunate because it does not take long to do so and it's 
 not very hard either. So by the time you unlock it, you'll still have tons of other weapons to 
 find but no need for them. Still, finding these items is fun to do and some of them look really 
 cool just the same.
  
  Portrait of Ruin has some other new features. Among them is an online co-op mode. It sounds great, 
 but it could've been a lot more. Co-op only allows you to play through boss rush stages. These 
 are fun, but playing through Dracula's castle itself would probably have been much nicer for the 
 fans, right? Still, the co-op mode works very well and can be pretty fun for a rainy day. You are 
 rewarded, at any rate. Depending on your completion time, you can win items to use in the game 
 such as the Invisible Cape or Astral Ring. There is also another mode called Shop Mode. Here, you 
 can buy and sell items with other players wirelessly or online. This can come in handy for those 
 quests where you just can't find the item (s) you need. Possibly the best part of shop mode is that 
 you only need to find an item to sell it, you won't lose it if sold online. You won't make as much 
 money as if you'd sold it to Vincent though, but in the long run it definitely helps.
  
  As is common with recent Castlevania games, completing the game unlocks more features. The first 
 is Sound Mode, which lets you listen to music from the game. Then there are the Boss Rush stages. 
 And finally the other playable characters. The extra characters play similarly to the main game 
 as each is a pair. The first pair is Richter Belmont and Maria. Sadly, this pair works a lot like 
 the main game's pair in that you'll play as Richter most of the time and Maria will pretty much 
 be ignored. The other pair is two vampire sisters that you meet during the game. They are Stella 
 and Loretta. Thankfully, this pair was done right. They both come into play equally and are fun 
 to use as their attacks are done completely with the use of the touchscreen. It's a neat feature 
 and can be pretty fun.
  
  All in all, Portrait of Ruin is a success. It continues the Castlevania series very nicely and 
 introduces some features that really add to the depth of the game. The longevity of the game really 
 depends on the player, but for the most part the length of time you'll spend playing it is pretty 
 solid. The extra play modes add some much-needed replay value to the series and the new dual-character 
 system brings a fresh feeling to the game, even if it could've been used a bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Review: Castlevania Portrait of Ruin
  
  I have been a huge fan of the Castlevania series for what seems like the series inception, and 
 the handheld incarnations of the series have been the pinnacle of what the series has been about, 
 with each game living up to the level of quality that fans expect from the games, while reaming 
 on story for the entire series. But will Castlevania Portrait of Ruin for the Nintendo DS live 
 up to that standard of quality? Or will this be a stumbling block for the series?
  
  Story:
  Some one has taken control of Dracula's castle and it is up to you Jonathan Morris, and 
 Charlotte Aulin to put a stop to these interlopers before they accidentally reawaken Dracula or 
 all may be lost.
  
  Graphics:
  Once again Konami has delivered with the gorgeous graphics that one comes to expect in a Castlevania 
 game, top notch 2d animation, and graphics dance brilliantly on both on the DS's screens and look 
 as good as they can. If there is a gripe it is that they use many of the sprites and characters 
 from Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow in this game, and it is noticeable, but when the game strays from 
 the mold of its predecessor when it comes to characters, and sprites, this game shines all on its 
 own.
  
  Music:
  Another eerie score for another game, and the team at Konami did not disappoint here either, but 
 what I found to be a real nice touch was that there is quite a bit of voice acting in this game, 
 even out of cut scenes, something that had not even been a part of Dawn of Sorrow. But if you like 
 the sound from the Castlevania games you will not be disappointed.
  
  Control:
  Here is the major difference between Dawn of Sorrow, and Portrait of Ruin, and that is the unlike 
 Dawn of Sorrow, Portrait of Ruin DOES NOT make use of the Touch screen, sad since that was something 
 I loved about Dawn of Sorrow. Instead you have a tagging system that allows you to tag between 
 Jonathan and Charlotte with the push of a button much like you did in the Julius mode in Dawn of 
 Sorrow, the difference is that unlike in Dawn of Sorrow the person you are not playing as can be 
 tagged in to either fight with you, or perform a support technique, or a team up technique, which 
 gives this game a different, and unique feel. But if you love Castlevania games like I know you 
 all do you still will not be disappointed, but rather enjoy the differences present in this game 
 over its processors.
  
  Design:
  The design is almost always what sets the Castlevania games apart from most other games of the 
 action adventure genre, it always seems like the design team goes out of its way to try something 
 new, and it has always worked out to bee a good and fresh experience, and Portrait of Ruin sticks 
 to this rule providing a different Castlevania experience while continuing the quality we have 
 all come to expect in our Castlevania gaming experiences including a lot of bonus content, and 
 now including WiFi Services so you can play the game with a friend online, or sell your hard earned 
 stuff. The only other thing is that the castle seems a little smaller this time thanks to the fact 
 that there is only one castle, but that was easily remedied thanks to the fact that the portraits 
 around the game have their own gaming worlds (ala Mario 64) but over all they make the game larger 
 in my opinion., and add new experiences to the game.
  
  Nintendo DS owners do yourself a favor and pick this game up, it will consume your life , and don't 
 forget about its quality predecessor Dawn of Sorrow, which one has to figure must be cheaper by 
 now, both are excellent and are some of the best games on the Nintendo DS
  
  Graphics
  9/10
  
  Game play
  9/10
  
  Sound
  10/10
  
  Fun factor
  10/10
  
  Tilt
  10/10
 
  
  Average score
  9.6
  
  Castlevania Portrait of Ruin:
  
  Pros:
  WiFi Co Op!
  Unique feel for a Castlevania game
  Plenty of extra content
  Good story
  
  Cons:
  No 
 touch screen use 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The story begins ten years ago. Konami released Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, widely proclaimed 
 as the greatest game of the series, and one of the best on the Playstation. It got everything right, 
 down to the smallest detail. Ever since, Konami have tried to repeat that success on the handheld 
 front, but not quite achieving it, due to one or two things. Last years Dawn of Sorrow was one 
 of those games that was nail bittingly close to being better, but was let down on a few gimmicks 
 and frustrating features.
  
  Portrait of Ruin abolishes the more gimmicky features, but keeps the more useful ones. Not a lot 
 has changed apart from this, but in a strange way, it's all the better for it. Set in the 1940's, 
 Jonathon Morris and his partner Charlottle Aulin head to Dracula's Castle, but find it is being 
 occupied by three vampires, a father and two daughters. They also meet a ghost, who introduces 
 himself as Wind. The two journey through the castle to take out the paintings which are the source 
 of Brauner's (father) power.
  
  The introduction of the paintiings is something that enables the series to go outside of the traditional 
 castle setting. There are places such as a very london looking town, Egyptian landscape and abandoned 
 houses. All of which are accompanied by various monsters, all with various items, attacks and death 
 sequences we've come to know and love. The game also has a new Quest System which gives you skills 
 and items as you complete each job. Gone is the soul system of Dawn of Sorrow, and in place is 
 a more in-depth and far better system which allows players to train with each weapon until they 
 master it. Only Jonathan's moves can be trained.
  
  The technological advancement here is the inclusion of another character. You can be either Jonathan 
 or Charlotte at any time, but you can also have both on screen at the same time. This allows the 
 series to do something a little new, but at the same time, more fitting to the style of play. Even 
 with two characters and many monsters on screen at the same time and the game being really big, 
 the frame-rate never lets up at all. Considering this looks better than Symphony of the Night, 
 this is a marvel. The sound has also vastly improved and even comes with English voice-acting, 
 which is quite good considering the last time on a 2D Castlevania (SotN) it was terrible.
  
  The boss fights are sometimes easy as anything, but there are one or two which will frustrate 
 you beyond all recognition. The challenge of the game is something nobody would expect, but once 
 players are used to the bosses, things are much easier. There are also Boss Rush modes, one there 
 at the beginning, which includes older bosses such as Balore from DoS (as he was then as well.) 
 There are unlockable areas too which provide an expert challenge too. The multiplayer is limited 
 to short areas, but is a good start to full multiplayer capability. There is also the option to 
 have a shop using the Wi-Fi feature, but it's not necessary to complete the game with. There are 
 unlockable characters as well, which provide new terms of gameplay in cases.
  
  Overall, as said, Portrait of Ruin improves on Symphony of the Night vastly, but also raises some 
 new things that could be improved. Multiplayer options are better than in Dawn of Sorrow, but still 
 could be improved, but the single player experience is all a fan could ask for. The quest feature 
 is a rewarding, though frustrating (at times) addition, but it is the gameplay itself thats stood 
 the test of time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodsexsugar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  The latest castlevania title for DS is both a good entry point for newcomers and a great game for 
 vetreans of the series. It has the gameplay fit for newbies, your not leaving and entering a room 
 and killing the same monstor ad nausem just to get one ability like in Dawn/aria of sorrow. The 
 diffculty is near perfect, the first play through is just challenging enough, and then if you want 
 a good challenge you can play your clear data on hard with level caps at 50, 25, and 1. Like its 
 predeccesors, POR exhibits probably the finest 2D graphics around, with nice animations, great 
 backgrounds, and unlike most other castlevanias this takes you outside the castle to a foggy london-inspired 
 town, a desert pyramid, and a mansion in the forest. As always the music is top notch.
  
  the only area this game falters is the lack of effort put into the online multiplayer co-op. While 
 the online shop mode is a great addition, the co-op just feels lacking. there is only one 5 room 
 map. It is fun for awhile but the luster of playing cv online with someone will fade quickly. They 
 should have included more maps and allowed players to pick the secret characters for online play 
 (if they have unlocked the characters of course)
  
  Basically another superb Castlevania title and probably your best bet to get your non-Castlevania 
 friends introduced to this series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aashkii
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  The Castlevania franchise has reached its 20th Anniversary and a good time to start the 20 year 
 legacy with Portait of Ruin. You play as Jonathon, a vampire hunter, and Charlotte, a book-worm 
 spell caster, as these two enter Draculas castle, as many times before in the franchise, during 
 World War II.
  
  Playing as two characters at once get some use to, but I mostly choose Jonathon since he has better 
 attacks. But Charlotte has some tricks of her own. She can use powerful magic attacks that can 
 take lots of damage to her enemies. But sometimes you need both characters to solve puzzles or 
 reach new areas in the game.
  
  Instead of exploring just the castle, you now can enter new areas through the portraits scattered 
 throughout Draculas Castle. This makes the series new and refreshing to veterans of the franchise. 
 But sometimes those new areas are a bit linear, like the first portrait you encounter, City of 
 Haze.
  
  There is online play too, but it is disappointing to say the least. You enter one room, beat a 
 boss, enter another room, beat another boss, and yes, enter and beat another boss. This gets tiring, 
 but at least you can buy your partners items online. But overall, not the best online DS game 
 around, but the single player makes up for it.
  
  Portrait of Ruin is yet another DS game that desperately needs to be in your collection. If you 
 like the online play, ignore what I just said about it and enjoy it all the way. The single player 
 mode will keep you playing throughout your spare time and during travel. And if you like the whole 
 character switch thingy, you will like the puzzles and situations you will encounter in the game. 
 After 20 years the Castlevania franchise is still going strong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  The game basically follows Jonathan and the young spell caster Charlotte as they infiltrate Dracula's 
 castle during the turmoil of the second world war. Dracula rises every century, each time stronger 
 than the last. Early on in their adventure, they discover that another being named Brauner is the 
 owner of the castle and Dracula may infact be his master or in a similar position.
  
  The game follows similar story line, gameplay and visual style as previous Castlevania installments. 
 The gameplay is perhaps slightly toaned down from Dawn of Sorrow as there is no more soul collection 
 system. Instead you use Jonathans ability to use any weapon in the game, or Charlottes spell casting 
 abilities. You can have each of them traveling by themselves or you can have both of them out at 
 the same time, giving opportunities for dual crushes and other double teaming methods. Often you 
 will need both of them to push something out of the way for example. There is also the introduction 
 of quests, you beat one and get a new one, and there are a few different paths you must take to 
 beat all of them. Many of the quests are very difficult to find and figure out because the castle 
 along with all of its portraits are very large. You must go into portraits in this game to access 
 different areas and you must defeat the evil affecting that area to cut off draculas power from 
 the portrait. The Graphics are similar to Dawn of Sorrow's except the previous game probably had 
 more creative and unique environments over all. The variety of monsters was notably impressive 
 though. The sound was great, the music was just as classic and epic as ever as far as Castlevania 
 goes, and the sound effects were just as good as they ever were. I do recall some voices from the 
 last game, which would have been a very cool addition into this one as well. If you make it past 
 the first ending (which is very disapointing i have to say ) then the game gets much more exciting, 
 and it also lasts quite a bit longer. TO GET PAST the first ending use sanctuary when fighting 
 the sisters! Overall this was a great game. One or two parts (such as fighting the Vampire Killers 
 Memory) will test your patience but you will feel great after finally beating them. This is definitely 
 a worthy game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Interesting dual-character mechanics. Improved visuals. Various weapons, spells, and 
 items to collect.
  
  THE BAD: Not as lengthy or challenging as previous installments. Plot and character development 
 aren't its greatest strengths.
  
  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is a little different from last year's Dawn of Sorrow, but it's all 
 Castlevania.
  
  GAMEPLAY is excellent. Once again Dracula is on the verge of resurrection and it's up to a whip-wielding 
 hero to save the day, except this time he's got company. Portrait of Ruin stars Jonathon Morris, 
 an offshoot decedent of the Belmonts, whom has been entrusted with the Vampire Killer. His trusty 
 partner is a young girl named Charlotte Aulin who unlike Jonathon can use powerful magic spells.
 
  
  While exploring the castle, both characters can be on the field at the same time or fight solo. 
 Although more damage can be dealt with both characters attacking at once, the computer controlled 
 character is often reckless risking major MP deductions. As usual, MP is quite important because 
 it is used not only for magic and skills, but for a variety of devastating double-team special 
 attacks that can literally turn the tides.
  
  In the beginning Charlotte is the more powerful character. Her magic spells are exponentially stronger 
 than anything Jonathon is able to dish out and she easily defeats the many bosses; however, by 
 mid game Jonathon obtains better weapons and eventually surpasses Charlotte's capabilities.
  
  GRAPHICS are great. Visually, Portrait of Ruin is very similar to Dawn of Sorrow except with 
 some graphical improvements. Many of the monsters, scenery, and spells are 3D and the environments 
 are as grand as ever.
  
  SOUND is good. The music is exciting and there's plenty of different scores for each location, 
 but it isn't as memorable as other Castlevanias. Fortunately, the many voice samples for spells 
 and attacks in both English and Japanese help accentuate the gameplay.
  
  VALUE is decent. The average player will finish the game in 10-12 hours. Keep in mind, Dracula's 
 castle is very big and there will be times when it's not so obvious where to go next. And of course, 
 completists can add a few more hours by picking up extra side quests like the Nest of Evil. There 
 is also a co-op WiFi or local boss battle mode as well as a single-player Boss Rush mode.
  
  OVERALL Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is another successful Castlevania reincarnation. It certainly 
 shares key mechanics from the series, but adds many compelling new ones. Portrait of Ruin is a 
 fun side-scrolling adventure that is recommendable to any Castlevania aficionado. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  frist off i like to say this is the frist time i own a nintendo ds. i never cared to much for the 
 gameboy. but this ds system is amazing i dont know how they do it. and this castlevania game looks 
 so amazing the bosses that are in the game look great. the sounds are nice. dont care a whole lot 
 for leaving the castle and jumping in to paintings. to me castlevania is about drac s castle. you 
 start off at the start of the castle and work your way up. i can understand they are trying to 
 make somthing diffrent.. but jumping in to paintings and some of the towns are not that good looking. 
 like haze town kind of boring. then the 2 player help to me a pain. just give me one main dude 
 are woman and let me play. dont need this switch on and switch off. Konami again trying so darn 
 hard to make castlevania in to a RPG game. i think its goofing it up. castlevania is not a RPG 
 game. should not be one, anyone knowing the history of castlevania knows it is not RPG. best part 
 about portrait of ruin is the bosses. and lot of the graphics are great in the game for the DS. 
 still its not a golden award game. but a game that should be played and enjoyed, thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yamizureyx
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  I was looking for a new DS game not long ago and having found most other games on the shelf looking 
 average at best, I picked this up.
  I am new to the Castlevania series and wasn't sure what to expect. However, this game didn't disapoint! 
 I quickly found it both entertaining and addictive and couldent put it down for hours.
  
  Gameplay: The basic gameplay goes like this, your in Dracula's castle which is full to the brim 
 with a variety of strange monsters, you have to use weapons, spells and items to slash your way 
 through several levels that are accessed by using magical paintings. You control two characters, 
 Jonathan Morris (Who uses a selection of large weapons, plus throwable subweapons or other skills) 
 and Charlotte Aulin. (Who uses enchanted books to cast powerful spells) I would say most of the 
 time you will use Jonathan, but Charlotte can be useful occasionaly. There are hundreds of collectable 
 and customiseable weapons, spells, items, armours ect. which you can trade with the built in shop 
 or use the online mode to buy and sell with other players. Speaking of online, there is also a 
 Co-Op minigame where you and another persons characters battle rooms full of monsters, which can 
 be quite fun.
  
  Graphics: As far as DS graphics go, these are incredible. With memorable monsters that sometimes 
 take up the whole screen, flashy special effects that make you gasp in amazement... It's fair to 
 say they're pretty good.
  
  Sound: The sound effects are excellent and there is also some good voice acting. The music is also 
 good, however, one thing lets it down and that is the fact that some of the songs and tunes can 
 get a bit repetitive after a few hours of play. But still, they have done well with the music and 
 provides a very dark and ominous feel.
  
  Value: Definately worth getting, this is currently my favourite DS game (tied with Advances Wars 
 DS perhaps) and will provide you with many hours of thrilling, portable, action adventure. Very 
 addicting too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newagedevil
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Simply fun. Castlevania: PoR is a great buy. Fun to play, plenty of game. Tons of items, spells, 
 and weapons to find throughout the game. And the graphics are good to. Good story to follow and 
 is just a powerhouse of a game because it is portable. If you're wondering if you should pick this 
 game up I would go ahead and do it. After a few Mario titles, Advance Wars, and some puzzle games 
 there aren't too many overall good buys for the system. just trying to make this 100 words. just 
 trying to make this 100 words.
  just trying to make this 100 words. just trying to make this 100 words.
  just trying to make 
 this 100 words. just trying to make this 100 words. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  Portrait of Ruin was released late March in Europe, almost 4 months after the American release. 
 Also, in Europe, there was no pre-order 20th anniversary bonus-pack. Konami, you suck!
  Portrait of Ruin is yet another Metroid style castlevania for a handheld, meaning that your characters 
 get upgrades which are required to gain access to parts of a giant castle. It is the second castlevania 
 on the DS. I didn't play the first, but the graphics and animations are better then on the gameboy 
 advance. You also encounter many, many enemies from past Castlevania's. There are some changes in 
 the gameplay. In portrait of ruin you control two characters, each with their own weapons and abilities. 
 You can switch between them or have the CPU control one of them. You can play as the whip cracking 
 Jonathan Morris or the cute witch Charlotte Aulin. Having two characters works nicely. They also 
 have very powerful cooperative moves. In the castle you come across these paintings which serve 
 as portals to separate stages, like in Mario 64. It is fun to discover a new painting while playing. 
 The one gameplay element that kind of ruins this game are the experience points needed to defeat 
 certain level bosses, especially the final boss. Like in castlevania circle of the moon. You'll 
 be travelling endlessly through the bowels of the castle, just get better equipment and more experience 
 points so you can finish the game. It is a real drag, also because the castle isn't that large. 
 You'll see the same corridors over and over again. It would have been a much better game if you 
 could finish it in one run and then if you choose get back in the game, discover the 4 alternate 
 paintings, collect all the stuff and defeat the castle's real master, so to speak.
  Portrait of Ruin has some nice touches, but the paint is spreaded too thin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcangel
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 22, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  II'll keep this short and sweet. I just haven't enjoyed PoR as much as any of the other 'Vania 
 games that I've played. And you know what? I just can't put my finger on why. All the requisite 
 elements are there - exploring large areas, bashing imaginatively-designed monsters, finding loot, 
 gaining experience and leveling up, challenging boss battles - but the magic just isn't happening 
 for me. The game is extremely polished in terms of graphics, sound and gameplay (except for one 
 area I'll mention shortly) , but the whole experience seems somehow rather sterile and by-the-numbers 
 by comparison with, say, Aria of Sorrow. Level design seems rather weak, perhaps because the size 
 constraint imposed by the castle setting has been removed - maybe the designers got lazy as a result? 
 Either way, the levels are fairly linear and generic (in design, not in locale - the locales are 
 fantastic) and generally not massively fun to explore. Part of what for me has consistently been 
 a favourite element of Castlevania is the element of discovery - knowing there is a section of 
 castle just beyond your reach which you might be able to get to once you learn a particular ability. 
 This joy of discovery seems lessened in PoR, maybe down to the level design, combined with the 
 fact that you seem to get most of the movement abilities rather early on. The two characters and 
 side-quest aspects of the game, frankly, feel somewhat tacked-on alongside the highly-polished 
 core gameplay. There are few situations where both characters come into their own, and the few 
 puzzles which demand cooperation between Jon and Charlie are clumsily-implemented, as if the developers 
 weren't entirely sure what they were doing. The side-quests also seem very arbitrary, with little 
 justification even within the game's admittedly-fragile plot framework, and some can be rendered 
 uncompletable if you incautiously sell a required item, which is frankly really bloody annoying.
 
  
  It might sound like I'm ragging on this game, but there's no denying it's a good adventure that 
 sticks close to the series' strengths. However, I considered some of the new elements to be superfluous 
 at best, and I didn't find the intangible game experience nearly as enjoyable as any of the past 
 games in the franchise from Symphony of the Night onwards. Take from that what you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  I am gobsmacked. A game that I thought was a rehash of a tired and dead old franchise and game 
 genre turns out to be THE greatest DS game I've had yet!!
  The graphics are actually superb, the sprites have so much character and detail, the backgrounds 
 are so charismatic but best of all is THE MUSIC. I just keep smiling as I play this one, the tunes 
 just carry it, adding a depth of immersion and enjoyment I havnt gotten from a game for years.
 
  Simply put, if you have a DS, like action games, RPG systems, gore, horror, atmosphere and beautifully 
 crafted graphics then you simply will NOT be disapointed with this game.
  A classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SCF
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruins is the second Castlevania game to come out for the Nintendo DS. 
 Of course I'm still playing Dawn of Sorrow, since I start playing this a little after I wrap PoR. 
 Anyway this game is actually amazing, it brings back some for the old features from other installments 
 in the past, the gameplay configuration has been tweaked a bit more with some of the new features 
 than just adding some more touch screen additions, and enjoying everything that PoR has to offer. 
 You can say it a welcome back thing for the Castlevania to what it was before Aria of Sorrow got 
 release.
  
  The story takes place during World War II in 1944 where that war brought fear and hatred along 
 with a number of dead souls. This caused Draclua's castle to rise again from hell. But later in 
 the game you find out that Dracula is not the master of the castle anymore as a vampire name Brauner 
 is take control of the it, and absorbing the demonic power of the castle for his own needs by using 
 his paintings. He is also a accompanied by his two daughters Stella and Loretta. The goal in this 
 game is to stop Brauner from taking full control of Dracula's castle. You'll be playing the main 
 characters in the game, one is Jonathan Morris, who is the son of John Morris from Castlevania: 
 Bloodlines for the Sega Genesis. He is current wielder of the legendary whip Vampire Killer and 
 he's also smart and confident when it comes to dangerous situations. And the other is his trusty 
 companion Charlotte Aluin, who is a cute powerful sorceress, a bookworm and a big mouth. She will 
 start off weak with low physical strength, but give her the right equipment and level her up a 
 bunch of times and you got yourself a strong character with good attack and magic stat points.
 
  
  The main part of the gameplay is that you have the ability to switch between the two main characters 
 on the fly at anytime just by pressing the X button. However most of the times I just Jonathan, 
 but if he up against a foe with high defense points I bring in Charlotte to cast her spells on 
 the foe. You can also have both of them on the screen at the same time by pressing the A button. 
 While you are controlling one character the other is controlled by the A. I. The A. I. character 
 will act independently by sticking close to you where ever you go, even if you command it to stay 
 put with the Down + A command. The A. I. will also attack when enemies get close to it. The A. I. 
 will use the magic meter as it's health, if it gets hit you'll a portion of your magic. Once your 
 magic reaches zero the A. I. will disappear from the screen for the time being. You can also get 
 your partner to do their secondary attack by pressing the R button. It is somewhat useful if your 
 playing as Jonathan while Charlotte is being played by the A. I., I'll explain about that part a 
 bit later.
  
  Jonathan starts off with Vampire Killer at the beginning of the game, but he is able to use other 
 weapons like swords, axes, spears, hammers, whips and fist gauntlets as you obtain them when you 
 explore the caste and inside the paintings. As for Charlotte she uses books with magical weapons 
 popping out of them. Each weapon will give the characters different stat. boost as you equip the 
 selected weapon on to them at the pause menu.
  
  The sub-weapon system is back and it's a good thing that the heart point system isn't in PoR since 
 it's replace with you magic meter. Of course there are hearts in the game that will replenish a 
 bit of your magic. Anyways you can use the main character's secondary attack by pressing the Up 
 + X buttons. Just like the main weapons the sub-weapons can be found inside the castle and the 
 paintings. Jonathan can use knifes, throwing axes, boomerangs, holy water, etc. even new sub-weapons 
 that weren't in the previous Castlevania titles. When you get these weapons they start off weak, 
 but they can gain experience points by defeating enemies you come across. Once they gain enough 
 experience points their hidden powers will be unlocked and each one has it one special ability. 
 Unfortunately I can't tell you what they are, because I don't find the sub-weapons that useful 
 to me. As for Charlotte she uses magic spells as her sub-weapon like fire, ice, lighting, healing, 
 etc. She can also summon monsters (a. k. a Familiars) to aid her in combat. Now about the explanation 
 I mentioned earlier, every time she starts to cast one spell a bar will appear above her. The bar 
 will show how long it will take for the spell to be executed. So if your Jonathan you need to buy 
 the A. I. Charlotte some time in order for her to release a powerful spell. Unlike Jonathan's sub-weapons 
 Charlotte's can't gain experience points.
  
  It's good to see the Item Crush System back (even though it's called Dual Crush in PoR) and you 
 expect some of your favorites like 1,000 Blades, Holy Cross and (my favorite) Hydro Storm, though 
 some of them got renamed like Hydro Storm is Divine Storm, which I find it a bit cheesy. Plus some 
 new Item Crush moves that you have never seen before. These attacks are very helpful against powerful 
 enemies and bosses, of course all of them will cost a lot of magic points, but I say it's worth 
 it if you're an Item Crush fan.
  
  You''ll also get to do side-quest missions from a ghost name Wind. By completing various numbers 
 of task he gives you like kill a total of 1,500 enemies, find five different kinds of cake and 
 spend all of you money until you have nothing left Wind will give you weapons, armor, accessories, 
 techniques and power-ups that will help you in the game. However I find that some of rewards he 
 gives you aren't that useful, but by completing all the mission you'll get an item that gives you 
 unlimited magic.
  
  In previous Castlevania games you were only able to explore Draclua's castle, even if it was inverted. 
 In PoR (as mentioned earlier) you'll encounter four different paintings that will take you to different 
 locations outside of the castle like a British city, a Egyptian desert, a abandoned abbey and a 
 circus that looks bizarre, which reminds you of the Realm of Chaos in AoS. If you complete the 
 game with the bad ending it'll be somewhere around four to five hours of play time at the very 
 least, but if you are going for the good ending the game will continue on with four more painting, 
 (even though they're the same stages from before, but in reverse) which will last you ten to twelve 
 hours in total. And there is one more painting you can get by exploring 888% (or 888.8%) of the 
 castle and the dimensional paintings, then talk to Wind so he can open the entrance to that painting 
 for you, of course it's considered a side-quest mission. That is a total of nine paintings and 
 it'll take you somewhere around 15 hours to get 1,000% on every stage level.
  
  The bosses aren't that difficult to beat, but they are fun and challenging to face. Some of the 
 old classic monsters are back with a new look, which I find cool like the Werewolf, Medusa and 
 Frankenstein (or The Creeper) . You can also face the bosses from both PoR and Dawn of Sorrow (but 
 not all of them) in Boss Rush Mode at the menu screen. One course is available at the start, but 
 you can unlock two more courses by getting the good ending and defeating a boss called Whip's Memory.
 
  
  In the graphics department the 3D background is unreal like you can see the city build structures 
 in the British stage when the characters are moving. The 2D stage design are nothing special, even 
 though it may look good it's still the same old style of level designing that has been used for 
 years now. A lot of the character sprites are recycled, but some of the new ones are well done 
 like I was impressed with the new look of the Big Peeping Eye monster in 3D. And the character's 
 expression faces when displayed on the bottom screen during dialogue scenes are nicely well drawn 
 especially when Charlotte has that cartoony, mean look on her face, which I find it funny.
  
  In the sound department the sound effects are right on the mark, the voice acting is top notch, 
 but what is always been great in the Castlevania series is it's music. The tracks are rock solid 
 bringing back some of classic ones like Opposing Bloodlines (of course it's a remix version) , Iron 
 Blue Intentions and Theme of Simon, along with some new tracks that you'll really like in this 
 game.
  
  There are some unlockables in PoR like Richter Mode, where you play as Richter and Maria (as a kid) , 
 Sister Mode is where the stylish pen becomes useful as you take control of Stella and Loretta, 
 and Old Axe Armor Mode is where you just play as Old Axe Armor. The other unlockables are Sound 
 Mode, Hard Mode, the two Boss Rush Courses as I mentioned earlier and the New Game Plus Mode. The 
 only things I can't include in my review is the Wireless and Nintendo Wi-fi Connections for the 
 Co-op Mode, Vs. Mode and the Online Shopping store, since I don't know anyone that has a copy of 
 PoR and I don't have a Wireless Router yet.
  
  Overall Castlevania: Portrait of Ruins proves to be another Castlevania great game. It brings back 
 some of the old gimmicks that what makes the series become a big success as it still is today. 
 Whether you're a old veteran or a newcomer to the series, you can check this game out for what 
 it's worth. It may not be good as DoS, but PoR is still fun and enjoyable to play on your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing Castlevania as Simon or Trevor Belmont back in the days of the NES and SNES 
 era and well... it was jumping around, grabbing items, swinging a whip and such, that's all. Yea, 
 you had to kill Dracula, not quite suprising for anyone who has played the game's storied series.
 
  
  That being said, I wasn't a huge platformer fan, and Castlevania of all things didn't fire my rockets, 
 probably due to the massive number of make this series of jumps or die instantly sequences and 
 it was just all the same.
  
  Well, in Castlevania : Portrait of Ruin, you do take the old formula that I used to not care for 
 and add in some new elements that add some spice and variety to the game to bring it beyond the 
 standard platforming fare. I first want to talk about the graphics. The graphics in this game are 
 sprite based, but are fantastic. In the small screen, there is so much detail packed in. For instance, 
 if you go into one of the portraits which is like a market, there is food and dry goods and other 
 items hanging in the windows and sitting on tables. If you jump on a table full of goods, debris 
 will fly around everywhere. Hit hanging meat in the meatlocker is swings around. Smash candelabras 
 for coins and hearts (don't ask) and they turn into flaming particles that fizzle out on the floor. 
 In the Forest of doom, the forest itself is quite bleak on a dry dirt road, however there is one 
 tree that stands out in particular as completely black. It's black for a reason. The tree turns 
 red with eyes peering out which eventually reveal that they are individual ravens which fly off 
 and leave a very bare tree behind. The individual sprites are well animated, significantly beyond 
 any SNES era animations. Watch Charlottes clothes when she kind of wavers back and forth, her skirt 
 and shirt move along with her hips as a real cloth would. For sprite based animations the graphics 
 are very good, who says that 3d graphics are the only way to go. Each individual enemy when defeated 
 dies in a very spectacular way, ranging from bursting into flames, crumbling into dust, flashing 
 out of existance or my favorite, from the Invisible Man, turning into a pile of red flesh that 
 melts away. The cutscenes are anime inspired and rather pretty at least for a hand held system, 
 and they really add to the emotional and humorous moments of the game and advance the story (yea, 
 there is more of a story than just kill Dracula this time around) .
  
  Enemies range from tiny frogs to massive knights who's heads fly around or half eviscerated behemoths, 
 and the DS fully utilizes its power to display up to 12 enemies I counted at one time in the desert.
 
  
  That being said, I will get into the sound. The sound like graphics has a specific sound effect 
 to go with the death of each enemy. Each attack and spell has a sound that goes with it that, except 
 the biggest detractor I think is that you should hear a snap each time the whip is snapped. That 
 was curiously absent. While the musical themes are excellent, I can't say I've remembered any that 
 I hum in my mind or get especially pumped to hear. There is very little spoken words except for 
 a few digitized voices when the characters get hurt or you enter a shop. Having described the aesthetic 
 quality of the game, I'm going to now get into what matters, the gameplay. As I've mentioned prior 
 to this, the Belmont Family has been responsible for keeping Dracula in check, and in this Castlevania, 
 you play as two characters. The first is Johnathan Morris, related to the Belmont Family, he has 
 inherited the famed Vampire Killer whip. It's his duty to prevent Dracula from reviving around 
 World War 2.
  
  With him is Charlotte Aulin as I've already mentioned. She's the obligatory school girl in short 
 skirt, revealing blouse, stalkings and high heel mary janes that drive Otaku crazy. Oh yea, she's 
 a potent spell caster who is the magical brains behind Johnathan's physical brawn. Other than that, 
 I'm not quite sure how she fits in the game other than she's his partner, at least that hasn't 
 been explained well enough to me after 10 hours of play. Anyways, you are determined to defeat 
 Dracula, but oddly there is another vampire named Brauner who is the lord of Dracula's Castle now. 
 I'm not going to get into details about who does what to whom, but there is a story, this I promise 
 you. The game itself consists of lots of whipping, sword slinging, spell casting, knife tossing 
 and jumping. I suppose that's not much different than what most people had in mind with platformers. 
 But instead of just ONE whip, you can get multiple varieties of whips with different lengths, effects 
 and what not. Also there are swords, knives, axes and other primary weapons with different properties 
 among the classic holy water, throwing knives, axes and such (Johnathan's attacks can be mastered 
 after a certain number of attacks that kill monsters. This basically increases the damage done 
 by the attacks, always a good thing) . Charlotte uses magical books to summon phantasms that attack, 
 but her real strength lies in casting spells which have many different elemental attributes and 
 damage properties and geometries of attack. It's up to you to figure out how they work best against 
 what enemies (her attacks don't get upgraded through use, just how long you perform the incantation 
 though) . Needless to say some enemies are resistant to magic (this goes for bosses too) , so you 
 should use Johnathan, others are resistant to physical attacks, therefore use Charlotte. Don't 
 worry, you can switch the two on the fly, and can have both on the screen at the same time. You 
 can use the R button to cast the secondary characters special attack while using your main character, 
 however for Charlotte, you cannot charge up to level 2 spells.
  
  Sometimes its better just to use one person as the second character is kind of a doofus that just 
 follows you, attacking only when enemies get close. They can't die, but they can get sent off screen, 
 and if they get damaged you lose MP, which is quite vital against some bosses. With two characters 
 you can push and pull things easier, you can jump off your partners shoulders to reach higher areas 
 and if you press up and X you can do a special attack that hits hard and often called a Dual Crush. 
 Some are straightfoward knife tossing (well, actually 48 knives to be exact) to a Lighting Cross 
 that rotates and zaps everything on screen.
  
  Other abilities involve double jumps and slides and flying attacks. Johnathan mostly has the extra 
 melee attacks and martial arts which you learn on quests. Charlottes magic allows you to transform 
 to move into other areas of the castle better. But believe me, both characters are needed in this 
 game.
  
  My favorite feature is that for pretty much the entire game, you cannot die in one hit or fall 
 into an endless pit. This drove me nuts and still does for any platformer and I am glad to see 
 it go. The game itself allows you to level up from defeating monsters, increasing your MP and HP 
 among str, constitution, intelligence and such. This makes you a better fighting machine, sort 
 of like how River City Ransom allowed for food to permanantly boost your stats. Basically this 
 RPG element adds to the game and makes it easier to track your accomplishments.
  
  Additionally, besides different weapons, you can get different armor and accessories which further 
 boost your abilities. Often you have to buy them in stores, but enemies drop them on occaison (in 
 fact some of the best armor is enemy dropped) . You have to get some items from some enemies to 
 complete quests which give you even better armors and weapons.
  
  Basically this game is a platformer with RPG elements to it, making it more of a pick up and play 
 game rather than... say pick up and start from level 1-1 again game. That was one of my biggest 
 turn offs of previous Castlevania games unless you wrote in a password that was case sensitive 
 and exactly right. Oh yes, you can save the game at various points along the map, and for those 
 in need of quitting, quicksaves are available. The game isn't terribly hard except for a certain 
 few points, and for a lot of people the bosses might be hard until you either:
  
  Figure out their pattern.
  Get more levels.
  Buy lots of healing potions and use them.
  
 
  Or all of the above. And yea, I've died a few times in this game, but mostly to bosses. After 
 leveling up for like 20 minutes or trying 3 or 4 times, the bosses are quite managable though. 
 If I reach 20 hours of play time, I'd say this game is worth at least another point in value, considering 
 I paid 30 dollars for it. This game is less punishing (while still challenging) , has some great 
 RPG elements to it and generally has a good story that is less cliched and is an overall good time, 
 especially for a handheld.
  
  Warning though, any stylus fans should be advised that this game is D Pad heavy and stylus light. 
 That being said, I recommend this game to pretty much anyone interested in platforming games or 
 those who like cross genre, hand held, vampire slaying, scantily clad school girl filled, whip snapping, 
 gorgeous epic adventures on the Nintendo DS.
  
  Anyways, I'm 10+ hours into the game, which is quite good for a non RPG hand held game, so it's 
 fairly sizeable, and there are mulitple endings among other game types (Boss Rush for example) 
 with unlockables. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hikaru_ultma
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  wow this game was so awesome! man i luv castlevania! ever sence my uncle let me play the origional 
 on his nintendo i luved this game and this game is shorter than other castlevania games but its 
 still awesome (and its handheld too!) I only wish they would make Symphony of the Night hand held 
 or they at least had a upside down castle like before... but this game still cool lol yea i played 
 alot but it took even more time to beat the playtation 2 and psx ones... well at least they comin 
 out with one for psp... (man they gotta have me do 100 words at least so i guess i say wut my character 
 got..)
  LV.47
  Mode: normal
  Beaten once
  1000% on the map
  almost all enemies defeated....
  and vampire killer ultimant unlocked....
  tome of arms X for 
 charolette...
  and thats wut i got!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desperado2503
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  Well to begin with this game... this Castlevania offers you some hours of playing madness, if you're 
 a S. O. T. N you will love this one immediately.
  
  Also the tough of the portraits in the game adds some sheer & fine touch to the series, like something 
 magically new to this saga... also the new characters are cool, they have nice abilities (more 
 abilities of course) & also it has some quests to accomplish, & the most obvious of things... alternate 
 endings.
  
  Also it features some challenge, specially when waking up the true potential of the "Vampire Killer" 
 whip later in the game.
  
  Also the game hidden features are enjoyable, specially when using Richter Belmont & maria.
  
 
  To make it short... if you love castlevania, just buy this one you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The story in this game is a typical Castlevania story. You got somebody or something trying to 
 revive Dracula. In this case its Brauner some old vampire that has a problem letting go of his 
 two dead daughters. Basically, humanity wages World War II and everyone suffers even the vampires. 
 So to retaliate for humanities sins; Brauner decides to steal Dracula&amp;#8217; s power and destroy 
 the world. Of course you play a badass girl/guy dude that loves not being able to use his vampire 
 killer. You eventually kill Brauner and end up fighting Dracula and death. The story is typical 
 with no massive twist or turns; just a standard solid Castlevania story.
  
  Once again Konami takes a if it isn&amp;#8217; t broken don't fix it mentality with this game as 
 it plays almost identically to Dawn of Sorrow the first DS Castlevania game. This isn't a negative 
 in fact its a positive. The only problem I had with the gameplay is the add-on of a second character. 
 Personally, i feel that this new character is simply a burden on the main character Jonathan. Charlotte 
 doesn't do anything but suck mp away from the main character when see runs into an attacker; and 
 she will run into a ton of attackers. In the end, this new gameplay mechanic of adding another 
 character seems more like a burden then an added bonus.
  
  In classic Castlevania style, the extras are simply awesome allowing the player to re-beat the 
 game with Richter or the sisters. Richter&amp;#8217; s plays exactly the same as Jonathan but the 
 sisters have a unique twist in that you don't actually press a button to attack with them. All 
 you do is either slash the screen with the stylus or just touch the screen and shoot out ice flakes 
 onto enemies. These simple extras will force you to replay the awesomeness that is the portrait 
 of ruins!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EtherTwilight
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  The umpteenth installment in Konami's hallmark Castlevania series strikes yet another delightfully 
 old school side scrolling adventure, although if you've found yourself become jaded by its gameplay, 
 then Portrait of Ruin certainly isn't going to deter you from that train of thought.
  
  In Portrait of Ruin, the year is 1944. The world is ravaged by war, and wouldn't you know it, Dracula's 
 castle appears again to make matters even worse. The two protagonists - neither of them being direct 
 descendants of the Belmont clan - Johnathan Morris and Charlotte Aulin, have taken up the responsibility 
 of taking down the latest incarnation of Dracula and his pesky creature and puzzle infested abode.
 
  
  Although you will control two characters in Portrait of Ruin, which offers a neat idea to the Castlevania 
 series, but one that isn't too terribly necessary, and unfortunately, you'll be using Johnathan 
 for the vast majority of the game. Johnathan gets access to the weapons you're more familiar with 
 in Castlevania, from knife and holy water sub-weapons, to thrown swords and the obligatory Vampire 
 Killer whip. Charlotte's point is that she's a magic user, and as such, she'll see strong use for 
 her stat boosting spells, which can offer up huge bonuses to make a strong difference in combat, 
 but her weapon selection is extremely limited, and there will be huge stretches in the game where 
 she's using the same weapon for extended periods of time. Fortunately, however, if the character 
 not being controlled is hit, you lose MP as opposed to HP, which was a good insight, as otherwise, 
 using the partner in combat would be far too much of a liability.
  
  Portions of the castle require using your partner to conquer certain portions, typically through 
 abilities unlocked at certain points in the game through Skill Cubes. These Skill Cubes will grant 
 you the abilities to tackle these previous unreachable sections, by allowing you to jump off your 
 partner's shoulders to reach new heights, or to use your partner to push objects previously too 
 heavy even for both of them.
  
  Another addition brought by the two character system is the idea of Dual Crush, a powerful move 
 that typically requires a large amount of MP in exchange for a particularly powerful attack. I 
 found these to be rather limited in their usefulness, as typical Castlevania style-battle tactics 
 work the best, but a few of them are rather useful, and for players a little less skilled at tackling 
 Castlevania's bosses may find them in limited use for a little boost in their damage output.
  
  Stylus use in Portrait of Ruin is, thankfully, rather limited, primarily only using the touch-screen 
 to move the character not currently being controlled. Though there a couple instances where this 
 is actually of importance, typically it's much better to let the AI control your partner, which 
 pretty much means follow you unless an enemy is near, in which case they'll attack. Again, it's 
 a neat idea on paper, but implementing such action, especially given Castlevania's strong action 
 pacing, makes it completely improper in actual use.
  
  Because Castlevania's action is back in its tried and tested true form. Those familiar with the 
 Castlevania series - Especially those who played Symphony of the Night for extended lengths of 
 time - will see many familiarities. You'll be wading through droves of dangerous beasties, although 
 since you have the ability to pop healing potions and upgrade your equipment for different situations, 
 normal baddies aren't of too much concern. Still, you'll see a lot of familiar faces, as well as 
 a few new ones, but this latest installment isn't trying to break the mold.
  
  Which it shouldn't, really, because even after two decades, the Castlevania series still holds 
 itself capably. Though most normal enemies and many of the bosses offer little difficulty to players 
 who are either already familiar with them, or are quick to recognizing how to evade their limited 
 attack patterns, some of the bosses offer some staunch challenge. Even more veteran players will 
 have trouble evading certain attacks by bosses, which is good, and offers up some needed difficulty 
 in lieu of the rest of the game's fairly breezy challenges.
  
  And you'll be given plenty to take up these bosses and mini-bosses, from droves of weapons and 
 armor that either boost your primary stats, or grant additional bonuses, going back to Symphony 
 of the Night. Some of these include allowing you to run faster, or being able to take hits without 
 going into the animations of being hit, just shrugging off the blow. A few even offer some strong 
 stat increases, while offering up a negative ailment to bear with, such as moving more slowly, 
 or being cursed. Different weapons all have different ups and downs, as well. You'll be wanting 
 to try out all the different weapons to see what suits your style well. You'll find yourself constantly 
 asking yourself if the slower, uber damage weapon is truly better than the faster, albeit much 
 weaker weapon. These RPG elements give you interesting choices in regards to what equipment you'll 
 be using, and certainly adds some life to the roster of items you'll acquire as the game progresses.
 
  
  There are plenty of ways to get those items, too. Castlevania fans won't be too surprised to learn 
 that one of the best ways to gain equipment is dropped from enemies. Unfortunately, however, if 
 you go through the game getting all the enemies' drops as you meet them, you'll end up some particularly 
 strong equipment that can really diminish the challenge of the area you're in, including its boss. 
 As a completist, I can appreciate this offering for the players who take the time to kill endless 
 numbers of enemies just to get an unknown item, but some of the armor and weapons you can get at 
 certain points in time will drastically improve your stats, and in certain cases, hold you off 
 until almost the very end of the game, despite getting it roughly half way through the adventure.
 
  
  There's also a shop in the game where you can resupply your stock of healing potions and magic-restoration 
 items, as well as purchase new weapons, armor, accessories, sub-weapons, and spells for Charlotte. 
 Aside from that shop, there are also a number of quests that you can undertake, each with its own 
 rewards. Quests vary from going to certain locations to perform a task, to acquiring certain items. 
 Some quests even grant new abilities, such as a rolling dodge or jumping knee strike. Unfortunately, 
 these require a button-input akin to Street Fighter mechanics, and as such, typically take far 
 too long to do in Castlevania's battles to actually make them useful.
  
  Aside from super strong equipment, you can also level Johnathan's familiar sub-weapons to Mastery 
 levels, granting them more power, or a varied form of attack. Although it's an interesting idea, 
 most of the sub-weapons don't become too much more useful when they're mastered. Unfortunately, 
 those that do, such as the shuriken acquired very early in the game, give a beefy boost to the 
 power of the weapon, and detracts from the challenge even further. I'm all for making the sub-weapons 
 stronger, but having leveled the shuriken very early in the game, I found it to prove a bonified 
 Boss Destroyer for a strong portion of the game.
  
  You'll be using all these items, equipment, and mastered sub-weapons to conquer the game's primary 
 castle, which is also filled with a number of Portraits. The Portraits act as hubs to different 
 areas, and allow a little more playing around with the environments, such as a desert area, a forest 
 area, and even a strange upside down and sideways area. Though some of these ideas aren't entirely 
 fresh to the Castlevania series, the castle itself is now more a castle, instead of a sprawling 
 location filled with all sorts of out of place environments. Beating the different portraits will 
 often unlock new abilities for your team, allowing you to reach those new locations in the castle.
 
  
  Outside of the primary game, for which there are two endings, the second of which will tack on 
 quite a number of areas to complete, there are also some modes which Castlevania's longer fans 
 will already be familiar with. You'll be able to tackle the castle with your standard duo on a 
 harder difficulty, or set the level limit to 1, 25, or 50 for added challenge. You can go on full 
 assault with Richter and Maria, or maybe even unlock a cult favorite, Axe Armor! These secondary 
 modes, however, are more for the completists, or players looking for a harder challenge. Casual 
 players probably won't find too much replayability in these added modes, but they're there as interesting 
 new ways to go about the castle's challenges.
  
  There's also a Boss-Rush mode, wherein you take your file's equipment and tackle a challenge of 
 running through a straight area, fighting strong enemies and bosses with only one full healing 
 potion and one full magic potion. There are only three stages of increasingly difficulty that you'll 
 be able to open up, and beating them grants you new items. Unfortunately, these rushes offer little 
 replay value outside of shooting for a better Time Completed score each time.
  
  Through all of Portrait of Ruin's 10-20 or so hours of casual completion - depending on how much 
 you actually want to complete, including acquiring enemy drops and the like - Portrait of Ruin 
 is a well polished and very easy on the eyes game. Many of the animations are well done, although 
 certain effects look far too pixelated, considering the level of the rest of the game's almost 
 glossed over feel. There's also a problem with some extreme slowdown during times when there's 
 too much going on the screen. Although it's infrequent, it really breaks up the pace and feel of 
 the combat, and since it typically happens on boss-battles, becomes a little more irritating. It's 
 not too terribly often, but there are a few points in the game where you come to simply accept 
 that it's going to happen.
  
  The game's score runs the gamut from catchy and upbeat, to upbeat and irritating. Fortunately, 
 only a few of the tracks are actually annoying, and you always have the option of turning down 
 the volume, as sound isn't too necessary to play through the game. There's also some minor voice-acting, 
 primarily for calling out the names of spells casted, for instance, but it helps to add a little 
 more flavor to the game.
  
  All in all, Portrait of Ruin is another strong addition to the series. Though it certainly doesn't 
 topple the series, it will surely entertain fans of the series. For completists and masochists, 
 there are also quite a few replay options, including the aforementioned harder difficulties, level 
 caps, and unlockable characters. The varying levels of difficulty, especially on a small handful 
 of bosses, may make newer players feel uneasy with the sudden spikes in difficulty - But really, 
 Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin gives you plenty of ways to conquer these baddies, and it's such 
 a well-polished and fun adventure, that you'll certainly want to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 13, 2007 3:10 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Great graphics, The bosses look awesome; tons of different types of weapons; Basic easy to 
 understand RPG gameplay
  
  BAD: Female characture is rubbish; too short; basic gameplay
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Portrait Of Ruin is a sidescroller game which works pretty well, becuase its now 
 on the DS it uses its functions, special on the Duel Screen, the bottom screen is were all the action 
 is and the top is were the map is, the touch screens is'nt realy used that much, only to move the 
 other charactures which'll help you during puzzles.
  
  You can play as two charactures, the Male and the Female, you'll be playing as the Male for 90% 
 times of the game becuase the Female chaarcture is'nt realy good to be honnest, She uses magic 
 from her books with weak melee attacks, the Male as alot of different weapons with high attacks.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are great, special the bosses, they move smoothly and look great, even the main charactures 
 and some of the mini bad guys, the level designs are great too with intresting levels and 3D backgrounds 
 that move in realy time, very impressive, Bug free and nice lighting, though the levels do look 
 kindda repetative
  
  SOUND:
  The game suports some voice acting but not alot, but it has good sound effects and great music.
 
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall its a good game, but its still overated, it might not intrest sidescrollers fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClukNbell
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 11, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I encourage anyone who is Castlevania fan, old or new, to definatley try out this game. The setting 
 &amp; style is amazing. It reflects the classic theme of old school Castlevania combined with the 
 later games. Brialliant story line, fun and challenging stradegy. It is definatly one of my faves 
 in the series. The graphics and art is definatly creative and well though up. The details of the 
 graphics/drawing are definatly apealing to the eye.
  
  The characters and bosses are amazinly thought up and designed as well. Strenght is present within 
 all characters, enemies, bosses etc. This game presents a length worthy ambitious aroma. This game 
 has made me apreciate every Castlevania game all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin follows on the coattails of the popular DS game, Dawn of Sorrow, 
 and it brings just as much excitement to the table, if not more.
  Now while you can breeze through the game and perhaps not think it's that amazing, take a deeper 
 look.
  The plethora of secret areas and the deep secondary weapon mastering skills, as well as the quests 
 and the interactive two character combat, Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is a must buy. Not to mention 
 the different modes the game offers, from the Boss Rush mode to the Old Axe Armor, Richiter, or 
 Two Sisters, the game offers a lot for the dedicated. Now I realize this isn't revolutionary, and 
 thats because Konami and Castlevania makes it work. Add in a touch of online play, such as online 
 shops and rush modes, and the game is truly a gem.
  The story is a bit weak, but the rashness of the main character, Jonathan, adds a touch of comedy 
 to the vampire slaying DS sequel. And the graphics wont blow you away, but they are still very 
 convincing and create a great feeling game.
  Overall, Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin offers so much that its surprising Konami was able to fit 
 it into the small DS cartridge. The inclusion of 2 characters usable by the DS screen brings the 
 game to a whole other level, and brings Castlevania in my books to an 8.9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocarina_jedi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  I'll get this out of the way right away: While not a Castlevania expert, I'm not new to the series 
 either. Portrait of Ruin is the 7th Castlevania game I've played (6th I've beaten) , and 5 of them 
 have all been from this age of Metroidvania. Here are my Castlevania Credentials: Castlevania II: 
 Belmont's Revenge; Castlevania 64 (The only one I haven't beaten) ; Circle of the Moon; Harmony 
 of Dissonance; Aria of Sorrow; Dawn of Sorrow; and now Portrait of Ruin.
  
  PoR plays very similar to most of the recent titles in the series, namely those that are modeled 
 after the critically-acclaimed Symphony of the Night, those dubbed the Metroidvanias or Castleroids, 
 due to their similarity to Metroid-style gameplay. Despite staying close to this tried-and-true 
 formula, PoR is very much its own game and remains unique. PoR offers you two playable characters. 
 You have vampire hunter Johnathan Morris and spellcaster Charlotte Aulin. Whichever one you aren't 
 controlling will be handled by the computer, but if you want, the second character doesn't even 
 have to be on-screen. Also, you can switch between characters on the fly. The AI-controlled character 
 actually does a pretty good job of not acting stupid. It will attack when needed, and you can direct 
 it yourself when you want it to use its secondary attack. Also, you can pair up to unleash devastating 
 team attacks. The core of the gameplay is pretty straightforward. Equip your character with the 
 best weapons and armor available, and go forth into the castle. You'll have to fight your way through 
 hordes of undead creatures to reach your ultimate goal. However, be sure to explore diligently, 
 or else you will get the bad ending, and miss out on about half of the game!
  
  The story here isn't too bad at all. I won't spoil much of it, but just know it revolves around 
 Johnathan and Charlotte coming to the castle with the intent to destroy Dracula, only to find that 
 the evil Count isn't around. Another vampire, by the name of Brauner and his two daughters, Stella 
 and Loretta, have instead taken up residence. Brauner is somewhat of an artist, and he has placed 
 several of his paintings throughout the castle. You must find the paintings, enter into them, and 
 destroy the monsters within them to take away Brauner's powers. The graphics are where the game 
 truly shines. All characters are beautifully animated, and detailed excellently. The levels all 
 have fantastic backdrops, proving quite succinctly just what the DS is capable of. The sound department 
 isn't anything to scoff at either. The game has limited voice-overs, but they are all done quite 
 well. You won't find yourself straining to hear what is said at all. The music is spot-on, as it 
 always is in this series. Even in its earliest days, the Castlevania series has had music that 
 was more than memorable, and PoR is no exception.
  
  The game is rather short. I beat it in 10 hours, with minimal help from walkthroughs. However, 
 my DS is still new, and I can't compare this length to many others. Maybe I'm wrong, and 10 hours 
 is greeat for a DS game. Regardless, the length is more than made up for with multiple replay modes. 
 You can replay as a number of different characters, each of which offer very interesting new ways 
 to play. Also, the game offers you a number of quests to accomplish, which can take up a lot of 
 time outside of your main quest.
  
  On the whole, this is a great addition to a great series. PoR takes what we have gotten familiar 
 with from other recent titles, and gets it almost perfect. It offers a very difficult quest, and 
 will actually challenge you, even if you aren't new to the series. If you are new, you might want 
 to get familiar with the series elsewhere, but you definitely should find your way back to this 
 game when you are ready. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 27, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  At 20 years old, Castlevania is among the oldest, and still most popular, gaming franchises. Portrait 
 of Ruin, by altering the formula just tad to keep things fresh, but mostly by knowing not to screw 
 around with what works, is a prime example of how the game's developers know what the series' fans 
 do and don't want from their games.
  
  Like Dawn of Sorrow, its predecessor, Portrait of Ruin eschews a Belmont hero (though their name 
 is bandied about in narrative quite often) in favor of Jonathan Morris and his companion Charlotte. 
 Set during the second world war, you've inherited the Belmont family's vampire-slaying whip, and 
 must assault Dracula's castle to stop the evil within. You'll learn the castle and the antagonist, 
 a vampire named Brauner, are using extra-dimensional areas accessible via paintings to generate 
 power, and you'll venture inside them to seal them off, one-by-one. As always, there's a positively 
 massive array of weapons, spells, defensive items, foodstuffs, and accessories to make your characters 
 your own. A new addition is an NPC who provides quests to complete, allowing you to gain new items 
 and skills. Additionally, while the presumed protagonist is Jonathan, you may play as Charlotte, 
 or even have them team up as a CPU-controlled ally, the key diffference being Jonathan can use 
 sub-weapons and not spells, while Charlotte can use spells and not sub-weapons. The title plays 
 just like you want from a Castlevania title, with just those few tweaks.
  
  The settings afforded by the paintings infuse a great new sense of exploration, with Egyptian pyramid 
 and forest-themed levels adding to the occasionally monotonous theme of just exploring a castle, 
 and monsters from past Castlevanias are now segregated to appropriate areas as a result, with mummies 
 in desert tombs and flying opponents in the forest. A sorely needed graphical update has also been 
 implemented, with models in use since the GBA titles finally getting a major makeover to take advantage 
 of the DS' beefed-up graphics ability. The subtle humor in food descriptions is also intact, worthy 
 of an occasional guffaw (Hot Dog: A delicious hot dog. Just don't ask what's in it.) And as always, 
 there's a ton of hidden areas with great treasures to discover, as you'll nearly always be left 
 scratching your head after beating a boss, wondering where you missed that leftover 2.4% of the 
 map.
  
  While the 2nd character is touted as an advance in gameplay, it's really just semantics. You can 
 call out Charlotte to quickly cast a spell, but pressing the button to do so really only replaces 
 pressing that same button and having your character cast the same spell. While there are a few 
 puzzles that require both characters to do, most of the time you'll use one player at time. The 
 quest system could have been handled much better; the casual player will likely only complete 5 
 or so out of more than 30. That the game lets you sell off items you didn't know were unique, you 
 have no way to reacquire, and would later need to complete a quest is a major flaw, while other 
 quests are pretty much dependent on you killing monsters tons of times over until it drops its 
 item (s) until you luck onto the item needed. A very minor nitpick is the title itself: despite 
 the name, none of the paintings you jump into to warp to other worlds are actually portraits.
 
  
  The gameplay is generally the same as previous Castlevania games, though the problem of accidentally 
 activating your sub-weapon while jumping to attack an airborne creature persists, and is likely 
 to do so until the activation changes from up+Y. This is easily the most beautiful of any Castlevania 
 game, and for some creatures, the graphical update really brings them to life like never before, 
 especially the Peeping Tom. The sounds still fill the game with atmosphere, and as always each 
 area has it's own melody, often with a classical flair. With a total of ten maps, there is more 
 to do than any previous title, and while the promised Wi-Fi is a very lacking, a shop feature that 
 lets you sell/buy goods online does afford the chance to acquire one of the previously mentioned 
 lost quest items, if you can find someone finished the game who's of a pleasant disposition to 
 help you out. The best complement you can pay to the game is that it does what every sequel aspires 
 to do: does the previous titles proud, and leaves you wistfully looking at your calendar for the 
 next sequel to arrive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 30, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game you start with the vampire killer (the Belmont's specialized whip) but surprisingly it 
 sucks. The whip isn't at it's fullest potential which later on you will have to find a way to unlock 
 in order to get the best ending. Of course all the usually monster are there skeleton, bats, zombies, 
 the usual and new bosses beside Death and Dracula (if you played the game and got to the ending 
 you will understand why I quoted and) . If I remember correctly all the castlevania games this is 
 the first game in which you can have the vampire killer and other weapons because in the game previously 
 either you only have the whip or you don't but have a whole lot of arsenals to choose from. DoS 
 has a better story, gameplay, and replay value but this game isn't to be ignored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin Review It isnt the best Castlevania game to be launched but you 
 must indeed get out and buy this ambitious release.
  The Good: Portable Castlevania have one of the most enjoyable ways of fighting Its incredible. 
 The graphics look great, especially the background and the characters. Music is varied. Bosses 
 prove to be tough to master and the numerous puzzles require thought. There are assorted portraits 
 (locations) to visit. Weapons and spells are all enjoyable to test out. The Wireless mode includes 
 Shop Mode which is a definite positive.
  The Bad: Other modes (Boss rush mode, and Co-op Mode) are very poor. Expect a maximum 2 hour thrill 
 out of these modes. No souls to be collected are a downer as well. Lastly, there arent many multiplayer 
 modes that you will enjoy with a friend. Shop Mode is the only one that appealed to me.
  Castlevania is an old series that has been improving with additional tweaks over the years. Circle 
 of Moon proved to be original and addicting. Dawn of Sorrow followed the same roots as Circle of 
 Moon and it improved. Portrait of Ruin was then the next installment to the portable series and 
 it wasnt as good as the previous two, yet it was still a well worth purchase.
  Game-Play: Portrait of Ruin succeeds when game-play comes around for the most part. As far as the 
 combat system goes, this game is simply extraordinary. Following Dawn of Sorrow, the fighting is 
 simple and varied. There are numerous weapons for you to use as well as numerous enemies to defeat. 
 In combat, you dodge moves by jumping and moving away from the blows. You fight back by using your 
 equipped weapons, casting spells, or even hurling certain weapons. Once you defeat a set number 
 of enemies, you then are rewarded with a level up which promises more health and magic power. Additional 
 challenges include spikes and traps in your path. The game proves to be difficult particularly 
 in the beginning. After beating the first three or four bosses you wont have problems breezing 
 through the rest of the game. The bosses all are significantly fast or gigantic and they fight 
 using their own attack methods and strategies. It is up to you to learn how to dodge their attacks 
 and to time everything right. The bosses prove to be challenging (well at least the beginning few) 
 and you must work hard to defeat them.
  The story is alright. It isnt like you will be in suspense, but it is enough to leave you in some 
 kind of interest. Characters are encountered and each is cool and mysterious-you dont always know 
 if they are good or bad. In Portrait of Ruin, you learn moves outside of battle. Slide-kicks and 
 double jumps are great examples. Learning these techniques enables you to get to a portrait you 
 have never discovered. This adds to even more of the puzzling predicaments the game has to offer, 
 enabling you to actually use that brain of yours. Other than the main story mode you will NOT have 
 fun with the additional game modes. Lets start with Boss Rush Mode If you like running your tail 
 off by slicing enemies and trying to get a good time then look somewhere else. Yes, this is what 
 Boss Rush Mode is, but it is so repetitive and very dully thought out you will have a 1 hour thrill. 
 There are three stages and the first is the easiest, the third the hardest. I dont know what it 
 is about this mode; I just found that it didnt appeal to me remotely. The only pro on all of this 
 is that you start with the first stage right from the top.
  Next comes Co-op Mode Ah This is the dumbest feature ever. You do meet friends from afar and 
 nearby, but it is downright sad. You dont play through the game with each other you just play 
 selected stages that are almost as dully presented as Boss Rush Mode.
  Lastly comes Shop Mode which consists of you selling weaponry for a selected price. This is good 
 for making tons of cash, but it takes time for your item to be purchased by another user. I liked 
 this feature but it is only fun if you find a weapon you like.
  Thats it on game-play. Overall, game-play is above average. The junky less significant modes are 
 monotonous, but the story mode is well worth playing.
  Graphics: The graphics of Castlevania Portrait of Ruin are beyond my personal expectations. It 
 improves off of Dawn of Sorrow and even that game had some nice visuals. The characters for one, 
 look great and they are all various whether it be their clothing or their facial expressions. There 
 are over 120 enemies, including the bosses. Each looks different and excellent. The many different 
 locations are varied and the scenery seldom gets repetitive. Weapons and items are all fairly detailed 
 and therefore, look good. This game has some nice graphics; however, it is not 3-D and the 2-D 
 graphics are well presented but I have seen much better from other Nintendo DS games of the same 
 price and if not, cheaper. Sound: The music is nothing special but there is such a variety that 
 you will recognize each and every location by its original tunes. The noises such as clashing of 
 weapons and yells uttered by enemies, sound good and are well projected through the microphone 
 of the Nintendo DS. Sound is great and nearly perfect due to originality and variety.
  Value: Whatever this meansI have no clue but I consider value by saying was it worth its price? 
 I would say yes to most. You have a decent and long game in the story anyway. Other modes are good 
 to have provided but arent as entertaining. This game is new so it is the well known 35 dollar 
 DS pricing. I will tell you that fans of Wi-fi will not be as turned on as those who like to play 
 single player games. But nearly everyone plays games for the campaign, story, or whatever and Im 
 sure you are that kind of person; thus, this game is for you. Overall, Castlevania: Portrait of 
 Ruin is a remarkable experience, but it isnt as good as Dawn of Sorrow. I suggest that newcomers 
 get this first and have as much fun as they can and then enjoy the improvements Dawn of Sorrow 
 has to offer. All in all, I think this game was meant to be created before Dawn of Sorrow and not 
 after. Thats just my opinion on things though. Its a good game that is well worth a purchase 
 or a rent in the least. I really hope this helped and this is all I have to say. Peace out.
  -OblivionGuy07 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War-Tex
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 23, 2007 5:29 am PT
Review:  Even though its 2d, this game is really fun to play. i've had second thoughts on buying this game 
 but when i bought it i was really impressed with it.
  Playing this game was a great pleasure on myself :P
  There are many things u can do to kill enemies, yes 
 there are many spells and magic things too, not only weapons.
  U also equip things which can make u stronger, but some can be really painful...
  As u will see 
 for urself, u will be using Jonathan instead of Charlotte.
  Even though charlotte has the spells u will be using jonathan much more than using her. but u will 
 be using her in some places where u need teamwork. u can also use both of their powers AKA Dual 
 Crush which is very useful against big enemies or a group of enemies.
  The story follows the year 1944. an ancient vampire threatens the fate of the world utilizing Dracula's 
 accursed castle and mystical paintings to open portals to Death..
  If u are a fan of the Castlevania Series, this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1st2die
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania PoR is a great game. it brings back some new monsters and some old ones. The gameplay 
 is easy and effective during tight battles. The ability to have another character fighting along 
 side you is awsome. The battles are intense and challenging at times. There are tons of extras 
 especially new playable characters. The music is better and fits in with the battles. There are 
 plenty of tunes to keep you kicking ass!!! I can't really say anything about the graphics. Besides 
 that they fit in with the DS. That brings up the Dual Screens. One is for map or character stats. 
 And the touch screen is for the gameplay. The online is pretty boring especially because there 
 are not that many people online. But other than that the game is a most buy!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  this game has a lenghty story again and with just as much charm as the other games, tons of weapons, 
 monsters, spells, abilities, and co-op moves! the gameplay is still classic but this time you get 
 a partner thourgh out the game with offers some fresh gameplay options. this time you get a whip 
 and tons of moves. There is even an online play! Co-op and shop but it is still fun... just not 
 as good as it could have been.
  The sound is good with some voice acting this time but... its hidden and you'll have to find it, 
 other wise the sound is good with some catchy music.
  The graphics are slightly upgraded since dawn of sorrow but not to much of a difference still a 
 good mixture of 2D and 3D graphics.
  This game is another game castlevania fans will bound to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 11, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  portrait of ruin is the second castlevania game to hit the nintendo ds. while it doesnt live up 
 to dawn of sorrow the game brings new elements to the classic formula to make it alot more enjoyable 
 then previous entries. the game takes place during ww2 and draculas castle has been revived by 
 the vampire bruaner to destroy the world and its up to charlotte (the 16 year old mage) and jonathon 
 morris (18, vampire killer heir) to stop him, u can switch between the 2 at any point during the 
 game,. charlotte has powerful magic while jon has strong physical attacks the 2 can also team up 
 to launch special combo attacks. this tag team play is very fun yet it takes a chunk out of the 
 difficulty after u learn to get the hang of it. the graphics are still great for the ds. the sound 
 is great as well very scary yet w/ no vo's it kinda loses some points. their are alot of modes 
 to play and quests to do when u finish the story so u can keep playin by yourself or wit a friend. 
 overall por adds some new elements to the classic formula to make it more enjoyable then its predeccesors. 
 i recommend it to anyone cravin a great ds game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LINKTHECHAMPION
Rating: 0
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Well, I've played 2 Castlevania games before, and this one isn't as good as Dawn of Sorrow. It's 
 still a good game, don't get me wrong, but it's not as rationed as it's prequel. With that in mind, 
 I'll go into more detail about Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin.
  
  Graphics- 10
  These are some of the best graphics I've seen on a handheld. The characters are pretty well detailed, 
 yet refrain from being over detailed on the kind of small characters. The enemies are equally detailed, 
 as are the weapons/spells you can use. The backgrounds and rooms are also fairly detailed, and 
 none of this give you an All Flash, No Substance feeling, because the gameplay is also good.
  
  Gameplay- 9
  This game follows suit in the gameplay style of Castlevania, and is hard until 
 after the second boss, and after that it becomes a lot less harder. But gameplay consists of many 
 parts (in my opinion) , so I'll break it down:
  Controls: The controls are pretty simple, and after about 15 minutes, you'll be familiar with what 
 every button does and should have no trouble controlling the characters.
  Fighting: Well, I couldn't detect any lag in parts of the game where you have to fight, the damage 
 ratio seems fair with occasional exception, but the game is a bit bloody.
  Wi-Fi: The co-op mode is a total letdown, but the shop mode is good even though it won't let you 
 set your own prices on the items you sell. This also gives you a chance to buy good items for loads 
 of money no matter where you are in the game.
  Everything else: Well, the story line is very entertaining, it doesn't get old, the equipable items 
 vary in strength enough to make it so you'll spend a load of money on them, and the upgrades you 
 get are a little piled up, but not too badly.
  
  Sound- 8
  Well, the sound isn't really anything special, just some different music for the different areas 
 and some special music when an event occurs, but the music never seems to get old to me.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt- 8
  I'm not sure what exactly reviewer's tilt means, but if I'm right and it 
 means What do other people think of this game? both of the other people that I know that own this 
 game also like it.
  
  Value- 9
  Well, if you ever get passed the first 2 bosses, you'll be playing this for a while, the game is 
 long, fairly hard, entertaining, and, well, just read above for the ups and downs of it.
  
  This is a good game, and if you own this game, after you beat this one, you may want to look into 
 buying Dawn of Sorrow, because it's a lot like this game, except without the insanely hard first 
 two bosses and a normal rest of the game and a different story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishzone
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. Fantastic and addicting. I picked it up a couple weeks ago and have yet 
 to put it down. I really like using either Jonathan or Charlotte separately, and even better having 
 both characters on screen using one as your backup. The co-op moves are very nice, I especially 
 like 1000 blades. very effective. Its definitely a game that you need getting used to, if you don't 
 watch your health meter, you can quickly die. I have had many a time where progress has been lost 
 because I didn't pay enough attention to the health meter. I have yet to beat the game, as I am 
 still leveling up so I can face the whips memory, and then move on to Dracula, but all in all, 
 this is a great game and I totally recommend it to anyone who was an old Castlevania fans or even 
 new ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wanderer5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  In 2005 Dawn of Sorrow came out and now a year later (2006) Portrait of Ruin is finally out and 
 a little more than a week ago I got my hands on this game. POR has a partner system which you control 
 two characters (Jonathan and Charlotte) . You can switch a character or have both on the screen. 
 To me this is a fun system, and you may find it also fun. Same as DOS or SotN there is a map (s) 
 which you can explore in a non linear path. But there is more than one map. Other then Dracula 
 castle there are portraits which will transport you to Cities, deserts, and more. 
  
  The graphics for the most part look great. The models (characters, monsters, bosses) look great, 
 but some of them are similar from other CV games. The level are mostly impressive, some have 3D 
 backgrounds. Some however look a little dull. For sound the music is one of the strongest point 
 in this game. Voice acting is good too but there not that much of it. 
  
  The game itself is not that hard. If you really good at it you probably beat the game in maybe 
 7 hours, but that for one of the endings. If you want the other ending or want to complete the 
 maps it will take longer. There is still tons of stuff to do. First off there are quests which 
 you can take, do them, and get rewards. 
  
  There is also boss rush, a few others characters to play, sound mode, and multiplayer. Multiplayer 
 is a little disappointing. Co-op mode are short and shop mode is sorta worthless. Beside some minor 
 flaws this game is still fun if you want more castlevania for the DS. Not quite as impressive as 
 Dawn of Sorrow, but POR is still a great game which castlevania fans will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soapy_2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Castlevania is a 2-D game that takes place in a castle (obviously) . The graphics are amazing, for 
 a 2-D game. I'm not really sure if this is new, but you can play as two characters, either individually 
 or at the same time! There are plenty of weapons and spells and you also get some side quests from 
 a ghost. The music in this game is great, and the game is pretty challenging. If you compare the 
 difficulty of this game compared to Dawn of Sorrow, its pretty hard, you can't say that the game 
 is easy. The bosses are also very cool, this is a game that you MUST get for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caboose1221
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The game is beautiful the textures the backgrounds. It may be 2d but thats the way i like to play 
 a great castlevania title. I have been hooked on the series since SoN, i bought and beat DoS and 
 loved it. the characters stand out and the music is breathtaking. I really like the ability to 
 us the two characters to get stride farther through Dracula's castle. It was hard but not too hard 
 and its story is engaging. I was sucked in to the universe. The WiFi is a great add on as well 
 but it would have been more fun to play the story multi player but it is a fun short burst in Boss 
 Rush Mode. There is not much more to say about this almost perfect DS title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GS16
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 31, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is not innovative, but it doesnt have to be. The Castlevania series 
 has proven that games dont have to be innovative to be great. The new partner system is fun, although 
 maybe not as good as the soul system of Aria &amp; Dawn of Sorrow. The quest is lengthy and the 
 portraits add even more depth to the gameplay. As usual the graphics include beautifully hand-drawn 
 backgrounds and awesome character animations. However, once you beat the game you also unlock a 
 treasure trove of bonuses. You unlock the ability to play as either Richter and Maria or Stella 
 and Loretta. Unlike Aria of Sorrows boring Julius mode, these both offer distinct experiences 
 that differ highly from Jonathan and Charlottes. You also unlock a hard difficulty setting which 
 is far more difficult than some of the other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlorgieNel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on a whim, even though I've never played any Castlevania games before (or many 
 action-adventure games at all, for that matter) . Well, it quickly turned into my favourite DS game. 
 I was totally unfamiliar with the series but I wanted a change from the FInal Fantasy-type RPG, 
 so I went in to get Dawn of Sorrow but ended up with this instead.
  
  The tag team system is brilliant. Even if it's mostly centered on Jonathon, Charlotte is a great 
 addition to the team and has at least one battle to fight by herself. There are so many joint attacks 
 and things to do that I didn't even realize until I was about 1/4 of the way through the game. 
 The boss battles are tough but fair. One battle in particular was probably one of the greatest 
 boss battles I've ever fought; it was challenging, but fun and not that frusterating. In fact, 
 this whole game can be described like that. Even if there was that boss I just couldn't seem to 
 beat, I never had the urge to throw my DS at the wall (well, except for the Nest of Evil, but that's 
 understandable) .
  
  This game has fabulous music, too. I'd love to get this soundtrack if I could find it. Of course, 
 the sound is only second to the great graphics. All in all, this game was thoroughly enjoyable, 
 and even after beating it the first time, there's still tons to do. Getting 1000% completion in 
 all three modes and difficulties will take you forever, and once you're done, you can still play 
 boss rush and co-op mode online. I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this game to everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoeJance
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  This was a pretty good game with plenty of extras. I still prefer the Soul System in Dawn of Sorrow 
 but the partner system works good too. Having to people out at once can be good or bad. If they 
 are getting attacked then you lose MP instead of health. there are i dont really feel like writing 
 a review right now so im just gonna type a bunch of random words and see if i get in trouble. i 
 wonder how many more words i need. Ok does anyone actually read these? I clicked submit but i needed 
 more words so here ya go ok lets see how man many mo.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staarx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  In all of the castlevania games out to date this one takes the cake, if not all of it most of it... 
 I've played a lot of the castlevania games in the past and have been content with them. When I 
 played Portrait of Ruin I found myslef putting aside my other games to make time for this one. 
 I had no expectation when I popped it into my DS and found out that this was no ordinary game. 
 There are alot of deciding factors that make this a great game. the first thing that had me set 
 on the game was that it was on the Nintendo DS! It's one thing to have a great game but to have 
 a great game that is portable is another thing. Because of its portability and the suspend feature 
 I can play anytime anywhere without woring about having to get to a save point. This made it perfect 
 for me to take to work and play in my boredom of a job -- when ever you hear the boss coming just 
 suspend the data and turn off your DS leaving no evidence that you ever playing at all.. Now thats 
 my kind of game. Aside from being portable the game offered some features that were new to castlevania. 
 namely the team feature that I found to be great for a while but found myself focusing more on 
 using jonathan a lot more than charolette because of how the leveling system was set up. seeing 
 as how both your characters share the same experience, health and mp (besides the fact that your 
 team mates health is the mp bar) you don't need to work on each individual character to keep their 
 levels even. while this may seem as a plus you have to think of all the abilities that you can 
 get as jonathan that make moving around a whole lot easier. One of the technical other downsides 
 was the subweapon system. Now I'm usually not super thorough in the games I play... you know- getting 
 everything little thing no matter how obscure, maxing out my levels and stats, maxxing out my money, 
 the list goes on and on.. yet in this game I somehow found myself drawn to try to get everything. 
 I just didn't get the feeling of having completing the game with out doing all that stuff... this 
 is where the subweapon system went bad. most the bubweapons can be mastered at 1000 . this 1000 
 stands for enemies killed. now I'm not saying this is hard at all but is a very heavy undertaking... 
 mastering all the skills too a few hours (1 full charge plus a little extra to master everything) 
 mind you I used a few tricks to help speed that up i. e. location and the master ring. mastering 
 all the subweapons again would be like you asking me to play Final Fantasy VIII five times in a 
 row. (not exactly, but you get the point) One of the other great features (again new to the series) 
 was the wifi feature and unlike a few other DS titles took the better approach. A few of the DS 
 games like Contact only allow wifi between people on your friend list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sungoro12728
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2007 9:13 am PT
Review:  the game is fascinating i really recommend it to any one weather u are fimiliar with the castlevania 
 series or not it is great and if u havent played any castlevania before this is a summary of whats 
 gonna happen
  1 count drac will be revived 2 death is his loyal servant he will never give him away no matter 
 what
  3 the main Chara defetes both or will this happen ........ well find about that your self enjoy!!!
 
  for those who are fimilar with the series this is a piece of work it is a must get for u guys 
 and i will never tolerate any betrayl if you don't play this game i will kill you why are you still 
 reading go go now buy this game and get your ds cracking and save the world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Imagine Dawn of Sorrow's gameplay elements mixed with actual uses of the DS' capabilities 
 and you have Portrait of Ruin. Sure, PoR sticks to the same old Castlevania formula, but as the 
 saying goes If it isn't broke, don't fix it . Only this time, Konami has done a great job of perfecting 
 some flaws made in Dawn of Sorrow.
  As the game starts, you play Jonathon and/or Charlotte. Jonathon, heir to the Vampire Killer whip, 
 finds himself and his friend Charlotte in Dracula's Castle... only to face everything but Dracula 
 (or so it seems) . You enter the castle to find a vampire named Bruner and his daughter's Stella 
 and Loretta, whom have sealed the castle's powers inside many different portrait's in which you 
 will have to explore. Each portrait of course has its own theme and boss battle, which for the 
 most part are unique and fun to play through. The real gem of the game though obviously is the 
 gameplay itself.
  In case you are not familiar with the Castlevania franchise, your characters each have their own 
 statistics as you would see in an RPG. The combat is done in real time, and is part of the action 
 adventure genre only in an RPG sidescroller format. You gain levels, find new weapons and armors, 
 and collect new spells hidden in the castle and inside of portraits. In Portrait of Ruin though, 
 there is a bit of a twist on the usual gameplay. Since the DS has two screens, why not have two 
 characters as well? You play the game as both Jonathon and Charlotte in the game, and essentially 
 you can pick who you want to use more in the game. Regardless though, the other character will 
 almost always be around to help you rid of the bad guys in the game, so it is almost like having 
 a party member. In addition to this you have one ultra powerful spell that is used by both characters 
 at once, which obviously will use up a lot of your MP or magic points.
  The last new addition to Portrait of Ruin is its WiFi play. Although the WiFi is kind of lackluster, 
 I really can't complain considering this is the first Castlevania to include online play. There 
 are two basic modes that you can play online, a shop mode where you can setup your own shop, and 
 a Co-op mode that lets you go through Boss Rush Mode (a level with a series of bosses) with a friend 
 or stranger. Nothing about these modes are really all that fun or even useful, but they were at 
 least included in the game.
  Overall the game provides the expected level of Castlevania quality gameplay and also provides 
 a reasonably interesting storyline to follow... especially if you follow the Castlevania timeline.
 
  
  Graphics: This Castlevania has the same basic visuals we saw in Dawn of Sorrow, with a few improvements 
 on things. The effects do look a little bit better, and the environments are more up to date in 
 terms of visuals. Some of the 3D backgrounds don't look as good as they could, but they do look 
 pretty good regardless.
  
  Sound: The sound here is exceptionally good. It has great music, especially in the entrance of the 
 castle, and it has some pretty good voice work as well even if voice acting is minimal. Sound effects 
 are nice to listen to as well, especially some of the spells you can use.
  
  Value: In addition to the online Boss Rush Mode and Shop Mode, there is of course the usual Castlevania 
 secrets. There are alternate endings, secret areas, and new weapons and spells always waiting to 
 be found. This game has the same replay value of all the other Castlevania's and even more with 
 the added Wi-Fi mode. In conclusion, Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is one of the best games to 
 be brought to the DS not because it creates a revolutionary experience, but because it perfects 
 any problems seen in past handheld Castlevania's. This is the modern handheld Castlevania we all 
 have been looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APic
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Here is a good game.
  Great graphics, great sound, great music, great gameplay, great everything.
  Portrait of Ruin 
 is the second Castlevania game for the Nintendo DS and it is many times better than the first one.
 
  This installment of the series is a direct sequel to the Sega game Bloodlines. In here you play 
 as two rather than one. At the touch of a button you switch characters, can have two at a time, 
 and can deal out co-op attacks.
  This is also the first Castlevania game to feature co-op multiplay.
  The story involves paintings 
 which hold worlds to explore outside of the castle. This really helps to vary the setting. There 
 is the castle, an Egypttion pyramid, the foggy streets of London, a evil forest with a witch school, 
 and a freaky, twisted, upside down and sideways carnaval city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 18, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  There have been no less than 6 Symphony of the Night style Castlevania games. It's no surprise 
 that these games keep coming out. They are gaming perfection. Although they haven't quite reached 
 the perfection that was SoTN, they are still 95% as good.
  
  Unfortunately this game is probably one of the worst in series. That doesn't mean it's bad though, 
 it's great. Saying it's the worst is like comparing an A- grade to an A grade, but it still doesn't 
 quite reach the magic that at least 4 of the other 6 games did.
  
  The level design is not quite as polished and imaginative as the other Castlevania games. Here 
 you will find pretty straightforward corridors, and hub-style level design, which I feel doesn't 
 work here. That's if you compare the games though, and I'm being picky, I know. It's just that 
 these games are so great, and I expect an extremely high standard that they have set for themselves. 
 This one is almost there, but is slightly below the average.
  
  If I don't compare, on its own, this game shines. The music, the graphics, and the deep RPG, Metroid 
 style gameplay are not to be missed. The boss battles are especially fun. This game is also very 
 long! Longer than most of the handheld Castlevania games.
  
  If you have a DS, and you like the other Castlevania games, you should get this one, period. If 
 you've never played a Castlevania game since SoTN, start from the beginning and play all 6, you 
 will be impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaJaYmAsTeR
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a little after it came out. I was curious as to why there were two people on 
 the cover, when i know castlevania is usually a one man game. That was what the twist to this castlevania 
 game was. You get to play as the vampire slayer as usual and in addition, a partner that is a girl 
 who is an expert in the magic field. you can maneuver the two people so you can complete certain 
 task and get through some puzzles. Your main weapon in the game is a whip, which i really admire 
 because of its long reach. There are many relic, even though the first couple are required so you 
 and your partner can partake in special co-op actions. This is a wonderful game that captures the 
 essence of castlevania very well, but i don't think it did as good of a job like its predecessor 
 castlevania dawn of sorrow. I recommend this came to anyone, castlevania fans, and newcomers alike. 
 you will definitely enjoy this game, go pick it up today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Belisarius118
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 7:18 am PT
Review:  Every time I buy a new Castlevania game, I sit there wondering how long until Konami has finally 
 run out of new ideas for the franchise then its over. Thankfully for Portrait of Ruin this isn't 
 the case. The game retains all the old school goodness that made Symphony of the Night so amazing, 
 but adds just enough new features to make it worth picking up right away. One thing to impress 
 me initially was that the setting of the game is during the height of World War II, which for a 
 second made me think this is going to suck, Dracula is going to be a Nazi and why don't I just 
 watch Indiana Jones if I want to see people being humiliated with a whip. However, I was pleasantly 
 wrong to find the even though PoR is set during WWII, it still has that classic Castlevania feel 
 and charm. One thing that keeps the game fresh are the many portraits the main characters, Johnathan 
 and Charlotte have to go through to accomplish various tasks throughout the game. Thankfully places 
 like Egypt and London break up the seemingly never ending Gothic architecture of Dracula's castle 
 in exchange for some locations you wouldn't necessarily associate with Vampires. As far as gameplay 
 is concerned, PoR is one of the more well tuned and balanced in the franchise. The great new aspect 
 of the game is that you and your partner (either Johnathan or Charlotte depending on who you play) 
 can work together to fight the many minions of Dracula. Surprisingly, this mechanic works extremely 
 well; it is easy to both control both characters and pull off seemingly ridiculous combos that 
 fill up the entire screen. Now while it is fairly easy to master the controls of both Johnathan 
 and Charlotte, one thing that I am glad to see return is that boss battles in the game have one 
 again become hard, almost to the point of being frustrating. As one of the people who were disappointed 
 by the difficulty of Dawn of Sorrow, it is good to see that Dracula can kick my ass a good ten 
 or so times before i finally get the one up on him. Despite all the great single player features, 
 there are two things that Konami really overlooked, the use of dual screen and multiplayer aspects 
 of the game. Don't get me wrong, having the map on the upper screen of the DS is such a lifesaver, 
 but sometimes I would like the chance to customize the top screen to suit whats happening in the 
 game. Yet, the top screen is not really that big of deal, just a minor gripe. Konami really skimped 
 on the multiplayer features by making you and a friend only able to boss rush. With the entire 
 single player part of the game dedicated to co-op I would have liked to combat Gary Oldman with 
 a friend. Konami has once again assured us that fighting Dracula is as fun and memorable as it 
 was when Symphony of the Night was released. Konami has proven time and again that it can make 
 a solid single player experience, all it needs to do is make a Castlevania game with an equally 
 great multiplayer feature and there may finally be a worthy rival to Symphony of the Night as a 
 the game's best incarnation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derickthegamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  We all love 2-D Mario and Sonic classics. Nothing in gaming is quite like those and other adventures 
 where you jump from platform to platform, defeating a variety of enemies with simple (yet increasingly 
 difficult) attacks. Take this, and add a little more complexity as well as a broad system of RPG-like 
 items and skill levels that integrate seamlessly with the platforming element. You have just created 
 Castlevania, one of electronic gaming's most fantastic series, the peak of which is Portrait of 
 Ruin. And the game turns out to be one of the best of either genres.
  
  Gameplay:
  The very idea behind the gameplay, as described above, is genius. As fun as platformers can be, 
 the genres simplicity can get slightly monotonous and even mindless. In RPGs, the lack of real-time 
 reflex-based interaction can give the players a sense of distance. Most hybrids between the two 
 genres have, in my experience, failed in one aspect or the other. This is not the case with C: PR. 
 The gameplay is fun and flawless; you'll love leveling up and finding items, just to use them in 
 your platforming adventure, while getting them BY playing the platforming adventure. Its an endless 
 cycle of awesome until the end of the game.
  
  The two-player element allows you to switch between characters at will, leaving the other on A. I 
 or to get rid of him (or her) completely. The different advantages and disadvantages of each (Jonathan 
 is strong and great with weapons, while Charlotte wields magical powers) pending the situation, 
 make this feature fun as well as moderately in-depth, without becoming obtrusive or fundamentally 
 altering the nature of the game; you'll often find yourself developing your own strategies on how 
 to combine the characters successfully.
  
  The game is called Portrait of Ruin because you travel to different worlds by going through portraits, 
 created by one of the main villains, which lie inside the main castle. I found this to be an entertaining, 
 and convenient, way of presenting the games vast worlds; it combines with a system of teleporters 
 that allow you to travel to any previously seen teleporter within the world currently being used, 
 and this system works quite smoothly. Similar are the frequent save points, often found near 
 the teleporters, which are represented by a certain kind of magical statue that recharges your 
 HP and MP as well.
  
  If you find adventure boss battles difficult, the game may be a little too much for you, and repeated 
 attempts to defeat the same boss may get frustrating. I haven't had this problem, not only because 
 I consider myself good at this type of game, but also because I enjoy studying an enemy in order 
 to try again and do a little better each time. The game is undoubtedly hard, but the difficulty 
 makes you feel like you can improve, is never frustrating and never makes you feel like its the 
 games fault.
  
  Graphics:
  It is a 2-D game (which I'm not complaining about,) and most of the characters are in 2-D visually 
 as well, unlike New Super Mario Bros., which was in 2-D motion-wise but had 3-D graphics. So the 
 graphics are nothing to write home about in terms of technological advancement or the amount of 
 information held in the images. However, the scenery is still drawn beautifully, and the artistic 
 side of graphics is at least as important to how good a game looks. You'll appreciate this factor 
 a little more if you're into the whole vampire theme (which I'm not, although I'm not opposed to 
 it either.)
  
  Sound:
  You're going to want to play this game with headphones, or in a quiet room with the volume on loud. 
 If the background music from Portrait of Ruin were available on CD, I would pay as much to listen 
 to it as I would a regular CD. The sounds are neat, and vary greatly depending on the situation, 
 though they're necessarily simple on account of the technology. Every kind of sound in game seems 
 to match the context in which it's used. Best I've ever seen in a portable game.
  
  Value:
  I've just reached the final boss after a whole 11 hours of gameplay, even though I have 
 (in my experience) completed platformers much more quickly than my peers. On top of this, multiple 
 possible endings (including one bad ending that let's you go back and try for others) will have 
 you returning to its fantastic gameplay after you finish it, which you will likely find never gets 
 boring, especially on account of the huge world that it exists in. So you get a lot of play time 
 out of the game, while (despite this) the option to only finish it once doesnt require you to 
 spend 20 or 30 hours in order to achieve a sense of fulfillment.
  
  The only limitation on its long-term value is the fact that the multiplayer mode is rather limiting. 
 There is no kind of versus option, and the only co-op feature is the Boss Rush mode (which is also 
 available in single-player) that has you fighting several bosses in succession for a minute-or-two 
 rush, which rewards you with a small item each time you complete it. It is still fun, especially 
 because it helps you in the campaign, but the lack of alternative multiplayer modes is one of the 
 games shortcomings; this is especially true considering how fun the two-character system is in 
 the single-player campaign, and how interesting a campaign co-op would be.
  
  There is also a shop mode that involves trading and/or buying items from the game with other players. 
 I havent tried it and the attractiveness of earning things in the game makes it seem unnecessary, 
 but no loss.
  
  This is a game that will keep you coming back.
  
  -
  
  If you're looking for a DS game and/or are at all interested in the platforming or RPG genre, you 
 should really pick up Castlevania : Portrait of Ruin, one of the best for the system, or portable 
 gaming in general, ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle360
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  When i watch the previews for this game i though it was ganna be really good seeming to have a 
 great story and game play. But to be honest i'm about to be the game and i'm really disappointed. 
 It just wasn't fun like other castlevania game and especially not good when compare with the previous 
 Dawn of Sorrow game for the ds. First, the only bosses i actually like in this game were the h; uge 
 soldier with the huge sword (the first boss) and Death. All the other bosses were hard, boring and 
 pride-less after beating them. In the other hand, i liked pretty much all the bosses in Dawn of 
 Sorrow. That game had a really sick story and game play (don't even get me started with the freakin 
 awesome bosses) . The story in this game, portrait of ruins, was also a ruin. In my opinion , it 
 simply suck. Not even the music was good when compare to Dawn of Sorrow. Overall, i really wouldn't 
 recommend this game. If you haven't played Portrait of Ruins nor Dawn of Sorrow, go with Dawn of 
 Sorrow.
  That was a truly awesome game that i would recommend!
  
  BTW, don't rate it if you haven't beaten the whole game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Castlevania: Portrain of Ruin plays similarly to other 2D Castlevania games, though it 
 does add a few new twists of its own. For one, you now have 2 characters, a male character that 
 uses weapons like swords, axes, throwing knives, etc and a female, who is mainly a spellcaster. 
 You control one of these characters at a time, though you can summon the other one, controlled 
 by the AI, to fight along side you (when they take damage, you will suffer damage to your mana) . 
 You can also switch between these characters any time you want, though I mostly stuck with the 
 male and his weapons. While there are a few puzzles here and there that utilize this new 2-man 
 team, most of the game plays similar to previous Castlevania games like Dawn of Sorrow, where youll 
 explore a castle, fighting huge bosses and growing levels and things like that. Overall, the gameplay 
 in Portrait of Ruin is pretty awesome, and some of the best Ive ever seen, both in a Castlevania 
 game and on the Nintendo DS.
  
  Graphics: Like DoS, Portrait of Ruin looks amazing! The in-game graphics are top-knotch, definitely 
 some of the best 2D side-scroller graphics that Ive ever seen, with some of the coolest looking 
 bosses ever! Also, the game has an cel-shaded/anime opening cut-scene which I think looks superb, 
 and is also pretty amazing to watch (Ive watched it about 10 times so far) . Overall, Portrait 
 of Ruin is a very nice-looking game.
  
  Sound: Like other Castlevania games, Portrait of Ruin has an amazing soundtrack! It wasnt quite 
 as good as DoSs music, but its very different. The music is less energetic than DoSs, but more 
 moody and atmospheric. Its too bad that they took away the sound room option in this game, since 
 I loved listening to the sound room in DoS, but even so, Portrait of Ruin definitely has amazing 
 music!
  
  Value: Like most Castlevania games, Portrait of Ruin isnt exactly the longest of games. It took 
 me just over 8 hours to complete with the best ending, though if you include moments where I died 
 (especially during the final boss battle, which is insanely tough and insanely fun) , that number 
 is probably closer to 10 or 11 hours. However, there are a ton of different modes that you can 
 unlock as well, a few of which I havent even tried out yet, so theres definitely a good amount 
 of value to be found in this game. Also, the game boasts both multiplayer and online modes. While 
 I havent tried the multiplayer, Ive heard that there are 3 levels that you can play in it, which 
 should last people a while, especially if theyre difficult. The online mode is somewhat disappointing, 
 since its only 1 level long, but its still pretty fun to play. Theres also an online shop mode, 
 where you can buy items from other people, which is pretty cool. Theres also a lot of neat side-quests 
 in the main game which have their share of awesome rewards, so PoR definitely has quite a bit of 
 meat on its bones and should stay in peoples DSs for a pretty long time.
  
  Tilt: Overall, Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is one of the best DS games that Ive played so far, 
 and even manages to surpass Dawn of Sorrow. The game is incredibly fun to play, has great graphics 
 and sound, and will last you quite a while. Its also got a pretty good storyline thatll keep 
 you entertained, and a pretty fun online mode thatll keep you coming back. I highly recommend 
 this latest entry in the Castlevania series. Its probably the best DS game released in 2006, and 
 I can guarantee that you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxxIcemanxxxx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  It Sticks to the classic castlevania formula but adds another character to chose from. I find the 
 game too short, personally. You can change characters at any time and also have both on screen 
 . Jonathan can use lots of weapons and sub weapons and Charlotte can use spell-books and lots of 
 spells. In the castle you will find paintings where you can enter and find monsters and bosses 
 to defeat. The single player part is great, but wi fi playing could be better. You can play co-op 
 mode or open your shop via wireless or wi fi, but only 3 courses are available to play.
  PoR is better than Dawn of Sorrow, and it's highly addictive. but it isn't a perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oakbend
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Well I'd like to start off by saying that this has got to be one of the best Castlevania games 
 by far! I've never really been a fan, but I have played a good couple, so I know what to look for. 
 I'd like to mention the anime look which I find pure pwnage! Always loved animes, so I should have 
 no problem with this. The sound in the game is very nice, It has the original Castlevania music 
 that we all loved, and it has a Crisp quality. One of my biggest pet peeves in the game would have 
 to be the lag of the sound quality. This game has nothing of that sort. The game begins with the 
 main character Jonathan Morris who is in the belmont family, that doesn't exactly know how to use 
 his whip. There is also another main character, Charotte Aulin, who is the... ummmmm... side-kick 
 I guess you could say, that comes in use. It's the year 1944 and a great war has broke loose, the 
 characters find themselves at the feet of a huge creepy castle owned by the famous Dracula, and 
 his servant. Although you face Dracula's servant and his two daughters more than you face Dracula, 
 giving the sense that his servant runs everything. Now I'm not going to get too into the story, 
 because this is a review, which is mostly about me giving my opinion and voice on something. Something 
 that I noticed that I found damn irritating was how when I played this game, even by the slightest 
 tap it would freeze. Now I don't know if maybe it was just my DS lite or it was the game, but It 
 was something that I really noticed that I'd advice you to look out for. I felt that this game 
 had a bit of a high difficulty level. This game sure has a variety to chose from, and that's another 
 thing I really liked. The ability to chose many different weapons, items, multiple characters to 
 use, and just overall extra functionalities. The controls in the game are superb! Although I would 
 have liked to see more touch screen action like in Dawn of Sorrow, but that's not the worst thing 
 possible. I do like how the other controls are integrated though. As if everything has a specific 
 purpose no matter what, in the neatest way possible. This is a great game that I think will no 
 doubt spawn a whole new audience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitch-x911
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 12, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  If you just like to kill monsters because they gave you a hard time to sleep at nights when you 
 were five. This is the game for you. You might be able to kill the monsters that gave you the hard 
 times. Well here we go. There is original gameplay and music which is what makes castlevania games 
 great. Also, There are so many things that you have even after you beat the game. I mean you can 
 use different sets of characters, Boss rush mode, wifi, etc. You have so much customizing and stuff 
 which puts more fun into this game. Overall if you are a fan of monster killing games or castlevania 
 you will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SfGiants11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The last Castlevania game that I played was Circle of the Moon for the GBA, so needless to say, 
 it has been a while. Even so, I had a lot of fun playing this game... For the few six or seven 
 hours. The weapon and enemy variety makes combat interesting, and the level design (which ranges 
 from London to Egypt) kept the game feeling very fresh. The graphics in this game were very pleasing 
 to the eye. The DS is obviously capable of handling some fantastic 2D visuals (which is what I 
 think it should stick to) and Portrait of Ruin is the perfect representation of this. The best 
 part about the game, however, is the music. The background tunes are all catchy, varied and set 
 a perfectly exciting/eerie mood throughout the game. What I don't understand, though, is why the 
 developers made the last four or five areas of the game, EXACT REPLICAS of previous areas with 
 slightly different color schemes. This completely slows down the progression of the game, and for 
 the final few hours, I found myself trudging through familiar locations just so I could reach the 
 end of the game. This really doesn't make any sense to me at all. Why couldn't these portraits 
 be cool locations across the globe? Half the fun of the first part of the game was the anticipation 
 of what the next portrait will be like. I found this to be quite disappointing. Also, I found this 
 game to be far, far easier than Circle of the Moon. While this wasn't a huge downside to me, it 
 did make the game much shorter and made the overworld seem a bit smaller, since I was moving from 
 location to location very quickly. Overall this is a good action game, but I really don't understand 
 where the developers were going with the final few hours of it. And also, they have to ditch the 
 anime art style. It completely undermines the atmosphere of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerocrossings
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 12, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  CV: PoR is a game where you play as Jonathan Morris and his friend, Chalotte Aulin. The game takes 
 place in World War 2. The souls of the dead brought back everyones favourite castle, and you have 
 to enter it to destroy it. Unlike many Castlevanias from before, where you play as a whip wielding 
 Vampire Hunter (with a few exeptions of course) , this game follows the SoTN style gameplay. It has 
 the old hearts and money from candles formula like in all CV games, but this game does have its 
 own great/bad tweaks too.
  
  The shop system is of course still here. It works like all other RPGs shop where you can buy/sell 
 items and such.
  
  Online system enables you to play co-op, or go to shop mode. In co-op, you choose to play as either 
 Jonathan or Chalotte (Or optional characters if you chose their data) and play through Boss Rush (Yep, thats 
 all you could do) with an online player as your other character. In shop mode, you can sell items 
 you aquired in the game or buy items from players online. When you buy/sell items to players online, you 
 gain points. The points aquired adds up and a certain amount of points is needed to make a certain 
 item appear in the NPC's shop. But due to this online shopping system, You can work hard to get lots 
 of money in the begining of the through candle smashing and get a overpowered weapon at the start 
 of the game. This adds to the easiness of the game and will prove to have a negative effect on the 
 game.
  
  There is a new Quest system in this CV game and it works basically like those in a MMORPG. You give 
 the NPCs what they ask for and they give you something else in return. Some people might like this 
 but it didnt do it for me, it takes out some of the find secret hidden dungeon which contains rare 
 weapons sort of gameplay. Most badass weapons can only be found in Quests or online shopping. So 
 your only option is to do the Quest or cough up some money. Ok, unlike other CV games, you get to 
 play as two different characters (Nope, not those unlockable characters) in the main game. Each have 
 their own goods and bads so its a pretty balanced combination. They each can equip certain weapons 
 and armours. During the game, you can either have your partner with you or you can dismiss them. When 
 your partner gets hit, you lose MP instead of HP. You can move your partner with your stylus but 
 you wont have them on the screen that much as they sorta get in the way.
  
  The first guy is Jonathan Morris, the son of John Morris. He is probaly the one you would be using 
 most of the time as he specialises in melee attacks. He comes equiped with the old whip that the 
 Belmonts use. But having not learned how to use it, he cant seem use the whip to its full potential. So 
 you just cant use an atk 5 whip for the whole game could you?? So to make up for that, Konami gives 
 you an asernal of weapons that can be found through killin enemies, doing quests, buy from shop and 
 such. This gives you the old hunt for items feel, something that i thought is lacking in DoS. Jonathan 
 also have tons of sub-weapons to use, unlike previous castlevania games where you only get a few. Now 
 you dont break candles and subweapons come out and you can only keep one at a time. It works sorta 
 like AoS's soul stealing system, where you kill certain enemies and they drop certain sub-weapons. You 
 keep the subweapons in your inventory and equip whichever you want. You can buy them form shops 
 too. You get your old bible, holy water etc etc but you get loads of new ones, ranging from Shurikens 
 to Cream Pies. I didnt like this system either as it takes out the old sub weapons feel. I mean, sub 
 weapons are what the Belmonts traditionally use to kill Dracky right? Adding Cream Pies and Shurikens 
 to it is just plain dumb. Sure it is pretty cool, like the Soul system but i sorta wished they didnt 
 call them sub weapons. You can gain points for sub-weapons and they become more powerful when maxed 
 out. Thus, sub-weapons are pretty much weak and useless before they are maxed out.
  
  Now the second character you use is a cute girl called Chalotte Aulin, a magic user. Her weapons 
 consist of Books, where images spurt out from them and hit enemies. But you dont use magic users 
 for their melee attacks do you?? Yes, she has a bunch of badass spells at your disposal, which you 
 can get them the same way as Jonathan's sub-weapons. Unlike the sub-weapons, you dont have to gain 
 points to max them out. They all come maxed. When you cast them, a bar will appear above Chalottes 
 head and it despicts the casting time. You can charge the spells up beyond the bar and the spells 
 become more powerful. The badass spells takes longer to charge aswell as more MP and weaker ones 
 takes less time and MP.
  
  The bestiary is huge like all other Castleroids and it makes item hunting fun. The boss fights are 
 pretty fun but its too easy and unrewarding. You can kill a boss but but feel like, what, its over?? 
 .Though some bosses are tough and are pretty hard to kill, there will always be a save point next 
 to the boss's room and makes you think like O well, i died again. Now i should just load my game 
 and go try my luck again. .But this is actualy present in the best Castleroids like SoTN so i guess 
 i shouldnt contradict this one alone. I would really want them to give us really tough boss fights 
 that have you learning their attack patterns and even though theres a save point beside you, you 
 would think Now i got the hang of his attacks, maybe i can really kill it this time. instead of 
 its only a matter of time .
  
  In the game, instead of going through the castle alone, you get to go to places from Desert Tombs 
 to Forests. Its actually pretty cool idea and adds scenery to the game. But the level design in this 
 game is quite dull compared to other CV games and im pretty disappointed. You get to go to 4 places 
 in the game and you can unlock another 5 later. Out of the other 5
  4 of them are just the same as the first 4 except its night time and the map is different so dont 
 go expecting much.
  
  The replay value in this game in the game is ok. You can play as characters you unlock and one of 
 them has their own story line and uses your stylus to attack. The stylus bit is quite cool but gets 
 boring maybe a few hours later. You also get Hard modes and lvl caps to test your skills. You can 
 do Boss Rushes to get items but the item rewards are not that attracting. There is a optional dungeon 
 but its pretty much just a road where you fight enemies after enemies to reach the end.
  
  Now lets talk bout the sound. As you would expect from a CV game, the music is top notched. The music 
 in the game is well suited for the environment its in. You can unlock the sound mode and hear any 
 tracks you want. There is even voices where you can hear the souds of characters/monsters in the 
 game. You can switch the voice to japanese which is pretty interesting. As an added bonus, you can 
 find an item called the record player in the game. This allows you to play records (items that you 
 can find in the game) in any part of the game and change the background music. Unfortunately, theres 
 only 5 of these tracks and i was hoping that they would include tracks from previous CV games the 
 next time. (Though theres already 1 of them in this game) .
  
  Overall, this game is great, true to the Castleroid RPG formula with a few new stuff of its own. But 
 there still is room for improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timinator18
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania portrait of ruin is a decent game. It does little to improve upon last years game. 
 In fact, i would say it is worse. Dawn Of Sorrow was a great game, and Portrait of Ruin seems disappointing. 
 The soul system is now gone. I thought it was a great way to customize your attacks. Instead, the 
 game focuses too much on tag team attacks. The game is larger than Last years, but the castle seems 
 bland, and less fun to explore. Each area looks similar to the last. The game also has portraits 
 that you can enter, and go to a new world. These worlds are like mini castles, and i found it to 
 be bland. A lot of the enemies are recycled from the previous game, and its getting a bit old. 
 The music in this game lives up to expectations. Castlevania games always have a good soundtrack, 
 and this game doesn't disappoint. This game also features short voice clips, which is nice. The 
 game features a Wi-Fi component. Its pretty lame, but boss rush can be fun at times. To be honest, 
 it wasn't what i was expecting, but it was still enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cruzerramos
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I must admit when i picked up my copy of this game and tried it out I wasn't too moved. But as 
 I continued to play I found myself totally immersed in the story and classic game play. For me 
 what I like most is the customization and level up system. But other great new features include 
 a new co-op system and online co-op! the graphics were sad to say not all that great mostly because 
 it was 2-D and also not smooth. But if your looking for a nice long single player game with lots 
 of hack and slash action look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atomiking
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  A GREAT STEP UP FOR THE LITTLE GIANT (DS) WITH THIS AMAZING NEW STORY OF CASTLEVANIA PORTRAIT OF 
 RUIN, GREAT SOUND AND MUSIC CLOSE OR EVEN COMPARE WITH THE PLAYSTATION SYMPHONY OF THE NIGHT (THE 
 DON) , AMAZING VISUALS EFFECTS FOR THE DS, A PERFECT CONTROL AND USE OF THE TOUCH SCREEN WITH TWO 
 STARRING CHARACTERS THAT HAVE THE CORRECT INGREDIENTS TO AN INSTANT CLASSIC, AND YOU DONT WANNA 
 TUNR IT OFF YOU JUST CLOSE THE DS TO PLAY A LITTLE BIT MORE LATER (15 MINUNTES LATER LOL) . JUST 
 A GREAT GAME THAT YOU DONT WANNA MISS, BELEIVE ME. THEY STILL GOT IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HolyWhip128
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 9, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Sorrow is the best, new edition of the Castlevania series. All in all, 
 I would rate it a 9.7 out of 10. The gameplay was amazing; it had a wonderful plot and it was easy 
 to catch onto the story. The music is once again great with a few familiar and loved tunes. The 
 only problem for me was that the characters were too familiar. It was like playing the same game 
 again on a different platform. The weapons were awesome with some spectacular new additions such 
 as Nebula which homes on the target. The value of this game was decent; if you waited a while it 
 dropped. While some people enjoy an easy ride through games, most like challanges and suprising 
 twists. After you beat the game, you can unlock boss rush, sisters mode, richitier mode, and sound 
 mode. The hard level caps add a twist to your characters. Maria and Richter are back again also; 
 Loretta and Stella try to fight off some evil. Overall, this was a fantastic game. The new subweapons 
 and quest can keep you busy for countless hours. If your looking to play a game with fun characters 
 and amazing weaponry, Castlevania is back with a refined return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah_lim81x
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Castlevania PoR would had been better if only they gave more privilege to the gamers. First of 
 all, the amine was cool during the presentation but, It lack of the idea by leaving the top screen 
 of the DS blank (Only showing just a few tombs) and i don't know why. (Second) It would be nice 
 if we could see some of their short amine on top of the DS screen each time they appear new boss 
 or talking with other character instead of leaving it BLANK. (Third) Why wouldn't they give us 
 the privilege to switch partner at starting of the game (Example: Jonathan with legendary Alucard 
 or MORE) to see different ending instead? And lastly, there's not much action for gamers to touch 
 the screen other then deporting you to other places. It could be better if you can create spell 
 or effect of the potion which you created on your own by touching the screen. I personally felt 
 that, there wasn't much idea to make this game better. But still, It worth your time playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is the latest 2D game in the series, in other word, the latest good 
 game in the series. Actually, not much as changed since Castlevanias previous outing on the DS 
 but there is still enough new to recommend it to Dawn of Sorrow fans. One thing you should know 
 about Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is that it features minimal touch screen support. You dont 
 need any of it in the core game but you can use it on the main menu if you want. It can be used 
 for certain attacks, but I assure you that youll probably find just using the buttons for those 
 attacks much quicker.
  
  So the storyline is what youve probably come to expect from a Castlevania game. The game takes 
 place in 1944, around the World War II era and Dracula is back at it again so you need to invade 
 his castle once again to finish him off. But this time, you wont be doing it alone. The main characters 
 name is Jonathan Morris, and he brings along a girl named Charlotte whos specialty is magic while 
 Jonathans is weapons like the classic whip.
  
  Just like in Dawn of Sorrow before it, Portrait of Ruin uses an RPG system in a platform/action 
 game. You level up by killing enemies to gain experience points, which when you get enough, your 
 level will rise one. There is also lots of magic spells to learn and even team magic spells. Plus, 
 your character has many stats and attributes that increase as your levels increase. With all these 
 RPG elements though, this is still an action/plat former game at heart so expect a lot of elements 
 from those kind of games as well.
  
  Also, just as Dawn of Sorrow, this game is a 2D sidescroller. The only 3D parts that youll find 
 are only a few enemies and a few backgrounds. The few 3D elements do look pretty good and the 2D 
 portions of the game, which is 99 percent of the game, look great as well even if some of it is 
 recycled from past 2D games in the series. It is a massive improvement over the GBA Castlevania 
 games, but as for Dawn of Sorrow, it looks better but not by much.
  
  Castlevania games have been known for their boss fights, and Portrait of Ruin continues the tradition. 
 It offers tough boss fights with enemies so huge that sometimes they almost take up the whole screen. 
 A lot of the common enemies can be tough and take a little bit of strategy to conquer. Now back 
 to the RPG elements, Jonathan and Charlotte will find a ton of new items and weapons along the 
 way ranging from HP/MP Max Ups to stronger whips, spears, swords, axes, maces and way more. Charlotte 
 wont get as much weapon upgrades apart from a few new books, which are her primary weapons but 
 she will get many new magic spells to learn and the two can even perform team magic spells which 
 can rack up some massive damage. All magic attacks cost a little bit of magic power in which the 
 green meter under your health bar is used for. Also, you can assign projectiles such as throwing 
 knives and grenades to your character and use them by hitting up and X at the same time. You have 
 an infinite supply, but it does use magic.
  
  The sound in Castlevania is still great. There is almost no voice acting, just Jonathan and Charlotte 
 screaming their names when you switch characters. That can get kind of annoying but the music still 
 sounds great and adds a ton of personality to the game. The sound effects arent really anything 
 special but they sure do the job done. Any faults in the sound are made up for by the amazing music.
 
  
  Now heres something new for a Castlevania game: Online multiplayer. It comes in two types, shop 
 and boss rush mode. Originally you can do Boss Rush mode by yourself and unlock more levels in 
 it, but you can also do it in online co-op. Its pretty mediocre. You fight certain bosses with 
 one health bar, which you and your partner share. So, if you got a crappy partner than tough luck 
 because if they suck, youre going to die too. In shop mode you can open up a shop and sell some 
 of your unused items to people online. Or you can browse stuff that they are selling. Sometime 
 people will try to rip you off though, so you may want to avoid that. You can also do everything 
 available in Wi-Fi, in wireless multiplayer close-by.
  
  The main single player mode in Portrait of Ruin will take you around 6-7 hours to complete. The 
 percentage system is out of 1000% so dont worry if it says youre 50% when youve only played 
 for 20 minutes. So you can see its obviously not a long game, but it has a decent challenge, and 
 its really fun to play. There are also some more places to explore and some unlockable characters 
 and other cool stuff. If youre a nut for the Wi-Fi extras, than youll probably spend around 10 
 hours with this game. Serious Castlevania fans will play through it a good 2-3 times before putting 
 it down for good. Bottom Line: Hardcore Castlevania fans will like it, but find it similar to every 
 other game in the series. That being said, its still really fun for fans and newcomers alike. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amxbox
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:23 pm PT
Review:  i dont think this game is really good the 2nd time around because it just pointless to play because 
 its the same stuff. But i think the game is great but not perfect. Also the gameplay gets kind 
 of repeditive and kind of annoying after awhile. the boss fights were kind of easy but not hard 
 so its not a challenging game. its not a very time consuming game so you can beat it fast if you 
 go right thourgh. it also dosent have a great story in it its still the same old thing go though 
 the castle and kill Dracula. it kind of feels like the older ones because it has the same gameplay 
 but has some improvements in it. the learing curve in this game dosent take long at all because 
 its pretty simple. And you dont use the touch screen alot either i think that dissapointed some 
 people but it didnt bother me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darrowby88
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  I've never played a Castlevania game before and was blown away by this game. picture a 2D xmen 
 legends game, with items and clothing, and weapons and magic power. its just like that. you play 
 as a vampire slayer with a sidekick magician. you can change on the fly or play the whole game 
 as one character. its a great system.
  
  Gameplay ------the gameplay is perfect. characters are very responsive and react differently by 
 what weapon they have. (an axe is bigger than a whip, so it takes longer to attack) also the level 
 design make for simple navigation AND in depth exploring with lots of side mission. the game is 
 almost like a 2D free roaming game with side quests and story quests. its great
  
  Graphics ------not the prettiest game by far on the system, but when it comes down to it, if it 
 plays well, who cares. i'm not saying the graphics are bad, but compared to new games like New 
 mario bros it really isnt on that level.
  
  Sound -----great, blood, tears, shrieks, the works
  
  Value -----WiFi, several modes, long missions, 
 long side quests, dozens of levels for character upgrading, total customization... all great
  
  Tilt ------10, go buy it, its awesome, we can play wifi... send me a message 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goten_king
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, Its not 100% true. I have played a few GBA games once or twice, but i really haven't owned 
 one in about... 10 years. I was really wanting to get DoS, but i never found it in stores when 
 i actually had the cash for it. So i made it a priority to pick up PoR when it came out. I was 
 somewhat skeptical because so many people rated it lower than DoS. But since i don't have DoS to 
 compare, it obviously can't be bad!
  
  Well lets just start off in order.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Wow. Talk about the best 2D action platformer pretty much to date. So much customization 
 and just items that affect so many aspects. Its a solid upgrading system with levels and weapon 
 upgrades. The magic is a tad over-powered in the beginning, but once you master many of your items, 
 you'll find they have their advantages. Its very solid and fun.
  
  Graphics: 10
  Wow... 2D is still here to stay. Sure theres some 3D but with 2D at its core, its beautiful. It 
 is just great. The 3D backgrounds are pretty cool too. It looks great..... i just can't say it 
 enough. Sound: 8
  Well, the music is good and all, but honestly, its nothing over whelming. I have heard better in 
 MPH or Mariokart. Its a solid soundtrack overall. Value: 9
  This game has a decent story mode... It probably wont take more than 20 hours to beat, but if you 
 want to upgrade items and collect everything, it will take you longer. Reviewer's Tilt: 9
  Its not perfect. But it is GREAT and i would recommend it to anyone who has a DS :) ;) HAVE FUN 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basludanto
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin, is another great playing game from Konami that, despite a strong 
 pedagogy, feels a little rushed and recycled. The graphics, as usual, are wonderful in this game. 
 It has been said, and must be agreed, that the 2d scrolling platformer is not dead. The character 
 designs are fun, the effects are fluid and impressive, and there is quite a bit of variety packed 
 into the game. Unfortunately, it is all variety from previous Castlevania games. Most of the enemies 
 are recycled; some would argue that this is to keep it in the Castlevania world, and while this 
 may be true it is wearing a bit thin after a few decades. The bosses in this installment are sadly 
 a letdown after Dawn of Sorrow's terrifying entries, not only in the case of design but also in 
 difficulty.
  
  Which brings me to my next point: why is every game on the DS so short? It feels that it is just 
 as I am hitting my stride is a game that I get to a boss, only to find that it is the last one. 
 Yes, there are multiple endings, but the first comes so soon it is a disappointment, and the additional 
 ones do not add an extreme amount of time. I found myself playing for hours in Dawn of Sorrow to 
 find rare souls for either stronger attacks or to upgrade weapons. This sense is sadly lacking 
 in Portrait of Ruin. The abilities learned from the enemies defeated are unnecessary and feel tacked 
 on.
  
  The addition of Charlotte was fun, and dispelled my initial misgivings about having two characters 
 on the screen. The use of puzzles when interaction between the two is fun, thought spare.
  
  All in all, had I not played the previous entries in the series or had the game been longer 
 I might have been more impressed. As it is, it feels a bit like a mod from Dawn of Sorrow. Fun, 
 but not lasting or innovative enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndulationInc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  It's been 20 years since the birth of the Vampire Killer legacy. 20 long years of outstanding action 
 platformers which would garner some slight RPG elements over time. The end result is the Vania 
 titles we see today. Huge castles multiple floors, different environments. It's all inside Dracula's 
 keep! An this time, portraits are the theme here on in! Read on!
  
  GAMEPLAY ~
  If you have played a Castlevania game within the last 10 years, they are all set up basically the 
 same. You tote a whip (or weapon of choice) you hack away at countless enemies make your way to 
 the big boss and the game is over. This time around you get a partner!
  The tag-team aspect was seen before in Dawn of Sorrows, but is taken to the next step hear being 
 brought over into the main game. You call your partner with the Y button, switch partners with 
 the X button, summon your partner to do their special attack with the R button and later on command 
 dual specials whilst pressing up and X at the same time. All other commands are the same for Vania 
 titles. You can as well change the control configuration so if what I say is wrong above, its 
 because I changed it in my game.
  Other than the dual aspect of the game, everything else is the same. There is only a handful (5 
 to 6) puzzles that slightly involve tag teaming, and by the end you'll have a set of specials in 
 where you don't even need a partner, so if you are like me you'll be using Jonathan and than summoning 
 Charlotte when you are in a bind or need healing / attack magic issued.
  There is NO real in-game stylus action, which is a God-sent because Dawn of Sorrows had that seal 
 magic which completely brought down the action of the game, so I am glad they removed that aspect 
 and let the game contain a nice action based approach. The stylus is used in one adventure, but 
 that will be mentioned in REPLAY. Besides the tag-team aspect, it's a solid Vania title like all 
 the others.
  
  STORY ~ 8 / 10
  Anyone remember Castlevania: Bloodlines for the Genesis? Well if you did have the chance to play 
 that forgotten SEGA gem, than PoR will make alot more sense in the long run. PoR takes place a 
 few years after WW2 and the premise for Bloodlines, and stars John Morris' kid (Jonathan) as the 
 protagonist with his accomplice Charlotte Aulin a well versed mage. An from there it's regular 
 Vania, Dracula, bosses, the nines. I loved Bloodlines...
  
  GRAPHICS ~
  It's basically a clone of Dawn of Sorrows, from character sprites to enemy outlines. It's all the 
 same, even if it wouldn't be based off of DoS, it would still be a Vania title no matter what Vania 
 title it cloned. Basically the only thing to mention really is 3D rendering in some of the backgrounds 
 (warping stairs in the Dark Academy) and Tag-Team magic spells.
  TT game is huge and envelopes the whole screen depending on the spell, they start off smaller with 
 1000 knives combos, but eventually move into greater spells like Meteor and even a spell that calls 
 forth the greatest Belmont whip wielders in Vania history. Thought cheesy, it is still retroactively 
 pretty cool to see it.
  Also there is blood! Lets not forget the blood!
  The castle this time isn't too big but it does have a few twists that will keep you on ear. Instead 
 of traversing a huge castle with room after room of the same dank dark stone pillars and hallways, 
 you can access different paintings in game which brings you to different exotic lands like Egypt 
 and a desolate Carnival. This is a hark back again to Bloodlines where you traversed all of Europe 
 to make your way to Draculas keep.
  The downside to this is that they re-use two of the stages (the ones I've listed) adding in a different 
 shade of the same color or something that is suppose to make it feel differently. This in turn 
 makes it feel like I am doing the same thing over and over again. That is what I like to call, 
 lack of variety in gaming and that my friend is enough to bring down the score a bit.
  
  SOUND ~
  Classic Vania scoring thanks in part to Michiru Yamane who also worked on the music 
 for Dawn of Sorrows and Bloodlines respectively. Alot of the tracks featured feel like other classic 
 Vania tunes, really giving a feel for the environment and the situation the protagonist are in. 
 Not the most stand out score that has been produced, but it helps to set the mood.
  The SFX also seem to blend in with the background music, making them almost unnoticable. No gugling, 
 no yelping, nothing I can remember off the top of my head.
  
  REPLAYABILITY ~
  Lets mention the suspend option first. It works well good to have on board in case you plan on 
 walking around town with your DS. But since most of the save points are relatively close to any 
 area of the given stage, it wasn't used at all. This game isn't hard; in fact it is one of the 
 easier Vania titles I've played.
  Leveling is done fast and with sub-weapon upgrades depending on the SP of the enemy; you'll find 
 yourself at level 60 in no time. I beat Dracula at level 52 at 8 hours of gameplay. I than undertook 
 most of the side-quest which boosted my time to 12 hours of gameplay. This is short compared to 
 Dawn of Sorrows. I was only getting to the end of DoS by 12 hours.
  Most of the side-quest are given to you by Wind (Eric) and once the objective is met, you'll be 
 given a reward based on the activity. I was able to complete all except one, because I decided 
 to eat some moldy bread, what a rip. PoR also adds in it's own in-game boss rush mode called Nest 
 of Evil in where you battle foes from past Vania titles, mostly the bosses from Dawn of Sorrows. 
 The end result is an outstanding cheesy dual cast spell featuring Belmonts from the past.
  The last redeemable replay factor is option new game quest in where you can play as Richter with 
 Maria (young Maria, not cool older Maria, in which would have made more sense battle wise) and 
 the LeCarde sisters. Richter and Maria play similar to Jon and Charlotte whilst the Sisters play 
 completely different.
  Sister mode in where you use the stylus to attack by slashing the stylus across the screen and 
 it produces an ability that the selected sister can perform. At least a stylus addition was added.
 
  An finally is Old Axe Armor quest, which if revealed would ruin your portrait of this game due 
 to me spoiling it.
  But one question, why wasn't there a dual team mode featuring a revived (or ghostly) Eric LeCarde 
 and Jon Morris reunion? That would have been the nostalgic icing on the cake.
  
  OVERVIEW ~
  As mentioned in this review, Bloodlines was the overlooked step-child (besides Legends 
 Sonia) in the Vania line and I am glad to see it get its due in sequel form. Maybe not the most 
 tightly looped story I've seen so far, but the feeling was there.
  All they have to do is release Bloodlines in a double pack for the GBA. Maybe package it with Dracula 
 X. Who knows, maybe in due time more people will experience this strange side-story to the Vampire 
 Whips history from the start.
  Good game, but the Vania titles are becoming a bit generic. I hope the next game really kicks it 
 up a notch! I'll be waiting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asetik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  It's been a while after Konami released Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. This game is the next addittion 
 for us who hunger for more Castlevania games on Ds.
  
  Graphics- Surely good for this game and par with Dos. The background in every place is top notch. 
 The character and enemy are very well animated. The only thing that bothers me is that there are 
 too many recycled enemy sprites from older games and they only have more animation, and some repeated 
 room for more than 3 times.
  
  Gameplay- Easy enough to get hang with it. The control is precise and can be customised by your 
 own style in the options menu.
  
  Sound- Also good, character and monster are well sounded. The background music is the best part 
 for the sound part , but imo Dos soundtracks is more catchy to me :)
  
  Value - This game is sure worth for your money, and you will proud with this game purchase. Extras- 
 The are many-many bonus mode mode for after you finished the main game: sound test, extra playable 
 characters and many more. The best thing in the extra sections is you can use wifi to play co-op 
 with your buddy or selling items to make money. It sure adds more replay value for you.
  
  Last word- If you see this game in the game store, be sure to pick this game in your Ds game library 
 and get ready to become a vampire killer!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HunkAtYourNeck
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Maybe it's just me, but I expected Portrait of Ruin to feel more... unique. Not just in gameplay, 
 but in the story as well. What could have been a potentially gripping tale just turns out to be 
 another night at Dracula's castle. The introduction of the vampire lord Brauner doesn't really 
 do much for the game at all. However, gameplay is where it counts and Portrait of Ruin is largely 
 an impressive effort. Those who love the Castlevania exploits set by Symphonia of the Night shant 
 be disappointed, as it maintains the series tried and true methods of exploration with some killer 
 new mechanics; the biggest of these being the partner system. While traveling about, you can swap 
 between Jonathon or Charlotte. As is prominent in video game lore, Jonny excells in smacking things 
 while the Misses prefer magic. The immediate problem here is that you'll never want to play as 
 Jonathon. Charlotte's MP regeneration rate is almost broken, as you'll no doubt be capable of clearing 
 any threat as her before her MP runs dry. Plus, her spells are extremely easy to cast, often times 
 have homing capabilities or cover a large amount of the screen and do tons of damage. This creates 
 a severe imbalance between the two characters. While Jon offers more melee-focused attacks that 
 are classic to a Castlevania game, his MP recover rate is abysmal and his sub-weapons consume large 
 amounts of his mana. He's not a bad choice, but why play as him when his partner is by and far 
 the superior fighter? To make matters worse, Charlotte's magic spells are kick ass the moment you 
 obtain them. However, Jonathon's subweapons are weak when obtained and require an annoying amount 
 of use before they become remotely helpful.
  
  Regardless, the game still offers hours of monster-mashing fun, and the highly diverse environments 
 are a huge welcome. Plus, there's a ton of optional content. Unfortunately, none of these bonus 
 modes match up to the brilliance of Julius Mode from Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. And while the 
 multi-player is a huge plus thanks to its Wi-Fi capabilities, it's rather meager and mostly boils 
 down to racing to the end of the stage as quickly as possible. Overall, Castlevania: Portrait of 
 Ruin is a worthy buy for any DS owner, but comes up a bit short sadly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fpsmastaps2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  alright so heres my second review for a game.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay plays and feels similar to DoS from the last year Castlevania but adds a 
 lil more to what DoS didnt. This time you can actually switch between 2 vampire slayers, Jonathon 
 and Charlotte. Jonathon for physical attacks and Charlotte for magic attacks. You can even call 
 the other on the screen at the same time and the computer will control it and it doesnt do a bad 
 job either of controlling your partner. You start off in the game with one of the most powerful 
 weapon in the game, but you cannot unlock its full potential unil later on in the game. The maps 
 and areas you explore are really lengthy, but it does have a lil dull side to it and some areas 
 feel the same as another area. Other than that this game is really good at putting in tweaks to 
 each area.
  
  Graphics- the graphics are almost identical to DoS, but adds more texture and character to the 
 models of the game. Sometimes youll be walking and notice the background is 3D as you move around, 
 which makes it pretty amazing. Sound- the sound has got to be one of the best ive heard, very dramatic 
 and sometimes relaxing. the music really suits each area and gives you the feeling that you were 
 there. Top notch sound make the game stand out more.
  
  Value- the value of this game is really nice considering that theres more to it than just beating 
 the game. you can either play as 2 other 2 partner teams and play them through, or co-op it out 
 with a friend online or offline. the co-op varies as you cannot play the whole game, but simply 
 the boss rushes. And you can only play 1 course for the boss rush when playing online. You can 
 even go into shop mode and set up a shop or shop around to buy items from players that you might 
 no have yet. There is also quests you can finish from the dead man you meet in the game. Tilt- 
 Its really worth the money to get this game, and i do believe that you should try it out if you 
 are unsure of whether or not this game is better than the rest of the castlevanias out there. Allthough 
 this game lacks variety in co-op, there are still memorable moments in which you want to replay 
 the game again for a second or even a third time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasukedevil
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  The answer is no that it hasn't really changed then Dawn of Sorrow. That's not a bad thing but 
 in Portrait of Ruin there is some many new ideal factors and elements added that make this game 
 compelling to play and completely fresh. I'm talking about both the online stuff and the switching 
 characters. Those are one of the new things in the series that make this game even better than 
 Dawn of Sorrow and here's my review for this Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin. Gameplay - The gameplay 
 might be the same as other previous Castle Games but switching characters and online makes it much 
 different. The touch screen is not really used at all.... Only once.... no wait actually never. You 
 look at the touch screen the most though throughout the game to see your characters, but all in 
 all you rarely even touch the screen and that makes the game feel more GBA then DS. There is still 
 many new elements added. Switching through partners is fun and fighting alone isn't always fun 
 unless you control a Super Ninja who has a chainsaw sword but you don't see those everyday do you? 
 The new switching players is easy and not very original from other games out of the series but 
 it's still easy and the computer controls the other partner quite nicely. The new Co-op mode and 
 Shop mode adds a little more depth in the game. Co-op mode is fun if you don't always partner up 
 with a noob from the world but it's still fun either way. It would have been better if they added 
 Voice in it or at least text.... but text would be pretty hard to do. You can't play the game through 
 Co-op which would have been nice but Co-op in Castlevania is still a nice edition and that's the 
 first time ever on the DS. Hopefully we see more of the Co-op online on the DS in the future. Shop 
 mode is fun and easy to use but you're more likely to use it to gain money then buy items from 
 people unless your really rich in the game. Shop mode as well doesn't have any voice and should 
 have at least had text. The combat system in the game is still the same as you control Jonathon 
 or Charlottle or both as the game allows you to do that. You'll mostly spend your time on this 
 game running through the portraits or castle leveling then solving puzzles in this game as there 
 is no actual puzzle in this game. The diffculty in Portrait is probably a little of hard and easy 
 so it's a Just Right difficulty and can be tough in some cases but you won't always find yourself 
 looking around for items but mostly stuck on certain bosses/enemies and there is always alot of 
 those. Graphics - These DS games are not suppose to have the best graphics as does this game. It's 
 2-D Side Scrolling with a hint of 3-D and it's an okay combination just like New Super Mario Bros. 
 has done. There isn't many glitches or blurry effects in the game but the background looks pretty 
 dull but the enemies look simply amazing. Sound - Nice music with a Castlevania game isn't to hard 
 but as the coming years grow, the music sounds the same in Castlevania games... this one does that 
 and it tends to get annoying if your hearing it over and over. The same music is the same in certain 
 areas throughout the game but Boss Music is much better than the overrall music. You can always 
 just listen to your IPOD or MP3 Player while playing this game of course because there is still 
 no voice acting in the DS games... just text but it's still nice to read and you can always skip 
 the reading if you like. Value - The game is rather short as usual but the extra content will probably 
 keep you playing for many hours to come. The regular storyline can be completed in less then 8 
 hours or in between 9 - 12. There is plenty of side quests and items to keep you going for probably 
 another 10 hours and of course Co-op may last you as long as you want. The value is nice and after 
 you beat the game you unlock other playable characters so you'll be able to play another new game 
 with unlocked chars. Now that makes the game twice as long even if you don't touch the extra content. 
 Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is still an amazing game even though it barely adds that much to 
 the other DS title. Probably next year another Castlevania will be made and hopefully they add 
 alot of WiFi features and some Touch Screen features to make the DS feel more innoative and have 
 more people buy Castlevania on the DS in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigdogg1
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is the latest addition to the Castlevania universe, and the second 
 to appear on the Nintendo DS.
  
  Castlevania: POR takes place during World War II, and the evil Count Brauner and his vampiric daughters 
 have resurrected Dracula's castle to gain power and take the world away from man. You play as Jonathan 
 Morris, a brash and strong teenager; who has been passed down the Vampire Killer, and Charlotte 
 Aullin, a young witch; who mostly acts as Jonathan's conscience.
  
  The gameplay hasn't changed much. It still has the tried-and-true Castle-oid style of gameplay; 
 as have the past several CV games. You can switch between the two main characters on the fly by 
 pressing the X button, and pressing the Y button while holding up: will have Jon and Charlotte 
 do a team move. The only use you'll get out of the stylus is to move your inactive character around 
 on the screen. This style of gameplay delivers quite well, but it's a little disappointing that 
 it didn't take advantage of the stylus as much as it could.
  
  There is wireless and Wi-Fi connectivilty that lets you buy and sell items that you've found in 
 the game, and a co-op mode that lets you and a friend play a boss-rush style game.
  
  The graphics are beautifully done; with detailed backrounds, and with some of the enemies displayed 
 in 3D. Although the story is told in text form, there is some voice acting. Mainly consisting of 
 one-liners when a cut-scene is over.
  
  Overall: This is a very good installment that would appeal to Castlevania fans and new comers of 
 the like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lannyboy334
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I loved Dawn of Sorrow, it fixed every single minute problem that I had had with the GBA version 
 Aria of Sorrow (but kinda killed the story, no Dracula consumed Soma!) . It fixed some rather importrant 
 issues like useless weapons late game (all that you use is that Holy Spear or whatever) and souls 
 that are literally impossible to get due to equation imbalances (I have no idea how many times 
 I killed Gargoyle and Mandragora) . This review is not about Dawn of Sorrow though, this review 
 is about Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin. PoR is really good, and it is my second favorite DS game. 
 What can I say, I love Castlevania, I just got Yoshi's Island 2 and Animal Crossing: WW and I still 
 find my self perfecting my Castlevania: PoR file. I'm gonna keep it short. Using different types 
 of weapons is key, moreso then DoS, boss battles are cool but have there failings. The bosses that 
 you fight in the portraits after the fight with the 2 chicks are all powerful, if your still a 
 40. The first boss is a challenge, but they are all set at the same difficulty, so when I'm a 55 
 fighting werewolf after I've unlocked Vampire Killer, it wasn't even a challenge. Also alot of 
 the character models are the same as DoS, but that's just cosmestic. I liked collecting souls more 
 then collecting items. If you could combine Dracula from PoR with Soma's insanity in Aria of Sorrow 
 with the Alucard in DoS you would have one wicked game, but PoR didn't capture that like Aria and 
 Dawn of Sorrow did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:23 am PT
Review:  Good: Dual Character system works nicely; Boss battles are epic, as usual; it has a very interesting 
 storyline; I simply love the weapons system used in the last 3 castlevania games; Whips make their 
 triumphant return; plenty of sidequests to lengthen the game; their is so much stuff to do in this 
 game, as once you beat it you are not close to being done; the music is gorgeous, as is usual in 
 Castlevania games; the graphics are even better than DoS, putting this game as the nicest in the 
 whole series.
  
  Bad: If the Soul system was used in this game, it would have been the perfect castlevania; I want 
 the Soul/weapon synthesizer back; some bosses are way to difficult.
  
  This game ties DoS as my favorite castlevania game, and it also ties that and Metroid Prime for 
 my favorite DS game. Pick up this game, as you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_gouda
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  If you've beaten Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, you'll know exactly what you're getting into. Especially, 
 those who have played DoS in Julius Mode. That's because this game basically took Julius Mode and 
 turned it into a full fledged game. In Julius Mode you could switch between one of two playable 
 characters, this game lets you do the same, but it can also let you keep both playable characters 
 on screen to fight or solve puzzles.
  
  You can do team attack spells, allow your teammate to execute a certain attack, or let the computer 
 control it, but that's pretty much about all your partner does. Which is kinda disappointing. They 
 could have done so much more with the teamwork aspect of the game. For instance, in the game you'll 
 fight with these vampire twins and one the vampire twins can cast ice on the other's sword to create 
 a giant ice sword to attack with. No such creativity with your characters though. The only thing 
 remotely close is the ability to jump off your partner's shoulders. Which, by the way, is not nearly 
 as cool as kick ass ice sword combo attack.
  
  There are also some puzzles which require interesting use of your partner, but once again this 
 is disappointing because these puzzles are very rare. There is multi-cart play, but it only lets 
 you play with another person in certain multi-play dungeons, leaving you wishing you could explore 
 Dracula's huge castle with another human player.
  
  For what it is, this game is very engrossing and kept me busy till I beat it twice. But at the 
 same time, the more I played it, the more I realized it had the potential to be so much more than 
 what it was. Maybe Konami left some features out because they didn't have time to put them in? 
 Either way, it feels like they could have done so much more with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixsense
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Meet Jonathan Morris. He's the son of the late John Morris, vampire hunter extraordinaire and the 
 late hero of Castlevania: Bloodlines. Unlike his badass of a father, however, Jonathan is moody, 
 self-righteous, and occasionally tempermental. Considering the legacy of his family established 
 from previous adventures, it's little wonder that this would-be hero has such a massive inferiority 
 complex. He can't even wield Vampire Killer, the legendary whip handed down from the Belmont family 
 to Jonathan's ancestors. The fact that he has to rely on a stuck-up young witch named Charlotte 
 Aulin as his backup makes him seem all the more pathetic. Regardless of his questionable skills 
 as a vampire hunter, Jonathan has come to Castlevania in the height of World War II to vanquish 
 evil yet again.
  
  Like his father before him, our hero will venture forth into the inner recesses of Dracula's castle 
 and smite any zombies, vampires, and whatever else that get in his way. He'll start off wielding 
 the useless Vampire Hunter whip, but he'll eventually acquire a huge arsenal of other whips, swords, 
 maces, lances, and a few other weapons of minor destruction. Aside from affecting Jonathan's stats 
 and combat capabilities, each weapon possesses different special attacks, be it boosted attack 
 damage, faster hits, or other little features. On top of that, Jonathan can also acquire a wide 
 variety of subweapons that can be used to augment his arsenal and can be leveled up to dish out 
 some truly devastating moves. Though you'll get to wield a few unconventional weapons like shurikens 
 and darts, you'll get the chance to unlock Holy Water, Crosses, and a few other staples of older 
 Castlevania games. If you've played any of the last few titles in the handheld Castlevania series, 
 this should sound all too familiar to you. As in previous GBA/DS games, you get to play as a young 
 vampire hunter, find weapons, and work your way through Dracula's home. However, Castlevania: Portrait 
 of Ruin gives us something that previous titles couldn't: a second character that can fight alongside 
 the main hero at the same time. In a similar concept to the Sonic and Tails relationship in Sonic 
 the Hedgehog 2, Charlotte will keep pace with Jonathan (or vice versa, depending on which character 
 you prefer) and help him slay whatever cross their path. Unlike Tails, however, Charlotte is not 
 a helpless or mindless automaton; not only can she provide excellent backup in a fight, but she 
 will also find a wide variety of weapons in the form of magic spells as well. She can fling fireballs, 
 set up shields to cover the pair from enemy fire, and even morph into different creatures to access 
 hard-to-reach areas. You can play as either character, and summon the second whenever the need 
 arises. The point of having two characters is not to use them exclusively, but as a team. Both 
 will be required to solve certain puzzles, be it reaching a faraway ledge, hitting switches, and 
 pushing obstacles out of the way. These two characters have distinct strengths; Jonathan as a direct, 
 close-range melee fighter, and Charlotte as a distant spell-caster with superb support magic and 
 a handful excellent offensive magic. You can toggle between the two of them at will, given that 
 you have enough energy charged up in your magic meter. Should your support character get hit, the 
 damage will be dealt to your magic, effectively cutting off your ability to use subweapons or magic 
 respectively. On the other hand, having two characters fighting at once has its benefits; you can 
 choose your secondary character's attacks, and then trigger them using the R Button. Also, you'll 
 be able to acquire some awesome (albeit utterly broken) Dual Crush moves that can use both characters' 
 powers. If you've got enough energy stored up (you'll know when your magic meter starts flashing) 
 you'll be able to fire bolts of holy light, summon meteors, and unleash all sorts of chaos upon 
 Dracula's hapless minions.
  
  The dual-character combat and puzzle solving mechanics aren't the only new features of Portrait 
 of Ruin, either. At first glance, this game will seem like just another handheld Castlevania game; 
 you've got a castle that requires platforming gameplay and exploration a la Metroid, complete with 
 interconnecting pathways, long hallways, and a multitude of rooms. If anything, this rendition 
 of Dracula's abode seems kind of small and a little too oversimplified; you'll be able to access 
 much of the map in a fairly short amount of time. However, this rather seemingly uncomplicated 
 map layout tricks you into believing that the game is short. Though the castle doesn't offer much 
 in exploration, it makes up for it with the ten portraits strewn throughout the place. These paintings 
 aren't for decoration, however; within each portrait exists a separate dungeon that will require 
 you enter, defeat the all the baddies inside, and acquire whatever items you come across. None 
 of these dungeons are particularly elaborate, but the sheer amount of challenge and exploration 
 required will keep you busy for hours.
  
  That's right, all you obsessive gamers. You've got ten different maps to complete, eventually adding 
 up to a 1000% completion rating. You'll likely spend hours exploring every dungeon, with your eyes 
 glued to the screen and drool running down your face as you look for well-hidden secret rooms. 
 The size of game won't be the only thing to keep you coming back, however. Portrait of Ruin features 
 online co-op gameplay, allowing you and a friend to team up against evil or simply purchase items 
 from each other. Early on in the game, you'll meet Wind, the ghost of a former vampire hunter that 
 will give you all sorts of sidequests and random missions to complete. These tasks vary widely; 
 you could be asked to acquire certain items and bring them back to learn a spell, kill enough enemies 
 to get a new weapon, and get enough percentage of the map completed to unlock an obscenely tough 
 bonus dungeon for Castlevania diehards. The game also boasts the standard Boss Rush challenge, 
 higher difficulty levels, and even an alternate gameplay mode that Dracula X and Symphony of the 
 Night fans will be sure to appreciate.
  
  In fact, much of Portrait of Ruin is an homage to previous games. The background of Jonathan Morris 
 is one of the game's several connections to Bloodlines. The Vampire Killer, one of the focal aspects 
 of the story, includes direct references to Richter Belmont's adventures in Dracula X. Should you 
 search enough, you'll even run across a few familiar faces from Castlevania III: Dracula's Curse. 
 A good portion of the music is comprised of remixes of older Castlevania soundtracks as well. Despite 
 such throwbacks, this game offers plenty of its own original content. All of the levels have their 
 own look and theme, be it the Egyptian temple covered in hieroglyphs, the murky and rain-drenched 
 forests, or the abandoned villages. Though many of the enemy sprites were taken from Dawn of Sorrow, 
 several of the foes have been redone; you'll get to see the magic spells floating through the air, 
 hear the rattling of bones against the floor, and fight the occasional 3D monster. Also, many of 
 your foes can now speak English fluently. There's nothing quite as weird as hearing a succubus 
 calling Charlotte a filthy cow and trying to seduce Jonathan. The two heroes are just as detailed 
 and chatty; you can see their clothes rippling in the wind, watch them strike poses during Dual 
 Crush summons, and yell each other's names when being summoned. Castlevania fans now face a problem. 
 The Metroid-esque gameplay of Portrait of Ruin has not been changed from its predecessors on the 
 GBA and DS. You have heroes that will get weapons, level up, find items to progress, and eventually 
 explore every nook and cranny of a massive castle. But before you shake your head in disdain and 
 proclaim that this game offers nothing new, consider what this game does have: a decent follow-up 
 to Bloodlines, characters with plenty of personality, and plenty of content to enjoy. Between the 
 different maps, the weapon leveling, the secret bosses, sidequests, and extra gameplay and online 
 co-op modes, you're going to have your hands full. If anything else, the sheer amount of older 
 Castlevania game references ought to send fans awash in nostalgia. But even if you're not a follower 
 of the series, don't worry; in terms of action gaming on the DS, Portrait of Ruin is second to 
 none. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElitesIgnorance
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  You walk into the woods that the monk told you. You hear the great war is getting worse and worse, 
 and your father left you defenseless because of your foolishness. You travel with a friend into 
 the dangerous realm of Dracula's Castle and fight our way through hordes of enemies concealed into 
 the wilderness. Into the distance, you see those sinster two girls watching in a birdeyes view 
 of you, testing your guts. You finally reach into the castle in one piece, but the rest is waiting 
 for you to come.
  
  Castlevannia has been an awkard series to me. You honestly can't remember all of those on so many 
 systems they have encountered in the past. I, for once, actually got a piece of what the Castlevannia 
 series has been hiding for so long. I first thought this series was sort of an extra toward Nintendo's 
 point of view, but I actually thought this is maybe the best Game Boy DS game ever displayed on 
 my two screens. The game is really not about just encountering foes by yourself, but to do great 
 and unforgiving combo attacks with your friend. Another surprise Portrait of Ruin was the fact 
 that this game had a wi-fi connection. It was sort of disapointing since I thought the game was 
 actually going to be played on the adventure for co-op, but it was fun doing the game's way. The 
 co-op is sort of testing your strengths of your player that you been so longing testing for in 
 the adventure. You go through hordes of enemies and see how far with your partner that you will 
 survive. This game will surely try to test your coordinating skills at the end.
  
  Gameplay is at it's top notch preformance. Honestly, you can't get no better than having a second 
 nature with your character. Switching characters, Johnathan and Charlette, is really easy to maneveur, 
 but one thing that really affects the gameplay is the seriousness your character plays in his' 
 or her's part. Johnathan will constantley always will do the same attack with the weapon or item, 
 and the manuever button he preforms is really lame. Doing the same, Charlette will hit things with 
 a book, and sometimes have some lame jumps, like the broom between her you know what. At the end, 
 you won't be disappointed at that kind of gameplay spots.
  
  The story is not bad at all. In fact, this story will keep you in the basket until you beat the 
 rest of the game. The game has potential, and it's very, very long. You will go through Protraits 
 which leads you to that Artist's world and defeat that boss and get that power-up. Sure, sounds 
 a lot like Metroid Prime, but it's really not that similar. Castlevannia is really an RPG, not 
 one of those games that just let you level by getting power-ups. The bad thing is that the bosses 
 are really sometimes hard to figure out what their weaknesses are, and sometime they are dumb that 
 their weakness are themselves. The bosses will also consume some time since they are very tough 
 to figure out how many potions you will need to heal in battle. The best part is the story, and 
 you shouldn't have to be sad in this part.
  
  The sound is mind blowing for trying to fit it into a handheld game. There is voice acting, not 
 in the text parts but in the fighting, and there is great sounds effects that are concealed in 
 that dual screen's speakers. Every enemies dies in a lovely sympathy that will makes you want to 
 kill them to see how they react. Another good moment in the game is the game's music. Every Portrait 
 or section in the castle will let you think how much time they put into the music in the game. 
 Good, great, and superb is all that matters in this part of the review.
  
  The graphics is a standard looking 2D game you may find on the Super Nintendo. Although, some of 
 the creatures and backgrounds are 3D, you will find it interesting. The character models look better 
 than most game since they have their own physics and movement when they interact. You will, however, 
 find some of the graphics to be a little dated on how they move on some enemies, such as the maids. 
 The graphics is not a particapating group in this game.
  
  In conclusion, this game is superb. You will encounter many moments that will let you interact 
 with the story or with your friend. With a $40 tag, you shouldn't miss any dollars that you spent 
 on this spectular game which will treat you for many months to come for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d43mon1k
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  This is the best DS game to date, and the best Castlevania game in the series. If you enjoy your 
 DS, like platformer games, and are looking for a good action RPG, this is a must for your collection.
 
  
  The game play is easy to pick up on, and you get accustomed to switching between your characters 
 via power ups. It is impossible to beat the game using just one character of the other... you must 
 find ways for them to work together to overcome various obstacles and puzzles.
  
  The best thing about this game is the replayability value. I very rarely beat a game even once, 
 but this game, I beat twice, to explore everything it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin is a fun RPG game that is old but still fun. But I think it could 
 of came out for the GBA insted of the DS.
  
  Gameplay, Very simple, you walk from room to room killing bad guys with simple swings and unlock 
 things, buy armor, new weapons, its just fun.
  
  Graphics, haha well its 2d so its the best that 2d can get. Not really DS quality but its alright.
 
  
  Sound and Music, it is nice, it's memberable. It's that RPG music you gotta love.
  
  Value and Tilt, All kinds of Armor and Weapons you can by but to take it down to think about it 
 you only have 2 people and it sometimes gets old and when you put on new armor it looks the same 
 but its a good RPG.
  
  Control Layout, simple so very simple, you really jump with one button and attack with the other 
 but Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin succeeds in making it fun.
  
  Total Rating, It all depends if you don't mind 2d graphics and old combat but it has good rpg element 
 inside so its your choice. I give Castlevania: Portrail of Ruin, an 8.5.
  
  i don't even remember my stupid reason for selling this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  Well i just bought my DS LITE upon purchase of this game, and mind you this isnt the first DS game 
 iv ever played from other owners. Now ill just say its really a great game, a tad bit doubtful 
 at first. But after about 30 minutes you realize it was another good decision.
  
  The music is great with its spooky mysterious soundtracks fitting the scenery on any end of the 
 game play.
  
  The graphics are just right for this game, nothing outstanding but the moving bodies function properly 
 and doesn't leave anything looking out of the ordinary.
  
  Game play is as shows only lots of unlock able combos, learning curve, and character switch and 
 single mode.
  
  Something bad to say about this game is theres to much talking and not enough creatures. Other 
 then that... not enough choice of environment but thats it and hardly downgrades the game i just 
 thought id add something negative.
  
  
  RECOMMENDATION
  I would strait up recommend this to any rpg fan, to be more specific anyone who likes choice of 
 weapon, character, and strategy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newbie_user
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 7:13 am PT
Review:  I was never a fan of the Castlevania series nor followed it in any way but for Christmas 2006 my 
 Auntie got it for me and oh my god, it's one of the best games I have played ever. There is such 
 a factor to this game I mean the gameplay succeeds on every level, the sound is great, the bosses 
 are amazing, the save points in the game are located perfectly if you look. This game deserves 
 a 10 from me at least because in the midst of being a gamer and having this game becoming my favourite 
 game even though I never followed the series is amazing and I think that if you love action games 
 pick this baby up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Picture this; you are killing a boss with a claymore, and then, you bring out a mage and launch 
 a beam of light at him. Then, you throw 1000 blades at the poor boss, who is now dying. This is 
 a possibility with Ruin, which adds new elements and (mostly) avoids gimmicky touch screen tricks.
 
  
  The game takes place during WW2 (don't worry, you're nowhere near the war) , and a castle not dissimilar 
 to Dracula's appears. The church sends Jonathan Morris (a blood relative of the Belmonts, but he 
 cannot use the whip to its full potential) , a fighter in possesion of Vampire Killer, and Charlotte, 
 a mage who aids him by casting devastating spells. You'll be able to switch between the two at 
 the touch of a button, call out one to travel with you (or just launch a back-up attack) , and initiate 
 a deadly dual crush attack.
  
  Gameplay wise, this game has all of the good elements from previous games, and introduces new ones. 
 The dual crush is an attack where both characters initiate, and they vary between a holy ball of 
 lighting to a summoning of all old Belmonts to strike at enemies. The spells that Charlotte uses 
 take time to charge up, and can be charged more for an extra oomph . Graphicly, this looks great, 
 particuarly the backgrounds. None of them look stale, and the character motions are incredibly 
 fluid. The only complaint in this division is that some of the weapons of Jonathan's (particuarly 
 the normal swords) look exactly like eachother during an attack.
  
  Sound wise, the game has everything a Castlevania fan should be happy with. The tunes are great. 
 No complaints.
  
  In terms of replay value, there are several quests to attempt, items to get, and different endings 
 (only two endings, with the good ending having slight variations) . There are two modes unlocked 
 upon completion of the game, and a third available for killing 1000 Old Axe Armors. No, I am NOT 
 kidding!
  
  In short, this game will keep you busy for a LONG time. The hard modes are actually hard, and the 
 game has plenty of reasons to keep it in your DS for a few weeks. If you are a fan, this is a must. 
 If not, this is a good place to start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shidohari
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  OMG... and this is coming from a person who never tried any of the previous incarnations of any 
 Castlevania games for more than two seconds because they got ticked off at the way the game was 
 going. THIS GAME IS A MUST. It's a great first game for anyone who has never consistantly played 
 castlevania games before. Also there are great faqs written on gamefaqs. com to help with those 
 problem areas.
  
  You play as Jonathan Morris and his Sorceress assistant Charlotte. Your Mission, to foil the plans 
 of the Vampire Bruener in the year 1944. Sounds easy right? It is until you face the souls inside 
 the paintings. Your first boss is actually fought inside a painting.
  
  I haven't finished the game myself yet, though i can tell you that i've had to pry myself away 
 from it due to sore eyes. Graphics are great as is the backround music. Granted this game may seem 
 easier for those die hard Castlevania fans, but for those who never really played the games before 
 it's the perfect fit. Though i have also heard you can unlock harder modes of play as you complete 
 the game.
  
  So if you are unsure what game to get for the DS I do recommend Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin... though 
 we all know Charlotte is the brains of this outfit :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  - Castlevania Portrait of Ruin is an evolved game from Dawn of Sorrow and even though they are 
 not linked together plot-wise those who've played Dawn of Sorrow should have no problem adjusting. 
 Now you use two characters together (Jonathan and Charlotte) which you can switch between whenever 
 you want by pressing the X button or you can call on the partner and work together with one being 
 controlled by the CPU. - The game works by completing the map, defeating bosses, finding items, 
 collecting spells, and so on until you ultimately face Dracula. However, there's a twist and instead 
 you must deal with the likes of another lord known as Brauner before you can get to the dreaded 
 Dracula himself. While the game isn't a heavily plot-based game there is definitely plenty going 
 on to keep you interested. The real center of the game is in the action and exploration of the 
 castle and various other locations. - For a 2-D game it is beatutiful. The backgrounds that you 
 will come across are really well done with a lot of times 3-D objects placed in the background 
 which really makes the game feel more real. An example would be in the desert where a sphinx statue 
 rotates in the horizon as you move from left to right. A very nice notice to detail went into this 
 game and it shows. This is by far one of the most polished looking games I have seen on the DS. 
 The game is smooth and easy on the eyes. - The only real drawback to Portrait of Ruin in my opinion 
 was that it lost the focus on summoning monsters and collecting monster's souls which was something 
 that really made Dawn of Sorrow addictive. You can still collect spells from defeating enemies 
 which will sometimes allow you to summon that creature but it is not to the same scale as what 
 you were doing in Dawn of Sorrow. - Also, the video that plays if you don't mess with the title 
 screen is still a really nice video but doesn't feel as intense or as dramatic as what was in Dawn 
 of Sorrow. - Jonathan and Charlotte appear to be much younger, or at least more immature, than 
 that of Soma from Dawn of Sorrow. As a matter of preference I tend to find characters like Soma 
 more likeable but of course you could just as easily be the opposite and like Jonathan better. 
 - Portrait of Ruin does however offer some things that Dawn of Sorrow did not. Wifi play online 
 is a nice addition in which you can team up with a friend (or at random) and face off in a wifi-specific 
 version of Boss Rush mode. There's also the ability to open an online shop also where you can display/sell 
 items that you found in the game. - There is also Wind, a character you meet early in the game, 
 that has various side-quests for you to do (all but the first 1 or 2 are optional) . Overall Portrait 
 of Ruin exceeded my expectations and I would strongly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burger_boy_9
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 23, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  castlevania: portrait of ruin is a great game with amazing detail to the background and great sound. 
 this games gameplay is much better than i though and i didnt think it would be bad. the downsides 
 to this game are very few and it was definatly worth the wait. it may not be the greatest in the 
 series but its definatly among the top 10. this is a must play to all castlevania fans and it has 
 an okay wifi but its definatly not the best, there are 2 wifi options, one is co-op mode where 
 you cooperate in levels also played in boss rush mode. the other wifi option is shop. in shop mode 
 you get to go to friends shops other people shops or ever start your own shop. if i have to improve 
 one thing on this game it would be the wepons because there arent many thing to buy over wifi that 
 you couldn't obtain during the game. This is a great game which i think deserves an overal score 
 of 8.6 (great)
  from: burger_boy_9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlySoma55
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This is what i've been waiting for. The gamepaly is amazing, you get to use two characters at the 
 same time and the gameplay speed does not suffer at all. This castlevania is also my favorite because 
 it brings back memories of all the previous casltevanias i played. (slight spoilers) Skeleton blaze 
 returns from HoD, persephone returns from Aos, andDoS, and many other sprites from Dos, obviousely 
 many reminders form bloodlines occur, and we can't forget that lengthy quest imspired from Sotn. Portrait 
 of ruin never fails to keep you interested because you always have some activity to do whether 
 it be mastering jonathan's sub weapons, killin enemies for spells for charlotte, or doing one of 
 wind's missions. The music is by far fantastic. With these elements it's really to find this game 
 a dissapoint even if your not a casltevnia fan. I may not be finished with this game because im 
 taking my sweet sweet time and i dont plan to finish the whole game soon because im really enjoying 
 it. As a casltevania fan i really do enjoy portrait of ruin konami really outdid itself with this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rationalvoid
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:07 pm PT
Review:  This is yet another iteration in the continuing saga of Castlevania. The game play keeps the same 
 basic mechanics that were introduced way back with the PSOne game, Symphony of the Night. Castlevania: 
 Portrait of Ruin adds enough to this formula to keep it interesting.
  This go around, you have two main characters, Jonathon and Charlotte, at your disposal. Two characters 
 add a whole new way to play, as you can use characters separately or have them cooperate. The cooperation 
 can be used for; normal battles, special moves, and for use in puzzles that requires cooperation 
 from both characters at once. This new mechanic of two characters is what keeps the game fun and 
 different enough from past games to enjoy.
  A second new addition is that the characters can enter new levels through paintings found in the 
 main castle. These paintings serve as variety from the normal castlevania routine.
  The graphics in this game are just as good as what one would expect from a Castlevania game, but 
 more 3-D backgrounds and monsters keep the look fresh. This animation of the 2-D elements is very 
 fluid, especially with the two main characters.
  As in previous installments, the sound is just awesome. The different themes each set a mood that 
 is appropriate for each area. The SFX are mostly recycled, which isnt a bad thing since the originals 
 were fine. There is some surprising voice work found in the game, though Charlottes attacks being 
 announced can be a tad distracting.
  This game, as previous ones, can be brutally difficult when the boss fights are found. The rest 
 of the game is rather pedestrian to anyone who has played the previous ones.
  C: PoR is another fine installment, but I cant help feeling that after this game, Im going to 
 need to see a lot more additions. I couldnt help but have d&eacute; j&agrave; vu throughout the 
 game, and Im not sure I have one more trip to the castle in me after this one without some greater 
 variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinpals
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Portrait of Ruin takes place in 1944, during the second World War. With the world in turmoil, there 
 are a lot of tortured souls floating around and wailing, or whatever it is that souls do. All of 
 this agony and despair make the world an appealing place for the old lord of darkness himself, 
 Dracula. So Dracula's magic castle appears, and it's up to you to defeat the old bat and send him 
 on his way. You take control of not one but two vampire hunters. Jonathan Morris is a distant relative 
 of the Belmont family, who have played a major role in the previous Castlevania games. Jonathan 
 wields a special whip known as the Vampire Killer, which he inherited from his father, who was 
 also a vampire hunter. Jonathan is joined by his friend, a young female magic user named Charlotte 
 Aulin. It's a complementary duo -- Jonathan weakens evil beings with his trusty whip and Charlotte 
 finishes them off with her powerful magic. The game does require you to use the unique abilities 
 of each character at times, but it's only absolutely essential in a handful of situations. So even 
 though you have two characters, you'll probably end up using Jonathan about 90 percent of the time. 
 You can switch characters at any time by pressing the X button, and you can also call your character 
 using the A button to help you do battle, push an object, or stand on a switch. The game makes 
 very little use of the DS touch screen, but you can touch the screen to direct your partner to 
 a specific area when you summon him or her. When the other character is active, he or she will 
 stay close to you and only attack when enemies come very close. You don't have to worry too much 
 about your partner becoming a liability, because you can simply tell him or her to go away at any 
 time. If your partner does take damage, you won't lose health but will lose magic power. Each character 
 has unique special skills that can often be quite useful. Jonathan can equip and use classic alternate 
 weapons like throwing axes and daggers, as well as special melee moves and stances to enhance his 
 offensive or defensive capabilities. Charlotte can equip magic spells such as fire, lightning, 
 heal, monster summons, and so on. You can use your special skill by pressing up and Y, and if you 
 want your partner to use his or her special ability, you just have to tap the R button. There are 
 also combo attacks that inflict major damage and typically have a much wider area of effect than 
 the standard or special attacks. The partner mechanic works well, and it's remarkably easy and 
 intuitive to control two characters at once. The only problem is that the game isn't always designed 
 to take advantage of the team dynamic. You'll find a couple doors where one person has to stand 
 on a switch while the other runs through, and some large blocks that require two people to push, 
 but for the most part, you'll very rarely need to switch characters. Despite Charlotte being a 
 powerful magic user, she only has a couple essential spells, and even those will likely remain 
 unused for most of the game. Of course, if you want to control Charlotte instead of Jonathan, that's 
 fine; she's quite capable of holding her own in combat when properly equipped. ... you must whip 
 it. Both characters gain experience as you fight enemies, and when you get enough experience you'll 
 level up, which will increase your stats in parameters like strength, intelligence, attack, and 
 defense. The enemies in the game always remain the same, so if you go back to an early part of 
 the game after you've spent a significant amount of time leveling up your characters, you'll be 
 able to wade through scores of enemies without any trouble at all. It does take a bit of the challenge 
 out of the game, but it also provides an appreciable sense of progress as your characters get stronger. 
 Jonathan can equip a wide variety of weapons that you'll find throughout the game, including swords, 
 maces, whips, and spears. There's even a special magic chain that homes in on enemy targets and 
 has a very long range, making it one of the best weapons in the game. Charlotte can't equip weapons; 
 instead, she'll equip magic books. Depending on the book she's using, Charlotte will conjure attacks. 
 Using the Tome of Arms, for example, will cause an array of sharp weapons to stab out from her 
 book as she attacks. In addition to the weapons, each character can equip armor, shoes, and head 
 gear, as well as accessories such as rings. All of these items give essential boosts to your stats, 
 meaning that it's usually worth your while to go out of your way to explore every nook and cranny 
 of the castle or stage you're in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoogleDragoon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I was very pleased with my purchase of the latest Castlevania game. Great graphics, solid gameplay 
 and wonderful music. Overall my experience was great. There were a few problems I had with the 
 game though.
  
  Such as the main characters, I really didn't have a good feel for them. Jonathon seemed a bit whiny 
 and never gave up the spotlight for his partner. On top of that, they took out my favorite part 
 from the previous games. Collecting all the souls and in turn using them to defeat other foes. 
 Though they had something kinda of similar it was just not the same. The great parts about the 
 game aside from the standard graphics, sound, gameplay. Was the team system, it added a unique 
 fresh turn to the series where you had a partner running with you at all times. Which added a new 
 game style to the genre where you could switch back and forth using the different play styles. 
 I enjoyed that very much along with the quest system which had you either performing special moves 
 or collecting various items to complete the quests. That alone added some extra gameplay which 
 I loved seeing how Castlevania games are very short to begin with. For the replay value of the 
 game they added the quest's but on top that they added online play along with a system where you 
 could go online and buy all the different type of items and weapons other people have gotten in 
 their adventures and in turn sell your loots. Also with two different endings depending on how 
 you finish the game. Thankfully you can see both with just one save. By completing the game with 
 the good ending you also unlock two different characters *four in total if you count there counter 
 parts* that you can use to run through the game. Check out the FAQ section to see how to unlock 
 a third character as well.
  
  Though the game to me wasn't as solid as Dawn of Sorrow and Aria Sorrow it's still a great Castlevania 
 game and worth the purchase.
  
  Shik 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tking1293
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 15, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  After playing Dawn of Sorrow, I knew i couldn't let this experience escape me. Portrait of Ruin 
 is the second DS installment of the Castlevania franchise and is really good. The game starts out 
 with the player arriving at Dracula's Castle after it has arisen from all of the dead souls because 
 of World War 2. The game lets you play as two characters, being able to switch on the fly. You 
 have Jonathon, the warrior in the game who gets the game's legendary whip the vampire killer. You 
 also have Charlotte, a female magician. The game's graphics look about about the same compared 
 to Dawn, though a few more 3D elements have been added. The musical score is good, with your traditional 
 music for this kind of gameplay. Overall, this game is worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eli708
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 15, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  While PoR isn't as great as its predecessor, Dawn of Sorrow, it more than holds its own in the 
 long line of great Castlevanie games. Konami can do no wrong with their Metroidvania formula. PoR 
 is a solid game with good graphics, flawless gameplay, and new ways to play with the two character 
 setup. The two character system takes the place of DOS' meh touchscreen features and its awesome 
 soul collecting. The dual character setup mimics DOS' X button weapon switching and the attacking 
 souls simultaneously. The damage the second player takes uses up your magic but the damage they 
 deal out more than makes up for it. This setup eased my fears of not enjoying the game due to not 
 having soul collecting.
  
  All in all its a great game and if you have a pulse you'll enjoy PoR. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jungulogical
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 15, 2006 4:03 am PT
Review:  This game is only bested by Symphony of the Nights (On the Castlevania scale) . Excellent game. 
 Bravo it took me only a glance at the game play and i was hooked, very nice art work, fun addictive 
 skills/spells, and a must have for the true fan of this legacy. Long live Dracula and his forever 
 battle with the feared Vampire Hunter (Best weapon in the game... well... most fun anyways oh, and 
 for those of you, agonizing over the best way to kill Richter, ive found that the nebula whip and 
 a quick back-jump will do the trick fairly easy once you get the rythem of his useable items down 
 that is... i would give this a 7.7-8.0 game. enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzychrono
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:39 pm PT
Review:  In Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin you take the roles of Jonathan Morris (son of John Morris from 
 Castlevania: Bloodlines) and Charlotte a young girl that studies magic. The game takes place during 
 World War II and with that going on its just enough energy to make Dracula's castle rise above 
 again. The story of PoR is one of my favorite stories in the Castlevania series and PoR takes its 
 place as my 2nd favorite Castlevania game of all time standing a very short distance from the masterpiece 
 SotN.
  
  Unlike other Morris family members, Jonathan uses more then just a whip for his main weapon. He 
 can also use axes, spears, swords, maces, a really cool weapon called Nebula, and etc. He also 
 can obtain the standard Castlevania sup-weapons and then some. Charlotte is more of a magic user 
 and she will learn a variety of spells throughout the game. Her actual weapons or books that send 
 out different forms to attack enemies. You can control either character and switch on the fly (like 
 Castlevania 3 style) or you can control one character and keep the other on screen for AI to control 
 and when your AI gets hit, it will damage your MP bar instead of HP bar. Jonathan and Charlotte 
 can also perform powerful combination attacks.
  
  The layout and level design are done well. Unlike other Castlevania games you won't be spending 
 too much time in the actual castle but instead warping through portaits into other areas. Also 
 like other Castlevania games you can rush through and beat the game in like 5 hours or you can 
 take your time and do all that needs to be done and get the good endind and spend approx. 15 hours 
 into the game. Also there is a character names Wind in the game that sends you out on numerous 
 side quests (yes side quests) . A very cool added feature into the game. If you rush the game your 
 gonna miss out on about 1/3-1/2 of the game.
  
  The graphics are beautiful just like the others, its not the best looking DS game but its beautiful 
 sprites and detailed animation makes the game look amazing. The sound of course meets all expectations 
 of what a Castlevania game should sound like. All the musical scores sounds great and are very 
 fitting for the game.
  
  If you are a fan of the series then this is a MUST get cos in my opinion its one of the best Castlevania 
 games out there. It is a masterpiece and should not be ignored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbkchib
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  I've missed my fair share of Castlevania 2D games, ie Dracula X and the one that most people claim 
 to be the best in the series, Castlevania 3. I'm not saying that you should miss out on this adventure 
 but you wont be missing anything big with this title. Anticipation can sometime ruin a game that 
 this was the case for me. I preordered this game months ahead of time , because I was fearing that 
 this game is going to end up like Dawn of Sorrow where at one point, it was really hard to find 
 a copy. And I can't write this review without comparing Portrait of Ruin to Dawn of Sorrow.
  Nonetheless, if you are a fan of the Castlevania series, you wont care what I have to say and if 
 you've never played Castlevania or haven't played the recent titles, then this can be the best 
 hand held 2D game in recent years.
  
  -
  Graphically. I have to say that there wasn't much noticeable changes in comparison to Dawn of Sorrow. 
 Which is why I was kinda dissappointed. I mean, I love the graphics from Dawn of Sorrow and not 
 changing much, I should like the graphics but I was hoping for more. A lot of the enemies were 
 taken directly from Dawn of Sorrow and they were program to do the same exact things, Again, like 
 Dawn of Sorrow, you get a nice intro animated cut scene from the title screen when you press the 
 A button. Aside for slight improvements on some of the backgrounds, there just isn't enough changes 
 to make me say WOW. -
  Some of the lucky people that preordered this game got a cool CD soundtrack . I wasnt so lucky 
 and didn't get one because the Gamestop that I ordered from ran out. There really isn't much to 
 say about the sounds from this game. I like it but nothing really momorable. Each area does come 
 with the proper sound scores, like the pyramid stage with Arabian type music. Some people will 
 find it annoying but I find it kinda cool when you switch between characters and hear the names 
 of those characters being called out.
  
  -
  Gameplay wise, this game does have some nice new features with the double team attacks and the 
 ablity to switch between characters. I haven't tried the online games or the co-op mode. I do like 
 some of the new and clever puzzles that require you to use both characters at the same time. I 
 just wish there was more of that in this game. Some of the areas require you to use both characters 
 to clear. Sometimes you need to use both characters to destroy a wall. But again, this game plays 
 a lot like Dawn of Sorrow, which is good but I can't help but feel kind of ripped off by it. I 
 am not saying that the game wasn't fun and that it was frustratingly hard to play, It just wasn't 
 a new enough adventure for me. -
  Overall, I like the game, and I will continue to play until I complete the entire map and get all 
 the items. Portrait of Ruin kinda Ruin my feeling towards 2D Castkevania games. Castlevania fans 
 like myself would have already have this game by now. So for those of you that doesn't have this 
 game, definitely try it out. If you haven't played Dawn of Sorrow, you will love this one. And 
 even if you played Dawn of Sorrow, this game is still worth playing, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 13, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  There is a LOT to love about Konami's most recent entry into the venerable Castlevania series. 
 Where to begin. . .?
  
  How about if we start with the flawless gameplay? There is a lot of complexity and nuance to the 
 multiple-character approach they took with this game. You can swap between characters at will and 
 this adds a huge strategic value to the game that hasn't been seen in the DS series to date. It 
 feels natural and fluid.
  
  The graphics more than match the fluidity of the gameplay, no question. The little touches they've 
 added since Dawn of Sorrow are all things that add up to make a big difference in the quality of 
 the game. Weapon attacks and spells are both animated more neatly, and character models are animated 
 smoothly.
  
  It's the sound, though, that really makes this game. The music is beautifully composed and always 
 fits with the various levels. Even my non-gaming friends were drawn in by the sheer quality of 
 the soundtrack. The voice acting is also done a little bit better, and while not the games best 
 asset, is still worth noting.
  
  All and all, this game alone justifies the purchase of a DS by just about anyone. Go out and nab 
 it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 12, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Latly theres been alot of great games coming out for the DS and alot of games a DS owner must have. 
 Well this is one of those games that you must have. The game starts off with a beautiful opening. 
 It starts off with the main screen but if you press b or wait a few seconds the opening will play 
 as I didn't notice there was a opening till I pressed b a few times later. This game takes place 
 with 2 main characters Charlotte and Jonathan who are on the hunt to dracula's castle to slay him. 
 However this castle is not under control by Dracula at this time but someone else? Through your 
 adventure you will slay monsters and venture through different lands through the form of paintings 
 which hold a mysterious power within this castle. Each painting leads to new surrounds and new 
 enemies to face. The game offers a nice set of english voiceovers and also allows the japanense 
 voice overs if you press L and A at the start screen. Both of the voices are awesome so choose 
 which ever one you like best. The music throughout the whole game is perfect in every way and makes 
 you want to leave your DS volume cracked. The graphics in the game are very nice and add enough 
 detail for you to be satisfied. Sure Jonathan runs a bit funny and you can't see his face features 
 but who cares when your slashing blood everywhere? lol. The game offers 68 weapons with choices 
 from magic books, to spears, swords, whips and many others. Jonathan will be your main physical 
 character doing lots of physical damage, as Charlotte will be your power house magician throughout 
 the game. The 2 characters work together, through helping each other jump in the air, to fighting 
 side by side, to using team attacks to crush there enemies! The difficulty is just right, making 
 you pay attention all the time and always keeping your guard up on the bosses who do killer damage 
 if you don't dodge correctly. This game offers Wi-fi allowing you to shop with other characters 
 and buy items they have for sale, stuff that you may have not found within your game or just can't 
 be bothered to kill this monster 1000 times to get it. Theres also a 2 player version of the boss 
 run. The enemies may seem the same but seemed to be boosted in strength as everytime no matter 
 how strong of weapons I got we get beat up lol. Maybe thats just our bad luck or something. Extra's 
 include 5 bonus characters, and I heard rumors of a bonus end boss when you complete 100% of the 
 games map. This game only took me 11 hours to beat the main quest, but it was such a blast I could 
 play it all over again without having that horrible feeling you get your starting all over again. 
 This is a must have game for the DS and recommend this game to anyone with a DS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobi26X
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania celebrates its 20th anniversary by releasing Portrait of Ruin and it does not disappoint 
 in any way. The game is awesome from the second you turn it on. The main menu alone looks really 
 cool. The game's graphics are extremely well done and are definitely great to look at. The level 
 design is thought out very well like in all the other Castlevania games giving it an eerie theme. 
 The sound department is impressive. This is by far, the best sounding DS game to date. The music 
 is top-notch and the quality is amazing. It sounds clear and crisp like an audio CD. There is some 
 voiceover in this one but too little of it. Hopefully the next Castlevania will be full voiceovers. 
 Gameplay remains true to the Castlevania series and improves over Dawn of Sorrow. While Dawn of 
 Sorrow was a great game, the one thing that really bogged it down was the touch screen controls 
 for sealing a boss away (the only way to finish a boss battle) . For those who don't know what i'm 
 talking about, it was this seal on the screen where you had to draw lines to form a seal while 
 the boss is weakened and if you messed up, you had to fight the boss again. Extremely unnecessary 
 and thankfully removed. The storyline in Castlevania games have always been intriguing and this 
 one is no exception. For those who have played Castlevania: Bloodlines for the Sega Genesis (if 
 not, download it for the computer right now) , its a direct sequel. Familiar faces will appear throughout 
 the adventure making it way cooler. The replay value in the game is also very high. With multiple 
 endings, multiple game modes after getting the good ending, and online mode, this is a game that 
 is surely to stay in your DS for awhile. This is by far the best DS game of the year, or ever, 
 and if there's one game you get this holiday season, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keebthesquee
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  i say this cuz well it just simply is the best castlevania game in terms of gameplay. it may have 
 not been as revolutionizing as SOTN but it did change the future of the Castlevania games. in this 
 game it is the first time u the player can control another character or choose to have that character 
 assist u for the first time. not to mention the AMAZING tag team attacks. some say the game is 
 dulled down due to the lack of the soul capturing system but in my opinion its not. only becuase 
 of the great abundance of different weapons and armor and magic scrolls for ur partner Charlotte 
 to use. but technically speaking if u play the game u will find out that Johnathon is no Soma Cruz 
 or Julius Belmont only a inheriter of the whip. so technically he cannot use the almighty soul 
 system. but anyways on with the review. as for the music this game has the best musical score to 
 date on the DS and ranks up there on the best in the series. IT MAKES U WANT TO DANCE. the graphics 
 are amazing though oddly i find it not as pleasing as Dawn of Sorrow. dont know why. but that doesnt 
 matter. as for the gamespot review they dont know what they are talking about. what do u mean the 
 value isnt as great or whatever they said. THEYS CRAZY. and thats all i have to say. buy castlevania 
 and u wont be dissapointed one bit. Even if ur not a Castlevania fan and ur just going into the 
 series. this is the game for  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raistlin_84
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:52 pm PT
Review:  I sincerely enjoyed playing this game, however, Dawn of Souls was a better game. For sure, get 
 them both, however. They both had amazing content, as well as a vast area to explore. The developers 
 did a great job with the story line, however I would have liked to see a bit more talking. Sure, 
 you could talk to your partner any time you wanted, but they just gave you tips. This is not for 
 casual gamers, however. It is quite a challenging game. Some of the bosses were absolutely overwhelming, 
 causing you to have to spent time training. The environment was absolutley beautiful. They added 
 in some hazards, which made the game fun, but they got kind of annoying and repetitive. Watching 
 the characters move was like watching a movie. They moved seamlessly, no glitching. Having two 
 people on the screen was not very hard to control. You can switch back and forth between characters 
 easily, and the controls are easy. This was an overall very well executed game, with great graphics 
 and fun gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nekrotaunter
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 9, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  while there are two characters to control, Portrait of Ruin brings back the classic gameplay of 
 the series. You'll have to learn the strengths and weaknesses of your team, and that adds to the 
 depth of the title. When you finish the game, you can unlock two sets of playable characters. One 
 are sisters seen in the game, the other being richter and maria from dracula x. The dracula x pair 
 are actually really fun to play as, even with cut frames from maria.
  
  Graphics: The 2D graphics look great, but it's inconsistent. Areas are creative and detailed... but 
 then there's ones that don't eally have anything to them. Character models are well animated without 
 looking chopped. More Symphony of The Night enemies make an appearance, plus original turbo duo 
 enemies. all look great.
  
  Sound: Sound is clear and well pronounced. Aren't nearly as many boring tracks like with Dawn of 
 Sorrow. The soundtrack has a feel like they wanted it to sound like the Genesis Castlevania, and 
 I appreciate that the songs have that extra detail. More enemies have a lines of speech while on 
 screen, it made me wonder why they made them talk, but we have to read what the main characters 
 have to say. Everyone is fairly long winded now, so full voice acting would of been nice.
  
  Control: Absolutely not an issue, if you screw up - it's all your fault. Controls are responsive 
 and easy to master.
  
  Overall: Well, I beat the game in ten hours, but with map and side quests that I never touched. 
 So say, it may take fifteen hours to get everything - that's less than Dawn of Sorrow. The game 
 is fun, and I do see returning to the title. If you're the type that only plays a game once and 
 sells it, than the short play time probably won't serve you to well. But if you want a good game 
 that you can play more than once, go for it. Looking for length? go for Dawn of Sorrow. Difficulty 
 has been stepped up just alittle, so this game really is the best for me so far on DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleDragon1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania POR is a must own title for any castlevania fan or a casual gamer looking for a great 
 action platformer. Castlevania tends to introduce a new system or idea in each Castlevania they 
 release and POR is no execption. This time around you can switch between Johnathan and Charlotte 
 or have both at the same time, or just have one at a time. Also this time around, there is no soul 
 gathering or anything that elaborate. Just a simple but effective shopkeeper buy and sell system 
 that works very well. Graphically it still looks sharp but a little understated compared to Aria 
 of Sorrow. Gameplay is your typical hack and slash, leveling up and defeating bosses to advance 
 and gather items etc. The voice over work is surprisingly quite well done for a portable game, 
 I was surprised at the quality. I've heard a lot of complaints (not all that bad really) that it 
 seems to play and compare a lot to Symphony of the night for the PSX. If anything, I think it's 
 a good thing to be compared to quite possibly the best Castlevania ever made. So anyone looking 
 for a in depth lengthy action game need to look no further than Castlevania Portrait of Ruin. A 
 very worthwhile title by Konami. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urizen5
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:26 pm PT
Review:  One thing I like about playing games that has a series to them (megaman, castlevania, metal slug...) , 
 is the reliability of them. I like to pick up a game and know what to expect from it. Portrait 
 of Ruin does just that. The DS castlevania games all have tons of enemies and tons of items to 
 get, and a large castle to explore. They all have really fun bosses to play. Yet, each game gives 
 you a completely different way of doing this, and Portrait of Ruin excels at this. First of all 
 you get two characters that you can switch out anytime you want, and you can use them at the same 
 time. One is good with physical attacks the other with magic. Now you have to find equipment for 
 both of them, each has his or her own armor and weapons. They even have combo attacks that they 
 use together for one big attack. Second, you can go to different places via paintings. Since this 
 involves the plot I won't divulge too much. Anyway, not only do you have the castle to explore 
 but these paintings as well. Then there are quest for you to do, mostly finding things or have 
 things happen to you. You do these for items and attacks. All these differences are a welcome approach 
 to the series. If you love Castlevania, I highly recommend this game. It was a blast to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Well if you play the Castlevania Dawn Of Sorrow and other Castlevania games you will also enjoy 
 playing Castlevania PoR. Having two characters are great for this game each character has their 
 own weaknesses and still great to have. The CO-OP is also a newly added for castlevania game as 
 well. This game is very addicting as the first one, also the map are much larger and more exploring 
 to do. The graphics are great, even the music also cool. This game is just right, not to hard nor 
 easy it perfect. New weapons are wonderful more upgrades so you can able to have a stronger character. 
 Switching characters also help you when you are doing boss fights, that might have advantage or 
 disadvantage so you can able to switch. This game has more upgrade then the previous one, The voice 
 acting improved better then the first. I say this game is a should have game and addicting as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingPhill1234
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  To be fair I have always been into Castlevania, so when I heard another one was coming out I was 
 excited. I've logged in 10 hours already, and I must say overall the game is quite excellent and 
 proof of how quality always wins over graphics. The gameplay is quite excellent with plenty of 
 action and little need to grind through low level enemies just to train up for boss battles. The 
 sound is very good, with numerous speech lines by Jonathon and Charlotte, as well as various other 
 characters and enemies. Plus the tried and true Castlevania music was rendered quite well here, 
 with several classics and new tracks. Also the new idea of having two main characters that are 
 switchable or available at the same time is quite innovative. My only problem with the nonactive 
 character is that it can be hard to get them to attack with you, but that just encourages switching 
 between characters. However, the multiplay and co-op were emphasized greatly in the previews, and 
 just did not live up to my expectation. The shop is interesting but why should you buy items that 
 you can get for free in the game? It is nice though to earn cash without losing items, as I was 
 able to purchase several items in the game with cash I earned through shop mode. Likewise the co-op 
 only has a few different courses and is not within the actual game but is similiar to boss rush 
 mode, though quite challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesHirst
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I rate this a bit high, only because it is the first time I've ever played a game in this 
 series. Now, despite all the useless online features, the online co-op can be pretty fun if your 
 partner follows directions well, otherwise I'd stay I way from it. One of the best things about 
 this games were all the mythological creatures in it from other cultures. Dracula did not fall 
 short of being a great addition to these myths (than again, we don't know if they are myths, who 
 knows for sure?) . The presentation of the bosses and characters are absolutely brilliant and are 
 complete works of art. What I'd say is that this game is nigh to being one of my most enjoyable 
 experiences yet. I'm sure from what I've heard, it is not much different from the other titles, 
 but considering how much fun I had, this was an absolute lovable experience, though a wee bit short. 
 Let me tell you this right now: if you happen to be looking for a game you've never experienced 
 before and have not already played a game within this series, this is the game for you. Good luck 
 vampire-hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GothicWar
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  I been a huge fan of castlevania since I played the orginal back in the old NES days when 5 or 
 6 years old kiling bats, zombies, Medusa heads, etc it brings back good memorys. Now fast forward 
 20 years to the current game of Castlevania: Protrait of Ruin which is a master piece since day 
 one, and the castlevania series isn't going to die like dracula does every few games you fight 
 him. The graphics are very good, and remind me of Castlevania: SOTN on PSone which was perhaps 
 the best castlevania game ever. Now not are the graphics great, so is the sound and music which 
 has been redone and sounds just perfect and well performed. The action is awesome with not only 
 a large variety of weapons for the main man who bears the whip of the belmonts, you use can control 
 a witch with great spells and a neat melee attack weapon (which brings a new word to pop up books) . 
 The monster list is huge with new monsters as well old ones and classic ones, each either better 
 or tougher then before. Their are more sub weapons besides old the fashion ones like Crossbows, 
 Shurikens, Gernade, Javalin, and much more. The witch however her sub weapons happen to be a huge 
 variety of spells to fight with or summon monsters to do the fighting for you. Castlevania fans 
 rejoyce for this game will not go to ruin, and it shall have you spending hours to get 1000% completion.
 
  
  P. S. Yes I do really mean 1000% that was no typo or joke, so get ready for a long time of fighting 
 and sleepless nights. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer112
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  Hmmm. Castlevania: Portrait Of Ruin. The Umteenth entry in the Castlevania saga, and it just keeps 
 getting better and better. Though this game is amazing, I really wish Konami would go back to the 
 original style of Castlevania, meaning going back to level by level. Being an avid fan of Castlevania 
 since I've been like 3, POR stands in one of my top 5 fave Castlevania games of all time. And I 
 own every Castlevania. Let me break it down.
  
  So far I'm 3 hours into the game and this is what I think about it so far:
  
  Gameplay - 9 
 - The reason I give it a 9 is because the controls can get a tad difficult at times. There is so 
 many different things you can do between the two characters. You can hit X to switch characters, 
 hit A to call your other character out to fight beside you. That is not confusing, what is, is 
 that you can hit down and Y to make a character STAY while completing a puzzle, while pushing an 
 object you can hit A to call your other character to help you push the object. Put all these into 
 a puzzle solving objective, and you'll forget which button to press. That gets confusing. Though 
 I got confused for a second, it may not confuse others. Other than that, the gameplay is flawless.
 
  
  Graphics - 10 - Better than Dawn Of Sorrow, I assure you that. The Character sprites are bigger, 
 everything is more colorful and more brought out. The Bosses are jaw dropping. Need I say more? 
 Yes I do, because I remember walking through the first area of the City Of Haze and looking at 
 one of the buildings in the background move as I do. First you see the left side of the building, 
 then center, then the right side, all when you're walking around. Priceless.
  
  Sound - 10 - One of the best Castlevania soundtracks to date. The music is fantastic, the opening 
 area theme is still stuck in my head and I love it. Plus, they have remade classic tunes like Theme 
 Of Simon from Super Castlevania IV, Songs from Castlevania Bloodlines, Castlevania: Dracula X, 
 and they also have redone Bloody Tears Amazing!
  
  Value - 10 - A priceless adventure, great soundtrack, decent online play, tons of hidden things, 
 quests........ all for $35
  
  Tilt - 10 - There is a lot of new stuff in this Castlevania, enough to keep you occupied for a 
 loooooong time. So, pretty amazing game. It falls in my top 5 list of greatest Castlevanias of 
 all time..... my list is as follows.
  
  1.) Castlevania: Symphony Of The Night
  2.) Super Castlevania IV
  3.) Castlevania III
  4.) Castlevania 64
  5.) Castlevania: Aria 
 Of Sorrow
  
  Castlevania: Portrait Of Ruin will be falling in between Castlevania II and Castlevania: Aria Of 
 Sorrow.
  
  Have fun guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrb45
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania is one of my favorite series. I have played them all. Even the horrible gameboy versions. 
 and the crappy N64 games. Lately everytime i play one i feel Deja vu. I would like to see another 
 castlevania like Simons Quest. lets get out of the castle and roam the country for a while. What 
 happened to the artist who did character design for SotN. the anime character design in this game 
 is god awful. It looks like a cheap Saturday morning cartoon. Graphics don't make a good game so 
 i cant complain to much because this game is just plain fun to play. Next time i want to see some 
 Change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Legend501
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  It is very sad how i have way more Castlevania Cred then gamespot. Do not listen to their review, 
 they know not of what they speak. If you are looking to play the best handheld game of the year, 
 you have found it. Without spoiling any specific details of the game. I will outline the key factors 
 that make this game stellar.
  
  -For the first time in history, you can wield the Vampire killer whip AND other weapons (swords, 
 spears, daggers, etc etc)
  
  -Tag Team Super moves!!
  
  -World War II setting and several various different enviroments...
  
  -Actual voice acting 
 in the game (unlike zelda)
  
  -AMAZING unlockables
  
  -Great new weapons, armor and spells
  
  -Great new storyline involving vampire sisters trying 
 to bring Dracula back to life
  
  -Greatest pre-order bonus in the history of video games
  
  -You owe it to yourself to play this game... case closed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nappan
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it: Castlevania games for consoles have pretty much been either mediocre or awful. The 
 game hasn't been the same for a loooong time, and I think C: PoR for the DS really shows why. Castlevania 
 is all about dungeon crawls, old NES style rpg factors, and whipping stuff to death. It could be 
 done if someone like Team Ninja took it on and gave it the Ninja Gaiden treatment, but barring 
 that, it's best in this format.
  
  I borrowed my friend's DS to play this game... he knows I love Castlevania, and he knows I'n no 
 fan of the DS. This game has reinforced some of my anti-DS prejudices, but I've got to respect 
 it as well. The downside here is that the top screen is really just a stats board, and since most 
 anti-DS feeling centers on the two screen vs 1 big nice screen debate, this made me feel rather 
 pissy at first. However, the play screen looks GOOD. The colours were sharp, and it was very playable. 
 The controls were intuitive and well mapped, and the item system worked well with it. I can't say 
 a part of me wouldn't want to see this same game on the Wii download section or the PSP... but 
 hey.
  
  C: PoR is also a fairly varied game, considering that Castlevania has never been a game for puzzle 
 solving beyond the basics, C: PoR does as good a job of it as any previous in the canon. The execution 
 of different abilities and items and weapons, and the natural feel of the controls drew me into 
 this game more than I thought ANY portable could. I suppose I have to admit that with a game like 
 this, underutilizing a second screen might be a shame, but it doesn't make the game any less fun 
 to play. Anyone who likes castlevania will LOVE Portrait of Ruin, and anyone who like the genre 
 in general on a portable will too. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
