-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/castlevania/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Follows the tried-and-true Castlevania formula.
 Smooth animation and detailed backgrounds.
 Excellent music.
 Wide variety of bosses and enemies to keep you busy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Doesn't do much to distinguish itself from previous Castlevania games.
 Touch-screen controls are more cumbersome than they are enjoyable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  5, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 9.0, 74 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 5,433 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Oct 4, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Whether you're familiar with the series or not, you can't go wrong with Dawn of Sorrow. 

  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the latest iteration of Konami's decades-old franchise and the first 
 to appear on the Nintendo DS. Don't let the title fool you; this really isn't the dawn of anything, 
 except maybe a bunch more Castlevania games on the DS. And the subtitle here is simply a workable 
 way to include the letters D and S in the title of the game, as seems to be the requirement for 
 the platform at this point. Dawn of Sorrow actually takes place a year  after  the events in Aria 
 of Sorrow, which came out in 2003 on the Game Boy Advance. If you've played that game -- or if you've 
 played just about any recent Castlevania game actually -- you'll be right at home with Dawn of Sorrow, 
 because it's basically the same game repackaged to fit the DS. That isn't a bad thing though, because 
 the Castlevania games have long carried the torch for good, old-fashioned 2D side-scrolling gameplay, 
 and Dawn of Sorrow keeps that flame burning as bright as ever.  

          Soma Cruz returns to thwart the plans of a strange new cult that is hoping to resurrect 
 Dracula.     

  The star of Dawn of Sorrow is Soma Cruz, the young adventurer who narrowly avoided becoming the 
 next Dracula in Aria of Sorrow. Soma has the ability to collect the souls of monsters he kills, 
 thus inheriting their powers. A year after Soma escaped Dracula's castle, a mysterious woman named 
 Celia shows up and attacks him. Celia is a priestess of a new cult that is attempting to resurrect 
 Dracula. Since Soma already proved once before that he's capable of foiling the resurrection of 
 the dark lord, the cult decides to eliminate him before he can mess up their plans as well. Soma 
 survives the attack quite easily and Celia is forced to retreat. Apparently Soma doesn't take kindly 
 to people who try to kill him, so he sets out to find Celia and prevent her from reviving Dracula. 

  The entire game takes place at the cult's base, which is a replica of Dracula's castle. In true 
 Castlevania form you'll start off relatively weak, with only a knife and some mediocre armor. As 
 you progress through areas of the castle, you'll fight monsters and search the mazelike hallways 
 where you'll gain experience, as well as find new and better equipment. As you gain experience, 
 you'll level up and your stats will increase in attack, defense, strength, constitution, intelligence, 
 and luck.  

  Throughout the game you'll also collect the souls of monsters you kill. These souls can be equipped 
 to give Soma new abilities. There are three types of souls you can equip, as well as ability-type 
 souls that grant you special powers without having to equip them. Ability souls are collected when 
 you defeat bosses, and these abilities are usually required to progress through the game. By using 
 these ability souls Soma can learn how to double-jump, move underwater, and break crystal blocks -- all 
 of which are required to access certain areas of the castle.  

  The other three types of souls have to be equipped. Bullet-type souls give you a special attack, 
 usually involving projectiles of some sort. If you have the axe armor soul equipped, you can throw 
 axes at your foes. However, each toss of the axe consumes a little magic. Guardian souls have a 
 wide range of effects, and when activated they continuously consume your magic points. These souls 
 let you summon familiars and perform special abilities, like turning into a bat. Finally, there 
 are enchant-type souls, which have to be equipped but don't cost any magic points. These souls 
 grant passive stat or ability bonuses. For example, you can equip the golem soul to get a bonus 
 to your strength, or the skelerang soul to improve your throwing ability. Since there are more 
 than 100 different enemies in the game, the combinations are almost endless. Not all monsters give 
 up their souls that easily, though. You'll usually have to defeat the same monster several times 
 in order to collect its soul, and since some monsters appear very rarely, it can take quite awhile 
 to collect every type of soul in the game.  

          Just as in other Castlevanias, you'll spend lots of time collecting power-ups, fighting 
 bossesand trying to figure out where to go next.     

  The souls also play a role in customizing your equipment. As you play you'll collect all kinds 
 of weapons, armor, and accessories. Soma is skilled with a variety of monster-killing implements 
 like swords, spears, axes, and guns. Each weapon can be fused with a soul to create a new, more 
 powerful weapon. Once you fuse a soul with a weapon, you can no longer use that soul unless you 
 release it from the weapon. The fused weapons are much stronger than the regular weapons you find, 
 which gives you all the more reason to keep collecting souls. Once you have your weapons and gear 
 in order, you can set up two different equipment and soul configurations to meet specific needs. 
 While playing, you can simply hit the X button to quickly switch between the two configurations. 
 This doesn't quite eliminate the need for you to access your equipment menu altogether, but it 
 does help keep the breaks in the action to a minimum.  

  The castle is split up into several interconnected areas, each with a different theme. You'll explore 
 a clock tower, a garden, a chapel, an underground cavern, and more. If you've played previous Castlevania 
 games, you won't find many surprises in the level design here. The game is fairly linear, since 
 certain abilities are required to access certain areas. But there's no handholding going on here. 
 You'll have to figure out the path for yourself, and other than the frequent dead ends, there are 
 no clues to point you in the right direction. You'll rely on the map (conveniently displayed on 
 the top screen) to tell you where you need to go, but even with that you'll spend a lot of time 
 aimlessly roaming the halls trying to figure out where to go to move the game along. The enemies 
 reappear every time you enter a room, so even when you're just wandering around, you still have 
 plenty of monsters to keep you busy. You'll grow stronger as you continue to defeat the monsters. 
     

  So far all that stuff is pretty much the same as the previous 2D Castlevania game, so you might 
 be wondering what makes Dawn of Sorrow different. For one thing, the game does use the touch-screen 
 functionality of the Nintendo DS, although it feels rather ancillary in practice. You can touch 
 the screen to break crystal blocks, but those only appear in a few rooms and they don't really 
 mesh with the rest of the castle. You can also use the touch screen to command certain familiars 
 to attack monsters. This isn't worth the trouble, though, since you can't attack with Soma while 
 guiding a familiar on the touch screen.  

          When using the DS touch screen, you can guide familiars, break crystal blocks, and draw 
 magic symbols to seal away evil bosses.     

  The most important use of the touch screen is tracing magic symbols. Throughout the game you'll 
 collect magic symbols that will let you open certain sealed doors and finish off boss monsters. 
 When fighting one of the many bosses, you'll eventually inflict enough damage to weaken that boss. 
 When this happens, you have a few seconds to trace a magic symbol on the touch screen. If you're 
 successful, the boss will die; but if you fail, the boss will regain some of its hit points and 
 you'll have to repeat the process. Again, it's somewhat awkward to use the touch screen, because 
 you have to quickly transition from the intense button-pressing of a boss battle to tracing lines 
 on the touch screen. Unless you're playing with the stylus in your hand, you'll probably just have 
 to use your finger, which isn't very precise. Fortunately, the game is fairly forgiving when it 
 comes to tracing magic symbols, and as awkward as it may feel, you probably won't require more 
 than one or two tries to successfully seal a boss. Though, that could be one try more than you 
 can afford if it's an especially close battle.  

  The best part about Castlevania on the DS, as opposed to the Game Boy Advance, is the way the game 
 looks and sounds. The backgrounds are intricate and gorgeous, with layer upon layer of fine detail 
 and some interesting pseudo-3D effects. The character sprites range in size from tiny to massive, 
 and some creatures fill the entire screen. There are more than 100 enemies in the game, and while 
 many of them have been taken directly from the previous game, you'll see some new faces here as 
 well. Even the enemies that you've seen before have been updated to look and behave much more lifelike. 
 In fact, the character animation is one of the highlights here. It's quite funny to see a student 
 witch cautiously take to the air on a broom, only to fall clumsily on her butt after a short flight; 
 or to see a couple of skeletons throw food at you and then turn and run, only to hit a wall and 
 fall to pieces. Although the character sprites still retain the faceless Konami look, they are 
 quite detailed. For instance, when Soma is outside in a snowy village area, you can see his breath 
 puff out into the cold air as he breathes. That detail extends to the environments as well. Some 
 levels seem to go on forever into the distance, and others have cool effects, like giant mirrors 
 that reflect the wall of the room that is normally transparent in a side-scrolling game. Small 
 touches like these help maintain the illusion that a huge castle filled with a vast array of creatures 
 has somehow been crammed onto Nintendo's handheld without sacrificing even the slightest detail. 

  The sound in Dawn of Sorrow is head and shoulders above its predecessor also. For one thing, the 
 music sounds much clearer and more defined on the DS. Each different area has its own theme, and 
 they are all somehow upbeat and creepy at the same time, which really keeps you moving along. Some 
 of the tunes fade into the background, but there are several catchy gems on the soundtrack, like 
 the almost funky gothic beats of the "wizardry lab" and "silenced ruins" themes. The sound effects 
 are well done, although they do retain the same slightly digitized, distorted sound that has been 
 with the series forever. Despite that, the whoosh of Soma's jump and the crash of a bursting candelabra 
 sound just as you'd want them to.  

          Castlevania looks better than ever on the DS.     

  Dawn of Sorrow is fairly easy as 
 far as Castlevania games go, but the challenge here lies in collecting all the souls and opening 
 up every nook and cranny in the castle rather than merely staying alive. You can beat the game 
 in less than five hours if you know what you're doing, but you'll miss a whole lot of the game 
 if you do that. And even after you beat the game you'll want to keep playing for the extras. When 
 you beat the game you can play through again as Julius Belmont, and you can also unlock a boss 
 rush mode, which allows you to fight all the bosses from the game in quick succession. There are 
 multiple endings to the game too, which gives you even more incentive to strive for that 100 percent 
 completion. There's an enemy set mode as well, where you're given a blank five-room level that 
 you can populate with monsters you've collected. You can then run through the level to try to set 
 the quickest time. If that isn't enough, you can also link up with a friend for wi-fi multiplayer. 
 You can trade souls you've collected, or challenge your friend to make it through the custom level 
 you've designed. So, although it's relatively short, there are plenty of reasons to keep coming 
 back even after you've beat the game.  

  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow sticks close to the tried-and-true formula, so it will be an instant 
 hit with anyone with an affinity for the sort of explorative gameplay the series is known for. 
 While it doesn't do much to distinguish itself as the first Castlevania on the DS, the updated 
 look, excellent music, and added controls help to refine the series even further. The bottom line 
 is: Whether you're familiar with the series or not, you can't go wrong with Dawn of Sorrow.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (360 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: poorisaac
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this by saying I absolutely LOVE the Castlevania franchise, I really do. So, naturally, 
 when I found that Aria of Sorrow was getting a sequel on the DS I was very excited. When I find 
 out about a game that I am very excited about I try to stay away from previews and images and reports 
 on how it is turning out. I like it to be a brand new, never-before-seen experience. When Castlevania 
 Dawn of Sorrow was released I rushed to Gamestop to pick it up so I could see how awesome this 
 brand new title was going to be. I didn't really expect what I got.
  
  Castlevania has always been known (except for a few select titles) for its uproarious, almost ludicrously 
 hard side scrolling gameplay, and trust me when I say it is definitely present. But for something 
 on the DS I was wondering when I was going to get to use my stylus in the gameplay. The sword swinging, 
 knife-stabbing, and occasional gun-shooting was there, but it was all handled via the basic D-Pad 
 and face buttons, no touch. All the double-jumping, sliding, and back-dashing were there, no touch. 
 Alright, maybe they are saving it for something big is what I found myself saying. Well, I finally 
 ran into this glyph-like thing hovering in mid-air and the screens brightness went down and I was 
 prompted to follow the lines on the screen with my stylus. Awesome! This must be a way to cast 
 some cool spell or something of that nature! No.... it's not. It's just a special way to open certain 
 doors. Of all the tacked on ways to implement touch screen this felt like I had been punched in 
 the dark. There was absolutely no reason to bring in touch screen at all. All of the gameplay all 
 the fans had come to love over this series' prestigious existence was in tact, but absolutely nothing 
 new was brought to the table in this outing. It sincerely felt like Aria of Sorrow 1.5, not even 
 a real sequel. It felt more like an expansion. 
  
  The story of DoS is your typical Castlevania affair of having to destroy Dracula, which is perfectly 
 fine. I honestly do not expect the series to go any farther than that story wise. But at least 
 give me something I want to follow before getting to the Lord of Darkness' lair! The story just 
 seems unnecessary with this new group of character's (which are very one-sided) personalities. It 
 is completely forgettable in its execution so there is really no reason to follow it other than 
 to just bypass the long periods of wandering and exploring. Which in this Castlevania, much like 
 the others, is exactly what you will find yourself doing for the majority of the game. 
  
  The game's sound is one of the highest points with its haunting orchestrated music and very crisp 
 yelps and wails coming from your enemies as they are quickly (and not so quickly) dispatched. The 
 different sounds that emanate from the dim halls are very fitting for your surroundings and none 
 of the music seems out of place. All in all the sound of the game is most certainly worthy of the 
 Castlevania title. 
  
  Visually, in game is typical Castlevania. There are no shortages of zombies, skeletons, fishmen, 
 or bats. It all is animated very well and it should be. The blood spurts that come with slicing 
 across a zombie is very much something you can watch over and over. The animation of Soma is also 
 done very well, wether he is sliding, jumping, slashing or what have you. But, beyond that is pretty 
 much where artistically this game falls falt on its face... hard. The actual characters rendering 
 through the story board dialogue look awful. It seriously looks like they took drawings from a 
 cheaply made Saturday morning anime and just added a little bit of Castlevania to them. The character 
 art is something that this series has always had a leg up on the competition with. The amazingly 
 well drawn portraits that look fitting of a museum masterpiece have been tossed for a bland, anime-inspired 
 cartoon. It really is disheartening that with all the hype the game received, Konami gives us something 
 that is just this sloppily thrown together.
  
  All in all it is typical Castlevania. Don't let the minor setbacks keep you from playing the game 
 because it is still very good. It is definitely the best that the DS has to offer in terms of 2D 
 side-scrolling right now. I just really wish this game would have gone above and beyond, rather 
 than offer a bland, dissapointing adventure that will have you forget about it before you even 
 make it to the credits.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icehound
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay on this was excellent. It was fun and exciting, and the levels grew in difficulty 
 matching the strengths and weaknesses of Soma as you progressed through the game with the right 
 feel to it. The entire game flowed smoothly and kept things rolling at a solid pace. The weapons 
 and spells used were nicely adapted to this game, and the soul-weapon blending makes advancing 
 your character more intriguing. Boss battles went well, and the magic seal concept was a nice touch. 
 Also, there are multiple endings to this game, so try the game out and check out the two early 
 bad endings, then beat the game and witness the proper ending once and for all. Playing the game 
 in other modes (ex. Julius Belmont mode) is fun, but the initial mode with Soma and the entire 
 battle soul complex is the best way to undertake this game. I really cannot think of a negative 
 thing to say about this game.
  
  This game is worthy of the Castlevania franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wutupz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  Storyline is somewhat attractive, but the soul system really makes the game fun to play. Magic 
 seal is pain when you don't want to use stylus, personally it's the only major hardship of the 
 game. Storyline is straight forward, the reborn of Dracula bonds with the protagonist is another 
 selling point, as usually after the final boss, you can play as another character which it's a 
 different way to enjoy the game. -space for 100 words, space for 100 words, space for 100 words, space 
 for 100 words, space for 100 words, space for 100 words, space for 100 words, space for 100 words, space 
 for 100 words, space for 100 words, space for 100 words, space for 100 words, space for 100 words, space 
 for 100 words, space for 100 words, space for 100 words, space for 100 words, space for 100 words, space 
 for 100 words, space for 100 words, space for 100 words, space for 100 words- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirFanatic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 2:04 am PT
Review:  The time has come for a Castlevania title on the DS. The results is varying and good as bad reactions 
 are dropping in. This is Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow (DoS) .
  
  Dawn of Sorrow is a sequel to the GBA game Aria of Sorrow where we follow the adventures of young 
 Soma Cruz once again. This time, a cult seeking to revive Draculas powers is targeting Soma. Thanks 
 to Somas resistance against his powers anyway, the cult leader Celia has chosen two men capable 
 of becoming the new Dracula. Its time for Soma to enter the Cults Nest and stop the coming dark 
 forces.
  That is the plot in a short and mixy way. I would gladly have seen a better plot, but this one 
 works pretty well after all.
  
  If you have played Aria of Sorrow to GBA, you will see there is nothing new to the battle system. 
 Fight and collect souls for all your times worth. The game is a bit harder as well. This is big 
 plus since Aria of Sorrow was too easy. I dont know about you, but if I can clear a "long" game 
 within 4 hours, its too easy. Luckily, thats not the case here. The difficulty has been turned 
 up a little and you will find some places and bosses harder than others.
  A new feature Konami adds to the game is the Pentagram writing. After you "defeat" a boss, you 
 will have to write a special pentagram on the touch screen to be able to kill the boss. I dont 
 want to say this is a good thing. Its not bad either. Either you will love it or hate it. I hated 
 it deeply mostly because you have to be pretty exact, you only have a short time to draw and if 
 you fail, you will have to hit the boss like five-six times again.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow is not a bad game and deserves the Castlevania title, but you will surely get mad 
 at the easy parts of the game where it is supposed to be hard, but proves impossible (if you got 
 that) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Castle_freak
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start out by saying that this was my first Castlevania. I honestly didn't know anything 
 about the series at the time. It was also one of my first ds games, not to mention one of my favorites.
 
  The first thing I should mention about this game is the souls. Every so often after killing a 
 a certain monster you will get their soul. These souls can be equiped to provide you with different 
 abilities and can be combined with weapons you find throughout the castle to create more advanced 
 weapons. 
  What this game lacks in difficulty it makes up for in exploration. While more traditional Castlevanias 
 are very hard and the goal is simply to stay alive, the place where this game's challenge lies 
 is in exploring every area of the castle and unlocking every soul and weapon along the way. This 
 makes for a very lengthy adventure. 
  This is just is an awesome game. Even after playing several other Castlevanias, this remains one 
 of my favorites. While the Touch screen controls are a little weird, the game in a whole is a great 
 addition to the Castlevania family. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TSNAKE617
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  This was my first Castlevania game and it was much better than I expected (I normally don't play 
 side scrolling games) . While Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow plays like a side scrolling game it feels 
 more like an action adventure. 
  
  The game play in Castlevania is great because of the variety of weapons and skills you can find 
 and use. You can gain the special ability of most of the enemies in the game, which can add hours 
 to the play time if you try to get them all. Weapons can be bought, but the most powerful weapons 
 have to be made by combining various weapons and skills. Boss fights can be very hard but also 
 some are a lot of fun. The most annoying thing about boss fights can be the fact that you have 
 to draw a seal (not the animal) to finish them.
  
  The graphics in Castlevania are great. Some of the environments are a little dull but most of them 
 look great. The bosses look amazing.
  
  The music is great and really pulls you into the action. The sound effects are also good.
  
 
  As far as play time goes you can clear the game in about 10-20 hours but if you try to explore 
 every part of the castle you will get 20-40 hours out of it.
  
  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is a great game that offers hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SymphonyOfAshes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  You play as Soma Cruz, a foreign exchange student that came to Japan and whatever crap you have. 
 He's apparently meant to be Dracula's true heir, though he was not born the day that Dracula died. 
 It's a really good storyline, and a direct sequel to Aria of Sorrow (my fave!) . It brings back 
 all your favorite characters, though some (JULIUS) have some really retarded looking sprites. COME 
 ON JULIUS WAS AWESOME BEFORE WHY THE HELL DID YOU RUIN HIS SPRITE.
  
  Anyways, when talking about character design, Konami brought in this crappy anime-styled design. 
 Characters look lame, un-gothic, which therefore is unmatching to the theme and overall feel you 
 get from the game. Minus Genya Arikado/Alucard-o, his dark and cold character is still pretty fitting.
 
  
  Another theme-based criticism, the soundtrack ROCKS. It's not the dark and rock stuff that I also 
 loved from SotN, but it's very good. The songs are really addicting, and fitting. They're quite 
 catchy, and I love them.
  
  Alright, onto the game itself.
  The graphics are very smooth, even compared to its follow-up, the 'BLAH' PoR. You get hot-swappable 
 weapons, just pressing a single button and whatnot, I love IT. It's really helpful when two separate 
 weapons are needed for the weaknesses of different monsters + boss rush mode. That said, the weapons 
 are all pretty cool, too. Death's Scythe, and etc. It's quite amazing how large the selection is. 
 Every weapon now gets a 'special' attack. i. e. pressing special attack with Death's Scythe sends 
 a huge skull forward, massive dmg ftw.
  
  The gameplay is hardly any different, just a bit smoother, DUH, DS. 
  
  ONTO Julius mode. This 
 game has a STORYLINE to it. If you make Soma become the next Dracula (like the last game) , you 
 get to play as the three main supporting cast (though Arikado takes his true form of Alucard) . 
 You start off with Julius, later get Yoko, then Alucard. Oh, btw, it is HARD. Since you can't massively 
 level or use healing potions, there are really hard bosses in there. But this is just awesome because 
 it gives a real storyline behind it. You kill Soma. A completely separate boss (Julius mode in 
 Aria is just a playthrough of the original game but with Julius) . And Soma turns into a monster, 
 like Draccy does in his second form, and Soma's first form is the same as all Draculas (and Graham 
 from Aria) .
  
  I love this game, just not as much as the first, due to the crappy correlation between the theme 
 of the game and the overall feel. Honestly, apart from that, I really have NOTHING to complain 
 about. I'd give it a 10 if it kept its artwork. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuckeye08
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Very sweat game, played it got stuck gave up on it 6 months later picked it up, and wow this is 
 awsome. it gets very hard and very confusing, so i looked at a walkthrough found out what to do, 
 and once u know what to do u cann't put it down, had to get all the souls. boss fights are just 
 fun,. death is the only hard one. great music. this was the first castlevania i have ever played, 
 and know i want all the games in its series. so dont give up on this game. its alot of fun when 
 u know where to go. so buy it its nvery cheap only 20$ mabe cheaper know, thats all i have to say. 
 its alot of fun, but is tough, all the castlevania series games are though so buy it i know your 
 love it. 9.0 game why not 10? because 10 means theres nothing wrong with the game its totally awsome, 
 not saying this game isnt tottally awsome but its still very good,,. it has a very good story, 
 and at the end of the game your be very happy, but also very sad. i guess im saying is there is 
 to many castlevania games!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! i cant keep up with it. but u want to play them 
 all, u want to see what happens. castlevania producers did a great job. KEEP IT UP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huskerfied
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:00 pm PT
Review:  Honestly I did not expect much when i purchased this game. i figured it would be at best weak, 
 and at most a total rehash.
  
  To my enjoyment, i was mistaken.
  
  First the weak points: The story, The lack of anything interesting with the touch screen, The anime 
 characters and Its all familiar territory.
  
  The strong points: The Presentation, The Replay Value, Simple-yet refined, Somewhat unique bosses 
 and an Un-godly amount of depth (to those who want it) .
  
  I demerit this game for it's story, because its just weak. The driving ideas behind it are tired 
 and its nothing you haven't heard before. The game has no use of the touch screen hardly at all, 
 and i mean that in good and bad ways; Im glad its not 'all' touch screen, but a little more inventive 
 uses would have been greatly appreciated. The Characters are very childish, they way they look, 
 what they say; its all really juvenile. I understand the DS is more for kids, but, this is a pretty 
 grim and adult game. There is no need to tone it down so much.
  
  The strong points have many aces that should be noted. The presentation is amazing; even something 
 as little as being able to see Soma's breath in the cold areas. Its really fantastic. There are 
 reasonable incentives to replay the game as well; the New game+ and playing as Julius really add 
 to the experience. The simplicity of the game is Definitely a plus; it almost boils down to about 
 2 or 3 buttons, attack jump and special, but thats all you need, and it works. The whole soul collecting 
 pursuit add an insane amount of depth as well.
  
  Its probably about 15-20 bucks in a bargain bin. Go find it and Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray_Out
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2008 3:20 am PT
Review:  Story 9/10 - Dawn of Sorrow takes place one year after the events of Aria of Sorrow, where Soma 
 believes that his inherited powers have been lost. A leader of a cult tries to seek out and destroy 
 Soma. The cult leader looks to revive the dark lord. The story takes place relatively in Dracula's 
 castle. The story was very easy to follow and exciting. The villains were like non other in any 
 Castlevania, they were quite different. 
  
  Gameplay 10/10 - The gameplay was awesome, very intense and fun. The castlevania game took side 
 scrolling to the next level with the Nintento DS's touch screen controls. All of the bosses were 
 invincible, and the only way of defeating them was to draw some sort of figure on the touch screen 
 very quickly in a matter of seconds. The figures got more challenging to draw as the game progressed. 
 
  
  Graphics 9/10 - The graphics were very good for a DS 2D sidescroller, the blood seemed moderate, 
 and the 3D effects were nice 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Story:
  I have NOT played through Aria or Sorrow. I read into it's story but I still apologize for my lack 
 of knowledge on how the last story went. What I do understand is that Soma Cruiz, your average 
 trench coat wearing pretty boy is supposed to be the next Dracula. He denied the opportunity though, 
 and a group of 3 people are now pissed that THEY can't become Dracula. It's effective and keeps 
 the action going. There are people on your side of the field who "help" you but I don't understand 
 them not having played the last game.
  
  On your side is Julius, a classic castlevania Belmont style whip user who threatens to kill you 
 if you dare become Dracula. Yoko, some spellcaster feminist who will be delivering your friendship 
 speeches for the game. Last of the important characters, Arikado, a business suit wearing dude 
 who is apparently big in the castlevania story, not sure how though. Up until part 2 though, they 
 all are useless and only show up in cutscenes.
  
  On the enemy side is Dario, your average bad tempered fire controller, Celia, whose head of this 
 whole operation but you never actually fight, and Dmitrii, an easily exploitable copycat. I like 
 the premise of these rivals in the game but gameplay wise they play out like extremely weak bosses. 
 Dario has a very easy pattern and your refights with him never give him new abilities, and Dmitrii 
 is so easy, I'm serious, so freaking easy. Just use your weakest spell, he copies that and from 
 there your free to punch him in the face while he throws black cats or bones or whatever you threw 
 at him at you. So while interesting for story, the reoccurring enemies are useless in gameplay. 
 
  
  I'm sorry this rant took so long, but when I see characters, I kinda wish they'd play a bigger 
 gameplay role.
  
  Graphics: 
  You may fear the anime style, but know that it has little impact on anything in the actual game. 
 Your cutscenes which consist of their heads and flipping by text is the only time you will probably 
 notice that it's in an anime style. That being said, all the sprites are beautiful. Everything 
 animates so well, so much is going on, and there's so much detail around the castle that I completely 
 ignored the obvious lack of 3D. There's not much to say beyond that. A LOT of nice animating enemies 
 and bosses to fight around a castle that looks equally nice. You may think because it's 2d that 
 it might as well be a GBA game, but the GBA would lag to hell and back probably trying to run this. 
 There's SOME 3d effects, but only in the form of nice background buildings.
  
  Gameplay:
  Let me just say it now, this game is fun. You will keep playing it til you've beaten it, regardless 
 of how stuck you are. From the beginning, you get into a battle that teaches you the basics of 
 combat, then you get to the front door of the castle and after a couple more story things and the 
 rest of the game is yours, no more tutorials.
  
  This game seems to try and have everything, but unlike past games, this game actually has all it's 
 parts working with the game. After the first 2 bosses, the castle opens up a bit to be explored 
 as you wish, and there's plenty to explore. Enemies all can drop souls or weapons which are really 
 things you will single enemies out for if you want a specific ability or weapon. In addition, you 
 have leveling in an RPG like way. This keeps you getting more powerful throughout the game, but 
 you'll still have to learn bosses patterns to beat them still. Never do you grow too powerful that 
 you can't be killed. If you're getting your ass kicked too much though, you can level up or find 
 helpful souls to upgrade your weapons.
  
  The game mixes itself up regularly. Each boss is unique and each section of the castle has a specific 
 layout, look, and way through it. You also get a side story half way through the game to play through, 
 but talking much more about that would be spoilers. Basically repetition is not something this 
 game has a problem with. Everything feels tight, works right, and will keep you playing.
  
  I forgot to mention, touchscreen is fairly useless and gimmicky, but the top screen is extremely 
 handy in the fact that it's a free hand map for this otherwise complexe castle.
  
  Sound:
  There's no reason I can really shun this game in sound (or any of it's departments) . 
 It's got a main background music, well made I might add, for each section of the castle. Remakes 
 of old musics occasionally, but beyond recognition and still a load of original compositions. It 
 serves to add nostalgia without making the game into nostalgia. Each monster has a satisfying cry 
 as they burst into flames or blood from your weapons, and there's plenty of sound effects for everything 
 around you. It simply serves it's role for the game like it should.
  
  Who wants this game?
  Any fan of Metroid or Castlevania, or fan of side scrollers just looking 
 for something to keep them busy a while. One of the best singleplayer games out there this generation.
 
  
  Extra note:
  Yes, I know there's a multiplayer, it's just too damn lame for me to care though. The singleplayer 
 makes this game, the multiplayer is just lame uninteractive races. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icemael
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  This is the sequel to Aria of Sorrow and the DS debut for the Castlevania series. I expected great 
 things, and great things I got. Lets start with the gameplay.
  
  
  Gameplay: The classic Castleroid that we know and love. It still feels as good as it did back in 
 Symphony of the Night. The soul system from AoS returns without major changes, not that it needed 
 improvement. The only new thing here is that you can prepare two different sets of equipment and 
 souls, and by pressing the X button you change between the two sets. 
  
  This may seem to be a minor change, but it greatly improves the flow of the game now that you don't 
 have to open the start menu to arrange your souls as often. It is also possible to forge souls 
 into weapons to get upgraded versions. This is also the only way to get the best weapons in the 
 game. Great boss fights, multiple endings as usual with a huge final boss. 
  
  Also a lot of replay value with an improved Julius mode returning from AoS. Now you can change 
 between Julius, Yoko and Alucard when fighting through the castle. Julius mode actually has a story, 
 with a different final boss.
  
  
  Graphics: Beautiful 2D sprites and backgrounds proves that 2D can be just as good, if not better 
 than 3D. The sprites move smoothly, and the use of several layers in the backgrounds give the feeling 
 of depth when you move. A big drawback was the new, ugly anime designs for the characters. They 
 replaced Kojima's beautiful, gothic art with this? I hope they return to the old art, because this 
 looks like a bad anime.
  
  Sound: As all Castlevania games, the soundtrack is awesome. The occasional grunts, screams and 
 evil laughter, while not awesome, sound okay.
  
  Story: The games has a story, but you don't think of it. Castlevania games don't actually need 
 stories, as they are just excuses to hack away at Dracula's minions yet again.
  
  All in all, this is an excellent game that is definitely worth playing. Sure, it's just AoS with 
 a few improvements, but that's exactly why it's so good. Whether you're a fan of Castlevania or 
 just looking for a good game for your DS, this is definitely worth the money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: semianonymous
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 16, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  So I gotta say, I may dislike so much about this game, the plotline, the art, the continuous reuse 
 of sprites, the somewhat repetitive backgrounds and music, but, for reasons I still have yet to 
 fully grasp, I just can't stop coming back to this game and loving it. Sure, it took everything 
 that its prequel, Aria of Sorrow did fantastically, urinated a few times on it, drew it in anime 
 and called it a sequel (with a name that implies a prequel, no less) , but, somehow, somewhere, 
 this game did something fantastically right.
  
  Visually, this game has the best of both worlds. Bright and colorful, and yet still atmospheric. 
 Well drawn sprites, excellent animation and cool looking weapons and attacks, this game is a dream 
 to look at, from the DS' standard. At the same time, it suffers greatly from reused sprites, the 
 overall anime art style, reused backgrounds, and this strangely unshakable kiddy feel that lurks 
 through the whole game.
  
  All of those are highly detrimental to the otherwise nearly flawless gameplay. There are only two 
 really noticeable flaws other than the above listed, which can be summed up in two words: SotN 
 syndrome. This game, in terms of gameplay mechanics, is SotN with new weapons, areas and people. 
 The gameplay is literally identical to SotN, down to the "Muscle mass is Inversely proportionate 
 to strength" thing that was going on. Dishing out hundreds of points in damage from a scrawny, 
 pale teen is not right at all.
  
  What this game does almost perfectly, however, is repairing the somewhat broken soul system in 
 its prequel, Aria of Sorrow. In AoS, collecting certain souls means that other souls become completely 
 useless (ex: Collecting a soul that gives +16 to your attack means that your souls of +2, 4, 6 
 and 8 are now all useless) , whereas here, each and every soul has a completely different effect, 
 and collecting multiples of each soul increase the strength seemingly every 3, 5 and 9 souls you 
 collect. Not all of these are good, however, which is why the soul release feature is quite useful. 
 
  
  Another useful addition is Soul Fusion, where you can mix a weapon and a soul to make a new weapon, 
 sans a soul. Therein lies the greatest flaw in gameplay: The souls are incredibly hard to get in 
 this game. Most of the time you spend playing this game will be spent grinding for souls, which 
 you will most likely spend on a weapon. All that would be needed would be to increase the drop 
 rate, and this game would be SO much better. As it stands though, its bad enough for me to spend 
 most of a paragraph ranting about it.
  
  Moving on
  
  The story is, frankly, pitiful. Allow me to summarize it in two paragraphs:
  
  Soma is hitting 
 on Mina, Celia (antagonist) attacks him, reawakens his power, soma wins by getting a pocket knife 
 from Alu-Genya, who JUST SO HAPPENS to be in the area. Soma wanders off alone, is followed by Hammer, 
 who he didn't notice during his entire trek through the mountains (which, mind you, he went without 
 the aid of any sort of storage for, y'know, food, weapons, etc) . Soma meets Yoko/Julius, Julius 
 peaces, Soma beats major monster face, meets celia and two people who just so happened to have 
 been born on the exact same day that Dracula dies. Soma later kills blonde guy, and beats up biker 
 guy, celia saves biker guy.
  
  Soma meets biker guy in Dracula's room, jumps through mirror, beats up biker guys power. Biker 
 guy flees, celia mocks, later tricks soma by killing a doppleganger of Mina. Soma gets mad (SOMA 
 SMASH) , almost becomes dracster, saved (AGAIN) by Genya, who just happens to be in the area (AGAIN) , 
 blonde dude comes back, kills celia, dies, Soma beats up blonde dudes oversized spine monster. 
 On the way, julius uses up his power, genya gets owned, hammer falls in love and yoko is annoying.
 
  
  Sounds frighteningly like a Saturday morning anime to me. And I think I'm writing too much, so 
 lets wrap this up.
  
  The audio is decent, good quality, and unlike PoR, not all action. Far better than AoS, although 
 still lacking something. Wins for having Into Dark Night, though. Voices are decent, although still 
 Japanese, although the game is in europe.
  
  So...
  Graphics: 8/10, very strong, too repetitive
  Gameplay: 7/10, well refined but nothing new, too 
 much grinding
  Story: 3/10, its doomed to be nothing more than a sidenote in the series
  Sound: 8/10, decent variety, but lacks a certain spunk, a certain charm
  Replay: 9/10, Julius 
 mode is excellent, and wins for actually having a story
  OVERALL: 7.5 (if you think its an average, your stupid)
  A well done game, but its very obvious 
 that it was taken out of the oven well before the timer went off. I'm still trying to figure out 
 what it is I love about it, though. Maybe I just like hurting anime soma? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronofire777
Rating: 10
Date: May 5, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of Sorrow, the sequel of gameboy's Aria of Sorrow, its a game that definetely will made you 
 play it again and again.
  For it is amazing side-crolling graphics, astonishing action, characters,
  history, very beautiful 
 music, backrounds and gameplay.
  I believe Dawn of Sorrow is one of Konami's greatest success.
  The very well made scenario that 
 continues from Aria of Sorrow it will made you feel like a king.
  Soma Cruz is one of the best Castlevania Characters, and i believe that every Castlevania fanatic 
 will adore him more than before.
  The gameplay is great. The player can lv up, collect souls of enemies, use a big variety of weaponry 
 and armors, summon, and also craft weapons.
  I'm sure it will amaze you, especially if you love Castlevania games.
  You can also unlock a 
 different ending and control plus 3 characters, Yoko Belnades, Alucard, and Julius Belmont.
  The controls and movement are very relaxing and easy to handle.
  You can make plus magic seals 
 with the stylus, to finish your enemies and and progress.
  This game cannot be described, you must play it your own, to see how awesome this Castlevania is.
 
  If you have a Nintendo DS do not miss it, cause you lose one of best.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  It was a joy to play through this game. The soul collecting is still fabulous but the certain difficult 
 souls made me enter and exit a room so many times that sometimes I lose count (Just like SOTN when 
 people try to get the Rune Sword) . 
  
  I know a lot of people say the "sealing" of the bosses is finicky and a little bit flow disrupting 
 but I found it to add to the excitement of a lot of the boss battles. The inherent finesse that 
 is required to do some of the later seals sort of forces you to beef up (either level or make new 
 weapons and armor) Soma so he can survive a beating from the boss. Even though there was a huge 
 list of souls to collect I still wanted the levels to be bigger and I wanted to see more different 
 types of enemies and a lot more different types of weapons. So as long as adds a lot more content 
 to their games I'd be satisfied.
  
  The music for this game is just as wonderful as symphony of the night and Konami has really out 
 done themselves with alot of the detailed sprite animations blended with some 3D effects.
  
  I gave this game a solid 9 but I was rather disappointed with the familiars because they couldn't 
 level up. Technically, they level up when the number of corresponding (such as bat) enemy soul 
 is captured but I sort of wished they had the leveling up system of SOTN (for the Sword familiar) . 
 Also, it was cool that Konami introduced the stylus guide for familiars (when you stick the stylus 
 on the enemy the familiar tries to attack it) but when you're holding the stylus you don't have 
 the hands to press attack and the familiars aren't "beefed" up enough to kill enemies quickly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stinky17
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania is one of the best rpg series ever... collect souls that have small chance and each 
 with special ability, farming! in single player wow, this is the game u can beat in a week... wait 
 a month then beat it again and it will still be fun.. instant classic!! this is cool castlevania 
 like symphony of night it attracts u lol!!! like i watch twitch give that castle halloween look 
 while playing also this is first of ds gfames is good very good. I recomened all to castlevania 
 fans and not then theres boss rush mode u create ur own lvl and diff wep types to master!! amazing! 
 but it fun so this is the end of my review thank you o ya it good u can get $19.99 best score amazing 
 this is the best review everddddddddddddddddddd so that sthe end thank you it not like bad game 
 like the other game but ya ygo 2008 suks dont buy that waste of money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bones2515
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  When you first begin Dawn of Sorrow and see that you collect souls from your enemies it sounds 
 like it's going to be tedious. Instead they become something you strive to collect, just to see 
 what they'll do. Obviously some souls are more valuable than others, but that keeps you from having 
 to switch them too often. Eventually you get a soul that allows you to create two setups that can 
 be switched in an instant, thus making it quicker to plow through your enemies.
  
  The graphics in Dawn of Sorrow are excellent, and the baddies are fun to fight. Even after collecting 
 all the souls in the game I still enjoy just running around obliterating enemies. Your physical 
 attack is similar to Symphony of the Night because Soma wields a sword as his weapon of choice. 
 Though often I found myself just using whatever soul I had equipped without the need to actually 
 attack.
  
  The extras are fun to play as well. Boss Rush Mode can be a little frustrating if you're not properly 
 prepared, but once you are it's a lot of fun. Julius Mode can be challenging as well and I didn't 
 like it as much as playing as Soma but at least you get to use a whip.
  
  All in all, this game is fantastic. It's the kind of DS game you'll play for hours even sitting 
 in front of your big screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MogFromLeipzig
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 13, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  I really don't know why this game and the whole franchise gets these very good scores from everyone.
 
  
  What you do is running through one huge maze with monsters in every room. Since you don't know 
 the way in advance you go a lot forth and back to the save room and forth again to find a better 
 route. Since the monsters respawn every time you enter the room you have to slay them over and 
 over again. There is a hand full of puzzles to mix up the gameplay a bit but they are just not 
 enough, they are too obvious and the rewards are meager. Occasionally you enter a room with another 
 tiny bit of the story but it isn't really engaging either.
  
  What makes the game challenging are the boss fights. They often seem unfair and require a lot of 
 practice but most times you get a cool new skill once you've beaten a boss. 
  The good part of Castlevania: DoS is that you can equip monster souls which you can get from defeating 
 monsters and you can choose from good variety of weapons. The game lets you customize your fighting 
 style pretty well this way.
  
  Graphics and music are, like most times, a matter of taste. The style is a little antiquated and 
 reminds of SNES / Genesis zombie slaying games. Most of your time you spend inside a castle. So 
 expect a lot of dark stone walls and candleholders throughout the whole game. The music sounds 
 like organ.
  
  If you like hard boss fights, zombies and other classic horror creatures check out the game. If 
 you don't like this stuff get something else since the gameplay alone isn't worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mao6542
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:20 pm PT
Review:  I played this right after playing Potrait of Ruin (which is also enjoyed very much) and wondered 
 how this one could possibly receive a better rating. Well, it did and its gameplay and in game 
 features showed why. The enemies and spells/weapons were actually almost identical to Potrait of 
 Ruin, however some were different. Also the addition of weapon creation and upgrades were surely 
 a plus. The monetary system and maps were classic of any Castlevania title. The story line kept 
 the tradition going as usual and provided a nice way to keep you interested at the max. Just as 
 I said for Potrait of Ruin, this is a classic. The extras and Boss Rush mode were also points to 
 take into consideration when experiencing this game to its full potential. Online play in included 
 which gives those Wi-Fi players even more reason to buy this title. I look forward to even more 
 Castlevania games to come out in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enoslives7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a real masterpiece. If you are a big fan of 2-D Castlevania games, this will make 
 you ecstatic. The graphics and music are top-notch (as usual) . The game is very long for a DS game, 
 and to beat the extra modes adds alot more replay value also. Beating boss-rush mode in under 5 
 minutes is extremely hard, but the reward is awesome.
  
  The extra items you recieve from boss-rush mode are really neat (an Rocket Propelled Grenade in 
 Castlevania ?!?! ) , and I really enjoyed playing the game again as Julius Belmont. This game is 
 every bit as good as Portrait of Ruin, which is also a masterpiece.
  
  Its hard to believe that the Castlevania series dates back to 1985, and the games just keep getting 
 better and better. You will recognize alot of familiar enemies from previous games. There are a 
 ton of different weapons (guns included !!!) , and I really like the weapon upgrade feature. My 
 only gripe is that some of the souls needed to upgrade your weapons can be very hard to come by. 
 But its only a minor problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fienno123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 1:36 pm PT
Review:  okay i'll admit it. i have heard of castlevania but i have never played a castlevania game untill 
 this one. how did i buy this game well, i was in gamestation looking for a platformer with cool 
 weapons, long lasting gameplay and high diffaculty. in the Pre-owned section i found this. dawn 
 of sorrow, so i though why not? its half prince, iv heard good things about it. Lets go For it. 
 so i did then when i got home......
  
  Okay so i thought id start off playing and i got stuck on the first boss! but i beat it... aventually, 
 but i didnt mind. so i enjoyed the story and though it was great! the music is just awsome and 
 quite memrobale actually.
  
  Sometimes its hard to feel for a charater but for Soma you do. you become determant not to die! 
 which happens alot. that is something that annoyes me actually. if its one fault of the game is 
 that. i mean you get a new soul or part of a map and you will die getting back to the save room, 
 which will annoy you
  
  annother fault i found is the diffaculty is quite high meaning a casual game - unlike myself - 
 might find it too hard, but i supose this is for castlevania fans.
  
  there is annother mode called enemy set which you make a room full of enemys of your choice which 
 is fun and i think helps raise youe level.
  
  i may sound harsh on castlevania but it is a great game. this is coming from a female gamer aswell 
 so i would buy it, since you can get cheap.
  i am now going to get Portraits of Ruin and when my Wii is online i will download some Retro Castlevania, 
 as this game is just a perfect, long, hard, fun and retro platformer, better that NSMB. i forgot 
 to mention the amazing 3-D backgrounds in the game, which make it very affective
  
  - fienno
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this Castlevania much more than the Circle of the Moon or Aria of Sorrow. For once, I 
 really wanted to collect the souls, they actually had cool effects that were useful. Didn't feel 
 like such a grind, and it was alot more fun to explore for some reason. Graphics were much better 
 than they've been on the Game Boy Advance obviously. I liked being able to fuse souls with weapons 
 to design uber-swords and such. It was definitely cool to unlock Julius, Alucard and the chick 
 after getting the good ending. Most of the times I don't play through the second time, but it really 
 changed the way the game played. I still have to go with Symphony of the Night as the greatest 
 Castlevania of all time, but they're getting closer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaasz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  With its extensive amount of games on numerous platforms, Castlevania lashes its way onto the 
 Nintendo DS with the sequel to the hit Game Boy Advance game Aria of Sorrow. Offering better 
 visuals, enhanced gameplay features, and a continuation of the storyline, Dawn of Sorrow sets 
 a new standard for Castlevania games.
  
  As with all Castlevania titles, Draculas castle has resurfaced but this time without the actual 
 Dark Lord. Soma Cruz, the protagonist from the last game, is targeted by a cult led by the aggressive 
 Celia who deems Cruz as the Lord of Darkness destined to rule the Dracula-less castle. Denying 
 Celia, Cruz finds out (yet again) that he has unusual powers for a human and follows her into the 
 castle to prove once and for all that he is in fact, not the usurper of Dracula.
  
  Tried and true, the Castlevania story hardly differs from previous titles and follows the standard 
 vania motto; enter, purge evil, leave. Even still, Dawn of Sorrow manages to add in some twists 
 that spin the story in a positively new direction. It may not revitalize the stereotypical nature 
 of the Castlevania clich&eacute; but it truly doesnt matter. The story is as deep as it needs 
 to be and leaves no sense of disappointment by the time the end comes.
  
  Being the first Castlevania game to debut on the DS, the series has never looked better. The 
 anime-esque graphics appear sharp, animations are smooth, and the monster models look detailed 
 and intimidating. Throughout the course of the game youll fight well over a hundred enemies. While 
 there are plenty of new and unique monsters to face, a lot of the models are recycled directly 
 from previous games. Thankfully the responsive controls and addictive gameplay erase the thoughts 
 from your mind. But with virtually no changes made vania veterans will take notice.
  
  Aria of Sorrows soul collection feature makes a welcome return with a few enhancements. As with 
 the previous system there are three types of souls, bullet (offensive) , guardian (defensive) , and 
 passive. When you destroy any enemy they have a chance of giving you their soul to utilize. Dawn 
 of Sorrow allows you to stack up to nine souls of the same enemy, only this time each additional 
 soul increases the power of the corresponding ability. Hording souls works but you also have the 
 option to release certain ones into your weapons effectively upgrading them to the next level. 
 There are even some souls that work in tandem with one another, acting as a team but only if they 
 are all equipped at the same time.
  
  If you couldnt tell, souls are the bread and butter of Dawn of Sorrow and theres a metric ton 
 of them. Some return from Aria of Sorrow but most are new or have been altered to do a more effective, 
 flashy ability. There are few that are utterly useless and some that are ridiculously powerful 
 but with over a hundred abilities to choose from youll be hard-pressed to find anything to complain 
 about. Add the ability to alter your weapons through a blacksmith-like soul forge, team up specific 
 abilities, plus power stack certain souls and youve got a full-fledged arsenal of hurt to unleash 
 upon the undead.
  
  The DSs touch-screen is a feature that Konami unfortunately did very little with. After you defeat 
 a boss, the screen prompts you to draw a certain pattern to seal the boss away. If you fail to 
 draw the correct pattern the boss regains some health and the battle resumes. While a neat idea, 
 its not particularly challenging and happens just a dozen or so times. The only other time the 
 stylus is used is in conjunction with the Balore soul. It allows you to break ice blocks by touching 
 the screen, however these certain blocks are found only in two areas of the entire game. These 
 touch features are fun and they add to the inventive nature of the game albeit how small they actually 
 are.
  
  Along with the compelling gameplay, the music is arguably one of Dawn of Sorrows best and most 
 memorable features. Its the sort of soundtrack that you hum to yourself when youre doing mundane 
 tasks like waiting for the bus. Songs like Demon Castle Pinnacle will never leave your head, 
 ever. Not to mention, Konami has cleverly revamped some old school vania tunes that veterans 
 will instantly recognize. There hasnt been a more memorable soundtrack since Symphony of the 
 Night but Dawn of Sorrow bests it in every way.
  
  Through multiple endings, the game will take anywhere from eight to 13 hours to beat, but rushing 
 through this vania title is a mistake. While most games give you useless unlockables and no reason 
 to explore, Dawn of Sorrow does just the opposite. Explore all 100% of the map, collect all the 
 souls, or beat the game on any of its different modes or difficulties and youll acquire special 
 items and abilities. Plus after you clear the game for the first time youll unlock a boss rush 
 mode and the new Julius mode. Julius mode allows you to play through the game via Julius Belmont 
 with a few guests, one being very special who vania veterans will stammer with glee over. But 
 above all, Dawn of Sorrow shows the gaming world how unlockables and replayability should be 
 done.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow is the perfect example of why we associate the Castlevania name with grandeur. 
 Games packaged with this kind of content and replayability dont appear often. Vania veterans 
 can rejoice for the crown Symphony of the Night entertained all these years has been passed on. 
 Even if you havent played any previous Castlevania games its still an addictive pleasure no 
 action adventure fan should be without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightfellower
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  With its intuitive controls and addictive game play, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is a reviewer's 
 nightmare. It's extremely fun to play, but to put it down in words, it just never bring across 
 the same message. Simply put, the first entry of the Castlevania series into the DS foray is a 
 roaring success, dampened only by the literary inaptitude of yours truly. With that established 
 and a few weights lifted, this reviewer- an unfamiliar customer to the realm of both Castlevania 
 and platform games alike- can finally bring you his review of the game which ripped him off hours 
 and hours of his uncompromising attention.
  
  The premise of the game isn't terribly surprising to veterans or anyone who has half the decency 
 to imagine what the game is about- you expect to slay Draculas some point in the game. Dawn of 
 Sorrow, whether it sharing the same two alphabets with the platform it plays on is a coincidence 
 or not, faltered on the surprise factor, but definitely excelled on its process. The first thing 
 that should grab a player's attention is how good the graphics is. While the upper screen is limited 
 to displaying maps, players will be enchanted by what happens in the lower, where majority of the 
 actions will be. Disappointingly, perhaps due to the game's settings- a Dracula castle- there isn't 
 too much to differenciate one place from another, thus no one area really stood out. But interpret 
 it another way, and one can credit the game's consistency in doing so.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow does well in juggling its platform and the RPG elements. As more enemies are slayed, 
 the character would gain experience and level up, where stats such as health and mana bars can 
 be buffed. The good selection of weapons and armors would also satisfy a player's need to customise, 
 and due to the difference in how some of the weapons play, different strategies can be concocted. 
 One of the strongest points about Dawn of Sorrow is in its enemies. It is impressive how distinct 
 each monster is from one another, a fact helped by the game's refusal to use repeated avatars in 
 creating them. Players would also be amused by the different animations dedicated to how the monster 
 dies, thus giving the mundane tasks of dispatching them a little more favour. If that is not a 
 good reason enough to build up on the kill scores, players can collect souls from defeated enemies, 
 which are basically the magics and techniques of the game. Neatly classified into 3 colours; red 
 souls are the projectile magics, blue souls are the summons, and yellow souls are the passive skills 
 which would boost one of the character's inherent stats. The number of souls are immersive, with 
 some more useful than the others, differentiated only by the type of enemy that it was obtained 
 from.
  
  The lack of surprise is terribly exposed from the way Dawn of Sorrow makes use of the DS- not many. 
 There isn't any use of the upper screen apart from displaying maps, and the same can be said of 
 the touch screen. Cleverly, or perhaps conveniently, the game introduces the all-important Seals, 
 where players will need to draw strokes on the touch screen in order to deliver the final blow 
 to bosses. The stylus will find a better home tucked behind the DS when Dawn of Sorrow is played. 
 This is echoed in the music and sound, which are both solid, but none too outstanding. Play Casltevania: 
 Dawn of Sorrow because of its excellent and addictive game play. While there is an obvious lack 
 of effort in noviety, players will be too absorbed in it to notice any significant flaws. It is 
 not the best game out there, but it's one of those that deserves playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaClaw345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  Here's an experiment for you. All you need is a room full of gamers and a question. You could go 
 to a major convention like E3, pop into your local game store on a busy Saturday or even hang around 
 at home with a few of your best friends; all that matters is that you find a place where gamers 
 reside in some quantity. Once you've found a multitude of gaming fanatics, you simply need to pose 
 the following question:
  
  What video game series has something to do with Dracula?
  
  I would venture to guess that the majority of people in the room would cry out Castlevania without 
 taking the time to think. Some people might shout out something more obscure or obtuse such as 
 Imagic's aptly titled Dracula, but those people make up a small minority of gamers who feel the 
 need to assert themselves in ways that make them seem more knowledgeable than their peers. Logically 
 speaking, there is a reason that this answer manifests itself above all others - Castlevania is 
 the most popular franchise ever devised around the Prince of Darkness (please, leave all Hammer 
 comments at the door) . Since its inception in 1986, Castlevania has been a staple in the diet of 
 many a gamer, featuring action and adventure that would satiate even then hungriest of gamers. 
 With the advent of 1997's Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, fans of the series found what they 
 have oftentimes branded as being the best Castlevania title ever created, a game that had more 
 in common with Super Metroid than it did previous entries in the series. Exploration and RPG-styled 
 leveling up were a new and welcome addition to the series, which led to much rejoicing. Since that 
 time, most titles in the growing franchise have followed the same road, producing a number of fantastic 
 2D titles for the Game Boy Advance. Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is a direct sequel to the third 
 game in the Game Boy Advance line of Castlevania games and promises to be the greatest of all. 
 With the power of the DS behind it and the potential for touch screen use, I was sure the game 
 would be fantastic, but would it really be the greatest game in the series? Only time would tell!
 
  
  So beautiful, yet so deadly!
  
  So beautiful, yet so deadly!
  The moon hangs like a shimmering pearl in the night sky, its brilliance casting a radiant blanket 
 upon the ground. Gazing attentively, I observe as the silhouette of a withered tree becomes warped 
 and grotesque, a trick of light that is allows the tree to become nothing more than a pale imitation 
 of its true physical form. Though this is nothing more than an illusion created by the glow, I 
 feel a sense of dread rising within me that can fully relate to the gnarled imagery I now bear 
 witness to. It was a year ago that I discovered that I harbored something sinister and monstrous 
 within myself, a facet of my being that in no way reflected the true person I am. It was a year 
 ago that I wrestled with a component of my very soul in an effort to keep this evil element contained. 
 It was a year ago that all was revealed to me; my body played host to the most malevolent being 
 known to mankind -- Dracula. Staring out into the midnight sky, I notice the cloud cover obscuring 
 the moon. My attention turns once more to the tree I had observed, the luminosity no longer altering 
 my perception. Just as I had managed to shrug off the influence of Dracula, so too did the clouds 
 return this tree to its former glory. Something is amiss, however, and I sense a dread within me 
 that I can't quite place. My time with Dracula is not over, perhaps. In any case, should the need 
 arise, I will fight and do whatever it takes to keep the Prince of Darkness from rising again. 
 
  
  Soma Cruz is back in this action packed sequel to Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow. Having come to terms 
 with his fate and finally controlling the power of Dracula that flows through his body, Soma has 
 returned to life as usual (or as usual as you can get) . However, a mysterious cult has surfaced 
 with the sole intention of bringing Dracula's power back to speed. Unfortunately, this means you'll 
 have to kill or be killed and without thinking twice, Soma is once more on the offensive.
  
  Unlike most other games in the Castlevania series, DoS doesn't give you the opportunity to 
 fight within the confines of Dracula's home turf. Instead, you'll be infiltrating the cult's hideout, 
 a place which (if you didn't know it was their hideout) would be just another version of Dracula's 
 castle. In terms of similarity, the gameplay remains very much the same as that found in previous 
 incarnations. You'll wander through several unique areas, equip a number of unique items, as well 
 as fight the occasional boss battle. However, the similarity to past Game Boy iterations ends there.
 
  
  Unlike most other games in the Castlevania series, DoS doesn't give you the opportunity to fight 
 within the confines of Dracula's home turf. 
  
  OW! You booted me in the head!
  
  OW! You booted me in the head!
  DoS attempts to add a few new game mechanics into the mix in 
 an effort to create a genuinely fresh experience. While the gameplay itself remains blissfully 
 intact (if it's not broken, don't fix it) , there are new features that help the game along. First 
 of all, you'll find that the game supports the touch screen. This should be a given, considering 
 that the game was designed for the Nintendo DS, but many people were worried about what it would 
 be used for. The action of the game takes place on the lower screen, while the map or information 
 screen (whichever you choose to view at that specific moment in time) is hosted above. During the 
 course of your adventure, you'll learn special magical seals, sigils that must be drawn on the 
 touch screen during boss battles in an effort to seal the evil away. These seals start out rather 
 easily, a series of three lines that must be drawn in a specific order and in an allotted period 
 of time, but the cult catches wind of the fact that someone is using these seals and updates them 
 periodically. Nearer to the end of the game, you'll find yourself having drawn more lines than 
 you can count in an almost impossible period of time! If you don't finish the sigil in time or 
 simply draw the line out of order, the boss battle will continue and you will have to whittle the 
 boss down again in order to attempt a seal. Don't be surprised if you die a few times due to this. 
 The bosses in the game aren't really pushovers and screwing up a seal will often lead to Soma's 
 untimely demise. Thankfully, you can practice these seals as often as you like and I highly recommend 
 you do. You'll learn them as you play, so make a habit of learning new seals and performing them 
 a few times before you even attempt to take on a boss. People might harp on the lack of innovation, 
 but most people will find sealing a boss to be a very fulfilling task and one that suits the touch 
 screen quite well.
  
  The touch screen also serves to destroy special crystal blocks that you'll find along the way. 
 This is more of an annoyance than a distinctive feature, though it does provide a slightly unique 
 element to your platforming escapades. Thankfully, you won't use these feature nearly as often, 
 though there are areas that require careful planning in order to get through them (or out of them) . 
 It's a nice idea on paper, but it really doesn't suit the touch screen and only serves as a gimmick, 
 a wholly different reason to use the otherwise unused touch screen (boss battles aren't incredibly 
 frequent) .
  
  Touch screen aside now, DoS integrates a few other gameplay features that are new to the series. 
 For example, as you fight enemies, you may occasionally obtain their soul. Obtaining these souls 
 allows Soma the luxury of utilizing special powers that are exclusive to the soul he just absorbed. 
 There are four types of souls found within the game and each one functions differently.
  Tucks Medicated Pads will relieve that burning sensation!
  
  Tucks Medicated Pads will relieve 
 that burning sensation! * Bullet-Type Souls -- These souls consume Magic Points as you use them. 
 By pressing UP and the Y button, Soma will launch some type of projectile, such as a bone or an 
 arrow, or even allow Soma the ability to use a unique attack ability. * Guardian-Type Souls -- 
 Guardian-Type Souls will drain Soma's MP continually while activated. With this type of soul, Soma 
 can create magical shields around him or even summon creatures to do his bidding. Keep an eye on 
 the meter, however, as these souls drain you pretty fast. * Enchant-Type Souls -- These souls generally 
 grant stat bonuses when equipped and DO NOT use up MP. There are a myriad of different stats to 
 be changed and you'll need to figure out which stat will be most beneficial, so use your discretion. 
 * Ability-Type Souls -- These souls are very special, as they grant you abilities once you posses 
 them. They do not cost any MP, nor do they need to be equipped. Using the stylus to destroy crystal 
 blocks, for example, is of this type.
  
  You can collect a total of nine tactical souls from every enemy you face during the game. The more 
 souls you have, the more powerful the benefit of owning that soul will be throughout the course 
 of the game. Some enemies drop them regularly, while others will be hard to obtain. It will take 
 time, patience and repetition if you plan on obtaining a complete set of nine souls from each and 
 every enemy!
  
  There are a number of multi-player facets to be found as well. You can trade souls with your friends, 
 as well as race through special enemy courses in versus mode! More of an afterthought, the multi-player 
 modes are only moderately entertaining with the versus mode being fun for only a short period of 
 time. I found more use for the soul trade mode, in all honesty. It? s nice to have wireless functionality, 
 but I would have like to have seen something with a bit more depth.
  
  As with all Castlevania games, there is more than one ending and a plethora of secrets to be found 
 within the game. Getting all the endings and bonuses will be a long and drawn out process, though 
 the game itself can be beaten in ten hours on average. However, the game is blissfully entertaining 
 and you'll most likely be happy playing it again.
  
  Examining the graphics, players will be pleased to know that this is perhaps the best looking game 
 in the series to date. The animations are incredibly fluid, the overall attention to detail is 
 jarring in more ways than I can possibly mention and the level of artistic merit is above and beyond 
 what I would have expected. I knew this was going to be on a handheld and perhaps my judgment was 
 clouded by that fact, but to my surprise this is easily the best looking Castlevania game to date. 
 The game also features a nifty full motion introduction which is pretty damn impressive. All in 
 all, I hadn't anticipated such a high level of creative flair, but DoS offers up graphic stylings 
 in such a way that you can't help but be impressed.
  
  The sound is also incredible, featuring an incredible score that augments the on-screen action 
 quite well. There are a number of unique musical musings each one tastefully written to suit the 
 area in which you fight. While the game is often symphonic, presented with an attention for orchestral 
 scores, it still manages to cover a large musical spectrum with the inclusion of rock, jazz and 
 other styles of music. It's a cornucopia of musical pieces that will impress. Sound effects are 
 equally entertaining and do their job admirably.
  
  Without a doubt, this is easily the best Castlevania title to date. I know some people feel this 
 titles is still in the hands of the Playstation classic Symphony of the Night, the simple fact 
 remains that Dawn of Sorrow seems to one up it every chance it gets. An incredible attention to 
 presentation, a glorious musical score and some truly incredible game play additions really make 
 Dawn of Sorrow stand out from other games in the series. If you buy ONE action/adventure title 
 for your DS this year, this is the game it should be. It may not be perfect and the touch screen 
 may only be a flighty novelty, but it is still a fantastic game whose design is near perfect in 
 most every other way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Now that ,that's settled here's my review for dawn of sorrow. this game is also the reason i really 
 wanted a ds ( that and mariokart) and i still love it even after play portrait of ruin dawn of 
 sorrow still has a special place in my gameing soul and i hope it will stay like that. but what 
 make's it so amazing is the hundred's of item's soul's and monster's well yes in fact there's not 
 one thing i didn't like about it and that's very rare indeed. from thr graphic's to the gamplay 
 and the music it all come's toghether in perfect harmonry to make this game truly amazing. the 
 best part about the gamplay is the boss fight's and weapon upgrading or soul gathering it's very 
 fun and extremly addictive. the graphic's are amzing hand drawn backround's and great 3d mixed 
 in. the music in this game will make you feel like your in a real gothic themed castle owned by 
 dracula and that in my poinon is the best thing of all. so if your lookin for one of the DS's best 
 game's you can't go wrong with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-Lafleur
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Before Dawn of Sorrw, I've never played a Castlevania before, but thanks to Dawn of Sorrow, I've 
 bought other great Castlevanias, too! But were not here to talk about those ones, now are we? Anyways, 
 The Gameplay was terrific and was the biggest reason I liked DoS so much. Fighting the bosses were 
 fun and could provide a decent challenge, and the bosses looked great as well. In the game, you 
 get all your magic from the souls of monsters, and this is a cool, unique, and sometimes repetetive 
 featurein the game. Even with alot luck boosting equipment and souls, it could take a while before 
 you get that soul you oh so want, but this isn't too much of a problem if you're not playing the 
 game to collect as many souls as possible. If you've ever played a Metroid game befoe, you'll realize 
 that DoS is the same when it coms to fighting and the map, and the map was useful (especially since 
 you didn't have to swittch between 2 screens thanks to the top screen) , and I'm a Metroid fan, 
 so the fighting is fun and familiar to me. The music in the game was able to successfully create 
 the mood in the game, and it's different areas. There were many great tunes to listen to and it 
 was never bad. The graphics in the game were beautiful, and I was stunned to see such visuals on 
 the DS. The story had great quality, as well. It got me interested to go further into the game 
 and got me curious on what will happen to the cast. There are other modes in the game that don't 
 deal with the main quest, but I don't find any of them that cool except boss battle mode (which 
 you don't get until you beat the game) . Overall, Dawn of Sorrow is a piece of art a castlevania 
 fan needs to get, or if you are like I was, should get if you're looking for a great platformer 
 for your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sodosi
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  I had never played a Castlevania game before this one, and I was somewhat leery about even trying 
 Dawn of Sorrow, prejudging for some idiotic reason that this wouldn't be my style of game. Now, 
 I am beyond a fan of the Belmonts. This game isn't your average platformer; the levels are each 
 very long, there are complex weapon trees to quench your pleasure of monster gutting assault, and 
 on top of that, each monster you slay holds a 'soul' that you may collect in order to gain that 
 monster's power, which sure adds the feel of having a Gothic version of Pokemon not as being the 
 whole point of the game, but just as extra icing on the cake.
  
  Sound: 10! Crisp chiming music throughout every room in the Castle adds such an upbeat and chilling 
 feel while you play. It is the sort of game music that you won't ever be tempted to lower your 
 volume over from the feel of it being repetitive, instead, the music flows freshly through each 
 repeat and really stirs up fitting monstrous emotions from inside you while you're slaying fiends. 
 Monsters also emit perfect growls, roars, and screeches that fit the character of each monster 
 perfectly.
  
  Graphics: 10, yet I know some will disagree. Let me tell you why I think it deserves such a high 
 rating: The sprites are miraculous in how much detail they hold. Each monster has its own characteristics, 
 right down to their creepy slinking motions or attack animations. Backgrounds are also beautiful 
 and are sometimes in 3D. I also have to mention the landscapes of each room, because it is something 
 that is usually overlooked in games. Every room in this game stands out and is pleasant on the 
 eyes, and the eerie feel of the background sprites glisten amongst the monsters with such extraordinary 
 detail.
  
  Gameplay: 10! The difficulty all depends on your skill as a player; it will take some time for 
 you to learn how to attack a monster correctly without being swiped yourself, but after experience 
 with the beasts, you'll remember how monsters lash out upon you and you'll also remember in a snap 
 how to tactically strike back. The keys feel just right under your fingertips, and there is a very 
 easy learning curve. This is a game of quick action and strategy, and it is a game that you'll 
 want to play thoroughly in order to unlock every secret it holds. It's that good.
  
  This game draws you in from the moment you pick it up, and the result for me was sentencing myself 
 to three days of isolation while Castlevania glowed on my Pink DS's screen. This is one of my favorite 
 games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maguilonski
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania is simply one of the best games on the NDS , it is perfect in many ways , you can kill 
 zombies and when you hit them they fall in pieces , it is awsome!!!!!!!!!.
  They are many monsters that you can kill , some of them are : Skeletons, Snipers, Zombies, Killer 
 Clowns , and much more..... The main character is Soma Cruz a white hair boy , that in previous 
 games he was something of Dracula ( I dont kow much of the previous games ) , in this game you fight 
 against a cult of candidates that want to becom the Lord of Darkness.... Overall the game is freaking 
 cool with good graphics and a lot of weapons and powers... I highly recomend this game. I give 
 it a 9.6.
  This was a Maguilonski review for all you gamer out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blace_07
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay set forth by all the other Castlevania games is used so veterans of the series will 
 have no problem getting used to it besides the little bit of touch screen functions added in. For 
 those that dont know, Dawn of Sorrow is a sidescroller with a lot of platforming and action mixed. 
 This game is the sequel to Aria of Sorrow for the GBA so people who played that should definitely 
 enjoy this game. It takes a lot of the elements that were in Aria of Sorrow and enhances on them. 
 Instead of having to constantly go back and forth between your map on the GBA, you get a map and 
 the screen to play on (thanks to the dual screens) which definitely enhances the gameplay a lot. 
 The souls that were introduced in Aria of are even better in this game. A lot of them are the same, 
 but there are new ones. The souls are the key to pretty much all of the puzzles and figuring it 
 out can sometimes be quite difficult. The equipments in the game are really cool and there is a 
 lot of variety to choose from. Enhancing you equipments with your souls is one of the coolest parts 
 to the game. You can even take the boss souls and make some killer weapons that you can even use 
 in hard mode after you beat the game! Who doesnt want to go through the game again with the best 
 equipments and souls and see how fast you can do it?
  
  The tried and true Castlevania formula never fails to be an excellent game, and it really makes 
 me wonder how much longer it is going to be used and still be as successful as it is. It seems 
 as long as the games are doing good, they wont change, but Im sure there are few complaining 
 about that. Although the gameplay implemented from Aria is great, it is the new DS touch screen 
 functions that sometimes make this game frustrating. You get these things called seals that are 
 used to seal up bosses after you beat them, and they all have a unique pattern to them. When you 
 take a bosses health to zero, you have to draw the right seal and lock them away, but if you mess 
 up of dont do it fast enough, the boss will resurrect with more health and you have to beat up 
 on it some more. It is ok at the start because the seals arent very complex, but towards the end 
 they get very difficult to remember and the bosses get much harder. Sometime I could only survive 
 through beating up a boss once before I died. So if I failed the seal, I lost. It does add more 
 to the game, but it also gets frustrating too. The other thing implemented with the touch screen 
 is with some of the abilities. One of them you can use the stylus and destroy crystals by swiping 
 the stylus across them on the screen. This was the better use of the touch screen as it wasnt 
 hard or frustrating. Overall, besides the somewhat lackluster touch screen control, this game provides 
 some excellent classic Castlevania gameplay that any series fan will love to play, over and over 
 again.
  
  This is the sequel to Aria of Sorrow, which means it continues the story of that game. In the first 
 game you barely escape becoming the next Dracula. This is where he gets the abilities to use the 
 souls and abilities he has earned. It has been a year since the last time and a female by the name 
 of Celia is raising a new cult to try and resurrect Dracula once again (never would have saw that 
 coming) . Celia knows that Soma, the main character, is capable of messing up her plans so she has 
 her try and take him out before he ruins it for her. She fails, obviously, and retreats. Soma decides 
 to track her down so she cant resurrect Dracula. I know this seems like it has been done before, 
 but have Castlevania games ever had an amazing story to them? People like killing Dracula and it 
 is a successful story every time, and that is all that matters.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow features some pretty good 2-D graphics. Some of them are recycled from previous 
 Castlevania games, but that doesnt stop them from being appealing at the same time. The environments 
 are nice and give the horror kind of feel everyone expects. The characters all look quite nice 
 and the special effects are quite good. All of the enemies have distinct personalities and characteristic 
 about their design as well and really bring up the level of quality. The bosses are what really 
 look good though. It is one of the better games in terms of 2-D graphics for the DS. My favorite 
 part about the game was the sound. This game has an excellent soundtrack that truly brings out 
 the mood of Vampires, demons, and anything else associated with a horror game. It truly is the 
 best game in terms of sound on the DS by far, in my opinion. The sound effects are all smooth as 
 well and in tune. Theres really nothing about the sound that I didnt like. Truly a handheld masterpiece 
 when it comes to sound.
  
  Castlevania has always been an excellent series that implements action adventure with a little 
 dose of RPG added in that will stand the test of time. If you are looking for one of the few extremely 
 high quality DS games out there right now, or are just a hardcore Castlevania fan, you cant go 
 wrong with picking up this game. It is finding it that is the hard part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 23, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10/10
  The gameplay in Dawn of Sorrow is easy to understand, yet still provides sufficient difficulty 
 to make it truly fun to play. The game scatters a wealth of weapons throughout the castle to use 
 against the countless enemies that dwell inside. You acquire 2 inventories worth of weapons/armor 
 and you can switch between them by pressing X. One of the best and most exciting aspects of the 
 gameplay is being able to collect the souls of the monsters you kill to upgrade your weapons into 
 more interesting and powerful ones. The only flaw in the gameplay is that this can sometimes lead 
 to over-repitition and being forced to kill the same monster over and over again. The rewards are 
 well worth it, however, and the solid gameplay and fighting elements outshine the minor flaws enough 
 for me to score this game a 10 out of 10 in gameplay.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Although the visuals don't use 3D or push the DS to it's limits, the graphics are really great 
 in that the art in the game is really beautiful. The monsters look terrific and interesting and 
 the backgrounds in the castle are really easy on the eyes. The great thing about the visuals is 
 that they really contribute to the overall experience, whereas if they didn't look as good, the 
 game would probably be less enjoyable.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow's music is what makes it truly stand out from any other game on the 
 DS. The songs are to the point where you could just listen to them intently without playing the 
 game. There is even an option on the menu to listen to the songs seperately. The gothic tunes are 
 brilliantly composed and definitely make this game a stand-out title.
  
  Value: 8/10
  The game delivers a enjoyable and long experience that spans an entire castle full of bad guys 
 to shank and cleave, but there really isn't a whole lot of reason to play through a second time. 
 There is one side quest and a boss-rush mode, but they won't last you long, and once you are done 
 with the main quest, which will take about 15-20 hours, you will probably be finished. Those 15-20 
 hours are really great though, so replay value isn't a huge fault.
  
  Reviewing tilt: 9/10
  This castlevania is a great piece of art on all accounts and is easily 
 my favorite in the series including the new Portrait of Ruin. It has challenging gameplay, spectacular 
 boss battles and a huge castle to explore, what else could you want? Not much. Castlevania Dawn 
 of sorrow might be my favorite DS title yet, a definite must buy for DS owners.
  
  / Seth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horror_spooky
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 17, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  For the next game I will review, I have chosen Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow for the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  Castlevnia: Dawn of Sorrow plays like most Castlevania games (except you are without a whip in 
 this installment) as you go around killing enemies (some of recurring enemies from past Castlevania 
 games are present) and can destroy various lighting fixtures to refill your mana or to get money 
 (in the older games, you would simply just get healed) . However, being like the installments that 
 preceded it isn't a bad thing at all.
  
  One feature unique to this installment takes advantage of the DS's unique capabilities as you use 
 the touch-screen to draw symbols to fully defeat bosses. However, this system isn't perfect and 
 later in the game is frustrating as it expects you to be absolutely 100% accurate with the drawing. 
 This can be a little annoying when you just went through a pretty tough boss battle.
  
  Another feature is that of collecting the souls of your enemies so you can use their moves in battle 
 or to simply gain the ability to progress further into the game. I like this feature, especially 
 since there are a wide variety of enemies (later in the game, sadly, they just use older enemies 
 and make them look a little different and make them stronger) and it gives you a more compelling 
 reason to kill the enemies instead of just avoiding them (which is totally possible) .
  
  Casltevania: Dawn of Sorrow is a 2D sidescroller at its core, but it also features some RPG elements 
 like leveling up, buying weapons, and using magic (the enemies' souls in this case) . You can buy 
 healing potions, mana healing potions, weapons, maps, and various other items at a store located 
 in the game. You can also customize your weapons to make them stronger at the cost of an enemy's 
 captured soul. Throughout the game, I only really felt compelled to the go to the shop, rather 
 than visiting the place where I can customize my weapons since it simply wasn't needed.
  
  There are a lot of weapons in this game, but you will probably only use one simply because you 
 will get used to the way it works. There is also a wide variety of armor, which you may have to 
 switch every once in a while, but other than that, the game doesn't really dig too deep into that 
 area.
  
  One slightly unneeded feature with Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the ability to have to separate 
 characters (well, they're the same character, just that you can put different weapons, armor, souls, 
 and accessories on them) . Usually, you will only equip the other character with souls that you 
 need consistently to progess while you use your main character to use all of the good stuff.
  
  One thing that annoys me with this game is the constant back-tracking. I absolutely despise 
 back-tracking, but, thankfully, Castlevania isn't one of the worse ones. Sometimes you'll get lost, 
 but you should be able to find your way through the game no problem with just a little harder thinking.
 
  
  There is a wireless versus mode (sans online play) , but it's not all that compelling and is multi-card 
 only. There is also an Enemy Set mode which puts you through a little pre-designed level of sorts, 
 except you can put whatever enemies you want (as long as you have defeated them in the main game 
 and if they're not bosses) and as much enemies as you want in each room, to make your own challenge. 
 Though this was an interesting idea and can provide some entertainment for a little while, this 
 feature is horribly under utilized.
  
  The graphics are mostly 2D backgrounds, which may annoy some people, but the character designs 
 are pretty decent as are enemy designs. The bosses especially will impress any gamer with their 
 creative designs and freakish look. Some of the moves you can use in the game also look great on 
 the DS (there is even a move that greatly resembles Kamehameha from Dragon Ball Z) .
  
  The music is, to say the least, amazing. The fun squishing-noises that zombies and ghouls make 
 when you cut them into pieces is always delightful to hear and can really put off stress.
  
  If there was more replaybility (there are three endings that effect what you unlock after completing 
 the game) , a better multi-player mode, and less back-tracking, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow would 
 be the ideal action game for the DS. For now, however, you should just stick to Resident Evil: 
 Deadly Silence for your handheld action game fix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMart0492
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the sequel to the GBA's Casltevania: Aria of Sorrow. Like Aria of 
 Sorrow, you will play as Soma Cruz who needs to stop a dark cult from resurrecting the dark lord. 
 The graphics in Dawn of Sorrow are at their peak. The character and enemy sprites look fantastic, 
 as do the many bosses you will face. The background environments look great. You'll notice when 
 you walk by a mirror a reflection of another wall is shown, making you actually feel like you're 
 exploring this huge castle. The sound is great. The groans of Soma and the sound effects of dying 
 enemies is really cool. And the music, oh the music, is fantastic. It changes with every part of 
 the castle, and just really sets the tone for the game.
  
  The highlight of the game is the soul stealing. Just like in Aria of Sorrow, Soma can steal souls 
 from vanquished enemies, and they all give you a different ability. And since there are over 100 
 enemies, this game could last you awhile if you try to get every soul. Which is in fact worth it, 
 it's fun to mess around with all of the different abilities.
  
  If you're a fan of the series, looking for a great side-scroller, or are an action/adventure game 
 fan, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is definitly worth picking up. Multiple endings, two difficulty 
 settings, Boss Rush Mode (where you take on every boss consecutively) , and Julius Mode (where you 
 play the game as Julius Belmont) ; this is what I call bang for your buck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jacojac
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the direct sequel of Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow, and the first 
 Castlevania game to reach the Nintendo DS. The story takes place about one year after the fight 
 Soma had against the demons inside of him. Soma, which lost his power to collect and control his 
 enemies souls and his friend Mina live peacefully, until the arrival of a mysterious priestess: 
 Celia. This sorceress appears to be at the head of an occult religious cult that claims that for 
 God to be absolutely good, there has to be an entity of darkness to face him. Celia plans to resurrect 
 the vampire demon Dracula in order to face God and to restore back the balance in the world. 
 Without taking care of the Church members advices, Soma heads to the cults castle to find out 
 whats this all about.
  
  If you have played Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow, or any modern Castlevania game, the story shouldnt 
 be too complicated for you to follow. However, if you havent, it will be very complicated. Most 
 characters are introduced all at the same time, in the very beginning of the game. They often talk 
 about old characters or about past events that happened in other Castlevania titles such as the 
 War of 1999, in which Julius Belmont, a vampire hunter, killed the vampire Dracula. It quickly 
 gets confusing. But Konami had the bright idea to include a library menu that gives you information 
 about some past events in the Castlevania series, the characters in the game and even about some 
 items and weapons such as the Vampire-Killer, the famous whip that can only be used by a member 
 of the Belmont family. This menu helps the player a lot to understand whats going on in the game.
 
  
  Just as in any other Castlevania game, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow focuses on smooth 2D graphics 
 and detailed background. The characters and enemies are clearly defined and have very smooth movements. 
 The bosses are particularly good looking (bad looking, in a good way) . The very detailed and colorful 
 backgrounds help to define the castles different parts and rooms. Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow 
 offers a very large variety of monsters to fight against to keep you busy till the end. To beat 
 them off, you can use many different weapons, cloths and accessories to enhance your abilities 
 and the damages you deal to your enemies. Those items can be purchased with the money you find 
 all around the castle in Hammers store in the Lost Village (first level) . The further you go through 
 the story, the more weapons and cloths will be available at the store so be sure to come back from 
 time to time to check out the stocks. In Yokos shop, still in the Lost Village, youll be able 
 to fuse your weapons with the souls youve collected to enhance their power. You can also free 
 the souls you dont use there. You should do it every so and then in order to keep inventory clean.
 
  
  The game offers a classic 2D platformer gameplay. You run, you jump, you attack, and thats it. 
 However, some parts of the castle are tricky and require you to use the stylus and the touch screen 
 to clear the way. Some places are inaccessible when you first visit them and so, its important 
 for you to remember where those places are to come back later when youll have the proper ability 
 to go further. The use of the stylus is a little awkward at first and looks a little out of place 
 as it disturbs a little your progress in the game. The use of Magic Seals, activated with the stylus, 
 during boss fights may be frustrating as the player has to quickly take out the stylus and to draw 
 the magical sign on the screen. A bad point of the game is that the player, without any hints about 
 where to go next, will often get lost in the large castle and will probably end up wandering around 
 the levels aimlessly instead of heading to a certain point to progress further in the story. Castlevania: 
 Dawn of Sorrows soundtrack is very good. The sound is much clearer and defined than in previous 
 Castlevania games. Each areas of the castle have their own creepy theme. Most are very catchy, 
 but some others tend to fade away a little.
  
  The game is a little too difficult to be fully enjoyed. The healing items are rare and the player 
 is often outnumbered by the enemies. The bosses battles are particularly hard and you might need 
 to level up a few times before entering the bosss lair. Fights against bosses require strategy 
 and observation, two things that arent very necessary when fighting regular enemies. The difficulty 
 can sometimes get very frustrating when youre stuck at a certain place. This game is short. It 
 doesnt take very long to beat it. But you might want to play it again to unlock the few extras 
 or to play the game again as Julius Belmont, the Vampire Hunter.
  
  In short, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow brings back all the goodand the bad aspects of the Castlevania 
 series in a modern-looking and very entertaining game. The game isnt very innovative and some 
 might not like its modern old-school look, but if it wasnt just like that, it wouldnt be a 
 Castlevania game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmazoLK
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Near the release of the DS, there werent many games to get really excited about, but there was 
 Super Mario 64 DS out there, but other than that, there was nothing. Eventually, Dawn of Sorrow 
 came along, and my whole opinion about the DS changed. This game is absolutely outstanding, near 
 perfect in my books. The top screen is used as a map of the area, while the bottom screen is where 
 all of the action takes place. The DSs 2D graphics shine in the game, and show you that the DS 
 is serious. The only area that I dislike, but is a minor flaw is how the touch screen is used. 
 All its used for is clearing out Ice, and drawing spells, but not too bad, it doesnt make the 
 game suck or anything.
  
  The story of Dawn of Sorrow takes place 1 year after the events of the Gameboy Advances Castlevania: 
 Aria of Sorrow. Again, Soma Cruz is the main character, and an evil priestess named Celia Fortner, 
 wants to make a new lord of darkness by killing Soma Cruz, and spreading Somas essence of evil, 
 to someone else. So Soma must enter a castle and look for Celia, and get rid of her, before she 
 gets rid of you. The story is well written, and works out in the end, and there are numerous endings 
 to keep the game going and going for time to come. I really liked the story, but in many instances 
 I got confused, and I didnt know what was happening, but I got through it, and understood later. 
 That sometimes was frustrating, but after I got over it, I was fine.
  
  The sound is used quite well on the DS. Every new area you enter has a new, and quite excellent, 
 background music to it. The sound effects work great, and sound awesome. Every slash of an enemy, 
 to an explosion, it all sounds real, and works out great of the DS. Boss music sounds great too 
 as every boss has different and outstanding melody. No voice overs doesnt hurt at all, it might 
 actually be best if there werent any. The stereo system of the DS works well too, when a sound 
 goes from one side of the screen to the other, the sound goes from one speaker to the next, works 
 awesome.
  
  Beautiful, Dawn of Sorrow, even in 2D, is one of the best looking DS games to date. The smooth 
 animations of the characters and enemies are excellent, and the design of the game is outstanding. 
 The sprite work is well done, and deserves to be since this game is made on the DS, almost using 
 the exact same sprites as the GBA Aria of Sorrow. The backgrounds in the game are sometimes in 
 3D which look awesome and make the game just that much better. The background should get a major 
 applause because it look outstanding wherever you go, well done Konami. The bosses are extremely 
 well-detailed and look almost real even though not in 3D which is really impressive.
  
  This game, is basically a plat former game with more than just from getting from start to finish. 
 Theres barely any instances where you can fall off of the stage like in Mario, which is awesome, 
 so wherever you are, you have no fear of falling off somewhere to death. I extremely happy with 
 the way the game plays, instead of getting from start to finish, you go around the huge map looking 
 for different spells and defeating bosses. Sometimes when you defeat an enemy, you get its soul, 
 and you can use it either by press R, Up + Y, or just by doing a special action. Some of the weapons 
 you get in the game that you equip can be a quick slice, or a huge swipe, and some can do powerful 
 damage to an enemy. You also have a magic meter below your health, and it lowers when you use a 
 soul to attack. When it runs out, it might not seem like a huge deal, but during the game, you 
 use the magic quite a lot, and you should always use it. Theres also a lot of jumping around and 
 getting from one area to another, but during the jumping, you usually have to kill enemies on the 
 way.
  
  Theres tons of thing to do after you beat the game. You can do an alternate story with the all 
 of the main characters besides Soma. This mode is quite fun, but it seems weird when you can go 
 to some of the ending areas when you havent been to many of the starting areas yet. The boss rush 
 mode is extremely fun, but can get frustrating when you half way through the game, and dont have 
 enough attack power to defeat a certain boss. Theres also Wireless multiplayer mode, which is 
 also very fun.
  
  This game is one of the best DS games to hit the market. The story is intriguing, the gameplay 
 is fantastic and I keep coming back to this even after I defeated it tons of times. It doesnt 
 get old, and it should go down as an instant classic in anyones books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ColdstoneX3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 3:17 am PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is the first instalment of the Castlevania games for the DS.
  
  You Return to take control of Soma Cruz, who a year ago, defeated his destiny by not becoming the 
 new Lord Dracula, but now you are confronted by those who would see a new Lord of Darkness emerge 
 and its up to you to see they fail.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay hasnt changed much since the last installment of the game Aria of Sorrow for the Gameboy 
 Advance. You have the ability to gain the souls of the enemies you slay and use their powers, by 
 gaining more souls of the same type, that power can become even more potent. Other than that, this 
 game retain the old Castlevania feel except for one thing. Boss Battles. These have changed a bit, 
 for while bosses are still defeated the same way, you must also utilize a new touch screen feature 
 by using Magic Seals to defeat the enemies. These can be practiced but must first be aquired to 
 use. Without these seals you wont be able to progress further.
  another new feature is that you can use the soul's of the enemies you slay at a shop to fuse them 
 to weapons, thus creating more powerful ones, there is a large variety of souls and weapons to 
 gain, which gives a ton of variety and which keeps the fun going for a long while. As for fighting 
 bosses, they are tricking and sometimes hard, but can be beaten. This is where the game truly shines 
 Graphics:
  
  The Graphics have evolved a bit from the GBA which is good, the game still is in 2d but has alot 
 of 3d elements in it, most obvious, the backgrounds, which give a sense of depth to the game and 
 which are nice to look at as well. The enemies have also been upgraded and now sport more series 
 of movements which give the game an added sense of depth. Sound:
  
  The Sound has been improved as well as the music. Its the type that never gets annoying to listen 
 to, and once in a while, you just might turn on the DS and go somewhere just to hear that special 
 tune.
  
  Value:
  
  The game itself features a good 20-40 of solid gameplay, and alot more if you take your time to 
 maximize your full potential. This game features a normal and a hard mode of difficulty and also 
 contains unlockables such a boss rush mode or Enemy set mode in which you can place enemies in 
 an arena to fight, which increase game value even more. all in all, this game is bound to keep 
 you busy for a long time and bring you alot of fun.
  
  Final Score: 9.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elfsong
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  The story line to this game is very impressive, it's obviously a follow on of a previous game but 
 you can follow it completely! It was a really interesting and fun game to play! I loved the fact 
 there were lots of bosses and they increased in difficulty. I think the fact you couldn't save 
 anywhere wasn't annoying- it encouraged you to explore rooms to find Save Rooms. The variety of 
 normal monsters was also very original and made you want to battle.
  
  It is in 2D but the background designs are very detailed and look really good- making up for the 
 fact it's not in 2D. The sound was also fairly good- not too quiet and in the background but not 
 annoying either. The voice clips also added to the brilliant gameplay.
  
  Overall, I think this game is brilliant- it was so fun and lasted a long time so that was really 
 good! I'm going to buy future CastleVania games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolf360rev
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 10, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is neat and it uses the touch screen quite often and out of the SPOILERS seals I found 
 the last one the hardest. END OF SPOILERS
  
  anway the comtrols are simple to use and you do not have to battle a camera or uncooperative walking. 
 The game is good in controls which is one of the reasons why I liked the game.
  
  Graphics
  
  The Game uses 2d/maybe 3d graphics which they are very good on the ds and some 
 of the best graaphics for the ds. This game also scored high in this area.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound is decent for the game and pretty good compared to other games I played, but it could 
 have been better.
  
  Overall
  
  This game just started something my new castlevania game collection so far it is the only one I 
 own. But I say to any platformer or castlevania fan should get this game it is an absolute masterpiece 
 especially when it is a handheld game and how good games for handhelds are there now? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 10, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow for the Nintendo DS is hands down the best Nintendo DS game out there 
 on the market. Not to mention that it is as far as I know the only side-scrolling 2D game on the 
 system as well. This game is what every single DS game needs to be. This game takes place one year 
 after Aria of Sorrow. Do not worry if you never played that game, because I didn't and there was 
 nothing in the story that I could not understand. This game was really my first time with the Castlevania 
 series and makes me really want to go back and played what I missed, because this is one fun game. 
 Graphically, I think that even though this game is in 2D it might be the best looking game for 
 the Nintendo DS as of right now. Mario 64 had some nice graphics but they are not as great as Dawn 
 of Sorrow's graphics. This game is extrememly bloddy for a T Rated Side scroller and is without 
 a doubt the bloodiest game on the Nintendo DS and probablly will be until an M rated title is released. 
 All the different enemies look very good and they all have something about them that make you want 
 to kill them again. This game does feature some RPG elements such as leveling up and some weapons 
 being stronger than other ones in the game. This is very helpful because you will need to be at 
 certain levels for certrain fights. It is very fun though even if you are slashing through the 
 same enemy for the 50th time just so you can level up, it is still incredibly fun, and this game 
 still sticks to the sidescrolling action that the series is best known for. This game has great 
 sound. I have always been dissapointed with GBA music. The crackly music never really appealed 
 to me, but finally a handheld game comes out with good sound!! There are no voice overs which i 
 do frown upon since it was done on the Gameboy Advance in the Max Payne game, even though they 
 were a little fuzzy they were still awsome. Really no complaints here. So this is a great game 
 for the Ninendo DS. It is the goriest game on the system and the story is long and fun. The leveling 
 up is way cool, so there is really nothing to complain about with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IP_Yamiko
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 23, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  One of the most addictive substances in this world besides sugar and caffeine, Castlevania: Dawn 
 of Sorrow leads the player through a number of unique challenges, twists and dozens of monsters 
 in which you may slay, absorb and control. Even though this game is set on a 2D-graphic premises 
 (obviously not tapping the full power of the DS) and the soundtrack sounds like something out of 
 an old Bela Lugosi/Boris Karloff film, you'll literally be sucked into the game-play faster than 
 you could have ever thought possible.
  
  Warning: this game is not for the super impatient, slow-thinkers, or rookie gamers, because some 
 of the challenges require time and strategy and it will take a lot more than just one weapon and 
 skill to get past some of the bosses in order to proceed. Also, it may take up even as much as 
 thirty minutes (depending on your level of skill) to figure out how to proceed to the next level, 
 so make sure you have some time on your hands in order to advance. (Oh, and make sure your college 
 finals are either completed or far from whence you decide to play, because it will come back to 
 haunt you.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyfanatic
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 21, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Very good game. Go through a very large castle divided into themes. There is a lot of secrets to 
 find, and souls to capture. Each time you kill an enemy, there is a chance that you will get its 
 soul. When you get an enemies soul, you can use their power. Some are more useful then others. 
 For example, summoning zombies is amusing, but nowhere near as effective as throwing cards, or 
 releasing a huge fireball.
  
  The graphics are nice, especially for a DS game. Each part of the castle looks great, and there 
 isn't much you could wish they would improve on, unless all you care about in a game is graphics.
 
  
  The sound is one of my favorite parts. Each section of the castle has a catchy tune that always 
 gets stuck in my head.
  
  There are three endings in the game, only one of them good. Once you beat the game, there is other 
 modes and things you can try. I think it's easy to spend at least 40 hours into this game until 
 it gets boring.
  
  I enjoyed this game alot, with 100+ different enemies, great boss battles that are tricky, and 
 tons of weapons, potions, and soul powers, it's hard not to enjoy it. Expect a lot of backtracking, 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick0091
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 15, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Even if you have never played a castlevania game before your never too late to start. Basically 
 you are trying to stop the revival of dracula is every castlevania game so in the series you always 
 have to battle through his castle and dungeons to ultimatly defeat dracula along with his many 
 minions on the way. There are tons of bosses and many traps along the way. This series plays alot 
 like the metroid series by you having to gain power ups to progress to certain areas, and how sometimes 
 you have to back track to get certain items or just to treasure hunt. Castlevania also adds RPG 
 elements to the games by being able to get tons of different weapons, and being able to level up. 
 You have you basic weapons such as swords, axes, etc. Now that you are caught up on what type of 
 game castlevania is let me get into what makes Castlevania dawn of Sorrow differnet then the rest 
 of the games.
  
  Along with being able to get new weapons and armors in Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow you are able 
 to get souls. Souls come in 3 basic types
  
  Bullet soul (primary attack)
  Guardian (special move)
  Enchant (constant)
  
  You can get souls from each and every enemy 
 in the game, each enemy has 1 of the 3 types of souls.
  
  Bullet souls are attack souls which can be anything from throwing and axe, summon a zombie or creating 
 a pilar of fire.
  
  Guardian souls can be attakc souls as well such as growing a tail, shooting a lazer beam, etc. 
 However they can also be things like transforming into a bat, fall to the ground slower, etc.
 
  
  Enchant souls you don't need to hit a button to use they are just always on, This can be raise 
 your strength permantly, Increase mp recovery, etc
  
  With every enemy in the game offering a soul and there being 100+ enemies in the game be prepared 
 to go monster hunting if you want every soul (not to mention some souls can level up so the more 
 you collect the stronger that soul gets.)
  
  Ok so that basically how the games works now lets get to the good stuff shall we?
  
  Gameplay: 
 9/10
  
  The gameplay will keep you going, it never really slows down. You go from amazing boss battles 
 to story sequence, gaining new abilities, finding unique weapons, collecting souls. The gameplay 
 is top notch and is what makes the castlevania games so amazing.
  
  Graphics:9/10
  
  Though 2D the games graphics are very well done. There are some amazing backgrounds, and to to 
 mention your character and the enemies animation and looks are as smooth as could be. very very 
 well done.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The music always seems to fit the mood and keeps up with the action very well. However sometimes 
 hearing the same sword swinging noise can get tiresome but then again thats like any game.
  
  Value: 10/10
  
  Game will keep you busy for hours with unlockable game modes, alternate 
 endings, 100+ souls and weapons. Reviewers tilt 10/10
  
  This is one of my favourite games of all time so its hard not to give it a 10/10.
  
  reasons 
 are above of why this is a 10/10 I don't need to explain.
  
  If you don't own this gmae yet and are looking for any action game, side scroller, etc. Do not 
 miss out on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deeewooh
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the latest installment in the legendary Castlevania series, and 
 continues the story of Soma Cruz, heir of Dracula. He has the power to dominate other souls, and 
 use their powers as his own, but only when in danger. He can also use a variety of weapons.
  
  Graphics: Very well done. The enemies have great details, and well drawn, and everything is 
 past expectations in this regard. The bosses show great attention to detail. You'll never mistake 
 an enemy for something else (unless it's supposed to trick you) , and enemies are largely unique, 
 their attack animations are splendid (especially Dario's Dragon Fire attack, a pretty, albeit deadly, 
 site) . Only a few enemies are simple recolors. The backgrounds are well drawn, and show much time 
 and care. The only minor graphical lapse is in the field sprites (their speech sprites are done 
 very well) , which area actually quite bland. However, this minor drawback doesn't hurt the graphics 
 very much, as they aren't horrible, and the rest of the game is graphically great. 9.6/10
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game's biggest attractions, and main flaws, are. The plot is fairly 
 engaging, although the enemy's motives are somewhat farfetched. Apparently, a cult wants to balance 
 out the universe by creating a dark lord, which requires the removal of Soma. While Soma is motivated 
 by protecting himself and his girlfriend, the cult's motives are sketchy at best. However, this 
 plot flaw isn't very important, much like the plot in a single Castlevania game. Dawn of Sorrow 
 stays true to the Castlevania Saga, except in one facet (which would be difficult to work into 
 the game and this review, but you'll know it when you see it) .
  
  The gameplay is top notch. Soma can use a variety of weapons and equipment, levels up, and gains 
 souls from normal enemies at random, and bosses give specific, progress necessary abilities. Weapons 
 can be 'forged' using certain souls into stronger weapons, and you can buy new items, or find them 
 yourself. The weapons are very well balanced, although finding the right soul can be a pain. Plus, 
 the guns, while expensive, are somewhat broken due to their range. But no one said you have to 
 go through the cheap cash paths of getting them, either.
  
  When it comes to difficulty, the game has plenty. The enemy's attacks are varied, and you'll be 
 hard pressed to learn their tactics. While basic creatures, such as zombies, simply move forward, 
 there are more devious enemies, such as the petrifying Meudsa heads or evasive and deceptive succubi. 
 The bosses are generally difficult, although a few or the larger ones are flawed, as the Axe Armor 
 soul can hit them 3-5 times in one throw, doing massive damage. However, several bosses move quickly 
 and hit very hard, and are some of the best bosses in video games (One of them took me 8 attempts 
 to defeat) . The game also offers a suspend function, as well as plenty of restorative save centers, 
 and a warping system to save time.
  
  Overall, the game is very fun while it lasts, is worthy of replay, offers and extra mode, an extensive 
 search for completionists, multiple endings, and an interesting multiplayer mode. However, this 
 replay value isn't sky high, although the game is packed with quality while it lasts. 9.2/10
  
  Controls: At first, the can be disorienting, but I was able to quickly edit them to a very 
 a very comfortable and efficient control scheme. The only issue is the use of slides, drops, and 
 falling kicks, which can get a tad disorienting. 9.8/10
  
  Sound: As one would expect from the Castlevnia series, the sound is great. Great songs, good sound 
 effects, and no clutter or confusion at all. 10/10
  
  Overall, a splendid game, worthy of any DS Owner's $35, especially if you have friends who have 
 it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dementedioser10
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 29, 2007 11:53 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've played on the DS, very immersive.
  It took me about 12 hours just to beat it
  I still have to do Boss Rush, Julius Mode, Hard mode, 
 and collect the Souls &gt;.&lt;
  It needs more touch screen control, like if Soma got a whip you could touch the screen in a certain 
 radius of him to attack, or atleast have a weapon that uses the touch screen.
  also like most other DS this one doesnt use the microphone but i cant think of a way to use it 
 here
  but Its one of the best games in the series, to me at least :D
  Though I havn't played PoR yet...
  But you do not want to pass this game by.
  Go get if you 
 dont have it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DesertClawX2X
Rating: 9
Date: May 9, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  The Castlevania games have been known for many things. For one, you get to kill Dracula, duel Death, 
 and slay a variety of mythical and supernatural monsters (who doesn't want to do that?) . 
  
  While Castlevania first began as nothing more than a simple platformer (see 1987's Castlevania) , 
 it was 1997's Symphony of the Night that gave the series a facelift so great that the old games 
 truly became archaic. SotN steered away from the antique linear pacing of other platformers, instead 
 introducing players to open-ended gameplay (a la Super Metroid) mixed in with various elements 
 that you'd find in an RPG. I could go on and on about the greatness that is SotN, but sadly, it's 
 not the game that I'm reviewing.
  
  Instead, focus your efforts on Dawn of Sorrow, the sequel of a game known for making its own radical 
 renovations (both in gameplay and story) .
  
  The story picks up a year after the events of 2003's Aria of Sorrow. Unfortunately, I can't give 
 away the backstory without giving away one of the series' greatest plot twists. But what I can 
 tell you is this: The game takes place in 2036. Dracula (body and soul) was ultimately decimated 
 in the apocalyptic battle of 1999. Soma Cruz was an ordinary boy studying in Japan until he was 
 whisked away to Dracula's Castle. Soma fought for his life in order to survive, but learned of 
 a horrible secret in the process... Now, a dark cult has risen from the shadows, and it's up to 
 a reluctant Soma to "save the day" once more. Will he prevail, or succumb to the madness? That's 
 your decision....
  
  Gameplay, at its core, is a modified version of Aria's. Soma wields the "power of dominance." In 
 other words, when he defeats an enemy, there's a chance that Soma will absorb their soul and use 
 their as his own. With the exception of a few souls, these abilities can be upgraded when you obtain 
 more than one version of that soul. Think of it as a much darker Pokemon. These souls can, in turn, 
 be combined with weapons to form more powerful (and sometimes, overly cheap) weapons. The only 
 trade-off? Some specific weapons require souls that are crucial to your journey.
  
  Another new gameplay mechanic is the Magic Seal. During most boss battles, when the boss is at 
 critical HP, a magical crest will appear on-screen. You then only have a small window of time to 
 draw a specific seal. If you succeed, the boss is sealed away for good. If you fail, the boss regains 
 some health and the fight continues. This is more of a gimmick than a (good) innovation as some 
 fights can become tedious if you can't draw the seal correctly. And with the increasingly complex 
 seal patterns that you'll have to memorize, expect to be frustrated a lot, especially towards the 
 game's apex and conclusion.
  
  Similar to SotN (and several later titles) , Dawn uses an Metroid-esque open-ended castle. As Soma 
 defeats bosses and gains the souls of enemies, you can travel and access more areas of the castle, 
 obtain new items, and (of course) come closer to the game's epic (if not somewhat lacking) finale. 
 
  
  As another departure from the Castlevania norm, Soma (obviously) isn't a Belmont (or one of the 
 Belmonts' branch families) . Therefore, Soma can't use the Vampire Killer. Instead Soma can equip 
 himself with various accessories, armor/clothing, and weapons (ranging from traditional weapons 
 like swords and knives to more technologically advanced ones like firearms) .
  
  One of Dawn's strengths stems from its replayability. One of the best features in the game has 
 to be the unlockable "Julius Mode". While the Sorrow series' supporting cast usually takes a backseat 
 during Soma's adventures, playing as a vast majority of them is very satisfying.
  
  The graphics remain the ever-crisp 2D that the games are known for (that's a positive by the way) . 
 My biggest complaint (artwork-wise) is that the magnificent stylings of Ayami Kojima is replaced 
 by simpler anime drawings. The anime drawings aren't "bad" per se, but some of the personality 
 and charm of Dawn's cast was definitely lost in the transition.
  
  The music, while atypical of the series, does not fail to impress. Whether it's the remixes of 
 favorite past tunes or new pieces, Dawn of Sorrow's audio does a fine job of conveying the overall 
 mood of the game's plot and cast.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow, unfortunately, still isn't the best title in the series. That claim probably goes 
 to SotN, and that game alone will probably continue to be the scale on which all future Castlevania 
 games will be weighed. Nevertheless, DoS is one of the series' best offerings. Dawn of Sorrow is 
 far from perfect, but its stellar presentation will ultimately make you overlook that. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 9, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  Well to be honest this game plays the same as the GBA which isn't a bad thing. You are Soma Cruz.... again 
 and you will go through gothic castle killing monsters until you reach the top for the final confrontation... again. 
 You know the same old thing with new graphics and chain of events (story) . Again a Belmont is involved 
 and you can play as him if you beat the game with a bad ending. And again there is three different 
 endings best, bad, and worst. The bosses are interesting to fight against and leveling up does 
 play a role on how effective you are. They did add a little twist with the use of the touch screen. 
 You destroy ice boxes with a touch and before you officially kill a boss you have to draw seals 
 to lock them. Thank god that the drawing sets doesn't get crazy. One difference you will notice 
 is that you will not be able to get the strong weapons by searching them. Now you have fuse souls 
 to get better weapons so you may have to give up a strong soul to get a stong sword. The ability 
 to switch styles is cool. If you don't understand then I mean you can have a swords and a axe soul 
 with set A and you can have a gun with a skeleton soul with set B and you can switch by pressing 
 the X button. Even though I am making it sound boring by saying it was the same old formula but 
 that is why we like to play Castlevania because you know the saying if it's not broken don't fix 
 it and this proves that it is stil not broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrDazzle
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  For me, the Castlevania license was always the 3D line I came to know and love for the N64. Whips, 
 Werewolves, and crystal save points were what I knew of the series. Though now being older and 
 more informed of the history of Video Games, I came to know of a massive line of titles, that started 
 as supposedly one of the greatest 2D platformers of all time, and thats certainly were Dawn of 
 Sorrow comes from. The game at its most basic core, is simply a fun, but basic Side-Scroller. But 
 where Castlevania DS shines, is in the layers of additives to a classic SS scroller formula that 
 make this game what it is. The game features the same style cut-scenes you've seen possibly everywhere. 
 Anime style still characters (with occasional facial expression changes) with text dialogue (Sans 
 the intro animation, which is drawn in the same style as all the other Dawn of Sorrow art, and 
 is, well, animated) . The graphics match that of what I have seen of the original Castlevanias on 
 PSone, which isn't a bad thing for this type of game, and unlike a lot of 2D side-scrollers, this 
 game doesn't really feature any special efx that are improved from the original graphic formula, 
 which as I have stated, is not a problem. To the most important aspect of any game- the gameplay. 
 The game features your typical hack-n'-slash fare, tossing in different weapons you are able to 
 find or purchase. There are also some ranged main weapons featured in the game, but since this 
 is Castlevania, you will see and probably use an assortment of knives/daggers, short/long swords, 
 axes and spears. In addition to these weapons, you have 3 categories of Tactical Souls which can 
 be equipped, Bullet - usually thrown items/weapons or summoned creatures, Guardian - Special moves 
 that come in different forms. Some can be used as attacks, others as abilities, and Enchantment 
 - Involuntary abilities which don't have to be commanded, but are always in use. Tactical Souls 
 also can be used to upgrade weapons. Generally, the weapon it is upgraded to can be later purchased 
 or found, but if you have the TS needed, it saves your the money and hassle. Another feature found 
 in this game is the Leveling. Common place to those who have played turn based RPGs, in which you 
 gain levels through attacking enemies and the like. The game also features a fair amount of puzzle 
 solving. Usually it is just finding the right Magic Seal or getting the right Tactical Soul to 
 get through something though.
  
  INCOMPLETE - CHECK BACK LATER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pachinko
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This is the first big full on sequel to symphony of the night to me, the GBA titles were fun and 
 Aria of Sorrow was pretty good but this DS sequel to Aria finally does some justice to the original 
 inspiration by adding higher resolution sprites , much better quality music and the biggest castle 
 in the series history.
  
  The gameplay here is pretty much identical to 2004's Aria of Sorrow as it should be seeing as this 
 is a direct sequel to that game. You play as Soma Cruz and have to rescue your preistly galpal 
 from some evil cult bent on ressurecting the dark lord dracula. Everything plays the same as always 
 for this type of game, you run around killing monsters, absorbing souls to use as special attacks 
 and getting stronger weapons to kill bosses to get more souls to explore more of the castle and 
 so and and so forth. Aesthetics aside though, other additions pretty well exclusive to this installment 
 include some quirky stylus features and weapon synthesis. The use of the sylus is both cool and 
 frustrating at the same time, when you kill a boss monster you have to draw a seal on the touchscreen 
 to seal away the bosses soul, screw it up and the boss regains 25% of it's health. Unlike in this 
 past years portrait of ruin though, this game actually poses a challenge so having a boss come 
 back to life can be a lame scene, especially near the end of the game when some of them get real 
 tough and the seals are harder to envoke. It's still a neat idea though and I give them props for 
 trying something. The other stylus use is... kind of useless, get an item later on that allows 
 you to poke at ice blocks on the screen. As for weapon synthesis, instead of simply buying or finding 
 weapons, in this one you kill monsters for souls which can be traded in to upgrade your weapons. 
 The catch being that for each weapon catagory the strongest weapon is usually a boss soul , this 
 means you need multiple playthroughs to get everything giving this game a ton of value. Alternatively 
 depending on what you do your first time through you can unlock a bonus mode where you play as 
 future vampire hunter Julius belmont. This is just an all around fantastic castlevania game and 
 if you skipped out on every GBA installment I highly recommend buying this one as a direct followup 
 to symphony. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Tish-
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Although its been nearly two years since Aria of Sorrow made its impact on Soma Cruz, only one 
 year has past since his uncharacteristic inheritance of Draculas throne. However, the undead vampire 
 is back and ready to retake the world for his own, and cause utter chaos and mischief among society 
 But to do that he needs to be resurrected once more. And while Soma has his personal visions of 
 killing the vampire prince again, other vampire hunters have ideas of their own. As its ever so 
 clearly announced, the mortal who kills Dracula will inherit his throne and become invincible. 
 Thats obviously brought together an elite group of vampire hunters whose sole objective is to 
 rid Dracula and take his immortal position.
  
  You might be thinking that, with the 2-D format, there would be some totally trippin touch screen 
 facets. On the contrary, all youre dealt with is a few scrolls to open doors via the stylus throughout 
 the game. That means you get to use the buttons that are so heavily neglected nowadays with the 
 DS. While you can personalize the button commands to your liking, the games controls are very 
 similar to an average DS game. You can jump, wield some sort of small weapon, wield some sort of 
 large weaponwhich will drain your stamina every time you use itand you can slide into enemies 
 or down to lower floors.
  
  Most of the weapons are quite ingenious and well conceived. As you delve further into the game, 
 the number of choice weapons proliferates, and most of them are there just for the looks. You can 
 easily slash through the majority of the game with the same weapons youve acquired in the beginning. 
 Still, if you want to be creative and have some fun with the game, having the most massive and 
 destructive weapon at your disposal is very satisfying and, to an extent, comforting.
  
  Occasionally, youll acquire abilities from the enemies you hack up, and most of them are pretty 
 interesting. Speaking of which, the monsters you cross paths with are distorted, ruthless, and 
 extremely fun to annihilate. Some are hideous reincarnations of animals or humans, while others 
 are just enormously daunting. No matter the case, all of them have a creepy air about them, whether 
 they spout fire or throw bones like boomerangs. The boss fights are what really stands out in Dawn 
 of Sorrow. The bosses range from giant demons with fists bigger than you, to flying spirits with 
 electric charges, and you can bet your bottom dollar that all of these fights are impressively 
 displayed.
  
  However, once you kill a monster, theyll antagonistically respawn after youve left the vicinity. 
 The vicinity could be anywhere from the next room to the next floor. And most of the rooms, later 
 levels in general, are a tangled mess of intricateness. There are very few save rooms, and sometimes 
 you just wish you could save whenever and wherever instead of having to lose your way and die a 
 horrific death. The map can be a life-saver in difficult times, but the majorities of later levels 
 are still very enormous and have too many rooms to consider. Occasionally it just feels like Konami 
 propagated a bunch of rooms all throughout a particular level without having any original plans, 
 and if they did, those plans didnt turn out so well.
  
  Most of the visual work is done with an anime notion. A lot of the characters look as if they came 
 from a lost episode of Inuyasha, while others have distinctly made their prescience felt from past 
 entries to the series, namely Aria of Sorrow. In general, the 2-D format looks great, and really 
 brings out the best of the visuals, as well as sharpening the abilities and combat. But, for the 
 most part, its nothing that we havent already seen, neither on the DS nor the GBA.
  
  While the sound is vibrant and rich, theres no voice acting, and it can really get monotonous 
 while reading the subtitles (since some dialogue sequences can take up to five minutes or more) . 
 On top of that, a lot of the actions taken sound like Power Ranger commands, un-captivating swoosh 
 repetitions and all. But the music sounds great and the monster deaths are pretty awesome. Once 
 reaching a climatic scene, the music changes into a serious tone. Sometimes things will get very 
 quiet, usually when you near a boss fight, which hypes your premature battle vigorously.
  
  Since Dawn of Sorrow is a relatively long game, youre not going to get a lot of replay value. 
 Most of the extra modes become boring and there are just certain points in the game where it feels 
 impossible to move on. Conversely, any RPG gamer will definitely enjoy Dawn of Sorrow. Its a game 
 that can get addicting if youre making a strong run towards the final battle of a level, but its 
 also difficult to play if youre not gaining progress. Either way you look at it, its a challenging 
 game that any DS owner should check out.
  
  Over all, youre not getting a lot with Dawn of Sorrow, but the boss battles, enemy hacking, and 
 abilities are loads of fun all together. However, the story and level play stunt Dawn of Sorrows 
 potential from becoming an overall great game. When its all said and done, though, enjoyment can 
 precede you in this Dual Screen version of Castlevania.
  
  -Tish- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Some of the best 2D visuals ever created; fantastic soundtrack; level design is top-notch; 
 getting all the souls, weapons, and items is incredibly addicting; bosses are cool; difficulty 
 is very balanced.
  
  The Bad: New anime look is kinda dumb compared to the gothic style in previous games; fundamental 
 gameplay hasn't changed a bit since SotN.
  
  Since the release of Symphony of the Night on the PlayStation nearly ten years ago, Konami has 
 released several more Castlevania games with the same winning style. None of them, however, have 
 had the same kind of impact. Konami came close with the Game Boy Advance's title Aria of Sorrow, 
 but didn't quite live up to SotN due to the limitations of Nintendo's portable system. The wait 
 for a worthy follow-up is over: Dawn of Sorrow is above and beyond everything that SotN was.
  
  In Aria of Sorrow, an innovative Soul Capture system was implemented, in which Soma, the main 
 character, would randomly obtain the 'soul' of his enemies, which he could then equip. This would 
 give him new moves, stat boosts, or what have you. The same thing is here in DoS, only tons better. 
 It's a lot more balanced and interesting.
  
  The castle is absolutely massive in Dawn of Sorrow, and the map of it is perpetually on the top 
 screen, alleviating the problems from the GBA games caused by having to stop the action to look 
 at the map. It may seem a tad unoriginal of a way to use the top screen, but it works very well. 
 The visuals are amazing, showing off all the DS can do. Characters and enemies move fluidly, and 
 it's all very artistic and beautiful.
  
  The touch function is used occasionally through the game as a means for drawing seals to destroy 
 bosses, to break ice, etc. It's really not that interesting, though, and it really feels tacked 
 on.
  
  While the gameplay is great and all, it's really no different from the past several games. It's 
 very polished and fun, but it isn't new or innovative in any way.
  
  Basically, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow doesn't really do a whole lot new. It just does it very, 
 very well. For that, it is easily recommendable to any who are familiar with the series, and also 
 to those who haven't tried Castlevania yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Boss11
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 29, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I purchased this game when it came out but I haven't really played it until I started playing Castlevania 
 SOTN for Live Arcade and I am really surprised how much I enjoyed it. Dawn of Sorrow is a by the 
 books Castlevania game. You play as Soma Cruz from the first game, Aria of Sorrow for the GBA , 
 and Dracula's Castle has risen (again) as a women try's to create a new Dracula from people who 
 were born the day Dracula was killed, you must stop her from doing so. The story is a little Basic 
 but thats ok the real draw is of course the gameplay and this part is perfect as always. You can 
 equip weapons, amor, and items to increase your stats and you can equip souls that you get from 
 killing enemies as well. Up to three can be equiped at a time and each do something different. 
 Later you also get a soul to switch betwwen two sets of items which helps you from always having 
 to go into the menu. The game uses the top screen for a map which sounds like most DS games but 
 it is definately helpful. The touchscreen function goes almost unused which is a good thing the 
 stylus function that is used feels tacked on and annoying. The times you do use it is when you 
 either must destroy blocks of ice or beat a boss. To beat a boss you must bring its health to nothing 
 then a seal pops on the screen you must draw the symbol and it will eliminate the boss, problem 
 is that making a mistake gives the boss back some health and the screen can be very sensitive at 
 times and that makes it easy to mess up turning an easy battle into a fight for your life. These 
 complaints are only minor though since you won't be donig it to much, so it won't get you frustrated 
 to much. The Graphics for the game are highly detailed spites with colorful graphis and nice animations 
 and as usual all humans are faceless. The backrounds are well done as well with a little bit of 
 a 3D feel to them. The level design is also excellent with rooms that you will remember and reconize 
 so you won't be getting lost for the most part. The audio is also well done especially for the 
 DS but it's still a handheld and you can still hear problems sometimes. This game is excellent 
 for Castvania fans or a DS owner looking for a solid DS game although with Portrait of Ruin out 
 I would sugest buying that first since its more like originals. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  frist off this game is great looking just on real what the DS can do. its like i am playing a mini 
 xbox360. sounds are good. some level s the music is just odd. makes me wonder why they picked that 
 music for that level some of it dont fit in to me. lot of goodies in the game like diffrent weapons 
 fusing weapons is fun. plus you can gain enemies weapons to use. tossing bones are a axe and a 
 lot more to me spices up the game, the bosses are big and death is awsome, one thing i dont like 
 is drawing seals to seal a boss. and using the stylus to do so. just a chore to me dont add on 
 to the fun. how did this help the game. you are there fighting the boss and it comes to a point 
 it comes on the screen seal the boss and if not done right the battle goes on until done right. 
 who ever came up with that should have there cookies taking away for one month just a pain. but 
 the game is fun and this is the main thing are you having fun and yes i am. fun game great looking 
 sounds are good over all. so buy the game and enjoy thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: follows the tried-and-true castlevania, smooth animation and detailed back grounds, excellent 
 music, wide variety of bosses and enemy's to keep you busy, handy upper screen for seeing the map 
 or your stats, intresting story, a new and creative to fuse your souls inside your weapon, wide variety 
 of weapons and equipment to collect.
  THE BAD POINTS: pretty useless touchscreen funcions, sealing bosses is more annoying than fun, pretty 
 less thing to unlock {only julius mode} .
  [CONCLUSION] for people that are not familiar with the long serie, this game is the best start that 
 you can have to get used to a game serie.
  and for the people who think that CASTLEVANIA: SYMPHONY OF NIGHT is the best in serie, think about 
 it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is once again a quality 2D Castlevania game that a Nintendo DS owner 
 should not miss.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow takes place a year after Aria of Sorrow for the GBA. Again you play as Soma Cruz, 
 who has the potential to be the next Dark Lord but he refused to do so. This time an evil cult 
 is searching a way to resurrect Dracula and in this they intend to use Soma. Of course the story 
 is much more complicated than that consisting many different characters, but I dont want to spoil 
 them for you.
  
  Graphics are once again great and there are some pseudo 3D effects like when different parts in 
 the background move differently when Soma walks by. Use of colors is rich and every area looks 
 different from one another. Music is the highlight of Dawn of Sorrow and when you beat the game 
 with its best ending youll unlock Sound Mode, which allows you to listen all 28 songs and 190 
 sound effects used in Dawn of Sorrow.
  
  Two new additions include a constantly visible map on the upper screen, which really helps you 
 to navigate through the enormous castle. Other addition is the ability to draw magic symbols and 
 break ice blocks with the stylus. In order to defeat a boss you need to seal it away by drawing 
 a symbol using the touch screen. This can be a pain, but when you practice the symbol a few times 
 before entering a fight it shouldnt be huge problem. The use of touch screen brings some variety 
 into the gameplay, but still it doesnt fit in that well.
  
  Gameplay in general is familiar, but also tried and true. Killing monsters help Soma to gain new 
 levels of experience, sometimes enemies drop their souls for Soma to use and this time you can 
 also upgrade your many different weapons by using the souls youve gathered. All of this means 
 that there is a lot of stuff to find and collect. Dawn of Sorrow really encourages you to explore 
 and collect as many items as you can. Theres always something new to find.
  
  Although the castle is large there are a lot of rooms to save your progress and many warp rooms 
 help you to move from one part to another very quickly. These things make sure that the player 
 will not get frustrated.
  
  Boss fights are many, epic and graphically excellent with bright colors. Unfortunately if you just 
 have a level high enough and a few life potions to use they dont usually pose much of a challenge.
 
  
  Aside from a few shouts there is no voice acting in Dawn of Sorrow and the whole story is told 
 with a text. Its classical, but in the future Id like to see characters speaking to each other.
 
  
  There are three different endings and you can see them all in succession. For me it took over 14 
 hours to get the best ending and I think it was worth it simply because of the different bonus 
 extras it unlocked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bboygamer89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  I love the Castlevania series and cant stop playing all of the games that have to do with this 
 awesome series. Yet, the repetitive gameplay is noticeable throughout the whole series, the DS 
 version brings gameplay of the series to a new level with awesome use of the touch srceen. The 
 graphics in the game are absolutely revolutionary packing large enemies onto a 3 inch screen, which 
 is probably a feature of the game that will greatly catch your eye. Overall, this game should not 
 be passed up if you own a DS or want to get into the series. GO GET IT!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  CDos is one of the great castlevania games ever released, it contains great active story, kind 
 of a great castle to explore even though its not dracular's castle, and the soul system is even 
 more improved than its last release Aria of Sorrow. The graphics of the monsters were nice, the 
 boses were unique, challenging and well created for a castlevania game, This game perfects the 
 older castlevania releases (even though Syhony of the Night is still alot more greater when it 
 comes to exploring, gameplay and story) , the map is good, the enviriomental elements are perfectly 
 placed, the musics are great, the exploration of the castle and the limitation of passing through 
 a certain point of the map were well done. The only downside of this game is in the spell category, 
 most of the monsters spells you will hardly ever use them, in a few words most of the spells are 
 considered plain, until the end of the game you might end up using around 5-10 spells against enemies. 
 About the weaponry its great, but the soul forging weaponry wasnt realy that fantastic as u just 
 get a completely another weapon which u need collect souls to keep upgrade it until the end, it 
 would be better if you could custimize your weapons like enchanting them with magical effects or 
 something. The armor equipments isnt one of the greatest things in this game as its realy most 
 the same just stat increasements. Overall these bads this castlevania is awesome, and its the first 
 castlevania on DS, also this is the first castlevania which the unlockable palyers have a slight 
 of a story, and about the unlockable palyers it was great but its a lot harder as no one had a 
 defensive ability. One of the best games on DS and one of the Best's in the Castlevania series. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianozuca
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great enemy design (specially the bosses, with coherent motion design and excellent sound 
 effect and voice acting support) ; astounding original music arrangement; good improvement in the 
 souls system, like gather more souls to raise its effects or fusing souls with a weapon to create 
 another one.
  
  The Bad: Characters don't seem to be surprised with new facts that come into story, and that keeps 
 you from getting involved; stylus mechanics sometimes holds the playability back; environment design 
 not that original; game difficult is so easy to bear the name Castlevania (except for Death, hard 
 enough!) .
  
  Konami releases a new chapter in the everlasting Castlevania story, though the Belmonts don't lead 
 the way anymore. Dawn of Sorrow is a good game to follow Aria of Sorrow, an extraordinary GBA game 
 that consolidated Soma's series in 2003, and teased gamers for this new installment in DS system.
 
  Well, Dawn of Sorrow reaches a good level to open a path to Castlevania in DS, and is a great 
 game to play under an amazing sound track (listen to Condemned Tower, and how percussion sounds 
 good in DS speakers to see what is a good arrangement) . Enemy design is great, creating good characters 
 like Frozen Shade, Dead Mate, Homunculus and Amalaric Sniper; giving a face for others that in 
 Aria of Sorrow were just souls, like Flying Armor and Malphas; updating old ones like Balore; and 
 bringing harsh battles with remarkable new bosses like Puppet Master and Gergoth. And the game 
 is fun to play after all, despite the fact that is not easy do get involved in the story. (Anyway 
 keep an eye in Soma's evolution towards the evil; seeing him stuck upside down in the roof gives 
 you a clue to what we can see in the future. Extra points to Konami, for the attention with details.)
 
  Talking about problems, nothing that make a gameplay crash. But the use of stylus takes you off 
 of the track in a 2D-platformer. And environment could be more original (everything in The Abyss 
 can be found in Super Metroid, or Super Turrican or Alien series) .
  In the end the game is good, became a fair step ahead, but could be better. Aria of Sorrow is better, 
 and inside the catch-item-open-map concept even the aged Super Metroid can beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yadish
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  this game is a game that will please the crowd, It has a lenghty story filled with memorible characters 
 tons of twists in the story, and my favorite thing is all the things you can collect.
  the gameplay is fun with tons of weapons and spells but no whips! o well but other than that the 
 gameplay is a classic castlevania game.
  the graphics are extremely good with a good mixture of 3d and 2d graphics, the 2d is done well 
 and the backrounds are rich and full of color.
  the sound is good but it could have used some voice acting, otherwise the sound is good.
  I would 
 recomend this game to any one whos looking to spend a lot of time on a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rehino
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  this is one of the best castlevania games ever made. it makes good use of the ds graphic capability. 
 although the touch use is not that great everything else about the game is awesome. it has a good 
 deal of replay value you would want such as more characters and a new game plus. its pretty lenghty 
 and should keep you occupied for a while. good music and good game design makes this game even 
 better. its not the best but it is very very good. the bonus characters are very cool and they 
 come with a separate story line which makes it even better. there are a lot of weapons and the 
 best way to get them all is to play though again with new game plus. there is also a multiplayer 
 competitve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This is my second Castlevania game and just like Portrait of Ruin this game is very fun. You control 
 a character named Soma who is post to become the next dracula. This game for starters is a sequel 
 to another game on the GBA but really it makes no big impact if your new or not to the game like 
 I was, you will enjoy it. Through your adventure you have the power to collect souls of ANY monster 
 in the game. These souls can be used as helpers, attacks, power ups and even used to make better 
 weapons, as basically thats the only way to get a decent weapon is to power up your crap weapons 
 to stronger ones. This adds alot of replay value as theres alot of monsters in the game and alot 
 of attacks to boot. The controllers are nice and easy to use and the graphics are great for the 
 DS. The sound I found not as good as Portrait of Ruin but its still A+ material and just leave 
 your volumn on. This game your travel around the castle and its huge but not as huge as it may 
 seem. The main quest will take you around 8-10 hours probly to beat, so its a farly short game, 
 but if your a collector you can work on getting all the uber weapons and all those souls and 100% 
 map to jack that up by x2 or x3 in time wise. The extra features are boss run, sound listening 
 section and a julias playthrough where you play as Julias and Yoko and go through the whole castle 
 all over again. Only probly is there are equipment with nothing that you can see, no pic or basically 
 anything. You get the map on the top screen and your level on the side, so theres no hint to your 
 states. However you do get a choice of spells and weapons to choose from. So its a bit better then 
 Portrait because in portrait you basically were able to get all that stuff and spells and team 
 work just by playing the main game. Theres no extra quest to do like portrait so thats kinda a 
 bummer, but this is an older game then portrait so maybe thats where they made improvements. The 
 games difficulty was about just right and the storyline was ok but nothing special. I liked how 
 in this game the people who sold you stuff gave you little chats, a laugh here and there a bit 
 more then lam old vincent ever did. This game didn't have much voice overs and when it did make 
 a voice I am not even sure if it was post to english or not as I couldn't understand a thing they 
 were saying. This game is great and its only downfall is its short, so if you are a collector and 
 play beyond just beating the game this is a must for you and for you others well its still worth 
 getting, or maybe get it on sale like I did :) enjoy the game everyone! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ddrmaxchick
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  So you're thinking just because it's a 2-D platformer means that it's no good. Right? Wrong. So 
 very very wrong. You see, Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow brought so much joy to my life in an ironic 
 sort of way. This is definitely one of the best DS games I've ever played and actually beat! Enough 
 of this chit chat, now let's talk games.
  
  You start off my drawing your name on the touchscreen which is really awesome. I called myself 
 Soma. I know -- how original. Anyway, you learn that you have this power to suck up demons' powers 
 and take their souls and that this lady and her two henchmen want to kill you because of this whole 
 dark lord thing which also involves Mina. It has a bit of a story but I honestly skipped a lot 
 of the text because it was slightly boring.... oh and I wanted to get more souls. The way this game 
 uses the touchscreen is pretty cool actually. Well, it would've been if I only wasn't using it 
 to open doors all the time. You get these symbols to draw; at first they're easy, but later in 
 the game they get pretty intense and when I'm fighting for my life during a boss battle and I have 
 to whip out that fancy new symbol to finish it off, it's slightly tedious. Despite those tad drawbacks, 
 Dawn of Sorrow is a really fun game. Heck, you get to suck up souls!! Nothing is cooler than that! 
 It's so addictive, all you'll want to do is collect more and more souls till you have them all. 
 Hmm, kinda like Pokemon. Anyway, these graphics aren't your normal 2-D graphics. They're beautiful 
 2-D graphics enhanced by the DS. And if you've grown up on the original Gameboy, trust me, these 
 are way better. The game is kept fresh by finding new gear to equip and of course new souls to 
 use. The music is actually kinda creepy at some points -- very eerie. It keeps you focused on the 
 game and not your little sibling playing the piano. What're you still reading this for anyway? 
 Go buy this game! It's a must have in your DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomacres
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Another Nintendo handheld and now another new awesome Castlevania handheld game. Forget the pretty 
 poor 3D attempts, 2D is wheer Dracula belongs and this game shows it.
  
  Gameplay: Pretty simple and the tacked on DS touch screen commands are a bit dodgy, but it's just 
 so damn addicting! Seriously, it is such a fun game to play and is just made so well. There is 
 a huge variety of monsters and some amazing boss fights. Just like the other Castlevania games, 
 but that's no bad thing!
  
  Graphics: Yes it's 2D, but this is the best looking 2D side scroller that I have seen in a long 
 time. All of the animations are excellent, the bakdrops are well detailed, the monsters also look 
 incredible. Overall it looks superb.
  
  Sound: Just like the look and feel of the game, the sound is brilliant as well. Very basic for 
 the most part but the music is catchy, fast paced and fits the acion and the situations extremely 
 well. The sound effects are good as well and while some voice clips would of been nice, this game 
 still sounds great.
  
  Value: I completed the game in about 10 hours, however that is the shorter ending. Yes, this game 
 actually has two endings, the second one involves a load more boss fights all in a row and will 
 probably last a good 2 hours longer. However, once the game is finished and you see both of the 
 endings, there isn't much of an incentive to play through it again.
  
  Overall this game is an absolute must buy for the DS. It is probably the best 2D sidescroller I 
 have ever seen on the DS, yes even better than New Super Mario Bros. If you have a DS, then you 
 must own this game. If not, then clearly there is something wrong with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mach1inferno
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:22 pm PT
Review:  My gaming experience as far as Castlevania games has been pretty limited. The first one I played 
 was CotM which was one of those games you play that addicts you to the series. This is my third 
 and it far surpasses CotM and HoR (didn't really like that one) . As far as story, it has become 
 more of an element than some games I have played (HoR) , but not so much to distract you from the 
 fun hacking and slashing to be done. Basically, Soma is back. In the beginning he is attacked by 
 the leader of a new religious cult, Celia. Celia is trying to resurrect the Dark Lord because she 
 thinks that all good must be countered by an ever-present evil. The game doesn't take place in 
 Dracula's Castle like most or all of the other games. Instead, you explore the base of the cult. 
 The battle system is the regular hack and slash with a new element, soul collecting. Every enemy 
 you fight (with a couple of exceptions) grants you a soul for beating them. Of course, you have 
 to kill some enemies A LOT to get their souls. These souls can fall into one of four categories. 
 There is bullet type, which you can activate by pressing up+B to use a projectile attack. Next 
 is guardian type, which summons a monster to fight beside you that you can control with the touch 
 screen, use a short range attack, or edit you stats. Then comes enchant type, which edits your 
 stats or give you some kind of special ability like doing more damage to enemies from behind or 
 being able to eat rotting food. The last kind is souls that are always equipped, unless you choose 
 otherwise. These are usually acquired from bosses and allow you to access parts of the castle you 
 couldn't explore before. You can also take the souls you acquired and fuse them into weapons. The 
 best ones in the game require you to sacrifice some of the rarest and one-time only souls. The 
 loophole to this is that you can play a new game+ and acquire one-time souls again. Hard mode makes 
 for a more interesting experience with smarter enemies and all of your money and items transferred, 
 but there isn't much of a difference. This game is for 2D scroller fans and even more so for hardcore 
 Castlevania fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gods_Anger
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing! probably the closest i've seen to the legendary SotN PSX title. the gameplay 
 is very responsive with it's set limits and the animation for just about everything is smooth. 
 the multiple tracks throughout the game for each area all have thier own flair for the genre. i 
 honestly could care less about the story line and haven't really followed it much. the exploration 
 and power/level up system is what makes this a great game. repeatedly killing the same creatures 
 for access to different areas can be a bit of a pain but an acceptable part of continuous play 
 value. i'm only about 40% complete but i haven't been able to put it down. i even play at work 
 when i can. good job Konami. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerrav
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  ... lovin' the open ended level design. I was so worried initially when I heard about this. GAMEPLAY 
 - Good ole controls of the Castlevania games I use to play. Felt a little odd starting off w/out 
 a whip. This game is very much about soul collecting, soul collecting and SOUL COLLECTING. It's 
 a unique system that can, at times, become a bit burdensome when it come to collecting from an 
 enemy w/ a high rarity stat. Nothing like exiting and entering a room 20+ times to get that extra 
 special soul! Who else loved the magic seal bit? Boss battles require you to use the DS stylus 
 to draw a 'magical seal' to trap the foe before they are beaten. DS stylus fumbling, anyone? GRAPHICS 
 - Some nice scaling used here and there but nothing too extraordinary. What the game does attempt, 
 it does well. Nice particle effects on the many different spells.
  
  SOUND - Love the music. Sound effects tend to get a bit old after awhile, but it's nothing unbearable. 
 Would have like to have heard a few more spoken lines.
  
  VALUE - Many extra modes are unlocked after the game is finished. If you wish, you can even play 
 the game again w/ a new set of character (S) ! Have to admit, I was expecting a longer game. I completed 
 in 15 hours.
  
  TILT - As I said in the beginning, I was a little worried to know that this game wasn't level based. 
 The non-linear approach grew on me quick and I found myself spending hours at a time playing this. 
 If you're a fan of Castlevania, there is absolutely no way you can pass up this game. Go. Buy. 
 Now.
  
  EDIT - WTF is up w/ this broke @ss formating on the forums? I've edited this thing 3 times now. 
 Oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyrulesall
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game i honestly didn't expect much from it. But now i am a castlevania fan. 
 This game is about soma cruz who is the reincarnation of dracula. There is an evil cult at work 
 who is trying to ressurrect dracula by killing you. So you must go to dracula's massive castle 
 in order to stop the baddies. But you won't go in without some skills. Soma has the ability to 
 extract the soul from monsters and use there powers. Since there are over 200 monsters, there are 
 over 200 skills. Also you can use souls with your weapons to make them even more powerful. The 
 castle is MASSIVE. This game has the biggest castle in the series beside portrait of ruin. The 
 best thing in this game however is the boss fights. The bosses are huge and they are never easy. 
 So if you happen to see this game at gamestop or wherever pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 24, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Whether or not you have played a Castlevania game before doeesn't matter with this game, 
 because chances are you will adapt very easily to the mechanics and presentation of this game. 
 You play as Soma, the reincarnation of Dracula himself. As expected, you are out to stop the resurrection 
 of Dracula and defeat the bad guys. Really though, the story isn't what this game is about... it 
 is about the amazingly fun and addictive gameplay. For many, this game is fairly short.... but 
 it really depends just how in depth you go with this game. There are so many secrets, areas, and 
 monsters to find in this game that you will never once be bored. The gameplay mechanics of this 
 game are really pretty simple. You have two sets of weapons and abilities you can have at one time 
 (which can be switched back and forth through a button) , each of these weapons and abilities being 
 completely customizable. In fact, part of the fun in the game is trying to obtain more powerful 
 weapons, abilities, and gaining levels. A unique feature of this game is collecting souls of your 
 enemies. If you are lucky, you will be able to steal an enemies soul when you defeat them and afterwards 
 you can use that enemy's special ability as your own. A very simple but in depth system indeed. 
 As far as negatives to the gameplay, my only real complaint would be the short length, the tacked 
 on and unnecessary use of the touch screen in parts, and maybe the lackluster ending assuming that 
 you don't find the alternate endings. Overall though, this is a great addition to the series and 
 will be a shockingly great experience for those of you who are just starting in the series like 
 I am.
  
  Graphics: While the game's visual presentation is pretty good, you can obviously tell in most parts 
 that the DS is capable of so much more. However, the environments look great and are pretty detailed, 
 and the occassional 3D backgrounds make things look even better. The only downfall is that the 
 game basically looks like a high end GameboyAdvance game.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is great. Of course, the music is nothing that I would call unique 
 or revolutionary but the quality of the music is what is so great. From the very beginning of the 
 game to the end of the game I highly doubt that any of you will actually get tired of the music, 
 especially since the music is different in different areas.
  
  Value: The game is short, but the amount of secrets and new things to find adds a certain extent 
 of replay value. Also, if you like alternate endings this is a game that you certainly should try 
 playing.
  
  Overall, this game is one of the best on the DS, and is something no DS owner should be without. 
 This simply is one of the best 2D sidescrolling action games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valmier
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  After playing Aria of Sorrow on the GBA, I was looking forward to this like no other game. Knowing 
 how amazing Aria of Sorrow was, I could only have expected better from Konami. After picking this 
 game up on launch day, I can easily say that I was not disappointed. The soul system from Aria 
 of Sorrow is back, and better than ever. More enemies, better environments, and an ever-twisting 
 storyline make this an even better game than I had imagined. The gameplay is a perfectly balanced 
 mix of new techniques and the time-tested gameplay Castlevania fans have come to love. The only 
 real problem I had was a little bit of weapon imbalance. Some weapons were just plain more powerful 
 and beneficial than others. Even when an enemy is susceptible to fire, you will still want to use 
 weapon that is more powerful than a sword with fire. However, this is a very small complaint in 
 the face of such an amazing game. Unfortunately, it got stolen, which leads us to the other problem: 
 Konami made, like, five of these things. What the heck! I can't find it anymore! Grr...
  
  Anyway, if you can find it, buy this game. Even if you've never played a Castlevania, get it (after 
 you buy and finish Aria of Sorrow, of course) . It's amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwing1983
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania Aria of Sorrow for the Ds. Wow game is amazing! Sequel to one of the best selling GBA 
 games to date. This game picks up a yr after Soma has found out he is Dracula.... well sort of. 
 Anyway this game makes use of the touch screen very differently from other Castlevania and Adventure 
 games. Meaning that if you don't draw the spell you can't defeat the boss, and that can be very 
 troublesome at times. Konami puts out an incredible game. I was a fan of the N64 Legacy of Darkness, 
 and symphony of the night for PSX. This game in my opinion irons out of the wrinkles so to speak. 
 Also it ties the whole Castlevania community in really well. Graphics wise it's okay, I like how 
 Konami chose to go with the 2D Castlevania's of old look, but with a twist. Having the map displayed 
 to at all times is nice touch as well. speaking of touch, the touch screen is used in this game 
 to destroy obstacles like Ice and blocks in your way. This is a most have title for any Ds owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is the first and the only Castlevania game I have ever played. ...
 
  
  And I loved it. I've gotta say, that it's also pretty much my favorite ds game. It doesn't utilize 
 the touch screen's abilities all too much , and there's usually just a map on one screen. Although 
 a map that is much needed.
  
  The soul collecting is one of the coolest addicting things ever. It rivals pokemon in collecting, 
 and kills it in awesome. Every once in a while you'll come across an enemy that gives you a soul 
 power which you can equip, or fuse with weapons to enhance them. There are tons of awesome weapons 
 too. Also, every monster in the game has a soul, and theres probably almost 200 of them.
  
  Castlevania's got some pretty tough boss fights in it, and while I heard this is by far one of 
 the easiest games in the series, it's still pretty challenging. Some bosses, like the last one, 
 took me around ten tries. If you can't beat it though, ya just gotta go level up and change some 
 new souls. Even though I stayed with the witch bullet soul for almost the entire game. The sound 
 is amazing and really captures the feel of every area, and the boss fight themes are great. I don't 
 remember if there was voice acting, but there wasn't much text, so it wasn't even needed. The sound 
 effects are pretty cool, and its got some addicting tunes in my head right now. The graphics have 
 got some really awesome animated backgrounds, I love them. The character models are faceless, which 
 I really like because if they tried to give them faces and big heads then it would just look lame. 
 It's got tons of value with multiplayer, and julius mode, and catching all the souls. Remember, 
 ya always gotta catch em all. Okay, I just had to say that, it's the only thing I can think of 
 more addicting than my elementary pokemon past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroDemo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 8, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow 
  Played on black NDS-lite.
  
  Ok, I'm not a Castlevania fan, and I haven't even completed one title of the series. I played a 
 GBA version for a little while, never completed it. So you might say this review is totally based 
 on the game, and not on a fanboy-ish way with drool all over the Castlevania franchise.
  
  I like RPG games and RPG elements, this game has those, a bit shallow, but very fun. I like the 
 fact that you can merge collected souls on weapons alot! I don't have a big urge to level my character (yet?) 
 but it's fun to check out the gear and stats with the gear.
  
  All the souls you collect are great, I just love the one where you grow a huge scorpion tale, wich 
 is basicly a double attack. Such things are really great imo.
  
  The game looks ok, I really don't think the graphics are that great. The animations are awesome 
 tho, really properly done! The atmosphere of the game is perfect, tho it could have been a bit 
 more sharper and detailed.
  
  With great musictracks (I really love the music!!) and challeging gameplay in a kind of free roam 
 way in a castle, makes C: DOS a really cool 2d action/rpg.
  
  I recommend this game to people that like 2d action/platform/rpg games. It stands out from the 
 more colourfull 2d games mostly found on te DS, wich is good.
  
  I don't know what the castlevania fans think of the story, but as a newcomer, I think it's pretty 
 sweet:)
  
  ZeroDemo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dave7500
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2006 5:30 am PT
Review:  i am not a fan of castlevania but after picking up dawn of sorrow for the ds i really begin loving 
 casltevania. and if u are looking for a action game casltevania will surely be your choice. although 
 this game is in strictly 2D the graphics is really amazing as the character you are playing looks 
 fantastic and also the enemies and other background and the way you kill the enemies they all die 
 in different way and that looks wonderful!!!
  for the gameplay you play as soma a vampire slayer trying to save the world. and beside just slashing 
 enemy with your weapon you can suck their soul and use them in battle. like for some soul you can 
 sommon a friend to help you or use many kinds of spell aganist the enemy which it turns out to 
 be very fun to play around and beside using the soul against enemy you can also use it to make 
 your weapon into more powerfull. so there will be many things to do instead of just slashing n 
 slashing. there is also a weapon shop where you can buy many different kinds of weapon from there. 
 and this game will surely give you hours and hours of fun as you explore the biggest caslte ever 
 in the castlevania series and battle many bosses which some can take up almost the entire screen 
 and is fun fighting with them.
  
  so to cut short i can asure you that you will surely not waste your money on this game as is truely 
 one hell out of fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frodnekcod
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  gameplay: Dawn of Sorrow provides an excellent system that makes training worthwhile, weapon upgrades 
 flow nicely, and fits in with the game perfectly: the soul collection system. Kill the monster 
 over and over (gets a bit repetitive) to gain its soul. Then, if you attain a certain soul, you 
 can upgrade your weapon. There is a handy tracker to show you which monsters you are familiar with. 
 The weapons make a difference and choosing carefully adds strategy and excitement to this game. 
 The map on the top screen (excellently used) will show you where you need to go, and there are 
 virtually no glitches. I only wish they had added less gimmicky touch screen options (the small 
 uses they have are a bit of a joke) . There is also a great variety of monsters to kill and the 
 boss battles are creative and very exciting.
  
  graphics: The game has a great ability to take a system with low graphical power and make it seem 
 like it has better graphics than even a console game. The backgrounds are excellently done and 
 the monsters look great. It has a great fell to it and all the dungeons come alive with these great 
 visuals. Coupled with the music, this game gives a great epic and spooky feel that is rare to find 
 in other games.
  
  sound: The castlevania series trademarks itself for great music and this is probably the best in 
 game soundtrack ive heard in a game yet. The music goes well with all of the areas and makes it 
 a fast-paced and exciting adventure. You can also listen to the songs seperately via menu. And 
 even not in the game, the tracks sound excellent.
  
  value: A decently long main game and intuitive soul collecting system gives castlevania plenty 
 of added depth. And the game is so fresh and exciting that its fun to just play through again for 
 no particular reason. There isn't much to do beside the main quest however so once you beat it 
 and are sastisfied with your stuff, you might not go back to it for awhile.
  
  tilt: scoring evenly in all categories makes castlevania just a superb adventure all around and 
 if you own a DS and don't have this game, please do yourself a favor by trying it. I am sure you 
 will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basludanto
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:43 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most entertaining games available on the DS. The hero, Soma, is wonderful to 
 play as a result of tight handling, a varied arsenal, and his ability to use the souls of defeated 
 monsters as bonus attacks. The level of customization is incredible, since the player is able to 
 make Soma fit his or her playing style (especially after aquiring the doppleganger ability, which 
 gives the player the option of outfitting Soma with a quick/strong pairing of weapons and abiliies, 
 a short range/long range pairing, and many other possibilities, switchable at the press of a button) . 
 The graphics are bright, vivid, and beautfiully animated. The music, while not breathtaking, underscores 
 each scene well and does not become annoying or overly repetitive. The inclusion of level building 
 and rare souls along with reasonable prices for better weapons adds to the length of the game. 
 All in all, a highle reccomended game for anyone who likes action and light role-playing elements. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about this. I have been playing Castlevania since Simons quest. Once Symphony of 
 the Night came out it add a whole new theme to the otherwise tired side scrolling of Castlevania. 
 Much to my suprise this game holds its own as the others on GBA did. Another well put installment 
 in Castlevania. You see I am a fan of the 3d ones on PS2 they hit the mark for me and arent that 
 bad to play when you consider where they come from. This one however puts you right back in the 
 seat with all the combinations of armor and weapons as well as spells and abilities, they turned 
 a weak side scrolling action game into an in depth rpg. I love what they did once they got to Symphony 
 of the Night, these games just keep getting better and better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avataraang1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The graphics and top-notch and the sound is also great. The game never gets old but the game ends 
 a bit too fast. It only took me three days to get all three endings. If you played past Castlevania 
 games this game is awsome. But with all the extras in this game it is a DS must. Another interesting 
 feature in this game is the requirement of these spells required to do after you defeat a boss 
 which makes the game alot harder after a while if you forget how to do it which then makes you 
 have to fight the boss again untill you get a chance to do it again. If your looking for hours 
 and hours of fun and extras this game is just for you. Get this game and probably Portrait of ruin 
 once it comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinpals
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  The star of Dawn of Sorrow is Soma Cruz, the young adventurer who narrowly avoided becoming the 
 next Dracula in Aria of Sorrow. Soma has the ability to collect the souls of monsters he kills, 
 thus inheriting their powers. A year after Soma escaped Dracula's castle, a mysterious woman named 
 Celia shows up and attacks him. Celia is a priestess of a new cult that is attempting to resurrect 
 Dracula. Since Soma already proved once before that he's capable of foiling the resurrection of 
 the dark lord, the cult decides to eliminate him before he can mess up their plans as well. Soma 
 survives the attack quite easily and Celia is forced to retreat. Apparently Soma doesn't take kindly 
 to people who try to kill him, so he sets out to find Celia and prevent her from reviving Dracula. 
 The entire game takes place at the cult's base, which is a replica of Dracula's castle. In true 
 Castlevania form you'll start off relatively weak, with only a knife and some mediocre armor. As 
 you progress through areas of the castle, you'll fight monsters and search the mazelike hallways 
 where you'll gain experience, as well as find new and better equipment. As you gain experience, 
 you'll level up and your stats will increase in attack, defense, strength, constitution, intelligence, 
 and luck. Throughout the game you'll also collect the souls of monsters you kill. These souls can 
 be equipped to give Soma new abilities. There are three types of souls you can equip, as well as 
 ability-type souls that grant you special powers without having to equip them. Ability souls are 
 collected when you defeat bosses, and these abilities are usually required to progress through 
 the game. By using these ability souls Soma can learn how to double-jump, move underwater, and 
 break crystal blocks -- all of which are required to access certain areas of the castle. The other 
 three types of souls have to be equipped. Bullet-type souls give you a special attack, usually 
 involving projectiles of some sort. If you have the axe armor soul equipped, you can throw axes 
 at your foes. However, each toss of the axe consumes a little magic. Guardian souls have a wide 
 range of effects, and when activated they continuously consume your magic points. These souls let 
 you summon familiars and perform special abilities, like turning into a bat. Finally, there are 
 enchant-type souls, which have to be equipped but don't cost any magic points. These souls grant 
 passive stat or ability bonuses. For example, you can equip the golem soul to get a bonus to your 
 strength, or the skelerang soul to improve your throwing ability. Since there are more than 100 
 different enemies in the game, the combinations are almost endless. Not all monsters give up their 
 souls that easily, though. You'll usually have to defeat the same monster several times in order 
 to collect its soul, and since some monsters appear very rarely, it can take quite awhile to collect 
 every type of soul in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acevampire
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  Wow this game is pretty good. Id pay up to 60$ bucks for this. If ure new to the castlevania series, 
 this is one game of the series thatll get u hooked.
  
  Gameplay- AWSOME. any 2d castlevania game has awsome gameplay. Simple, yet addictive!
  
  Graphics- 
 The graphics are ok, actually, they're pretty good for a 2d game :)
  
  Sound- Sound is suprisingly good. Dark, gothic, evil, everything that suits a castlevania game! 
 :D
  
  Value- Definitly worth it. U wont be bummed out if u buy this game.
  
  Reviewer's tilt- It's just fun and good. Get it?
  
  So if ure looking for a good game to play. 
 this is probably the one ure looking for. I hope this guide helped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheshirecat39
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I should've gone with my gut instinct, but instead I decided, Hey, everyone loves this game... 
 right? So it must be good. WRONG. It wasn't an awful game, but i think they could've done a ton 
 better with the DS's capabilities for graphics and gameply. The graphics were clear, but the game 
 was still a side-scroller, which (to me) is something of a turn-off. There was almost no touch 
 screen action, and the action there was seemed kind of out of place. This game would've worked 
 just fine on the GBA. Aside from that... Not a bad game, but it's one that I find difficult to 
 pick up, play, and progress in. Of course, I haven't gotten further than the second boss, so maybe 
 it gets better from there. This is my first Castlevania game, and I have to say I'm dissappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  i had pretty high hopes for this game and i suppose that was partly what made it slightly disappointing.
 
  
  its pretty much the same as the previous Castlevania games - which is good - but it could have 
 and should have been much more. for starters, the graphics should have been improved upon greatly. 
 it looks like a typical gba game which is quite sad really. the sprites used for the game is too 
 simple and quite chunky in my opinion.
  
  the developers also forgot that what they have on their hands is a DS and not the gba. touch screen 
 is only used for boss battles which is what i would call a crime as it should have been implemented 
 much better and more often. whats the point of just using it for the boss battles and then release 
 it for the DS ? it could easily have been made for the gba.
  
  all in all, its still fun most of the time. and it will flow smoothly in the hands of a well seasoned 
 Castlevania fan / player. but for new comers, i would recommend you pick up the earlier versions 
 of the Castlevania series first as they are much more challenging and interesting to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Well finally beat the game, castlevania is a great to play on the DS. The bosses are almost easy 
 to beat but kind of hard as well. It fun to play, if anyone like this type of game you should buy, 
 or if you not sure about just rent it and see it for yourself. So this is consider my first time 
 playing castlevania and it's wonderful but only the sound is kind of hard to hear like the voice 
 it alittle hard to hear. Pretty much everything is all right. This game should be in your collection 
 as well. Can't wait to the second one to come and hoping castlevania: Portrait of Ruins will be 
 good as the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IBLEEDBLUE33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  While this is a very fun game I just can't help feeling like I have already done this 4 times before. 
 I do enjoy the map being on the top screen, this really makes navigating through the castle a lot 
 more enjoyable. Konami did find some interesting ways to use the stylus, I like the way you have 
 to do a certain pattern to seal away each boss. The graphics are nice and this game feels closer 
 to Symphony of the Night than any of the previous GBA games. But that game came out eight years 
 before this one. I feel the castle, story, and gameplay just has not evolved enough to make this 
 Castlevania stand on its own excellence. I know this review sounds bad but I actually enjoyed the 
 game. If Konami puts out another game similiar to this one I will probably be first in line to 
 get it. I just wish Konami and this series would go out and take a chance and quit playing it so 
 safe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioDS01
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is a big improvement to Aria of Sorrow in different ways. The gameplay is pretty 
 much the game to other Castlevania games, which is good for us who played these type of castlevania 
 games with the RPG elements. Personally, I think this game is a little more challeging than Aria 
 of Sorrow. The only beef is the magic seal system. I rather just beat the boss and get it over 
 with them need to draw a magic seal to make the boss go away. Other than that, the gameplay is 
 fine.
  
  The graphics are much better then on the GBA. The monsters look really good and animate very well. 
 The enviroments and backgrounds look really good. Soma's character sprite looks OK, wish it looked 
 better, but it animates really well.
  
  The sound is really excellent in this game. The sounds from the monsters and envrioments sound 
 natural instead of the digital sound in the GBA games. The music is excellent in the game, my favorite 
 is the background music in Wizardly Lab.
  
  The value is that it is worth a buy. Heck, I own this game right now. I hope to get Aria of sorrow 
 so I can start a new game with the Rare Ring. I am now waiting for the next Castlevania, I hopefully 
 it will be even better than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 21, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Bringing the game back to the 2D format was geat in my opinion (lambent of innicens &amp; curse 
 of darkness PS2) . story - soma cruz fights his way out of dracula's castle just to get back invovled 
 by a witch who seeks to raise dracula again. through out the game you uncover dark secret. waht 
 are they........ play the game!
  
  gameplay - classic 2D castlevania gameplay. the ability to take monters.... abilities, upgrading 
 your weapons, teleporing to different areas of the castle, if you played castlevania before this 
 game should be easy for you.
  
  overall - a classic game to add to your collection. can't really say nothing bad about the gam, 
 except that its challenging at times, but is that really bad.... NO!
  
  MUST BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega_link2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 13, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania is back and better than ever with Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. Dawn of Sorrow is the 
 sequel to Aria of Sorrow for the GBA. It takes place one year after Aria with Soma being attacked 
 on the street by a mysterious woman who happens to be the leader of a mysterious cult that wants 
 to make a new dark lord. The storyline is pretty deep and will offer a few twists and turns. There's 
 a ton of value in this game getting all of the souls weapons armor etc. This is a Castlevania game 
 so the sound is obviously amazing! The graphics are good the caracters animate smoothly and there 
 are a lot of good visual effects. The controls are also very good although the magic seals which 
 are drawn on the touch screen can be a little hard at times really only for the last one but other 
 than that you shouldn't have that much of a problem. This game is highly addictive and will provide 
 countless hours of challenging fun that can only be expierinced with a Castlevania game and this 
 one doesn't dissapoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marvolo_Gaunt
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 6:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolute masterpiece and easily outstrips its predecessor: Aria of Sorrow which was 
 a great game in itself.
  
  The graphics are great for a 2D DS game and portray eeriness and monstrosities fabulously. Background 
 is great, characters and monsters are displayed in excellent detail.
  
  The sound is absolutely incredible! Each music soundtrack is catchy and appropriate and you'll 
 be very happy when you unlock the sound menu at the end.
  
  The gameplay is also remarkably good, with RPG type stats and level ups combined with an interesting 
 as well as strategic hack-and-slash. The souls are brilliant and add variety and complexity to 
 the game's gameplay.
  
  Overall, this game is fantastic and the only thing I could say bad about it is that it is a little 
 short, but if you go for one hundred per cent, this game will almost double its normal gameplay 
 time. I recommend it to any lover of 2D side scrollers, action adventure or Castlevania games, 
 whether or not you've played a CV game before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbkchib
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  It's best to have played Aria of Sorrow first, and if you didn't like that game, then don't even 
 bother playing this one. Dawn of Sorrrow is pretty much the same game. I would have love this game 
 had I not played Aria of Sorrow, but since I did play that game first. It's hard for me to say 
 that this game is better. If you played Dawn of Sorrow first, then you will feel the same way about 
 Aria of Sorrow. But because I've played Aria of Sorrow and love that game, maybe my expectation 
 of this game is too high. Nonetheless this is a Castlvania game and these 2D side scrolling games 
 have never disappointed me before.
  
  The game play is almost identical to the first game. You get two new buttons which wasn't put to 
 good use. There is a new ability in the game that allow you to switch between two different set 
 of weapons and set up. So you can switch from using the Claimh Solais to the Valmanway. And with 
 the other extra button Konami's designer decided to add a magic consuming brust attack. That was 
 a waste because I didn't really bothered to use that move. Another flaw with this game is that 
 it's a necessity to collect souls. Where as in Aria of Sorrow, soul collecting wasn't a need, in 
 this game, you're required to collect certain souls to progress in the game. There is this one 
 part in the game where I had to defeat about 100 Killer Clown just so I can get a soul and get 
 past a wall. In Aria of Sorrow, the best weapon Claimh Solais can be acquire at a specific location. 
 In Dawn of Sorrow, you have to kill countless monsters and collect their souls to upgrade to the 
 Claimh Solais. I must of spent a good 4 hours just to get that weapon and that wasn't really that 
 fun. Although you are not required to upgrade your weapons, the game get much harder if you don't 
 do so.
  
  Aside from those flaws, Dawn of Sorrow on the DS a solid game. It took everything that was good 
 from Aria of Sorrow and improved it. Most notable is the graphics. Soma and almost all the enemies 
 have been revamped. I don't thnk the Skeleton Bone enemy was revampt because they still look crappy. 
 The background presentation of the game is beautiful, especially in the clock tower area. You can 
 actually see into the background. So the graphic overhaul is a plus and the beginning CS animaition 
 also adds to the greatness of this game. The Music and sound effects of this game is also worth 
 nothing . The game Vocals are pretty good anc clear. If I understand Japanese, I would of been 
 able to know what Soma is saying everything he gets blasted backwards. The music for some area 
 are also really good. There are also memorable tunes from either the orginal Castlevania or Castlevania 
 2: Simon's Quest. But what it all comes down to is the continuation story of Soma Cruz. I'm not 
 saying that this is a fan service game, but it sure helps in making you feel more appeciated that 
 a game like this was made for the Nintendo DS. I mean destroying objects on the screen and drawing 
 souls seals were innovative and makes good use of the hardware, it's the story content that drives 
 this game. I've said it before and I'll say it again, I don't need to play another whip boy Castlevania 
 game starring a Belmont descent. It's great to play as the character that is suppose to be the 
 next Dracula, and it's great to be able to play as Dracula's son. These story add dept to the Castlevania 
 franchise. The game has great replay value because you are rewarded with the option of using different 
 characters after completing the game. So if you own a DS and you don't have this game, you are 
 missing out on one of the best for that system. Now the only thing I can do, is wait for Castlevania: 
 Portrait of Ruin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 15, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  When castlevania comes to mind.. many think of classic NES days, yet others think of the horribleness 
 of the N64. Whatever your pass experience with the franchise, Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow borrows 
 many different gameplay elements from Symphony of the Night. Honestly, the real question that a 
 consumer should be asking themselves when looking to purchase this game is simple. Do i love Castlevania 
 Symphony of the Night? If you didn't play this game for some sick reason then you should be asking 
 yourself Do i want to experience an amazing game with hours of indepth gameplay, a load of extras 
 and just a wicked awesome time. Everything in this game is amazing: the gameplay is awesome, the 
 storyline is pretty awesome, but the coolest aspect of this game is the soul collection mechanic.
 
  Basically, when ever you kill a creature, you will sometimes randomly receive its soul. Which 
 this souls can then be used to power up your weapons. Obviously, each weapon has is corresponding 
 souls to upgrade it. In conclusion, if you love castlevania.. well you probably already bought 
 this game because my opinion wont really matter to you. Now, if your not a hardcore Castle fan 
 then this is definitely a great place to start your new amazing experience. P. S If this is the 
 first time you have played Castlevania, i suggest you don't try and turn to the 3d version... they 
 suck ass, try Devil May Cry over that garbage... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swander57
Rating: 1.4
Date: Sep 10, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is bad the developers make you walk through endless levels not knowing what you're supposed 
 to do. You have no clue of what to do in this game. Its so stupid when you get to a boss your thinking, 
 "wait I'm at a boss and I haven't done anything yet," so you go and wander around for hours only 
 to find out the developers just through a boss in there for no reason. The bosses are way to hard 
 the only way I beat some of them was to enter a room fight monsters exit room and then go back. 
 Yes, it's that boring. Please why are they making 2-D games anyway it's not like thay can't they 
 just don't want to put that much time into a sucky game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ike7391
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the first entry in the series on the nintendo ds, and is a direct 
 sequel to Aria of Sorrow. the story is standard castlevania, some evil cult is trying to ressurect 
 dracula, and you, as soma cruz, decide to put a stop to it, and with a small number of allies, 
 set out to do just that. advancing from the gba to the ds, it stays true to the classic 2D sidescrolling 
 formula, beating up undead baddies and collecting LOTS of new gear and abilities along the way. 
 The graphics are gorgeous and wonderfully detailed as you would expect, and the sound also is amazing.
 
  
  i do have some problems with the game however, first, in the vein of aria of sorrow, it is very 
 short. i played through the entire castle, and my save file only had less than eight hours on it. 
 also, it doesn't utilize the touch screen in any way other than using the horribly annoying magic 
 seals, which seem to just have been added as a ds gimmick. in short, this game could easily have 
 been done on the gba, and probably would have been better. still, dawn of sorrow is a solid entry 
 in the castlevania series, but circle of the moon it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedFanatic4
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  If you thought Castlevania: Symphony of the Night was good, then you should definitely buy this 
 game because it's even better. The graphics are done really well for the DS. They could have had 
 more details, but overall they're perfect for the game and the purpose. The sounds are great for 
 the setting. It almost sounds as if you're in an actual castle with the organ music and chimes. 
 Soma's voice could get a little annoying when you swing the sword, but you'll eventually tune it 
 out. The gameplay isthe typical castlevania swing your weapon at enemies style. There could've 
 been more change between the fighting style of Aria of Sorrow, and Dawn of Sorrow, but I guess 
 that you shouldn't fix what isn't broken. It's a pretty quick game, around 6-8 hours, but you should 
 play it again once you beat it to get the different weapons. DS owners should surely get this game, 
 they won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msb2009
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  If you love to play the Castlevania games on the GBA, your in luck here. Not only is this game 
 more funner than all the other games, it's longer. The star in this game is Soma Cruz, who you 
 may know from Castlevania- Aria of Sorrow. You can still summon creatures and use spells in this 
 game, also a new feature that puts a twist on this game. Whever you fight a boss and kill him, 
 you have to seal him away using the touvh screen, an a pattern. These patterns difficulty range 
 from easy, to medium, and then finally to hard. Playing this game is fun and I reccomend it to 
 any castlevania fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcangel
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  Believe it or not, this is my first time journeying into the Castlevania universe, so I wasn't 
 entirely sure what to expect. Thankfully, the game has turned out to be one of the most fun adventures 
 I've had on the DS, and indeed on any system. 
  
  The gameplay is brilliant. You're thrown straight into the action, given a small map to follow, 
 and sent out into the world without any pointers. No handholding here. Most of the action takes 
 place on the bottom touch-screen - the top screen acts either as an automap or as a character sheet 
 displaying your current experience level, equipped souls (more on that later) , statistics (e. g. 
 Health, Mana, and various RPG-type stats such as Strength, Attack, Defence, Intelligence and even 
 Luck) , and gold carried. As you play, you'll explore a massive world in the form of a replica of 
 Dracula's warped, twisted castle. Soon you'll realise that a lot of areas can't be reached yet, 
 and part of the fun here (as with Nintendo's Metroid series) is figuring out how to get to previously-unexplored 
 areas.
  
  As you play, you'll come up against hordes of varied enemies with unique, deadly attacks. Defeating 
 them can be a tall order, but fortunately, as you progress you will uncover a range of weapons 
 (including swords, axes, spears and even firearms) , armor and various other accessories that will 
 aid you. In addition to weapons, your enemies will sometimes drop gold or useful items, and there's 
 tons of treasure to be found which can be used to purchase helpful articles like potions, weapons 
 and armour. As you defeat enemies, you'll also gain experience which goes toward increasing your 
 character's level, and thus his various statistics such as attacking strength, defence, and maximum 
 health.
  
  The game also features a clever soul collecting system, whereby you can absorb the souls of fallen 
 enemies and thus gain some of their abilities. Every enemy has a soul to collect, and their abilities 
 vary between poweful melee weapons, ranged attacks, helpful abilities like flight and teleportation, 
 and even the ability to drain the very life out of your enemies. However, you can only have three 
 different souls equipped at one time, and only one of each of the three main soul types, so you'll 
 sometimes have to think carefully about what abilities are best suited for a given situation. As 
 you collect souls, your new abilities will enable you to explore once-unreachable areas. Certain 
 souls can also be fused with your various weapons, increasing their effectiveness and sometimes 
 giving them additional powers. This provides a real incentive to hunt down that elusive soul that 
 you need to craft that brand new sword you've been after. 
  
  The graphics are superb. All the environments you'll visit are vibrant and detailed, and your various 
 foes range from tiny vampire bats to gargantuan, screen-filling monsters, all highly detailed and 
 featuring unique, smoothly-animated attacks. The DS' 3D power comes into its own on occasion as 
 well, with plenty of scaling and rotating effects, and some three-dimensional backgrounds. Audio 
 is similarly accomplished, with a great soundtrack with some memorable tunes, and generally good 
 sound effects. My only criticism is that some samples sound rather distorted, but I'm guessing 
 this is more a limitation of the DS' sound capabilities.
  
  The touch-screen isn't used a lot, thanks mainly to the nature of the game. The main use you'll 
 have for it is during boss battles. When you've pummelled a boss sufficiently, a magic circle will 
 appear on the touch screen, at which point you have to draw the appropriate Magic Seal to complete 
 the battle and banish the boss. If you fail, the boss regains some health and you have to pound 
 it some more before trying again. The game's generally quite forgiving of wobbly hands, but sometimes 
 it's tough to switch from intense button-bashing to drawing a sometimes quite complicated sigil 
 on the touch screen. In addition, you can touch the screen to select enemies for your summoned 
 familiars to attack. One ability enables you to break certain progress-impeding crystals using 
 the toiuch screen, but it isn't used much.
  
  The game is challenging from the outset, and only gets more so. However I've noticed no major occasions 
 where the difficulty seems cheap or unfair. Enemies have attack patterns which can be studied to 
 avoid taking too much damage, and while sometimes it can be tricky to work out where you're supposed 
 to be going next, generally it becomes apparent in a fairly short time. As with Metroid games, 
 studying your environment and thus working out how to apply your abilities is key. 
  
  There's quite a lot of replay value to be had from C: DoS. The game actually has three different 
 endings, and which you'll get depends on certain actions you take during play. Souls only appear 
 occasionally when you dispatch an enemy, and some appear very rarely, so it's unlikely you'll find 
 them all on the first play-through. As mentioned above, this does give an incentive to go back 
 and try to track down the ones you've missed. If there are any particularly elusive souls, you 
 may be able to get hold of them using Soul Trade Mode, which allows you to trade souls with a friend 
 who also owns the game. In addition, there are various unlockable extras such as a sound test, 
 Boss Rush Mode (which I haven't tried yet, but I suspect it is what it says it is) , and Julius 
 Mode, which allows you to play the game as the eponymous Julius Belmont, vampire hunter extraordinaire. 
 The latter mode is apparently significantly harder than the original game, which will satisfy gluttons 
 for punishment. There's also an Enemy Set Mode, where you can customise a short section of dungeon 
 with the various enemies whose souls you've captured and test yourself (or a friend) to see how 
 fast you can clear it (strictly for bragging rights only, unfortunately) .
  
  Overall, Castlevania: Dawn Of Sorrow is one of the most engaging games I've played this year, and 
 one of the best on the DS in my opinion. Definitely worth a look if you like old-school side-scrolling 
 adventure with an RPG twist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicious-RedDrag
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 3:54 am PT
Review:  I've played nearly every single Castlevania game, well excluding some regular gameboy games, and 
 I always believed that no game on this series can surpass the great almighty Symphony of the Night. 
 But let me tell you this. This game finally comes to par with it or maybe even surpassing it. Yea, 
 I said it! It possibly does surpass Symphony of the Night slightly (repeat) SLIGHTLY! With that 
 said , there is no question that this game is one of the best Castlevania games ever and to me 
 it is the best DS game by far! I highly recommend this game to anyone who has a DS because you 
 will be hooked on this game for ages! You'll be amazed on how this game uses the touch screen option! 
 It's just amazing to cast spells and seal monsters with the stylus! This game will most likely 
 take you about 15 hours to beat. Thats just if you don't take it seriously. If you take your time 
 and explore, trust me, it will take you longer. This game also has multiple endings to see. I also 
 need to mention that the bad ending to this game is BY FAR THE BADDEST of the bad endings to any 
 other game. Replay values is also very high. There is a mode where you can play an alternate course 
 taking place of the bad ending. If you ever play that course you'll say PURE GENIUS of what Konami 
 did. If you really want to know what I mean, then get this game! It's so worth having a DS ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunkWeasel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 17, 2006 10:15 am PT
Review:  This was my first Castlevania game, and I was skeptical if it would be good or not. I finallt tracked 
 down the last one at Best Buy on release day and it was so worth it. The game plays like a dream, 
 smooth controls, easy to perform platforming manuevers, and great action/rpg side-scrolling magic 
 and weapon combat system. This game looks beautiful too, with beautiful detailed sprites for every 
 monster and character, as well as lush 3-D backrounds and select creature models. The best feature 
 of this game is the sound though, every single song will make you want to call Konami and tell 
 them to make a soundtrack. This game is pretty lengthy with a bunch of large and difficult levels. 
 The boss fights are very fun too, and the bosses are rendered stunningly. There is a lot of replay 
 value, you can play hard mode or play the game with different characters and a different storyline. 
 If you have a DS, buy this game! If you don't, this is reason enough to shell out $130. You'll 
 regret it if you don't, because like all Castlevania games, this one will become rarer and rarer 
 every day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Awesomecross
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  When i First looked at this game i wasn't sure how good it would be. I am a big fan of metroid 
 side scrolling games on the GBA and never played a Castlevania game before. So i tried this game 
 out. Right of the bat i found that the gameplay is very similar to that of Metroid in some respects. 
 Very eaasy to get used to for me. But the using of the souls, which are collected by the monsters 
 you kill, can be a little confusing to use at times. The graphics of the gam are great when it 
 comes to backsgrounds. You really get the effect that you are travaling through a giant castle 
 and not going through similar rooms. The characters on the other hand look a tad outdated and kind 
 of making the graphics almost not work the way you want. The music is great. Every section of the 
 castle has a unique style and sound to make the game feel even better then if you were just playing 
 with no sound at all. All in all, this game is really fun but the gameplay may take a while to 
 master. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brodigity
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  after playing aria of sorrow i thought about how well made the game was solid story, controls, 
 and how fun it was to take enemy souls. this game was no diffrent now with the new features like 
 drawing seals to defeat your enemies and binding souls to weapon. the graphics remind me of playing 
 symphony of the night with all the perks of aria of sorrow. although it is your basic action rpg 
 with the down fall of just leveling up quickly and early making the game easier it still doesnt 
 take away from the main concept of gain souls and kill enemies. all and all i have to say this 
 is a great game to have in your collection of ds games even if your not a castlevania fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShogoHiryu
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Soma is at it again, and this time hes gone all touchy feely. well maybe just touchy. Dawn of 
 Sorrow for the Nintendo DS is pretty much the direct sequel to Aria of Sorrow. The story picks 
 up not too long after the events of AOS, and wouldnt you know it another plot is under way to 
 resurrect Dracula. This time around Soma must stop a cult who is attempting to resurrect Dracula 
 through two new candidates, who have apparently gained some of big Ds dark power when he was defeated 
 at the end of the previous game. as far as I understand it. Players of AOS are sure to recognize 
 some familiar faces, as Im pretty sure most of the original characters, such as your friendly 
 neighborhood arms dealer, Hammer, are back for another tour of duty. Anyway soon enough after starting 
 up the game, you find yourself doing battle again in another classic Castlevaina castle. 
  The game pretty much plays just like previous one, which is really a good thing, since I think 
 Aria of Sorrow played really well. even though I played on an emulator. Soma once again has the 
 ability to make use of the powers of defeated enemies by collecting their souls, and once again 
 players of the original game should already be comfortable with the system as I dont think its 
 really changed a whole lot, if at all. One thing that IS different however is the whole SEAL mechanic 
 in the game that makes use of the DSs touch screen. In order to finish off some of the bosses 
 in the game, the player will have to draw, using the stylus, the correct SEAL. It basically works 
 like this: Fight the boss. After a while the battle will suddenly stop, and a sort of connect the 
 dots type game will appear over the screen. You must connect the dots or points in the correct 
 order to successfully draw the SEAL and finish off the boss. Dont worry, whenever you find a new 
 SEAL the game will show you how to connect the points, and you can stop and practice during the 
 game to make sure youve got it just right for when the time comes. But if you do manage to mess 
 upand I have, its not a big deal. The boss will regain some energy and you will have to fight 
 some more until the game appears again. Finding new SEALS is also required to open some locked 
 doors around the castle. Ok, other than the SEAL system, the game also lets you use the stylus 
 to interact with the game through some of the soul abilities you gain and through puzzles (Ive 
 come across one puzzle so far and the game let me choose between using the stylus or the standard 
 controls.) 
  So besides this new touchy thing going on, playing Dawn of Sorrow on the DS also has another great 
 feature. The map is always on screen and constantly shows your location within the castle. I dont 
 think I need to go on about how AWESOME that is. On another note, I think the game looks and sounds 
 really great, just like the first one. In fact it might look slightly better, but that might just 
 be me, since its been a while and I did play the first game on an emulator. The game also features 
 the soul trading aspect, which I think was found in the last game as well. This time around you 
 can trade souls with other DS players over the wireless connection. I dont think it works over 
 the WiFi, but it should be ok when two DSs are close enough to each other. Oh I almost forgot. 
 This time around players can also use the souls theyve collected to have Yoko (a character from 
 the previous game I think) sort of upgrade or create new weapons when visiting her shop. I dont 
 remember if she had a shop in the first one. anyway she has one in this game, and its kind of 
 similar to Hammers, but different. Overall I think Castlevania fans, especially of Aria of Sorrow 
 will defiantly enjoy this game and feel right at home, but if this is your first experience with 
 Soma, I think you will still certainly enjoy this game, however, I would defiantly recommend playing 
 through the first game, as there are some throw backs to that story. 
  Bottom line, if you enjoy Castlevania games, this game is surely worth checking out. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dead_Rises
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 10, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  This game was a great sequel to an already great game. It deserves a perfect ten because of the 
 insane bosses, like Abaddon, and Gergoth, for example. The music and Julius mode are only two great 
 things about this game. The Abandoned Village stage is most likely my favorite. They put alot of 
 detail into even the simplest things such as when Soma jumps onto a car, the snow falls off. Not 
 too hard, but the boss battles are challenging. Some enemies, like the Black Panther, help greatly 
 throughout the game. You'll be wanting to collect as many souls as possible throughout your adventure 
 to stop an insane cult from ressurecting Dracula. Dmitrii, Dario, and Celia are the 3 cultists 
 that wish to summon the dark lord, and you must defeat them to stop the madness of Dracula from 
 being unleashed upon Japan. Great graphics, gameplay, and music make this one of the greatest games 
 of the Castlevania series. Iga and his team obviously worked hard on this masterpiece. It goes 
 number one in my slot. Even though it's become hard to find lately, I suggest you buy it online 
 if you're looking for a 2D Castlevania with an attitude. 
  
  -SirDart 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cool_bananas92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  It's great! **** Actually, i'm just writing this to up my status but u can understand. I am cool. 
 I am cool. I am cool.
  I am cool. I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
 
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
 
  I am cool.
  
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
  I am cool.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendocrazd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the newest addition to the Castlevania game series. Dawn of Sorrow 
 (Which will now be referred to as DoS) , is the first true sequel to a Castlevania game, chronicling 
 the second adventure of Soma Cruz, who made his debut in Aria of Sorrow for the GBA. For those 
 of you who never played the first game, the main gist of the story is that Soma found out he had 
 the ability to become the new Dracula because of his ability to require souls. In DoS, that same 
 sort of storyline unfolds. It has been about a year and all of the souls Soma acquired previously 
 have left from him due to his no longer needing them. One day, Soma is accosted by a group led 
 by Celia Fortner, who wants to resurrect the dark lord (Dracula) so that a good lord will come 
 to maintain the balance. They kidnap Somas quote-un-quote girlfriend Mina Hakuba, and Soma gives 
 chase in order to rescue her and deal with this new dilemma.
  
  The Fundamentals of Gameplay:
  
  For those of you who played Aria of Sorrow, many things are 
 similar in DoS. The soul system has made a grand return and is better than ever. For those of you 
 who dont know, Ill fill you in. In DoS, Soma has the ability to capture and use the souls of 
 his enemies. Every enemy, including bosses, has a soul that can be captured. All souls, except 
 for one type, uses up MP (Magic Points) , which restores naturally. The first types of souls are 
 Bullet souls. Used perhaps more often than any other soul, Bullet souls allow you to attack with 
 something other than your weapon. Be it a skeletons bone, a huge fireball, or even a long tongue, 
 Bullet souls are very important. The second types of souls are Guardian souls. These allow you 
 to summon a familiar/transform yourself in some way to aid you. These range from summoning a living 
 armor to attack with you, to transforming yourself into a bat, to allowing you to be invincible 
 when standing still. The third types of souls are Tactical souls. These souls allow you to gain 
 a passive ability/enhancement that does not drain your MP. These range from boosting certain stats, 
 to eating otherwise-unhealthy food, etc. One of each type of soul can be equipped at a time. 
 
  
  Enough about souls though; lets move on to weapons! The weapons in this game are fantastic. There 
 are many different categories; broad swords, axes, maces, katana, etc. Each category has a set 
 of increasingly more powerful versions that look different and, sometimes, have special abilities. 
 These rarer weapons can be created by joining certain souls with the lower weapon. So you could 
 take the worst sword in the game and forge souls with it to turn it into the best sword in the 
 game. One weapon can be equipped at a time, and every weapon has a special attack. Special attacks 
 do more damage, but drain your MP. While some weapons simply look a bit flashier, others will initiate 
 a whole different attack with their special attack. 
  
  The last part of the gameplay fundamentals is the equipment. There are three different equipment 
 slots; a head-slot, a chest slot, and an accessory slot. One of each can be equipped, and they 
 enhance certain stats. They do not, however, change the appearance of Soma. Also, a lot of your 
 equipment (weapons, armor, items) can also be bought at a store in the castle with gold that enemies 
 drop. One final thing, before we move on. There is a certain soul in the game that allows for to 
 different sets of souls, weapons, and armor to be swapped at any given time. This doesnt equip 
 both at once, it just allows you to easily switch between either entire sets of equipment and souls, 
 or maybe just a weapon. This is VERY handy and allows the game to be much more fluid.
  
  The Combat of Gameplay:
  
  Ahhhh combat. What would a good Castlevania game be if there was 
 no army of evil to kill? The combat in this game is much like any other Castlevania game. You swing 
 your weapon. If the sprites of the weapon contacts the sprites of your enemy, you hurt it. But 
 there is much more to it, of course. Each enemy has, obviously, certain health, defense, attack, 
 etc. stats. They also have certain resistances and weaknesses. This just means that if an enemy 
 has a weakness to fire and a resistance to poison, you wouldnt want to attack them with a poisonous 
 attack, but a fire attack would be good. After you kill an enemy, their stats are forever logged, 
 allowing you to view them at any time. But heres the best part. You know that the DS has two screens, 
 right? Well, the top screen contains a lot of info. The top screen either shows a map of the castle, 
 which is VERY handy, or the entire stats of the last enemy you attacked, and can be swapped between 
 the two with the press of a button. This feature also speeds up gameplay, because any Castlevania 
 fan would know the hassle of constantly pausing just to see where you needed to go.
  
  WhenThe Touch-Screen Comes Into Play:
  
  For those of you worried that superb game flawed by 
 forced touch-screen capabilities, rest easy. DoS uses them to a very small extent. Aside from destroying 
 certain types of blocks with a special soul by using the touch-screen, its main use is in the special 
 feature DoS has for sealing bosses. The bosses can't be beat by conventional means, so once weakend 
 they need to be sealed. Every few bosses, a new and harder magic seal is learned to seal a boss. 
 These aren't too hard to do, but will require minor practice. If a seal is failed after you eliminate 
 a boss's HP, the boss will regain a small portion of it and you will start over from there. This 
 isn't a big issue, but can be annoying if you're on the road and that unexpected bump revives the 
 boss you were fighting all that time.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics on this game are great, and prove that a 2D game can still look awesome. They far 
 outshine Aria of Sorrows graphics as well, so dont expect the same ol stuff youve seen on the 
 GBA. Everything looks crisp, and some of the weapons are outstanding. Even the enemies have great 
 detail in them. There are even some backgrounds which subtley use 3D graphics to provide a little 
 depth. All in all, you wont be disappointed.
  
  Sound:
  
  Well, the sound is much like every other Castlevania game youve played. And that isnt a bad thing. 
 Each soundtrack is crisp and music to your ears. For vets, expect all the old favorites like Vampire 
 Hunter, but also expect some slightly new material. Enemies sound great when they screech in pain, 
 or when that succubus tries to seduce you into lowering your guard. Soma just has the usual grunts, 
 and every other NPC talks in little Japanese quips that dont need to be understood. Even weapons 
 have their own lovely little sound effects.
  
  Difficulty:
  
  Well, the difficulty is not too hard. Thats not to say its easy, and some bosses will require 
 some extra fights. But once you get the basics down of an enemy, there is nothing you cant handle. 
 The funny part is that one of the earlier bosses is actually the hardest boss in the game. But 
 there is a hard mode which IS noticeably harder, both with normal enemies and with bosses.
  
  Extras:
  
  Once you beat the game, several things can be acquired. Boss Rush mode is unlocked, 
 which has you fighting against every boss in the game, in a row, as fast as possible with no breaks 
 in between. Its not as hard as it seems, and special weapons can be had by completing it with 
 fast times. You also unlock sound-test mode and an extra mode to play through the entire game as 
 three different characters; Julius, Alucard, and Yoko. They all have special abilities unique to 
 themselves, and the storyline follows the scenario that Soma fell to his evil side. There is even 
 a very special ring that can be attained after getting every soul of every monster in the game.
 
  
  In conclusion, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is an absolutely fabulous game, and if you havent picked 
 it up yet, I dont know what youre waiting for. You wont be disappointed. It will provide hours 
 of replay value, and hours of fun for anyone who likes to have fun in a game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokessweet7777
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is a challenging game, yet fun. It is kind of a "go wherever you want 
 whenever you want to" game. Therefore it gets confusing. Its like old skool 2d metroid, but with 
 abilities and different weapons. Its a good game, and should be picked up.
  
  i hate how reviews need 100 words... la la la la la la... you know what im saying??? la la la la 
 la la la la.... durrrrrrrrrrrrr... la la la la la la la...
  
  one hundred words!!! 1 0 0 w o r d s! 
  
  one hundred words!!! 1 0 0 w o r d s! 
  
  one 
 hundred words!!! 1 0 0 w o r d s! 
  
  one hundred words!!! 1 0 0 w o r d s! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinCamp24
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow for the Nintendo DS a great game that follows along with the great 
 2D side-scroller Castlevania games, and will provide a lot of fun for the player, with its great 
 game play and storyline.
  
  The story begins with the character from the Game Boy Advance game: Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow. 
 Soma Cruz, the reincarnation of Dracula, and has obtained the power to dominate the souls of monsters. 
 One year after the previous game, Soma encounters a mysterious woman who sends monsters after him. 
 After that, you head to a castle ( where else? ) to find her.
  
  The game is a side-scroller, and the graphics suit it. The game play is very good, battling monsters 
 and exploring the castle. Also the big selection of souls helps a lot too when fighting bosses. 
 You can choose from a variety of weapons, including sword and axe. Weapons can also be upgraded 
 by fusing them with a specific soul.
  
  In the game you can unlock Julius mode, which you use the characters Julius Belmont, Yoko Belnades, 
 and Alucard, son of Dracula.
  
  This game also has multiplayer, which you set up rooms filled with monsters to stop the challenger. 
 The time they took will be displayed at the end of the challenge.
  
  This game is an excellent buy. You can't go wrong with this Castlevania game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasAW
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 6, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game yesterday. I have now completed it. Took me about 4 and a half hours which to 
 be frank, is quite simply pathetic. The first installment of castlevania for the DS is superb (if 
 you ignore how short the game really is) - The character and enemy sprites are finally looking 
 like they should be and the background is crisp and detailed. The sounds and music in the game 
 are just what you expect from a castlevania title - chilling creepy music when hacking through 
 hordes of zombies and fast paced heart pumping music in the fast action boss battles. Excellent.
 
  
  The gameplay is absolutly great - all of the usual stuff from previous castlevania games are there 
 and a whole lot more. Such as the new 'soul system' where you can trap enemies souls and use them 
 as either an instant attack, an ability or enhancement. You can even use souls to fuse with weapons, 
 thus creating new, more powerful weapons. However, once you combine a soul with a weapon you cannot 
 use the souls abilities meaning its a good idea to save a bunch of souls that have cool abilities.
 
  There is also a huge amount of new weapons, each with different strengths and weaknesses. For 
 example; you may want to use a weaker weapon on regular enemies as you can swing it faster and 
 therefore cut down the huge numbers of them. But when it comes to boss fights, you're usually better 
 off equipping a beafier weapon that swings slower but causes more damage with each blow.
  There is also some touch screen action going on, which is'nt that compelling, touch parts are more 
 of an annoyance to be honest - usually just simple puzzles you have to skim past. Oh and you also 
 need to draw seals in order to defeat enemies which is slightly awkward.
  
  Final verdict? This games rocks, superb gameplay, graphics and sounds - everything u'd want in 
 a Castlevania game. But sadly, it really is way too short. An excellent game for Castlevania virgins, 
 but it'l leave the more experienced fans of the series wanting much, much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joespimpin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I have stayed away from the castlevania series since the days of the SNES. It's not that the series 
 wasn't any fun, it was just to repetitive to for me to keep picking up title after title. Friends 
 had told me this is a must play for any DS owner, little did I know that this game is worthy of 
 buying a DS for.
  
  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is a full featured action side scrolling game. Any fan of the metroid 
 series will se a similarity here with the way the game plays out. You start out with very little 
 and access to certain areas in the game will require new abilities that you will get throughout 
 the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  This is a great action game. There was lots of thought put into this title which is refreshing 
 because most portable games appear to be thrown out hoping to catch people off guard long enough 
 to make some quick cash. Dawn of Sorrow keeps things intreting and feeling fresh by doing three 
 key things. The first notable feature is the use of different areas. Each area in the game is unique. 
 This is a very good thing, going from room to room doesn't feel like you have been there already 
 and keeps things fresh to look at. The second notable feature is the enemies, there are lots of 
 enemies and they all look different and tend to die in different ways. For example if you kill 
 a warewolf his body catches on fire and he screams, you can see a burning shape of a man then he 
 kneels to the floor and turns to ashes. This kind of detal happens for many different monsters 
 making it feel more like a kill and not like a computer sprite in your way.
  
  The third feature is by far the most notable and will keep you playing again and again as well 
 as allowing you to customize and play with many abilities. The soul gathering attribute in the 
 game allows the player to gain abilites of enemies by killing them and collecting their souls. 
 The souls must be equipped to work and you can only activate 3 at any one time. However souls do 
 different things, from water, fire, ice attacks, to helping you jump better, to preventing posion 
 and so forth. This really well thoughout sytem keeps you from feeling confined to certain attacks. 
 But it doesn't stop there, it is possible to get a ability that allows you to equip two sets of 
 souls and switch out with a mere tap of the "x" button. Allowing you to play souls which work best 
 with weapon and armor configurations. The coolest part of this soul system is the fact that enemies 
 are weak and strong against certain types of attack which the DS can show you very easily by tapping 
 the "select" button to bring up the proper screen, because of this you feel that there is a need 
 to use these attacks and can plan better strategies agaisnt stronger enemies. Something this simple 
 really adds alot to the gameplay and replay value of the game.
  
  The game also uses a level system which allows you to gain more HP and MP. Souls require MP to 
 use, with the exception of a few which work all the time. Levels are pretty easy to get and you 
 won't feel like your in a RPG leveling because enemies can be very easy to kill with the right 
 combinations of weapons and souls.
  
  The weapon system in the game is well done too. You use souls to upgrade weapons making them much 
 stronger and the look changes too. Armor and Accessories can be bought or found in the game either 
 as items or by enemies dropping them. I found the best armor I have to be found in the game as 
 an item, but I haven't looked in game guides yet to see if it is the absolute strongest. The accesssories 
 themselves have abilities that add stat bonuses or make things easier to find, you can swap these 
 at will and most of the accessories I see advantages to swapping out as needed.
  
  Money also makes an appearance and has a purpose, the game is pretty generous with money which 
 makes it feel more rewarding and less painful to save up for that item you want. The game makes 
 you earn money but never makes it feel like a chore, most of the time just killing the amount of 
 monsters you will during the game will be enough to buy almost everything you need.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are well presented for a portable game especially one on the DS. The 
 animations are clean and its easy to see details in the enemies, some of the smaller enemies can 
 be a little blurred at times, but its understandable on a portable screen. I think the game would 
 have looked better on the top screen as opposed to being on the bottom, there isn't much you do 
 with the thouch screen in this game. Besides drawing symbols to seal monsters (boss fights) , there 
 is only one other reason to use the touch screen in game and its not used enough to really make 
 me care. Overall the biggest gripe I have about the graphics is the collision detection. You can 
 hit enemies on the other sides of walls, weapons go right through it which loses some of the believablilty 
 in the game, but its easy to overlook considering how solid the game is in other avenues.
  
  SOUND
  
  The sound in the game is upbeat. Its not boring and goes well with an action game. 
 The themes make sense to the areas and enemies will some times scream or different sound effects 
 will be heard when they die, making each monster feel more believable and unique. The weapons in 
 the game sound good and the soul powers sound good when you are using the powers. It would have 
 been nice for the background music to last longer before cycling over again but its understandable 
 and never really gets annoying in the game.
  
  VALUE
  
  There is alot of fun to be had here. You don't have to like castlevania or have followed the story 
 at all to pick up this title. There is very little story telling here and none of it matters enough 
 for you to get around and take care of business. The plot doesn't get you away from the fun, but 
 on the other hand it doesn't add to the fun either. The customization in the game really means 
 that 10 people could play 10 different ways and do things that much different to get there. Although 
 the game is rather linear by forcing you to have certain abilities to go to certain areas the use 
 of collected souls and strategy will make all the difference in the time and damage you take getting 
 there.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT
  
  The boss fights in this game are great and all unique. Depending on the souls you have equipped 
 will determine how hard it is for you to succeed against each boss. The bosses all die after you 
 perform one of 5 seals by drawing it on the DS touch screen, this was put in as a fun twist and 
 not hard at all, you might not get it all the time on the first try but the game doesn't force 
 you to draw perfect lines to understand which you mean, and if you do miss the boss gets a little 
 energy back which once you drain you can try again. Probably will take most players no more than 
 3 tries for the harder symbols in the game.
  
  The replay is excellent in the game, there are some unlockable features in the game and variable 
 difficulty levels to keep you coming back. At full price this game is a good deal, however you 
 probably won't be able to find it hardly anywhere unfortunately, you probably will have to try 
 your local gamestop used section or a site like Ebay to get your hands on this game. The good news 
 is when you find the game, you will be glad you did.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  It's hard not to like this game. So many little details went into it and there are so many places 
 that tthey made the game easier where others games have almost made it a penelty for you you in 
 the past to acheive some of this stuff. Its a great game and not just great for a portable. The 
 map in the game is easy to follow and does a great job of showing you where you are. Because of 
 its gameplay, replayability, customization, strategic leverage and well thought out design, I give 
 Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow a howling 9.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atlanticman
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  This game is so much fun! Why? Because there are so many modes to play! Boss rush mode is extremely 
 easy to beat in under five minutes IF you have the Chaos Ring, ( it restores your magic like a 
 mana prism!) the Mumurasama and deaths robe! You will want the medusa head soul the death soul 
 the almanaric sniper soul the abbadon and last but not least the Draggazino soul. You might ask 
 why the Draggzino soul? Here is the answer if you use the medusa head you will USUALLY not flinch 
 that saves you lots of time. Because who wants the bosses to slam poor Soma around and into their 
 death traps?! Hard mode is so easy because you will get TWO of most of the boss souls after you 
 beat them! You will have all of your souls and items from normal and now you can create the great 
 weapons that need to be fused with a boss soul!
  
  MORE COMING SOON! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Force_90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  For a long time I've been avoiding the Castlevania not for any particular reason just because I 
 didn't really like the melancholy feel it had to it. But when I went out and bought my Nintendo 
 DS I thought that I might as well grab this game too (since the number of AAA games for the Nintendo 
 DS at that time wasn't very overwhelming) .
  The first time I played it, I got about half way though and thought this game was kind of fun, 
 but nothing too special. A couple of weeks later I decided to give this game another go, and I 
 was hooked...
  It was like thunder and lightning, suddenly I just couldn't stop playing this game, everything 
 about it was just awesome! The great hand-drawn graphics, the sweet retro-ish music, and the big 
 pile of ove-the-top gory weapons just made me love this game.
  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow has everything you want from an action/adventure game and beyond that. 
 So this is definitely something that's worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MELEEmonkey
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania has been out for a long time getting good reviews and i finaly decided to try a game 
 in the series and this is the one i got a few years after i should have.... sigh
  2D has never really been so good other than metal slug it is horror but not that scary so don't 
 be worrried it is violent like most 2D games and it's just a fun game overall
  
  Gameplay it has a little bit of a learning curve (around 40 minutes) but that is because of the 
 super awesome rpg elements. one thing that i really like about this game is that you can get a gun 
 however there are better ways to slaughter zombies and controls work fine but it dosen't use the 
 touch screen that much but just enough that it makes a great DS game
  
  Graphics 2D never look that good but at cut scenes there are picture they look like really awesome 
 anime and the ingame graphics makes killing zombies look cool..... well better than some games 
 at least
  
  Sound there is a little bit annoying but kind of creepy music you can also hear enemies attack 
 etc. and it all sound pretty decent
  
  Value is it worth it definately the story is super fun although i would have liked multiplayer 
 i don't really care because i don't like multiplayer on the DS anyways
  
  Tilt a first game for me from the series and i totaly loved it it is a great side scrolling survival 
 horror/RPG game with many unique things that make it interesting and appealing! i hope this review 
 helps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  gameplay- Ok, you get to jump around and hack and slash zombies and monsters and people while watching 
 all the blood and gore fly everywhere... what beats that?? The controls are great, they add in 
 some touch screen (though I hate the magic symbol crap and the touch screen isn't used that much) , 
 and you get some really great boss fights.
  
  graphics- For a side scroller, they get the job done. It's mostly in 2d, but you do get some 3d 
 every once in a while. Nothing's really blurry on the screen and that's all that matters to me.
 
  
  sound and music- The music is, for the most part, pleasant to listen to. Nothing great, video game 
 music never is, but it is good. The sound effects are great, nothing more or less than you can 
 expect.
  
  story- The story is immersive and gets the job done. This game is mostly about the action, but 
 the story-line is very interesting. It follows Aria of Sorrow very well and will keep you in it.
 
  
  multi-player- This isn't the game's strong point, and it's not meant to be. You'll have fun with 
 it for a while, but it will be better to get back to the single-player mode and tear up some monsters.
 
  
  overall- For a while, this game was the best one on the DS. Right now, I'd give it a top 3. It's 
 terrific, a definite must-buy, and no DS owner will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RpGamerzzz
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  DoS is my first castlevania game. This DS game is one of my personal favorites. The game play is 
 so intuitive, the sounds is amazing, and such. 
  In the beginning of the game there a cut scene and then you start playing. This game has many different 
 souls to collect and different weapons and armor which will keep you occupied for awhile. Different 
 from other games this game actually has 3 different endsings which unlock different things.
  Theres the lame ending, the bad ending, and the good ending. The bosses are set at a good difficulty 
 so you wont have too much of a problem unless you dont have good souls. This game is so far one 
 of my favorite DS games.
  
  Pros: great gameplay and sounds, dozens of different souls to collect and various unlockables.
 
  
  Cons; Doesn't take long to finish 100%, graphics not done very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlySoma55
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is one of the best games I have ever played in my life. This game is 
 also my favorite castlevania to date (waiting for portrait of ruins) because the graphics, sound, 
 game play, tilt, and value are top notch. Even though the storyline in this castlevania isnt the 
 best just every other good thing about this game will cancel that out. One thing on particular 
 I would like to discuss is the music. The music in this game is revolutionary. One music in particular 
 is the Wizardry Lab. The music in that level is so good I sometimes played the game just to listen 
 to it. Any way you cant go wrong with Dawn of Sorrow (not even Aria of Sorrow) because even if 
 you beat the game, you will always have something to do after. Collecting souls, weapons, and other 
 things are just some things you may do after. Well I had to give this game a perfect 10 because 
 any other grade to me would not fit, also if you have this game and need help I will be more than 
 willing to tell you how to get EVERYTHING so dont be afraid to im me at freshnfly44@aol. com. You 
 cant go wrong with this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 28, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Anatomy of a So-called DS Masterpiece
  
  This review may be a bit premature, but I wasnt sure when Id finally get around to toying with 
 the various unlockables in the game. So, Im pressing on. Herein lie the ramblings of GeekyDad 
 (myself) pertaining to
  
  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow
  Developed and published by Konami
  Released 2005
  Rated T (teen)
  Genre: Action / Adventure
 
  Platform: Nintendo DS
  
  Prior to purchasing it, Ill admit I wasnt terribly impressed by the look of this game. I couldnt 
 help but feel that it was not very distinguishable as anything that couldnt have been done on 
 the GBA; and for the most part, I havent really changed my mind about that. Sure, its a bit more 
 polished in the graphics and sound area (definitely the sound) , and theres the nifty ability to 
 keep tabs on your map location via the top screen. But other features, such as the touch-screen 
 usage, are little more than an excuse for the game to be on the DS platform in the first place 
  something the games producer, Koji Igarashi (or Iga) , pretty much confirmed in a recent interview 
 with Nintendo Power. 
  
  That said, I thoroughly enjoyed the time I spent with the game. Its relatively short compared 
 to todays standards, but overall its a very worthy addition to my growing collection of DS titles.
 
  
  Story: As I understand it, Dawn of Sorrow (DoS) takes place one year after where Aria of Sorrow 
 (a previous Castlevania title released on the GBA) left off. Soma, the main playable character, 
 has a special ability in that he can sometimes gain dominance over the souls of his defeated enemies. 
 But wait, who are Somas enemies? Well, Celia Fortner, the head of some cult, is the main villain 
 in DoS. But even after playing the story mode through in its entirety, I still cant claim to understand 
 fully why they were after Soma in the first placesomething to do with gaining the power of the 
 Dark Lord (Dracula, I presume?) . Anyway, Soma decides to take the battle to Celia. He enters 
 a castle (which is quite huge!) and proceeds to hack, slash and bash everything in his way.
  
  There is a short interlude with some of the main characters in the very beginning of the game 
 and a few small story segments throughout, but all-in-all the games pretty light on dialogue. 
 However, its got enough to get you going and get you through; and it doesnt take long for one 
 to realize that this is not a video game that relies heavily on story content. Its a video game 
 in the truest sense, what many of us might refer to as old school. So, you get what you need 
 in order to have an excuse to engage in the actual gameplay, but little more.
  
  Gameplay: Even the meanest, nastiest, fleshiest ghouls and monsters have a soul; heck, even the 
 tombstones have souls in DoS  whoda thunk it!? But this game wouldnt be the huge hit that it 
 is / was without the souls. With every enemy Soma defeats, there is a chance that he will gain 
 dominance over its soul; when he does, he acquires some unique skill / power. Some powers (perhaps 
 most) grow in strength when Soma dominates more of that particular type of soul. He can retain 
 9 of any type of soul at any given time throughout the game, though bosses, of course, can only 
 be obtained once. Souls will not only help you to accumulate a large arsenal of skills, but they 
 can also be used to make more powerful weapons. As might be evident thus far, soul hunting is a 
 huge part of this games appeal and replay value. There are many, many enemies to encounter, and 
 youll find yourself coming back repeatedly to familiar areas in hopes of nabbing that oh-so-elusive 
 soul.
  
  I cant think of a button on the DS thats not utilized in some way throughout the duration of 
 the game, and gameplay never gets boring  well, occasionally when youre farming for souls But 
 even the touch screen gets a little tread on it from time to time. At the end of most boss battles, 
 you will need to seal that enemys soul in order to finish it off. To do so, you will have to first 
 weaken the boss and then when its on its last leg a rune screen will appear; you must then draw 
 a certain pattern quickly and correctly in order to completely vanquish the foe. The rune patterns 
 are acquired beforehand, and you are always given the opportunity to practice them thoroughly. 
 In addition, there are a few scant instances in which you will need to use the stylus to break 
 blocks of ice in order to progress to where it is you need to go (I know what youre thinking, 
 trust me) .
  
  Presentation: I wanna take a quick second (well, maybe not quick) to make a couple of comments 
 regarding the games presentation. To start, I was a little disappointed with the manual. Its 
 in black & white, which seems to be the policy with Konami at least as it pertains to DS games. 
 But cheapness aside, it completely lacks any type of status legend for determining what graphic 
 symbols match up with what status effects. In that I mean, it would describe how some monsters 
 could be weak against bash, but never shows you (either in the manual or in the game, at least 
 that I could discover) which graphic symbol represented bash. With a total of 11 status effects 
 (or as the manual calls them, damage types) , thats a lot missing. To make matters worse, the 
 manual  from what I was to later learn from other players during forum discussion  confuses when 
 a monster is strong or weak against a certain status effect; the manual states that an O marking 
 on a particular status effect indicates that the monster is immune and an X marking indicates 
 that the monster is weak against that particular status effect  in actuality its the opposite. 
 Further, the manual never tells the player how certain stats, such as Strength and Constitution 
 affect Soma. In games like Warcraft 3: TFT, strength determines the heros hit points, and there 
 is no constitution stat. So with the various interpretations of certain types of stats in different 
 video games, there is no clear inference that the player should be able to make. The game makers 
 could have offered a more complete description of each of these aspects of both Soma and the creatures 
 he encounters. These are important mistakes / omissions that Im surprised never showed up in any 
 of the professional reviews that I read about the game.
  
  Luckily, I can say that the in-game presentation was  for the most part  pretty stellar. Selection 
 screens are easy to navigate through and offer all the info youd want on-hand; and though perhaps 
 a seemingly small thing, being able to keep a map of the castle up on the top screen at all times 
 makes negotiating your way a whole lot easier and more convenient than if you had to stop to check 
 it every 2 seconds. All-in-all, the gameplay, graphics, music, as well as other elements of Dawn 
 of Sorrow generally come together in a way that makes for a top-notch gaming package.
  
  There is one more minor detail I want to also make mention of though: The opening animation only 
 comes on if you let the game sit for a while (maybe 2 or 3 minutes, or whatever) . For me, it would 
 have made more sense to have it come on right after the opening credits, i. e. Licensed by Nintendo, 
 Published by Konami  roll opening animation. I know its perhaps a petty grievance, but its 
 something thats noticeably out of place to me, so I wanted to throw it out there. Anyway, moving 
 on
  
  Graphics: Maybe I didnt go into excruciating detail where the gameplay is concerned, but, for 
 me, the graphics of DoS play a rather large role in how the game handles. Its a 2D side-scroller 
 of sorts, although the backgrounds are done pseudo-3D, ala the old Disney cartoons; and theyre 
 really quite beautiful to behold. Soma and all the monsters in the game are sprites, and thats 
 not necessarily a bad thing. However, Im perhaps in the minority when it comes to my overall feelings 
 about the visuals in DoS. I think the appearance of most of the monsters is really cool, but their 
 movements are clumsy looking. More importantly, playing Soma feels a bit clunky. I never knew 
 before playing this game what people meant when they used that word in reference to a video game, 
 but now I do. Thats not to say that the controls are bad or that theres a delay in Somas response 
 upon engaging any of the buttons, but it just lacks a tightness that you would hope to accompany 
 the wealth of other gameplay aspects that make up the overall experience. I said it in my preview 
 of the game and Ill say it again: Id leave the backgrounds the way they are (and maybe even the 
 monsters despite their silly appearances during battle) , but its perhaps time for the main playable 
 character of the series  with respect to Castlevania games on the DS  to move into polygons. 
 Iga, check out what theyve done with New Super Mario Bros.  it looks and plays great! Diehards 
 of the series (and sprite artwork) will perhaps think Im mad (and whos to say youre wrong) , 
 but thats just my take on it  amateur that I am.
  
  Sound: Theres not a single part of a single theme in this game that sounds original. But, boy, 
 is it perfect! It truly is. Some of the music is downright camp in the 1st degree, and I love 
 that. I sometimes go back to certain areas of the castle just so I can make Soma dance to whatever 
 funky music happens to be playing there  which by the way, Soma loves to dance  try him sometime. 
 Creature sounds are creepy and squishy. Yeah, squishy; sometimes when you hack a certain enemy 
 down he / she / it makes a schquisssssh sound. Seriously though, sound effects are pretty nicely 
 done, and the entire audio package is first-rate. However, there are instances (upon entering either 
 vendor  who shall remain unnamed here in this review) when one theme cuts right off and into another 
 with utter abruptness, and its really quite a mood killer. It might seem like another small thing 
 to point out, but with so many other things done right in the game it makes itself a glaring issue.
 
  
  Fun Factor: Whats this all about? Well, I said many good things about the game, but I also focused 
 on some aspects of it that perhaps left me disappointed or desiring more. But more important than 
 anything else that I could say about DoS would be to tell you whether or not its actually any 
 fun. Well, to tell you the truth its one of those games thats just plain addicting. I mean, until 
 I finally finished the story mode I couldnt put the game away. Every free moment I had I was playing 
 DoS; I was either busy trying to collect some soul I needed to complete a particular task, or snooping 
 around the castle for hidden rooms. Of course, after finishing the game there are some fun unlockables 
 to tinker with as well. Perhaps most notably is the Julius Mode. Julius is a main non-playable 
 character (good guy) in the game, and upon final completion of the story mode you can then go on 
 to play as him in a somewhat repeated version of the game. There are new characters, however, and 
 I believe (from what others have told me, having not completed Julius Mode yet myself) a new final 
 boss. Also, Julius plays differently than Soma, and overall the experience can feel quite new. 
 Theres also a Boss Rush mode and a place where you can go back and listen to all the little themes 
 and sounds that were present throughout the game. Lastly, theres a limited multiplayer (local 
 wireless / multi-cart) offering as well; castle settings can be customized to create a kind of 
 1 vs. 1 race; and you can also trade souls with other DoS-game owners.
  
  I said final completion of the story mode. There are different ways that the game can end, and 
 that too offers another bonafide element of replay value to the game. I cant say that Ive gone 
 back to the game much myself since ultimately completing the story mode, but its definitely a 
 game that I will revisit from time to time. Its got an old-school classic feel to it, and is akin 
 to those seminal arcade favorites that I used to just pour mounds of quarters into. So despite 
 any shortcomings I feel it might have, I have to give DoS mad props for sheer fun.
  
  Conclusion: Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is rated T for teen, and rightfully so. Theres plenty 
 of blood. But its also very campy  at least I interpret it that way  and if youve got a good 
 sense of humor and are up for some addictive-side-scrolling fun, then this game is likely a good 
 candidate for your DS library (if, of course, you are of the proper age) . I feel it was somewhat 
 overrated by the gaming press in general, and its not the perfect game many seem to contend it 
 to be; but its a great game nonetheless. Anyway, I hope you enjoyed reading my little rap on this 
 title, and as always
  
  Happy gaming!
  
  -GD
  
  The Breakdown:
  
  Presentation: The manual is in black & white and lacks clear explanations of some of the topics 
 mentioned therein; noticeably missing is a complete status legend. But the in-game presentation, 
 i. e. the selection screens and set-up of the game, are really first-rate. Navigating through the 
 various options is quick and painless, and everything is easily accessible. -7.5
  
  Story: Theres a basic premise that allows you to say, Okay, sure lets do this, but not a whole 
 lot of dialogue throughout. The ending, however, has a nice twist thrown in, but ultimately leaves 
 off like the end of an episode of Scooby Doo. -7
  
  Gameplay / Fun Factor: Its not a perfect game  dont be fooled  but its still a great game 
  an addictive game. Theres tons to do and discover, and many reasons to come back. There was 
 a lot that Konami crammed into this title, and the soul system was a true winner. -9
  
  Graphics: They sure are purty. But with the DS screens being relatively small, you cant really 
 appreciate the hand-drawn art all that well. The character & enemy movements seem kind of unnatural 
 and dated, and unfortunately affect the gameplay in a way that make me use the word clunky; and 
 you dont want me using that word! Im torn in that I still agree that the 2D representations are 
 beautiful, but feel that more could have (and perhaps should have) been done considering the console 
 that this game is on. -7.5
  
  Sound: Nothing original here  youve heard it all before. But it suits this game to a tee. Good 
 sound effects to boot. -8.5
  
  Final Score: 8.5 (Great!)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 23, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  I've owned every Castlevania game on the GBA, and now DoS (Dawn of Sorrow) on the DS. DoS is the 
 sequel to the GBA hit title Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow. This is the best hand-held edition to 
 the series. DoS is about a young man named Soma Cruz, who found out a year ago that he had the 
 power to dominate monsters souls. A strange cult is trying to bring back Dracula, and Soma is one 
 of the candidates to be Dracula's successor. Soma goes to a castle in Europe to confront the cult 
 and stop their sinister plans. First off I'll tell you some basics. Dominating a monster's soul 
 is a good thing and their souls will give you new powers. Bullet souls (Red) give you new attacks 
 that are usually projectiles. Enchant souls (Yellow) give you various abilities like a stat boost, 
 or the ability to eat rotten meat. Guardian souls (Blue) give you abilities you activate, like 
 charging a shot from a a bow for high damage. Next, I'll move onto weapons. There are 5 types of 
 weapons: sword, spear, Axe/club, thrown, gun. All the weapon types are good for certain situations. 
 There's also a store that you can buy weapons from. You can do weapon synthesis. This when you 
 use a soul to make a new weapon, but you lose the soul after you synthesize a new weapon. The game 
 is decent in length, and there are unlockables. There is sound mode, you can listen to music and 
 sounds from the game. Boss Rush, when you fight a bunch of bosses to get items that are not in 
 the main game. Julius Mode, play through the game with new characters, like Castlevania 3. There 
 are also 3 endings. Castlevania DoS is a great game for the DS. I give this game my highest recommendations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glass_flame
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  First of all, the graphics are great. The 3-D backgrounds are a great touch, but it's mostly the 
 overall style of this game. Sure, the faces are anime-inspired, but at least they're good! The 
 Gothic architechture of the castle is amazingly detailed, and there are even some secret enemies 
 hidden in the background. I have one question to ask: What's with the blue light trail behind Soma?
 
  The story is pretty well crafted too. As it goes, our hero Soma is just chilling at home when 
 this strange lady comes and sends her creatures out to kill him, alll the while kidnapping his 
 girlfriend! It all starts from there.
  The music in the game is pretty good, and well fitting to the area, but it gets old quickly. i 
 usually play with no sound after my first run-through.
  The real beauty of this game is the addictive gameplay. If you're the kind who loves to find every 
 secret, this game's for you. The level system works pretty well too, but the real engrossing part 
 is the soul system. I've spent hours trying to track down a single soul, and it was well worth 
 it. There are some amusing side shows like sound test and boss rush, but the real greatness is 
 the wonderful weapon system, plus the ability to upgrade your weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EmptySki
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 17, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  I'm going to write a short review since i dont have a lot of time.
  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is probably one of the best DS games yet. It's replay value is great 
 once you beat the game. The length of the game makes players feel good because its not short but 
 it aint very long. Completing the game 100% is difficlut because you have to complete the castle, 
 get all the souls and max out the souls. The gameplay is pretty easy. You use a sword since your 
 not a wipe lashing belmont. You collect all sorts of clothing and materials for your advantage. 
 You collect sould from killing your eneimies which will hlep you get abilites to pass certain parts 
 in the game. 
  The touch screen is rarely used till you beat a boss. You have to copy the pattern fast and correctly 
 to completly kill rhe boss. If you dont do it right you continue fighting till you get the pattern 
 right or he kills you.
  The graphics are pretty darn good. They are much nicer then arria of sorrow and the other castlevania 
 gba games. The graphics remind me of SOTN but with more 3d models. If you have a Ds you need to 
 find this game and get it. Especially if your a castlevania fan like me. Its really hard to find 
 now but if you find it get it right away because its going to get harder to find very soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark__Light
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 16, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorites I have unlocked all the secrets to this game and when u do it 
 just gets more fun They make it look like it cant end becoues soma is Dracula and i do hope that 
 they make a last part to it becoues it dident look like it was over to me. The graphics were amazing 
 for a ds and a castlevania series. The music was like you can hear it over and over again and it 
 wont get anoying. The story line was great it left off from the last one prefectly. The game was 
 superb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armageddon_777
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 15, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania makes a successful jump onto the DS with Dawn of Sorrow, an action packed adventure.
 
  
  Gameplay-Excellent. I found the gameplay a lot of fun, with a puzzle here and there. The special 
 abilities were neat too.
  
  Graphics-Great. Very good 2D graphics with nice detail.
  
  Sound-Excellent. Great music and awesome sound effects.
  
  Story-Great. A very good story with 
 some unexpected plot twists. There are multiple endings also.
  
  Replayability-Good. You can collect all the souls of your enemies, beat it with the different endings, 
 and play it on Julius mode.
  
  Button Layout/Control-Good. Pretty much easy to use system. Once you get the feel of it, the control 
 should present no problems.
  
  Overall-Superb. An absolute success; it is definitely reason to continue the series if you're a 
 fan, or start playing it if you're new to the series. Could be another reason to own a DS..... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementsk8r13
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  This... game... rocks! It is unbelievably awesome. The story starts a year after Aria of Sorrow when 
 Soma Cruz lost his soul sucking powers. But when he is out with Mina (his gf) one day a mysterious 
 woman named Celia comes and tells him that he is of use to them which at this point you start hacking 
 at zombies with basically a butter knife. But progression is very well balanced. Soul spells are 
 awesome although I wish that the magic tanks filled a little quicker though. Weapons are awesome 
 and graphics are sweet (Particle effects baby!) sound quality is good although the music gets annoying 
 after a while. I cant stop playing it.... Im already 75% done with it and I just got it three days 
 ago... with like 6 hours logged... lol a perfect 9.9!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklordATK103
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 11, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  This is probally one of the best games for your DS at the moment. There are hardly any flaws in 
 the game and the addition of a multiplay is a step up from other Castlevania games. To get started 
 thiis game is huge. Getting 100% complete can tale up to 20 hours alone in this game. Like all 
 other games in the series the game takes palce in a huge castle with a variety of monsters. It 
 has a high replay value becuase of hard mode (which is unlocked after beating the game once) and 
 julius mode in which you play as julius belmont, yoko and even Symphony of the Nights main hero. 
 The graphics are for this game are thankfully 2D, which is what Castlevania games are made for 
 and is a very good looking game. The music in the game is good and each song fits in with what 
 area of the castle that you are in. If you are a perfectionist like me it might take to 2-3 runs 
 to trough the stroy to get everything including legendary weapons and the rare rings. If you have 
 a DS and love Casltevania games you should go get this game right now and if you dont like castlevnia 
 games but like 2D actions games you sohuld buy this to. Also RPG fans should buy it becuase there 
 are light Rpg elements such as levels and upgradable weapons. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambo_Potter
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of Sorrow is an excellent improvement over its predecessor, Aria of Sorrow. The gameplay is 
 as fun as it's ever been and the controls are superb and responsive. There's better extras to unlock 
 as well. The new Soul Synthesis system is a nice touch and keeps you from having to spend time 
 collecting cash to upgrade your weapons. The Julius Mode is great for anyone who's played past 
 Castlevanias as it lets you once again play as that game's hero, Alucard, albeit with a lot fewer 
 skills than then. 
  My only gripes with the game would be that there is less incentive and reward this time around 
 for traveling around the map than in other titles like Symphony .The game is fun but the main quest 
 is rarely challenging with the easily acquired health items you can buy, but the Julius mode is 
 much more skill based with little ability to heal to take care of that. The stylus Magic Seal system 
 is horrible as you have pull out the stylus to do the crazy seal movement on the screen, it's kind 
 of awkward to switch to the stylus just for that moment. However, the game is still a definite 
 must buy for fans of old school 2D action games or previous Castlevania games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Since Castlevania went to its "Castleroid" format, it's tried its hardest to top its first attempt, 
 Symphony of the Night (PSX) . There have been 3 attempts on the GBA, the best of which was Aria 
 of Sorrow. Dawn of Sorrow is the direct sequel, in which Soma Cruz encounters a cult, trying to 
 resurrect Dracula.
  
  The games plot features a large band of characters. Most of which are returning cast from the last 
 game (Akirado, Hammer, Yoko Belnades, Julius Belmont, and Mina) , but there is a trio of bad guys. 
 Celia, a witch of some sorts, and leader of the cult. Dario, The guy with the flames, and Dmitri, 
 the guy with everything else. Those three, together with the typical Dracula's Castle styled hideout 
 are going to make this a tougher challenge than previous incarnations.
  
  The basic gameplay is typical of Castlevania in general. You walk around a massive world, confined 
 into a castle style environment, killing anything undead in nature. The castle is huge. But more 
 importantly, the areas themselves are much varied. While in other games, you're stuck in a castle, 
 this one creates a Lost Village as a first area. Heck, the intro doesn't take place in a castle 
 at all!
  
  The soul system makes a return. I personally love the idea, but think that perhaps the collecting 
 bug is being done too much now. Since its a sequel, there is some forgiveness for Konami's desision 
 there. This time, you start off with three souls (given via introduction) . The game does a lot 
 more to tell you about the system, even though you'll probably already know how it works. The variety 
 of souls is quite extreme. One of the more unusual is the Succubus soul, which allows you to leech 
 life, while inflicting lots of damage. Like a Vampire! Some of the more unusual souls are surprisingly 
 useful, but the none-exotic souls work just as well.
  
  The enemies are of your usual fare, lots of them, all vaguely different, and littering the castle. 
 They range from Skeletons, to Ghosts, even Skeletons that kick their own heads!. Speaking of which, 
 Yorick (the aforementioned head kicking skeleton) , and some of the other enemies are direct copies 
 from Symphony of the Night in terms of sprites/polygons. All the enemies are detailed, and some 
 more striking than others. The bosses however are something else. They range from easy to really 
 hard. A veteran may struggle with some of these on normal settings, let alone hard modes!
  
  To work with the soul system, there is now a Soul Fusion system. This allows you, via Yoko 
 (who has a use here in this game!) , to infuse weaponry, with souls collected throughout the castle. 
 These are powerful tools, but the tediousness of the Soul Gathering itself may put some off this 
 idea. Hammer is also back with a shop, so money gathered can be spent on his wares.
  
  Because its one of the first games on the DS, it utilises it in good and bad taste. The good news 
 is that you don't have to press select just to bring up the map any more. You can track yourself 
 on the top screen while moving around on the bottom. Pressing Select gives you another menu with 
 an analysis of what you just beat up. This is a very welcome addition, which helps keep players 
 from being lost. The touch screen in the actual game, is used as an alternative to menus, but also 
 for guiding familiars and destroying certain blocks. Familar guiding depends on which one you have 
 equipped. Mini Devil's - Great. Bats - Not so great.
  
  The other touch feature is boss sealing. This is done by tracing a pattern on screen when the boss 
 is dead. If you do it right, you seal the boss. If not, it comes back, slightly healed. At first, 
 this is hard to adapt to, since you're too busy concentrating on killing something big. Later its 
 highly annoying if you get it wrong. I personally hate the idea, as it hinders what you can do 
 to bosses. The seals themselves however make the game slightly more linear, which is helpful in 
 this type of game.
  
  Castlevania has always been about simple gameplay and music, and thankfully, both have been done 
 with the same quality. From the first to last stages of the game, you're treated to a festival 
 of digitalised music, that is pleasurable to hear, rather than making you want to turn off the 
 sound. Admittedly, it isn't the best, but compared to the soundtrack of Symphony of the Night, 
 it isn't a bad attempt.
  
  The translation is a lot better than most. With some quirky humour, mild references to other characters 
 in the series, and a fairly mixed up plot (when played to the fullest) , this does what it sets 
 out to do.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow isn't Symphony of the Night. Its the closest thing to it, but is nothing compared. 
 It does try some new things, while combined with old things. There are a few things to do after 
 you've completed the game, such as try to get all the souls, the good ending, the bad ending, and 
 a secret mode. A shame it tries some gimmicky things out too much... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machine_Shop
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 7, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn Of Sorrow is the sequel to Castlevania: Aria Of Sorrow. You play as Soma Cruz. 
 I won't ruin the story but basically, you have to go around killing evil. Soma can attack with 
 many weapons such as swords, axes, hammers, guns, spears, and much more. The gameplay comes down 
 to Soma running around killing enemies getting to a boss battle at the end of the area. It may 
 sound repetitive but there are so many abilities and attacks that you will seldom find it boring. 
 There is a small RPG element. By killing enemies, Soma will level up which improves his health, 
 mana, attack power, defense, and other stats. One thing that keeps that game fresh is Soma has 
 the ability to "absorb" souls and use the soul. For instance, if you kill a monster and get it's 
 soul (this is based off of luck, a stat) , you will be able to ues that monster's attack or you 
 will gain a special ability. You can keep using the monster's soul but you must keep in mind a 
 mana gauge. If it runs out, you will have to find power ups to refill it so you can keep using 
 powerful souls. You can change what soul you are using at any time. There are three endings to 
 the game and after you beat them, you get extras such as sound mode where you may listen to the 
 music which I must say is excellent. There is also a Boss Mode where you fight all the bosses one 
 after the other. Finally, there is a mode where you play in the same area as Soma, but you control 
 3 different characters that you can switch between at the press of a button. The graphics may be 
 2-D but they still look very polished and bright. Overall this is a great game for any DS owner. 
 You don't even have to be a fan of the series to enjoy this game and for the fans of the series, 
 I'd say this is the second best only to Symphony Of The Night. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unknown7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania DoS is an awesome game. This game takes place a year after Aria of Sorrow on the Game 
 Boy. You play as Soma Cruz, a person who has Dracula hidden inside his body. A cult wants to release 
 the power inside you and unleash the Lord of Darkness. It's your job to stop them. 
  
  This game is easy to pick up and play. Even if you aren't familiar with the series, this game is 
 a must-play if you have a DS and if you don't have a DS, this game is a good reason to get one. 
 What I liked in the game is that every enemy in the game has a soul and each one gives you a different 
 power. You can also synthesize weapons with certain enemy souls to get stronger weapons. The bosses 
 are great and fun to fight. There is Enemy Set mode, which allows you to put enemies in rooms and 
 then when you're done you challenge the room (s) that you created. You can only use the enemies 
 that you have captured. It's a good mode if you want to challenge yourself. This game can be very 
 short if you just rush through, but that wouldn't be fun. If you try to collect everything in the 
 game, then the game will last a while.
  
  The extras this game has is New Game+ mode, which has you start at the beginning of the game, but 
 you have all your equipment and souls from the previous file. Boss Rush mode has you fighting all 
 the bosses in the game and if you can beat all of them under a certain time, you will get special 
 items. Julius mode has you play as Julius, Yoko, and Arikado. You see a different part of the story 
 when playing this mode. You can switch between them and each character have different attacks, 
 advantages and disadvantages. There is Sound mode, which has all the sounds and music that are 
 in the game.
  
  If you don't have this game, then get it. Get it NOW!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 6, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  Positive Notes
  -a huge castle to explore
  -capturing enemy souls and using them against your foes creates an addictive soul hunting agenda
 
  -portraits of characters vary with expressions and add to the overall character depth
  -graphics utilize 2-D old-school but are enhanced with 3-D backgrounds and impressive lightning 
 effects
  -Extra modes add replay value after you beat the game
  -Music is excellent
  
  Negative Notes
  -drawing seals on the touch screen can catch you off guard sometimes and draw 
 out boss battles just a little bit
  -bosses, particularly later bosses, may defeat you a few times before you figure out what to do. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickeyg
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is for the fans of the series.. i played it for about 12 hours.... then sold it to my 
 budy for 20$. The game seems like it sould be on the gba for the rest of its time. sorry if i am 
 making some fan boys and girls made but this is for the boys and girls that dont play these crap 
 games. I am the guy that STILL plays pokemon on my ds LITE and i dont want to play this game. the 
 map on the top screen almost seems slaped on at the last minite : ( you can all tell me you didnt 
 put enuff time or you never gave it a chance well.... that budy i sold it to want to play for the 
 rest of his life... and that is the beautiful thing about the world of gaming. you can look at 
 the gameing part the graphical part and ect. at this momont i looked both.. they both suck on this 
 game! my bud likes it because he plays bad games :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clangeddinn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: dawn of sorrow in my opinion is one of the best in the series, its handheld over 100+ 
 souls to receive, a variety of game modes such as wireless mode, julius mode when u complete the 
 game u get to be 2 characters julius belmont, yoko belnades. they work together to defeat their 
 enemies which is a harder mode i think. the first game where you can touch the magic when u defeat 
 magic when drawing the seals. i would recommend this to side scrolling and castlevania fans. also 
 in wireless mode you can trade souls and weapons which is pretty cool in my opinion :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoguejp
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 2, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Its castlevania. The best the DS has to offer in its genre period. It has depth if your carefull 
 to get the best ending ( which is weird. ) Has hard mode. Improved game system from past. Fun boss 
 rush. Music has fantastic melodies.
  
  Cons: Julius mode is merely ok . Getting tired of anime style. Graphics are NOT much better than 
 GBA. No worthwhile multiplayer. People new to the series could blow through the game and miss the 
 best parts buy getting the crappy ending.
  
  I'd recommend reading a FAQ as you place the game or you will miss a third of the game including 
 the best bosses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamesfreak4ever
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow for the DS is the sequel to the GBA title Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow, 
 that debuted in 2003. And while Dawn of Sorrow is quite similar to it's GBA counterpart in a lot 
 of ways, there are many things that set the two apart... both good and bad. 
  
  -- PREFACE --
  Dawn of Sorrow takes place one year after the events that took place in Aria. 
 Soma Cruz, the protagonist in both titles, was revealed to be the next Dark Lord, or namely Dracula. 
 This was signified by his ability to steal the very soul of his defeated enemies and use their 
 power as his own. Soma prevented himself from fully gaining this power and stopped his transformation 
 into Dracula with the help of his friends and counterparts, all who make a reappearance in Dawn 
 of Sorrow.
  So anyways, one year after all this had taken place, Soma believed that everything was over, but 
 he was wrong. A mysterious new cult, led by the priestess Celia Fortner, attempts to kill Soma 
 in order to release his dark power, which had lain dormant until their encounter with eachother. 
 Once she fails and flees, Soma soon tracks her down to a massive Castle and begins to unravel the 
 reason for her attempt on his life and why the power of the Dark Lord has returned to him. 
  
  -- GAMEPLAY --
  Dawn of Sorrow takes all that was good from the classic Castlevania 2D-esque 
 style and makes it even better, keeping the visceral actiony elements with some great storytelling 
 and solid gameplay. Everything runs smoothly and each of the dozen or so weapons (which range from 
 your fists to massive two handed swords) has it's own feeling of weight and power. Some are quick 
 and slightly weaker than the slower, but reasonably stronger two handed weapons like hammers and 
 swords. There are weapons for everyone's tastes here: Katanas, Brass Knuckles, Swords, Halberds, 
 Spears, Throwing weapons, Maces, Hammers, and even sword chains; almost every style of melee weaponry 
 makes a showing in Dawn of Sorrow, and each one is fully upgradable and a blast to use. It's good 
 to try and collect all of them, so you can experiment with each type to find a one you really like. 
 
  One of the best and more prominent elements of Sorrow is the ability to collect your deceased enemies 
 souls and use them to your own advantage, be it combative or not. You can only equip one of each 
 soul at a time though, so it requires a tad bit of stragedy to advance through Sorrow. The game 
 has 4 types of collectible souls: Bullet, Guardian, Enchant, and Ability. Bullet souls consist 
 of all the projectile souls, and are the most abundant type in the game. Guardian souls allow for 
 Soma to summon a "Guardian" that resembles the fallen soul from which it came; most of these are 
 shield-type summons, but there are some that will actually protect you and attack where you command 
 them (by using the touch screen to select the desired enemy) . Enchant souls will boost your abilities 
 and grant you stat boosts. The last type are Ability souls. These souls grant special powers and 
 are always activated; you can have all of the 8 Ability souls activated at a time, since all are 
 essential to advance in the game. They give you powers such as double jumping, being able to dive 
 in water, and break the various ice crystals that will block your way. There are roughly 120 souls 
 to collect throught Dawn of Sorrow, and while some are much rarer to find, others can be aquired 
 with much ease. But all are recommended to nab, since each will offer something new to the table. 
 But some can be incredibly worthless and have no point other than to annoy you... so pick your arsenal 
 wisely, for using souls in tandem can procure even more advanced ablities. 
  Another great feature, which utilizes the touch screen to great extent, is when a boss (which are 
 all deviously made and a blast to fight) is defeated, you much quickly use the stylus to draw a 
 seal to fully defeat said boss. If you cannot get it finished in time, the boss will regain some 
 of his health and you must redo the process again. The seal-drawing process in Sorrow is really 
 the only feature that correctly uses the stylus and the touch screen... but it's not that much of 
 a problem, since the game is great without many touch screen functions. 
  
  -- GRAPHICS --
  In the graphics department, Dawn of Sorrow doesn't dissapoint for a DS title 
 and although it looks nearly identical to the GBA Castlevania titles of the past few years, there 
 are quite a few differences that set it out from it's predecessors. The sprite animations are execellent, 
 which consist of everything from magical showers and laser beams to entire armies of locusts and 
 scythes. Some are simple while others get incredibly over the top... and the game keeps a steady 
 fps even when the screen is filled with intense action and particle effects. The backgrounds are 
 all great to look at, so while you traverse the castle you'll come across meticulously detailed 
 locals like The Garden of Madness and The Pinnacle, located at the very top of the castle. All 
 of the areas details vary from outside places to deep blood covered dungeons and ancient crypts. 
 
  The really only bad thing is that even after so many 2D Castlevania games, Konami still can't do 
 character models to save their lives. The models are blurry and just plain ugly, but it's easy 
 to get past once you really get into the game. The models of the enemie characters (especially 
 the bosses) are done quite well, it's just the human characters that needed a little more refining 
 to them.
  
  -- SOUND --
  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow features some execellent classical music and some good rock-like riffs. 
 And while many of them are not exactly memorable, they still compliment the game very nicely. Each 
 specific area of the game features it's own unique score that fits well with the overall mood of 
 the area. Outside areas will have a really high tempo and is fast paced, while the more "dead" 
 areas like crypts and dungeons feature a more somber and toned down score. All of the weapons and 
 souls in the game have their own distinct sound or chime that goes quite well with the associated 
 weapon/soul.
  There is no voice acting in Sorrow, only the occasional grunts and cries of the main characters 
 and and supporting cast. Most of the enemies featured throughout the game will have their own particular 
 sound to them, but more than not most of them wont give off any kind of noise, except a cry of 
 pain when you hew them down. No real music from past Castlevania titles are present in Sorrow, 
 but the one thing that all will remember is the main Castlevania theme that was used in the first 
 title on the NES. But I'll let you find out where it's featured. 
  
  -- VALUE --
  There is a fair amount of replay value to be found in Dawn of Sorrow, and most of it doesn't seem 
 to be wantanly tacked on by the developers. With the 120 or so souls to collect, you will probably 
 be spending a whole lot of time trying to snag each and every one of them. The weapons themelves 
 upgrade a multitude of times, each time with a different look, so if you are the curious type you 
 could always try and upgrade them all. The one catch is that is takes souls to upgrade all of these 
 weapons; and the last upgrades to each weapon needs to use a boss soul, so if you wish to collect 
 all 120 souls and get each weapon at it's max, you're going to have to run through Sorrow at least 
 another time to fully complete everything. And with such a massive area to explore, it's always 
 great to just break away from the storyline and just explore for a while (although you will be 
 hindered by barriers for a good portion of the game) . 
  Also there is another way to play Dawn of Sorrow with entirely characters, though you will still 
 follow the game's main storyline, it's from a different perspective and is a great addition to 
 an already long game. The main story itself should last you around 16 or so hours (depending on 
 how much you wish to level up, since the max is 99) , so you should have plenty to keep you distracted 
 for quite a while. 
  
  -- END THOUGHTS --
  With it's tight controls, great graphics and sound, and a fair amount of replayability, Castlevania: 
 Dawn of Sorrow is an execellent DS game and is a solid recommendation for any fan of the series 
 or anyone who wants a great action/adventure title for your Nintendo DS handheld 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeiterStar58
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  this game is so immersive, you have to buy it. i went through about 50 different endings because 
 i didn't know what i was doing, and that's a good thing. i went through the same bosss 5-6 times 
 and got a boatload of experience, and thats also a good thing. eventually i got smarter and found 
 out what i was supposed to do and i was able to find the actual ending, but only 98.3% complete, 
 i didn't know how to open those slot machine locked doors. the main character, Soma Cruz, is a 
 bad-ass, lets just leave it at that. spending most of the time playing, i was trying to get all 
 the demon souls so i could make bad-ass weaponry, and that's fun, but carry around at least 2-3 
 of each, cuz there will be doors only unlockable by that monsters special ability. the game also 
 makes good use of the touch screen, you can't kill bosses and get their souls without the touch 
 screen and the magic seals. this game is so fun, go buy it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lenoh
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best (if not THE best) I have ever played. Imaginative puzzles, huge sub-bosses, 
 the use of "Toki yo tomare" (Zephyr) , and a HUGE (takes up 3/4 of the arena, and the arena is 2-3 
 screens tall!) 3-part final boss make this a Game Of The Year candidate, in my books.
  
  The best part of the game is the unlockable stuff. Sure, you weild swords, axes, maces, and spears, 
 but have you ever wanted to go Enter The Dragon on the undead? With this game, you can.
  
  There are also, like its predecessor, collectable "Souls" to use against your opponents. They range 
 from throwing a razor-sharp card at your opponent to freezing time to even transforming into your 
 opponent itself!
  
  The only problem is, like other games on the system, it suffers from "no-face" syndrome, where 
 the main gameplay sprites do not have faces.
  
  Other than that, with AWESOME sound for the DS, a collectable (and tradable!) Soul system, over 
 70 different weapons (including a grenade launcher!) and an absolutely stunning cutscene introducing 
 the title screen, this game is perfection, made handheld. 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tekkenlaw
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2006 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Not since Symphony of the Night for the Playstation have I had such a great time with a 2d game, 
 Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is a game for the Nintendo DS that shouldn't be missed.
  
  The Good: The sprites look amazing and shows us a game doesn't need to be 3d to offer competitive 
 graphics against today's games. The soul collecting system and Julius Mode add hours of replay 
 value to the game.
  
  The Bad: May seem a bit less challenging than previous games in the series. Julius mode doesn't 
 add enough to the game to make it worth playing through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkshadower
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  it puts a new label on a old series and its a timeless classic that cant be replaced!! you can 
 never change the game play it will ruin it but some might give it a new spin. the new story is 
 great, it doesnt have any gaps and the battle system is very solid. this game is quite easy but 
 can be quite difficult at times. at my opinion its the best one yet! the souls are different and 
 the graphics are very tight for a ds i highly recommend this to any castlevania fans and at $35.00 
 this game is worth it so this is a must have for and ds owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flan_Man
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  Dawn of Sorrow follows in the footsteps of the GBA excursion featuring Soma Cruz and it plays like 
 Symphony of the Night. If you aren't salivating at that prospect then check your pulse. You guide 
 Soma through not Dracula's castle... Castlevania - Dracula's castle = Dawn of Sorrow. You level 
 up, find better equipment, and gain abilities by claiming the souls of your fallen enemies.
  Moving is done with the D-pad rather than using the stylus which has been relegated the position 
 of tacked on minigames. The four face buttons are mapped to jumping, attacking, power attacking, 
 and changing equipment sets (once you get the soul) . The left shoulder button is used to perform 
 some maneuvers like back dashing and doing that crazy vertical jump that Castlevania has become 
 so fond of, lately. The right shoulder is used to perform some magic if you equip the right soul. 
 There are all sorts of fun control mechanics to take advantage of throughout the game such as performing 
 a drop kick by pressing jump again while in the air. Using that technique you can jump across a 
 roomful of zombies by hopping on their heads a la Mario. The stylus moments seem tacked on and 
 dont perform anything lasting or memorable. You have to seal the bosses souls or you have to 
 fight them again. Stuff like that, nothing fun or interesting.
  Graphically speaking, Dawn of Sorrow looks good. Somas movements are fluid enough for the DS and 
 the enemies explode violently when defeated. Using a club to bash a skeleton sends all of his little 
 bones flying whereas killing that same skeleton with a knife causes him to fall apart where he 
 stands. The bosses can be quite a spectacle, sometimes filling the entire screen leaving very little 
 space to dodge their massive blows. The levels themselves are quite interesting, I wouldnt put 
 them on the same level as Symphonys but they are the best since then. Spell effects are great, 
 well most of them. Some are rather plain like their effects while others will evoke a wide grin, 
 such as sending a running ice shard which sprouts a multitude of icicles to impale foes.
  Music is Castlevania through and through. Lots of organs and violins keep you thinking that anytime 
 a really ticked off Dracula will jump out and ask you to return his favorite pair of socks. Destroying 
 the denizens of the underworld sounds great and fun. Sometimes you hear one of the characters say 
 somebodys name. I looked into the sound room and found that they actually had some dialogue, but 
 it is all in Japanese. Luckily, I only know about 10 phrases and none of them deal with the reincarnation 
 of Dracula. The game has some good sounds.
  The story kept the game going forward and in the right direction. Even though you are a young guy 
 who has to save the world from an uncertain fate again, you probably wont notice it. The cast 
 of characters are lively except for Arikado, but youll end up liking him anyways. There is a shopkeeper 
 who sells garbage to you and a witch lady who will allow you to fuse the souls you capture with 
 weapons you find to create more powerful and expensive weaponry. Shell also let you release the 
 captured souls, a useless feature as the more souls of a particular enemy you capture the more 
 powerful that ability becomes. Story right. There are a few possible endings and you will actually 
 want to get them all just to see what will happen to Soma.
  The bad? Well, the game does boast a very large environment to search filled with secret rooms 
 and secret souls. It doesnt have the upside down castle with Shaft that Symphony had, but it does 
 have a secret place which isnt on the regular map cant say more. The use of the stylus would 
 be my major complaint. The multiplayer is also limited to editing 6 pre-designed rooms with monsters 
 to try and trip up your friends. Though there is the addition of a classic Belmont-whip style play-through, 
 it isnt that fun.
  Questionable material? Well, there are a few scantily clad women-type enemies like the succubus. 
 There are blood spurts when you take down an enemy that actually has blood. There are also a lot 
 of zombies, skeletons, and other assorted creepy-crawlies. Yeah, so if you have never heard of 
 Splatterhouse you might think there is a little gore in there. If you have played Splatterhouse, 
 youll laugh and sleep soundly. Seriously though, it is pretty tame.
  I am a huge fan of NewGame+ ever since the first time I beat Crono Trigger so finding that option 
 here really pleased me. There is a lot to do, a lot to do. The game is full of fun opportunities 
 to run around with a silver gun (yes, a gun in Castlevania) and bust open some undead cranium. 
 Oh, I love that silver gun and the Valwinmay. Honestly, Ill call this game side-scrolling goodness 
 and count myself lucky that Konami got around to its construction. Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jir11
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow was quite simply a trip down memory lane. It borrows from the playstation 
 Symphony of the Night and has a similar style of play. For a portable game it was well made and 
 I have to say I was impressed with the diversity of weapons, souls (magic) , and enemies. I enjoyed 
 each boss battle as each one of them were unique in their fighting styles. The areas of the castle 
 were well created with fluid colours and rich background details. Characters in the game were nicely 
 animated as the dialogue was not too bad, however it would have been an added bonus if there was 
 voice acting present. The soundtrack was phenomenal for a game of this genre, it was melodic and 
 the music fit each theme throughout the game. All in all this is a must have game for your DS library 
 and replay value is high due to unlocking several features in the game after you beat it. I highly 
 recommend this game, especially to anyone who has played the Castlevania series as this game is 
 true to it's origins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironsoap
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  The spectre of Dracula is always hanging around -- one way or the other -- in Castlevania games. In 
 Dawn of Sorrow he manifests by being the object of affection for a secretive cult who wish to resurrect 
 him for nefarious ends. As Soma Cruz you play a gifted/cursed young man who sets out to stop the 
 cult but risks his own life in the process.
  
  The story in Dawn of Sorrow is passable but not terribly engaging, and it assumes quite a bit of 
 previous knowledge about earlier GBA Castlevania games (especially Aria of Sorrow) in order to 
 really feel complete. Still, the story elements are of only minor significance to the overall enjoyment 
 of the game and enough can be inferred from the context to allow those unfamiliar with previous 
 games to at least follow along.
  
  What really makes Dawn of Sorrow is the expert blend of platforming, adventure and role-playing 
 elements into a cohesive, addicting game experience. There is something here for nearly all types 
 of players: Collection-hounds will find joy in the soul acquisition system where you periodically 
 earn a creature's soul for defeating it which grants Soma a special ability. Souls can also be 
 fused with various weapons to create improved weapon types, and since each creature has a distinct 
 soul and some creatures appear in relatively few locations throughout the game, plenty of time 
 can be spent trying to capture that one elusive soul.
  
  Platform-fiends will find there is loads of great hack-n-slash combat and tricky rooms to navigate. 
 The level design is at times fiendishly clever, stashing the all-important transport rooms and 
 save rooms in not-quite inconvenient locations making your path through the various castle areas 
 fraught with tension as you try to cling to enough life to escape to relative safety.
  
  Role-players should be intrigued to know that there are dozens of various items, weapons and armor 
 options to choose from, an experience and levelling system to augment your character along the 
 way and plenty of customization options with the soul system. Adventure fans can find plenty to 
 love here as well since a lot of the game involves some pretty heady pathfinding as you try to 
 work your way past an assortment of passages that sometimes require a certain soul-ability to pass 
 or need to be approached from various angles. Some hunts for specific souls can be quite a quest 
 in and of themselves, especially when you're looking for a certain rare creature.
  
  What is perhaps most impressive is the variety in the combat coming from a 2D side-scrolling game: 
 Soma's moves are mostly limited to one basic attack, a sweep-kick slide maneuver, a bullet-type 
 soul ability and an active soul ability. Somehow, between these four actions and the swappable 
 souls, combat never feels bland or repetitive. A big part of that comes from the widely varied 
 enemy types, everything from tiny imps and bats to classic baddies like flying Medusa heads to 
 gargantuan, screen-filling monstrosities (who aren't even bosses) .
  
  The somewhat infrequent but immensely enjoyable boss encounters add the right touch of challenge 
 to the game and some of the areas you'll gain access to can be brutally difficult until you raise 
 your level enough through fighting the new, higher-experience-granting foes to take them out with 
 greater ease. Backtracked areas offer less challenge but still remain worthwhile for soul collection 
 and to return with new abilities that allow access to previously closed-off sections. None of it 
 seems like a chore and fighting straight through the game is satisfying and tough but not frustrating.
 
  
  The visual presentation of the game is handled with some sharply animated 2D sprites and some really 
 stunning backgrounds. The game looks great for the most part although a few rooms have oddly unfinished-looking 
 art (for example the bitmappy and drab transport rooms) and a couple of the enemies are recycled 
 from weaker foes with new color schemes. Considering the large variety of monsters in the game, 
 a few of these shortcut techniques are forgivable. Nearly all of the boss monsters are suitably 
 massive and grotesquely terrifying and the large monsters like golems and suits of living armor 
 that stalk the castle's halls look awe-inspiringly imposing. Aside from the great art design the 
 game animates everything very smoothly and has plenty of detailed touches everywhere that shows 
 a great committment to quality by the designers.
  
  The audio in the game is good for the most part although some of the samples are repeated quite 
 a bit. The creature sounds aren't quite as pervasive as one might hope and in many cases don't 
 seem like they quite fit the monster type or really aid in adding to the visuals: Some rumbling 
 monster roars from some of the golems or chilling howls from the werewolves would have maybe been 
 better, but at least the included sounds don't actively detract from the game experience. Where 
 Dawn of Sorrow's audio really shines is in the stellar music that plays throughout. Nearly all 
 the area themes are catchy and mood-appropriate and sound great on the DS' stereo speakers.
  
  The DS controls are fairly minimal, consisting mostly of a couple of special powers such as 
 breaking crystal blocks with a touch of the lower screen and some pattern-drawing Seals that must 
 be used to finish off the bosses. Still they add a nice garnish to the game that doesn't really 
 add much to the overall product but certainly don't hinder it in any way.
  
  Whether you like platformers, adventure games, role-playing games, are looking for a fun and engaging 
 DS title or are a longtime fan of the Castlevania games, Dawn of Sorrow has a lot to offer and 
 is a great addition for any DS owner's library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaOrtega
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Dawn of Sorrow is the first DS game to enter my collection. And well I am glad it is. This is seriously 
 the best game I've played in a long time. Sure you have God of War, Shadow of the Colossus RE4, 
 all those great titles from 2005. Surely Dawn of Sorrow doesn't compare to those titles but, what 
 it really boils down to is fun. I haven't had this much fun with a game since San Andreas (no matter 
 how many haters there are) . 
  
  The gameplay gets better as you go. It starts off fine and gets more and more intense as you gain 
 more souls. Soon you will have to strategic-ly use your souls to make it through Dawn of Sorrow. 
 I cannot point out anything particularly wrong with the gameplay, but it would have been nice to 
 see a not so slapped together multiplayer mode. 
  
  The graphical detail in Dawn of Sorrow is simple and average looking. But the effects themselves 
 are DAMN good. It would have been nice to see more detail but the effects make up for it. 
  
  The music in Dawn of Sorrow is also really-really good. It's the typical style of music for 
 Castlevania games, and that is surely not a bad thing. But when it comes to sound, they do fall 
 short. I'm not sure if it's the limits of the DS hardware or the game itself, but some effects 
 sound great (Celia's laugh anyone) , yet others sound muddy. 
  
  It has been said that DoS is short. Well if you just play through it and nothing more, it will 
 last you for about 10-12 hrs. Which is decent. But if you want to completely master the game it 
 should take you between 25-40 hrs (depending on how good you are) . Also boss rush is perfect for 
 a quick 5 min session of kicking ass on the go. 
  
  I recommend this game to any and all DS owners. If you have a DS there is absolutely no reason 
 to not pick this game up. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mystic_Flames
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Since the early days of Simon Belmont, down through the generations, Dracula and his evil minions 
 continue to find ways to resurface. Similar to the great heroes of time, each descendant manages 
 to come of age with powerful new techniques and abilities which hold evil at bay. However, no matter 
 what picture you paint within the haunting realm of the dead, every new Castlevania game will always 
 remain true to its series. From the groundbreaking customization of Symphony of the Night to the 
 card-based combat system of Circle of the Moon, each title brings something new to the table. And 
 Dawn of Sorrow is no different. Even with the new look, Konamis latest package encompasses all 
 of the challenges and charms its series has always possessed. It couldn't of hurt to take advantage 
 of the touch screen a bit more though.
  
  Nevertheless, I was having too good of a time to worry about a few minor complaints that surfaced 
 here and there. The improved enemy intelligence and intriguing soul weapon system bring about a 
 monumental improvement that many of the early titles lacked. The passive puppet-esque motions of 
 foes from the past have been replaced with active adversaries that seem to come to life when you 
 draw near. I cant tell you the number of times I was fooled by a demon archers precision or an 
 explosive plant that looked like a normal shrub. New demons spawn with each passing room that you 
 tear through, and you are given nothing less than a rough time by each one of them.
  
  Poor Soma Cruz just can't seem to catch a break.
  
  A year has passed since the events of Aria 
 of Sorrow and Soma still struggles with the fact that, he alone, is the key to awakening Dracula. 
 Even conquering the demons inside himself wasnt enough as now a deranged cult, led by the evil 
 sorceress Celia, plans to resurrect the dark lord by force. Of course, our protagonist could just 
 keep himself hidden but to protect the world from yet another evil, he decides to venture beyond 
 the door and return to the castle.
  
  Within the halls of the great fortress are a tremendous number of demons that require slaying. 
 Luckily Dawn of Sorrow introduces a new combat system that gets the job done like never before. 
 What brings about the fresh feel to the game mechanics is a three piece system that all works around 
 capturing souls: enchantment, summoning, and absorption. With each soul captured you can use their 
 power to enchant weapons, summon a previously defeated monster, or use their abilities to solve 
 puzzles. This makes combat very addictive and you will spend every waking hour searching for demons 
 to vanquish, so that you can add their essence to your collection.
  
  On another note, unlike the previous titles in the series, there are many more save points. So, 
 if real life responsibility rears its ugly head you wont have to journey too far to take a breather. 
 What also helps relieve some tension is the helpful map layout borrowed from previous titles in 
 the series; no more getting lost and running into that same dead-end thirty or more times. This 
 of course all occurs on the top screen alongside a menu that displays player stats and equipped 
 items. The touch screen though is what brings about the most unique element hidden in the games 
 repertoire -- the Magic Seal system.
  
  Not too far from the starting bell will be the introduction to the seals and how you utilize them. 
 Opening doors with magical barriers, vanquishing reoccurring obstructions and banishing evil manifestations 
 to oblivion are just a few of the options available to you. With the stylus in hand you draw a 
 particular pattern when a seal appears, usually when facing any of the previously mentioned events. 
 Each successful drawing has certain effects, as one pattern could send certain monsters to their 
 doom, another could possibly unlock previously unreachable areas. However, the system can get frustrating 
 later on when some seals get very complicated and hard to memorize, and failing a seal at opportune 
 moments could have you fighting that boss multiple times.
  
  I suppose that we can forgive it though. The boss fights alone are almost worth the full price 
 of admission.
  
  Towering behemoths that launch eye beams, pyro-maniacs, and acrobatic dagger throwers -- each one 
 provides a challenge and several are quite the sight to behold. Taking full advantage of the DSs 
 visual capacity, many of the creeps you will be battling with seem to be part of the very background 
 itself. Balore immediately comes to mind when I think of immense. Dodging his massive punches gives 
 you the sense that you are fighting both him and the room, all the while his expansive lasers are 
 ripping through the fragile icicles that surround the corners of the frigid cathedral. Unfortunately 
 for him, it doesnt take long to memorize his attack patterns, and a couple of head shots with 
 your claymore will send him packing. With each antagonist you lock away, a new power is yours, 
 and aside from the level grinding, it will be the primary way to increase your strength throughout 
 the game.
  
  Complementing your progression through the castle is a series of great tracks that really make 
 you feel like the great demon hunter himself. The eerie sound effects and excellent composition 
 of some pieces help bring about a greater sense of involvement in the game. Hear the classic organ 
 playing a dramatic, upbeat theme as you scurry within the wizard's laboratory and an ambient melody 
 for some of the underwater portions. And of course, it wouldn't be a Castlevania game without the 
 disturbingly quiet save rooms. The only complaint that I have here is that there aren't quite enough 
 different tracks, with some of the same music being repeated throughout. All in all though, everything 
 comes together remarkably well.
  
  Yet, if there was one minor detriment noticeable throughout Dawn of Sorrow, it would be the uninteresting 
 side characters. You will come to find out that most of the people Soma interacts with are generally 
 introverted. Well, except for Hammer. He is just hilarious. However, one has to wonder if there 
 was something more that could have been built into the storyline. The result is a tried and true 
 formula that gives off a cliched blockbuster sequel feel, but truthfully, you shouldnt fix what 
 isnt broken. On the bright side, if you have not played Aria of Sorrow then you will not be affected 
 by this in any way. Just like all other side-scrolling platformers, the game is easy to pick up 
 and will have you feeling as if you have been hunting down zombies for years.
  
  Simply put, it is hard to complain when everything comes to together so well. The haunting overworld 
 themes, the barren setting, the diverse combat capabilities, and the engaging boss confrontations 
 all make Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow an unforgettable experience. Even after everything is said 
 and done, there is a lot to work for in the form of unlockable characters and extra endings. Sure 
 the anime style makes it feel less Gothic and the touch screen isnt used nearly enough, but in 
 the end it doesn't really matter. Konami took all the strong points from previous Castlevanias 
 and crammed them together to form one of the best action adventure titles I have played in a long 
 while. The attentions to relevant detail and building on what makes this series so excellent, are 
 the key reasons it will be around for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidawilk
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  This is what games should be like.
  a map on the top screen, Incredible boss battles (including boss returns like Balore) . A great storyline 
 and plenty of weapons to use (even pistols!)
  
  a larger soul system and special moves for each wep.
  using the touch screen to seal a boss away. 
 Heres a little hint... as soon as you get a seal PRACTICE It OR YOU WILL GET OWNED e. g youve been 
 fighting a fish that been killing you all afternoon then you land a final blow then you have to 
 remember the stupid scribble. trust me it will mess with your head if you dont practice the seals. 
 
  
  You can even get yoko to upgrade your weapon by fusing a soul with it, (SPOILER) like fusing a 
 golden axe with death's soul in order to create deaths scythe.
  
  There are plenty of secrets to discover. Why not put the gba aria of sorrow cartridge in your DS 
 and turn on dawn of sorrow and check out your inventory?
  
  I only have one question... Why couldnt it be a launch title cos its so dang addictive! lol ^^. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NCAA06_dude
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 15, 2006 8:59 am PT
Review:  I was tempted to just skip castlevania Dawn of Sorrow because i'd played the other castlevania's 
 already, boy would i of missed out if I had. This game is the 2nd Best DS game to date IMO, following 
 Rsident Evil DS. In the game, you are Soma, and must battle through a mysterious castle, gaining 
 diffferent abilitys (souls) , and customizing your equipment. The only bad thing about the game 
 that it is quite short and for some reason, finding all the extras just doesnt sound fun.
  
  Gameplay - 10/10 This is what castlevania is all about, and it delivers so well.
  
  Graphics- 
 9/10 The graphics are deffinitly updated from the past castlevanias, and some3 of the backrounds 
 appear to be almost 3-D
  
  Sound- 9/10 I actually loved the music, it went well with the game, and the sound effects werent 
 bad either.
  
  value- 8/10 The only time I mihgt be replaying this is julius mode, but other than that theres 
 not that much else to do, theres other modes, but they sort of seem like a last minute throw in.
 
  
  So bottom line, if you are a DS owner and don't have this game, it's simple, get it. I think its 
 not being made anymore, so esspecialy get it. I know I can't wait to get castlevania Portrait Ruin. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KKx2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is just plain Castlevania. It doesn't take many risks with the formula, 
 in fact, it doesn't take many risks with anything at all. They did add some touch screen features, 
 but that's more of a gimmick than anything else... We've all seen this before, it's the tried and 
 true Castlevania formula. A game packed with endless entertainment. Why, after all these years 
 it's still so darn addictive... I don't know.
  
  If you played any of the Castlevania games for the GBA you know exactly what your going to get 
 from Dawn of Sorrow. Not only does it resemble the GBA games both in style and gameplay, but it's 
 also about just as fun as any of those games so fans won't go wrong with Dawn of Sorrow... And 
 newcomers, buy this game.
  
  Visually the game is satisfying. Nothing stunning nor groundbreaking, but it's good enough for 
 a 2D game of this caliber. It most certainly looks alot better than the GBA games, the backgrounds 
 are beautiful when compared to previous Castlevania games on Nintendo's handhelds. Your surroundings 
 manage to keep a creepy atmosphere throughout the course of the game wich really adds to the entertaining, 
 and often difficult, combat where you'll encounter various foes, some creepier than the others. 
 The entire game takes place in the same castle that's split up into several areas, each with it's 
 different theme.
  
  The gameplay is, as it always is with this franchise, tight and easy to get into. You got your 
 basic attack button and a jump button. As well as a few combos to use special moves.. What moves 
 you make depend on what souls you have equipped... When you kill monsters, you'll have a chance 
 of getting their souls. This allows you to perform different moves that these monsters can do.
 
  
  This game also sounds alot better than the GBA games did. The music is creepy and really captures 
 the spirit of the game. Most noticeably the music is alot clearer in this game.
  
  The game is pretty easy, but then again it'll still take you about 10-15 hours to finish it completely.. 
 And it's well worth going through again, just because It's so darn entertaining... It doesn't mess 
 with the tried and true formula and it doesn't really do to much to distinguish itself from previous 
 games in the series.. But it's still alot of fun. Fans will love it and newcomers will learn to 
 do so as well. Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is one of the most enjoyable game on the Nintendo DS 
 right now.. So go get it.. Now.
  
  Now.
  
  Kristfer
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryptofreak120
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This DS game is getting great reviews all the way around, and it's clear why. I've seen plenty 
 of PS2 Castlevania games before, but this game looks better and plays better than any of those, 
 and it's on the DS! Soma Cruz, star of Aria of Sorrow, returns to this game with his power of soul 
 dominance once again, this time facing a cult led by Celia Fortner that plans to ressurect the 
 dark lord, Dracula, using two men that have special powers of their own. The boss battles are epic 
 (for the most part) and will challenge you as you try to figure out which soul of your enemies 
 will work best against them.
  
  Gameplay - Enemies you defeat give you souls to use, not to mention you have weapons, armor, and 
 accessories to equip and customize. You level up as you defeat enemies, and you'll need every level 
 to face the bosses, all of which require a strategy to defeat. You have a huge world to explore, 
 and they've put the map on the top screen and the action on the bottom screen, where you break 
 crystal blocks and draw seals to banish bosses with the stylus. A good 40 hours, plus a challenge 
 mode called Julius Mode, and even a hard difficulty. Nice. Only real complaint is the lack of real 
 multiplayer support (it tries, but it also fails) .
  
  Graphics - Eye-pleasing. The textures look real, every movement has some significant purpose, as 
 if you were high and you're totally out of it (which you're not) , and attacks are done smoothly. 
 The bosses and their looks are emphasized as truly important to the game, as they're all drawn 
 well. Also, the game, in any circumstance that needs it, contains a realistic physics engine (such 
 as a Peeping Eye rolling down a hill when it dies, and a Persephone's blouse blowing in the wind 
 as it gets drawn towards a Devil's whirlwind when it dies) .
  
  Sound - Music is good, but it gets repetetive over a while (I was actually not too annoyed) . Entering 
 a new area gives new music, which is an awesome touch. Hit sounds are satisfying, and the death 
 cries of your enemies will leave you please.
  
  Value - Multiplayer needs work, but the single player is truly replayable (in both modes, Normal 
 and Julius, and in Hard Mode) . Boss Rush Mode is also nice to fight all the bosses again to earn 
 special new weapons (again, good for a challenge) . Like I said, 40+ hours of fun and graphic amazement.
 
  
  You heard it here. Buy this one for sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Castlevania for the Nintendo DS is one of the best games on the DS. This 2-D game is great, its 
 fairly long. You have to go to many places, and fighting the bosses is interesting, especially 
 getting their souls, and seeing what they do. Collecting souls in the game is one of the challenging 
 aspects, and requires some time and patience. Some enemies give away souls faster than others, 
 but every monster in the game has one. There are over 100 monsters in the game, and they are all 
 awesome. I spent a long time playing this game, and I still am. Any of you who are looking for 
 a long action game, get this one.
  Good Qualities: The game offers a fairly long adventure, and each monster looks fantastic. The 
 game has good music. Collecting souls is hard and challenging, but fun. Boss fights are great, 
 and can actually be quite hard. There are many weapons to collect. There are some secret monsters, 
 that you need to look out for, its neat finding them and getting their souls. Multiplayer is a 
 great feature, and so is creating your own challenge using the monsters youve encountered. There 
 is also a harder difficulty when you beat the game, which makes it even longer.
  Bad Qualities: Money is the most annoying part of the game. Its hard to get it, and the weapons 
 cost a lot more than they normally should, so getting stuff takes a long time. You sometimes might 
 find yourself having a tough time collecting souls. Its tedious, but its worth the wait, because 
 every soul does something cool. There isnt much use of the Stylus, or the Double Screen. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 31, 2006 11:43 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Old school 2-D side scrolling done well. Responsive controls. Variety of weapons, spells, 
 and abilities. 
  
  THE BAD: Lack of story, plot, and character development. Mediocre visuals.
  
  Castlevania: 
 Dawn of Sorrow continues the formula, but is still quite enjoyable.
  
  GAMEPLAY is great. Soma Cruz, the hero, returns to prevent the resurrection of the Dark Lord Dracula. 
 He starts off only with a dagger, but eventually obtains the many weapons in the game (swords, 
 spears, axes, scythes, and even guns) . Along the way Soma is able to steal the souls of the enemies 
 he defeats adding them to his collection of spells and abilities. The variety of weapons and spells 
 make the game very fun and keep it fresh. Every time something new is acquired you immediately 
 want to check it out. 
  
  However, what the game lacks is good story telling. Dawn of Sorrow is a sequel to Aria of Sorrow 
 on the GameBoy Advance and the game sort of expects you to know what's going on. So, you won't 
 really know who these people are in the game unless you played the previous installment or spend 
 the time to read the brief character profiles.
  
  GRAPHICS are an improvement to the GameBoy Advance games, but still not something you would expect 
 to see on a Nintendo DS. The character models are clearly better, yet still not detailed. The cut 
 scenes aren't very impressive and the art style is more anime than the comic book look in previous 
 games. Everything animates well and the enemies and environments are distinct, but the game isn't 
 quite eye candy.
  
  SOUND is exceptional. The soundtrack is really great and makes the game exciting. All the different 
 areas have their own music so things don't feel the same while Soma is traveling around the huge 
 castle. The sound effects are also good and it's always fun to hear the moans and groans of the 
 creatures Soma slays; but, what's even more fun is when Soma takes damage and speaks a little bit 
 of Japanese.
  
  VALUE is good. The game will take 10-13 hours the first run. You will have to retry several times 
 because enemies will sneak up on you and slaughter poor Soma. The many boss battles are also quite 
 the challenge; however, after playing them a few times you will see their pattern and eventually 
 defeat them which is very satisfying. During the game, you can unlock Julius Mode which is the 
 other hero of the game who unlike Soma carries the traditional whip. His quest is short, but fun 
 nevertheless. After completing the game, New Game+ is unlocked for added replay value.
  
  OVERALL Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is a great game. You will realize why the game is so fun minutes 
 into the game and you understand why there have been so many iterations of this amazing game. It 
 is recommendable to own, but it also makes for a good rental. Either way, Nintendo DS owners should 
 play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThatGuy_5
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 29, 2006 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game! Amazing game! Amazing game! Although it is a 2D side scroller (which irks some people... 
 I dont know why) this game is simply, beautiful! Just like its prequel it pumps out some old fashioned 
 Castlevania ***-whoopin' (performed by Soma Cruz, who is awesome) mixed with the ability to collect 
 souls, thus creating many useable attacks, abilities, and effects. It also has an equipment setting 
 which gives you the chance to use different swords and armor (All weapons look different, armor 
 makes no change in appearance though...) . The game makes great use of the DS's touch screen in 
 my opinion and slams out some good quality sound effects and music. It is nicely topped off with 
 a boss rush mode after beating the game once through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somecrazymoogle
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  The castlevania series has been around longer than I have, so there had to be a reason why it was 
 still going strong after all these years. From the days of the NES, people have fallen in love 
 with the Belmont vs. Dracula story, which may be repeated many a time, but still finds an audience 
 to appeal to. Then came the release of Symphony of the Night for the Playstation 1 and from then 
 on, the castlevania series had changed forever to include many new elements into the gameplay which 
 we have seen since then in every new release.
  
  After the fans fell in love with the GBA title Aria of Sorrow (which was my first castlevania game 
 ever) Konami released it's sequel onto the nintendo DS, castlevania Dawn of Sorrow (I know, another 
 way to squeeze the DS initials into the game title, but no one really cares about that) and not 
 much has really changed since then.
  
  The story takes place one year after the events of Aria of Sorrow, where Soma Cruz, the main protagonist 
 and rebirth of Dracula is attacked by a woman named Celia who is the leader of a new cult whose 
 main purpose is to bring the dark lord Dracula back. After surviving the attack, you lead Soma 
 through the cult's base in order to stop their plans. And in this you will quickly learn the games 
 mechanics, and you will also learn how to get lost. The top screen displays the map of the castle, 
 and while you start with only a small portion shown to you, there is much more to discover. And 
 even though the game keeps you knowing where you are on the map, there is no one holding your hand 
 telling you where to go next.
  
  This of course, doesn't mean that this is mission impossible for Soma. You will have access to 
 many weapons that you find in the castle or purchase from the merchant. A new feature is to fuse 
 your current weapons with the souls of monsters to make them stronger, which is a easy to learn 
 and will have you collecting those souls. To touch more on that subject, the main difference of 
 AoS and Dos compared to other castlevania titles is that Soma is able to absorb the souls of the 
 monsters he defeats throughout the castle, and either use their abilities to his advantage or fuse 
 them with his weapons to make them stronger. With all of this behind you, you wont feel so underpowered 
 when you face the bosses in the game.
  
  The game doesn't have a particular degree of challenge to it if your a gaming expert, but your 
 first trip through the castle will set you back more than 10 hours. And then the extras should 
 keep you coming back to the game for at least another 10. You can play through the game in Julius 
 mode where you play as three characters from the game (Julius, Yoko and Genya) this is similar 
 to more traditional castlevania games because you will not have access to items from a menu, nor 
 will you have extra weapons, but if that seems to much for you there is always just the traditional 
 hard mode to play through afterwards to keep collecting souls and other items for the purpose of 
 bragging to your friends. And finally, if you don't want to keep exploring the castle, there is 
 always Boss Rush mode available after you beat the game. There is also a small amount of mulitiplayer 
 functionality, so you can trade souls with friends (think Pokemon) and you can set a race for both 
 of you to fight your way through 5 rooms of monsters that you fill yourself in whatever way you 
 wish.
  
  Now on to the more important stuff in the game, does it look good and does it sound good? the answer 
 to both is yes. The graphics are similar to what you have seen in previous castlevania games and 
 nothing will surprise you, the real difference is the detail that is put in the little areas. From 
 being able to see Soma's breath when he's standing still outside the castle to the creatures flying 
 around in the background of the game, it is all done beautifully. This is no where near what the 
 nintendo DS is capable of, but it does a good job staying true to it's roots. The music is a nice 
 improvement since the DS is able to provide better sound, all the areas have the traditional creepy 
 yet catchy tunes going through them and while most of them you will enjoy, there may be a few times 
 when you turn the volume down, but there is still a solid soundtrack contained in this game.
  
  And finally, what make this game a true DS title? honestly there is absolutely no reason we 
 couldn't see this game on any other platform. The touch screen functions are limited to the menus 
 and drawing symbols when you defeat a boss, these functions feel strange at first and some complain 
 that they get in the way with truly enjoying the game. But it could have been worse, you can still 
 use the D pad to scroll through the menus and the symbols that help you defeat the bosses are not 
 too complicated and the game is rather forgiving if your a bad tracer. There are also occasional 
 blocks that need destroying with aid of the stylus, but you wont be in any life or death situations 
 when you stumble on these bits of the castle so you can take your time, pick up the stylus and 
 tap the blocks to destroy them. Not too hard, is it?
  
  In the end, if you want an original DS game that will last you an hour with all the fancy DS features, 
 go buy Kirby Canvas Curve. Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is simply a sequel to a great game that only 
 adds icing on top of the already delicious cake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P2L5NM
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  Castlevania has always been one of those series that never quite made it to 3D successfully. N64 
 Castlevania was probably the closest the series came to the transition but ultimately those games 
 werent very good. The 2D series is one of the highest rated in history. It's presented us with 
 classics like Symphony of the Night and Aria of Sorrow. All of the GBA incarnations were great 
 games too. Now the first Castlevania has arrived in Dawn of Sorrow, which imo is the best installment 
 of the entire series to date.
  
  Gameplay - Simple and the same as all previous Castlevania games, this game however follows the 
 root of Aria of Sorrow. There is a soul system that gives you special abilities and powers to use 
 with or sometimes without your weapons; your weapons will require specific souls for upgrade. There 
 are a few touch screen controls in the game noticeably after every boss where you will need to 
 draw a symbol on screen matching the required symbol shown beforehand. This is neat but not really 
 a necessity for the gameplay. It can hinder it in ways but it's not too much of a bother.
  
  Graphics - simply gorgeous 2D graphics, better than Symphony of the Night and looks more detailed 
 than all of the GBA games. This isn't a surprise given the DS's hardware capabilities compared 
 with the older machines.
  
  Sound - Some of the best music I have heard in any video games. Great unique tunes which suit every 
 area/battle. The musical score in this game is great to listen to even on its own. For a 2D sidescroller 
 the music is ambitious.
  
  Value- Plenty of things to do after completing the game, you can unlock harder difficulty or play 
 through 3 other characters, there is also plenty to do even if you beat the last boss, like collecting 
 trying to get all the weapons and souls.
  
  Tilt/Overall
  
  My opinion on this game is that it's extremely enjoyable, it's lengthy it's got an amazing soundtrack 
 and will be one of the most entertaining 2D game ever. It's really that good. I'm not a huge castlevania 
 fan, I only enjoyed the previous games a little but this game has made me love the series even 
 more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mungen_Jin
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  This game has well polished 2D graphics as well as gameplay that alot of other 2D games have ( That 
 I love) as well as unique elements found in the castelvania series. The enemies are always changing 
 and The anime cutscene at the begining is really cool. The weapons you use range from daggers to 
 halberds. I am astounded by how much fun this game is and how deep it is at the same time. This 
 game is challanging but not so hard that you need to throw it at your wall. In short if you like 
 RPG's and have a DS pick this one up right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davyeddywaxy
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 16, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  One thing should be mentioned about Dawn of Sorrow, it is short. Sure if you try to collect every 
 single last soul the game will drag on but, you can easily complete the game in under five hours. 
 This is the wound that hurts DS Castlevania the most.
  
  New additions to Dawn of Sorrow include new monsters, a new cast, and a few new bosses... and that's 
 it. The gameplay hasn't changed at all and the touchscreen capabilities are minor at best. You 
 basically only use them on doors and to finish off bosses. Another surprised for me was that most 
 of the weapons are straight from Aria of Sorrow. Furthermore, the DS's first Castlevania game doesn't 
 impress on terms of content or the way it takes advantage of the system's main draw.
  
  Maybe a rent at best but there are so many other great games to be played on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyMonkey
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2006 11:06 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is probably one of the most addicting games to me since Advanced Wars 
 2! The weapons are incredible and the monsters/bosses in the game are almost always different.
 
  
  There are only 2 things in the game that annoy me, weapon animations and shops/money
  
  Money is a difficult thing to come around in the game, you can only really find it by destroying 
 enemies, breaking lights (?) , and the occasional treasure chest. Now that would be so bad if it 
 werent that the costs of health is fairly high. Im a level 38 and the total amount of money that 
 I have after buying a good health invitory is around 5000. Doesnt sound so bad right? well a 200 
 hp potion is 1000... and in the game the monsters can really pack a punch. But if you have a good 
 weapon, (Which can cost you about 9000-12000+ gold.) It isnt so bad. But this is made up by the 
 "magic spells" you can cast in the game that can really kick some butt.
  
  As for the animation part, its not really the animation more than the RANGE of it. most weapons 
 "special features" is usually the same. But being that you can upgrade your weapons with the souls 
 you capture from the enemies you slay (Who, evil!) can upgrade your weapons in damage by quite 
 a good amount, not to mention that every upgrade makes it more sleek in design ;)
  
  But other than those few annoyances, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is definetly a game that shouldnt 
 be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sol87
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 12, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  As soon as i got this picked this game up i was hooked on it i didn't even want to look at other 
 games. This game has so much stuff in it that each time you go to the shop you get exited to see 
 what cool stuff they have, when i first went to the shop they just had the standard weapons but 
 about a week later of playing it i was very surprised to see a pistol with silver bullets up for 
 sale. The controls are great unfortunately there is very limited use of the touch screen and no 
 use for the microphone. It has a whole leveling system witch makes it a RPG witch is something 
 new for the Castlevania series. In the game its just one huge level with great boss battles and 
 interesting storyline. I think people are not giving this game the full credit that deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockChina99
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 9, 2006 8:23 am PT
Review:  You are Soma Cruz, the descendent of the great vampire king Dracula. Like Dracula you hold control 
 over monsters souls. You use your powers to take the souls of monsters and use their powers to 
 your advantage. Yeah this was fun in the first game but now it has gotten old. I do like how they 
 tried to utilize the touch screen with some magic skills although they didnt do it enough. A lot 
 of the game is like playing a better looking repeat of the first game. The story line is slow and 
 doesnt merit any unique qualities. This is one game your better off renting then buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somaslayer
Rating: 10
Date: May 18, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Assume the role of Dawn of Sorrow's Soma Cruz as you quest to prevent a cult from reviving the 
 Dark Lord. DOS brings back Soma's ability to capture the souls of his enemies, which is the highlight 
 of the game along with the new magic seal system required to banish boss enemies. These two, being 
 some of the newest aspects of the Castlevania series, will prevent long-time fans of the Castlevania 
 series satisfied, while sustaining an outstanding appeal to new Castlevania fans. The storyline 
 brings forth new adversaries. These include two men who were born on the same date as Dracula's 
 demise. They are Dmitri Blinov and Dario Bossi. Their leader, Celia Fortner, is the leader of this 
 cult. Soma must travel through one of the largest Castlevania castles to date in order to prevent 
 the beckoning of the dark lord. It won't take players long to adjust to any of the gameplay factors 
 and moving through the story will give all players a reason to move forward to the resolution of 
 Dawn of Sorrow. Sure, it could have been better, but all games could use some improvement. I can't 
 wait to see what the next Castlevania installment has to offer.
  10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skycheese
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 8, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Great I played it on a friends DS and am ordering it myself. It was superb I thoroughly enjoyed 
 it. It's a must play game and will become an instant classic. Just buy it pick up your DS and play. 
 And when youre done you unlock more levels. Soma is a credit to video gaming. I urge you to buy 
 it today. Graphics great, game play superb and sound eerie which is great. Everyone should buy 
 this superb and underrated game today. I have to write more words but I cannot think of anything. 
 Thank you for listening. By this guy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DZAPPER
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 6, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  First off this is definitely the best game on DS Hands down. Screenshots don't do this game any 
 justice, in motion this game looks better than MPH or MKDS. Though it's not in 3D the beutiful 
 Side-Scrolling characters just pop off of your screen.
  This game has an extremely deep single-player mode. It puts you in the place of Soma Cruz who you 
 will remember from Aria of Sorrow. He is possessed by Dracula and must defeat the people who made 
 it that way. The story is told through text-based conversation but is still very captivating. 
 
  The control system is just simple enough to be complex. Also it offers a multiplayer mode which 
 is actually pretty good. 
  The only flaw about this game is the unessecary addition of touch screen features. The block-smashing 
 puzzles are pretty good but the Magic seals are completely stupid and appear too often.
  But this game makes up for it with great music, eye-popping graphics, and rediculously difficult 
 single player mode. So don't believe the hype of online play their are still plenty of great offline 
 DS games. And this is the best DS game hands down.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StormrageX
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is a high quality sidescroler in which you play as Soma, a high school 
 attendant who escaped from beenig the dark lord.
  
  Gameplay: Very good, and easy to understand.
  
  Graphics: 2d but wonderfull and beautiful backgrounds
 
  
  Sound: Extremely good music!!! This game has the best and most exciting music for every occasion 
 of the game.
  
  Value: A big map, lots of weapons and souls. What do you want more??
  
  Tilt: It kinda has a good replay value because of new modes and harder difficulty.
  
  I think 
 Castlevania is a very good game and a must own for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 31, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  In Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, you play as Soma Cruz, who discovered a year ago that he has Dracula's 
 evil hidden inside his body. Now, he must do all he can do to stop a mysterious cult from releasing 
 the power of the lord of darkness himself. Here's my review:
  
  Gameplay: The 2D Castlevania games are always spectacular, and never seems to disappoint gamers. 
 This new editon to the franchise is no exception, and is by far one of the best DS titles to date. 
 Here's why. First off, the usual concept: the 2D side scrolling adventure that has been used since 
 its NES days, which is very familiar to the Metroid side-scrolling franchise. It is so fun and 
 in general entertaining to run through such a huge, creepy, nicely designed castle. Another great 
 moment is the action of the game. The action of the game just entertains me, from its deep weapon, 
 armor, item, and soul selecting, to the whole RPG feel to it (Such as leveling up.) . The game has 
 a great variety of monsters to kill, as well as some challenging bosses to take down. Which brings 
 us to another great part of the game: soul collecting (its not as devious as it sounds... at all) . 
 It brings a great variety of puzzles while running around this massive castle, which you get by 
 killing monsters (not all the time) and bosses. The touch screen functions, though a bit annoying 
 for some reason, works, and plays, somewhat great. They even have a multiplayer option that isn't 
 bad at all (creating little dungeons to race against, having enemies and obstacles as choices, of 
 course.) ! If there's anything wrong with this game, its this very minor complaint: the game doesn't 
 do anything seriously special to make this game different than the other Castlevania games. That, 
 and my small, indirect complaint that had to do with the touch screen. But seriously, very minor 
 complaints aside, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is an awful fun game to play through a number of 
 times (especially with unlockable characters to play as.) , and is a great action-packed side-scroller 
 to play on the go. Once again, one of the best DS titles out there by far.
  
  Graphics: One the best sprite-work I've seen in a game. It has a beautiful background and overall 
 design, with very sharp, detailed bosses. Beatiful artwork aside, it also has astounding lighting 
 effects. The only problems would be that it could've been a bit better, but, other than that, it 
 is a great-looking DS title.
  
  Sound: The sound, overall, is very superb. The music is excellent, and the sound affects definately 
 fit the game's horror-like style to it. If the writing could have been wittier, as well as a possible 
 tweak with the overall sound, then it could have been perfect. Trying not to leave a sour note 
 on this part, it doesn't really matter; the sound is still very well-done.
  
  Value: The game is fun enough to play through a few times, as in enough times (unlocking all the 
 characters to play as in the game.) . The multiplayer is fun, if not, good enough. But really, most 
 gamers might just play through the game once, if not, twice. But still, the game is a little addicting.
 
  
  Tilt: The game is a great title. So much, that I recommend this game to anyone. Fans of general 
 action-adventure games will especially find some fun in this game, but still, anyone can find at 
 least some kind of fun in this game. Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the kind of game that can be 
 enjoyed by almost everyone. A definate must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seregaur
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  After several attempts on handheld systems, IGA hits the mark with this awesome game. Any fan of 
 "Castleroid" games should buy this.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good, although several of the enemy sprites are recycled from earlier 
 games. The DS is capable of more, though, and I wish the Character pics (the ones that appear when 
 they talk) hadn't been "Toonified".
  
  Sound: The Castlevania games are revered for their exceptional soundtracks, and DoS is no exception. 
 Unlike most games, the music never starts to feel repetitive, and it doesn't distract you from 
 the game.
  DoS is the perfect example of what game music should sound like.
  
  Gameplay: Amazing. The range of abilities and equipment is great, giving you an astounding level 
 of customization. Want sheer power? Equip your strongest weapon and the Devil and Golem souls. 
 Want speed? Valmanway and the Black Panther soul. Long range killing? Absolutely!
  Finding your own playstyle is a blast, easily making this one of the best DS games available.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiohto9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow fixes some of the flaws previously in the franchise. The biggest one 
 that I noticed was that I didnt feel constricted in my movement as I did in the others (with exception 
 to Harmony of Dissonance) . Even though it didn't use 3d graphics with exception to a couple of 
 enemies and backdrops, the games handdrawn graphics are as amazing as always has been in the Castlevania 
 series. The music and sounds are the best yet and the length of the game is good for its genre. 
 Me taking my time to explore and find some good items as I usualy do; it took me about 7 hrs to 
 complete.
  The games is relatively easy but there are a few more difficult spots in the game. I liked the 
 use of the touch screen because you get to use for for the seals which arent used often enough 
 in the game to be absolutly needed and get it the way but enough to enjoy its use. However I also 
 found using the seals to be one of the most frustrating things in the game. If you dont then the 
 boss is revived with health and the battle continues for longer until you have to attampt the seal 
 again. To wrap this up I highly recommend this game as one of the best games out on the ds. Its 
 def. a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixAscalon
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Konami's latest incarnation of the Castlevania series takes place one year after the events of 
 Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow. The protagonist, Soma Cruz, finds himself attacked by a mysterious 
 woman by the name of Celia. Soma quickly jumps into action and makes quick work of the fiends, 
 and absorbs their souls through his power of Dominance. Defeated, Celia retreats to an unknown 
 location. Soma knows that Celia has some affiliation with the dark lord and quickly pursues her.
 
  
  Dawn of Sorrow (henceforth known as DoS) plays a lot like the other Castlevania games. However, 
 rather than a whip and some holy weapons, Soma uses various weapons such as swords or axes to vanquish 
 his enemies. Sometimes, when you kill an enemy, a flashing soul enters Somas body. That 
 is his power of Dominance at work. Occasionally, Soma will be able to absorb a demons soul, 
 but the number of occurrences it really depends on the rarity: the more common the monster, the 
 easier it is to take their soul. There are four types of souls: bullet, guardian, enchant, and 
 ability, all of which are useful in your quest.
  
  Soma must venture deep into Draculas castle, and often must to skip certain areas because 
 they will require certain abilities to enter them. One such boundary is a magically sealed door, 
 which you can only enter if you possess the corresponding magic seal. This is the aspect of the 
 game that really sets it apart from its predecessors. As you play the game, you will intermittently 
 find magic seals, which you will use to open certain sealed doors or to defeat bosses. Upon depleting 
 a boss HP, you will be prompted to draw a magic seal on the touch screen. If you take too 
 long to draw the seal, or draw it incorrectly, the boss will come back to life, but only with a 
 bit of health, forcing you to subjugate it once more and draw the seal correctly. Unfortunately, 
 seals are very scarcely used, and theyre somewhat awkward because you have to take out your 
 stylus after using the D-pad for a long time.
  
  DoS graphics are quite good. They retain the nostalgic 2-D Castlevania feel and combine 
 it with 3-D backgrounds in certain areas. Dont get me wrong, these arent GBA graphics; 
 on the contrary, it is some of the best 2-D game graphics ever produced for a handheld. The games 
 music is very catchy at time, keeping the haunting, melancholic feel that surrounds the game intact. 
 As for the games value, there is a second, completely different adventure that you can unlock, 
 and it is also very enjoyable. 
  
  To quote Greg Muellers review of the game, Whether you're familiar with the series 
 or not, you can't go wrong with Dawn of Sorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swornsecrets
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 27, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn Of Sorrow is by far one of the best games I have ever played on the DS. 
  
  I love playing this game, I'm still trying to unlock everything. There's so much to do in this 
 game it's so detailed. If you havent played it before it takes a little getting used to as far 
 as the controls go, but its still good.
  
  The graphics are absolutely stunning!! The 2D is amazing, and so perfect for this side scroller.
 
  
  The music was good, but I personally thought it could have been better.
  This game is really worh playing over and over again! I'm playing through my second time and the 
 game is still interesting to me.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdh77dsp
Rating: 5.3
Date: Apr 23, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  I was expecting this game to be a lot better than it is becuase how so many people say good thingsa 
 about it. This was the first castlevania game I have played and I dont expect to be getting another 
 one. 
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay was mediocre, not anything even close to being better than that. They didnt 
 have enough different weapons. When you beat a boss you had to use the stylus to steal there soul, 
 which I think it is extremely stupid idea to put in this game. The story isnt very good at all. 
 I got tired of playing it after about 6 1/2 hours. Some of the combos you could create were really 
 cool.
  
  Graphics-The graphics were bad exept the things you could sometimes see in the background. The 
 graphics were not horrible but they definatly were not good.
  
  Sound-The sound was really bad . The way it sounded when you were talking to someone got extremely 
 annoying.
  
  Value-The value is really high compared to every thing else was really good.
  
  Overall this 
 game was not good at all. It is supposed to be good, that is what most people say about it but 
 it is really bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lujonathan
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I had played Castlvania: Aria of Sorrow. This game is practically the same as Aria. Being a NDS 
 game, Dawn of Sorrow uses all possible functions in a way that the gaming experience is maxed. 
 The top screen saves you from pausing the action and reading the map. And the touch screen is used 
 to save the game, but items, command familiars, break blocks, and all sorts of things. The only 
 frustrating part is that you have to deal with magical seals. If you dont input the seal quickly 
 enough, the boss revives and you've got to kill it again!
  Anyway. the stroyline is a continuation of Aria's story, and it is still amazing. this game is definitely 
 for hardcore gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndulationInc
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 20, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  When I originally acquired the DS this was one of the first games I owned. It wasn't like all the 
 "puzzle" titles that became the norm with the system. This game utilized everything the DS had 
 to offer, an much more!
  
  GAMEPLAY ~
  The game played so very easy. The controls needed a bit of adjustment but once it was configured 
 to your liking, it was time to get the ball rolling. This game plays like it's brethren on the 
 GBA Aria of Sorrows. So Soma returns, an has all the cool Mega Man-esk abilities at his disposal. 
 Soma can absorbed the spirits of defeated foes allowing him to use their power for his one purposes. 
 There are three spirit slots, bullet ( UP & attack) for projectile attacks, Guardian (R Trigger) 
 for body adaptation spirits, an Enchant (Auto use) which will enhance different stats an such. 
 There is a mass a mount of weapons, armor, an items to find an utilize, some good, all awesome! 
 The map is nice and for the most part, pretty straight forward. Which doesnt lead you to get confused 
 an backtrack too often.
  Now onto the thing that made me give it a 10. The DS engine! 
  Normally if it isn't a puzzle game it just doesnt work for the DS system. But instead of just 
 being defeated Vania-DS uses the top screen for your always important map / enemy and weapon menu, 
 interchangeable with the select button. Now you might ask, "where does the stylus come in" well, 
 it isn't used very much actually. The real use of it is to remove some ice-blocks at the beginning 
 of the game an to draw magic seals. 
  The magic seals portion is the real downside of this title. Half the time you will have to battle 
 the same boss over and over again just to get the pattern down, yeah they have a "practice" mode, 
 but when in the heat of battle it's hard to interchange between controller and stylus. Besides 
 that the game is solid with hardly any faults.
  
  STORY ~
  To tell you the truth I can't remember it... an I just beat it. Something to do with a new cult 
 resurrecting the dark lord a year after Aria of Sorrows. Oh yeah an Soma magically forgets all 
 of his abilities from the first installment of the series... that didn't really happen... but something 
 should explain why soma can't double-jump anymore!
  
  GRAPHICS ~
  Outstanding! Everything has a nice 3D look to it, like if released for the PSone! It's just smooth, 
 the monsters don't look as choppy when maxed out and bosses are huge, sometimes taking up the whole 
 screen! The map is nice an big as stated, but the backgrounds are what make it! They are vibrant 
 when needed an darker when called for. There is also a nice anime style opener. The one thing Ill 
 say is that they did a good job in the "re-paint" department. Instead of just re-painting the monsters 
 over an over again, they took the same body mold an added new parts or complete reconfigured them 
 when a re-use was needed! This is the first time Ive seen this in any game! It was very cool!
 
  
  MUSIC ~
  this is the first Vania titles Ive played in the past few that had good overall music! Except 
 for a few mistakes here an there the music stayed nice an buoyant with the flowing backgrounds! 
 Moving from dark arrangement to organ interludes to all out symphony rock! it was just awesome! 
 An at one point the classic track "Vampire Killer" cuts in an it's like nostalgia all over again! 
 The SFX were ok, but could have used more gurgling sounds an other cool effects, but at least the 
 music was great for once!
  
  REPLAYABILITY ~
  This game, like the last one, has a decent replayability section. With spirit collecting to specialty 
 weapons an hidden areas it has all that can be expected from a title that in first initial play 
 took 14 hours to beat, basically because I am a treasure hunter an needed to get every spirit possible! 
 
  There is also Julius mode, just like in Aria of Sorrows. Except this time around Julius has some 
 help in the form of two other partners, I wonder who! Anyway, there is alot to go back an do including 
 several different endings, a boss rush mode an once the game is completed the ability to change 
 the difficulty! There is alot to do!
  
  OVERALL ~
  This is the must have title for the Action / RPG fan who owns a DS an would like something other 
 than a puzzle game to complete! Defiantly the best non-puzzle games Ive played for the DS since 
 owning it! 
  
  GO BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinkyfoo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  It's hard to make a sequel better than a game like Aria of Sorrow, but Dawn of Sorrow pulls it off. 
 The castlevania series is a large and proud one. All of the games in the series could be considered 
 masterpieces except the 3D ones. DoS perfectly blends RPG elements with old school platforming. 
 There are over 100 souls in the game to collect each with different powers. The combat is fun with 
 over 100 enemies to fight. This game also hase some of the best boss battles in a long time. Once 
 you beat the game you unlock different modes and the ability to play through the game as different 
 characters. It doesn't take advantage of the DS's capabilities though. You only use the touch screen 
 in boss battles and for destroying blocks of ice. The graphics would be impressive on GBA, but 
 not on DS. This is still probably the best in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKKjuuji
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 13, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I am new to the Castlevania series, and will work from newest to oldest. Dawn of Sorry was my introduction 
 to the series, and I couldn't ask for a better game. This extremely addicting game amazed me in 
 so many ways.
  
  For someone who's as new to the series as I was and is just looking for a fun game, here is a basic 
 overview of what's going on:
  
  Soma Cruz is one of the three heirs to the title "Dark Lord," who is the opposite of "God." Soma 
 goes to a mysterious castle in order to defeat Celia, a mysterious priestess who has found two 
 other candidates for the Dark Lord, Dmitri and Dario. Soma's special power is the ability to collect 
 the souls of creatures he has killed. 
  
  Starting off weakly with nothing but a knife Soma starts by defeating three creatures, a skeleton, 
 an armor knight, and a golem. When each of these first three is defeated Soma is given a new soul. 
 There are three main types of souls: bullet, guardian, and enchantment. Each one has varied uses, 
 bullet generally being attacks, guardian generally being powers, and enchantment usually being 
 some sort of ability or stat-boost. (There is also a fourth, much less common, type: Abilities. 
 These can be turned on or off from the Ability screen. There are only 8 or so of these, and most 
 of them come from bosses.)
  
  Basic gameplay involves defeating monsters, getting souls/abilities, leveling up, getting better 
 weaponry and armor, etc.
  
  The diversity of this game, in both abilities and levels, is so good it scares me. Every time I 
 fought a new monster my head would bloom with ideas of what ability that monster's soul would give 
 me. I found myself a number of times wondering, "How the hell am I going to get past that?!" Then 
 I'd come upon a room with a creature in it whose ability I needed, and the abilities are amazing. 
 Whether they're used for combat or anything else.
  
  The creatures have very different powers, and very different looks. It's amazing how many creatures 
 there are (three hundred or so) , and how different each level is.
  
  The touch screen is not used very often, mostly to break ice blocks and to seal monsters. The ice 
 block breaking is rather gimmicky and worthless, but the sealing is great fun, especially when 
 it gets more difficult. When a boss has sustained enough damage to be destroyed you are faced with 
 a magic seal which you must draw on the touch screen. If you draw the seal correctly then the boss 
 is finished and you get a special red orb which will replenish your HP and MP, if you fail you 
 must continue to fight the boss until you are given the chance to try again. There are five different 
 seals.
  
  On to Gamespot's rating system!
  
  Gameplay: Definitely a perfect ten, the gameplay is amazing, and unlike a lot of games of today, 
 requires a lot of strategy. You need certain powers to defeat certain bosses, but which ones. You 
 need to use your head as much as your fingers against many of these horrific monsters.
  
  Graphics: Completely 2-D (except for Alastor's sword, which is 3D) so there's nothing "great" about 
 the graphics, and they're the weakest part of the game. But it doesn't hinder the game at all, 
 unless you're a graphics whore. But if you're a graphics whore you won't have or be getting a DS 
 anyway. As far as 2-D goes though, the graphics are good.
  
  Sound: I will only say this [six million times] . THE MUSIC IS AWESOME! It sounds as though they 
 got an entire orchestra to create the music for this game, and the music is just great. When the 
 game is beaten you unlock "Sound Mode" in which you can play 29 different musical bits, and I love 
 them all. My favorite is number 28 (there's 0-28) "Bloody Tears," and that by itself is an hour 
 of listening (the entire thing, the song's aren't long but they're great) .
  
  Value: I beat this game once, spent 21 hours on it, levelling up and everything (even after the 
 game was beaten, because it's just that much fun) then my file got corrupted. Then I played the 
 entire thing through again, without a bit of the fun lost. The thirty five dollars are a bargain 
 in every way. You cannot go wrong with this game.
  
  Tilt: There is nothing wrong with this game, literally. I couldn't give it a 10 out of 10 because 
 the graphics don't deserve a 10 but this is easily one of the best DS games out there. I am in 
 love with this game, no joke. An easy reccomendation for anyone new to the series, or a hardcore 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto-freak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 11, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best rpg for the ds so far. Castlevania has come back to its 2d sidescrolling 
 awesomeness and the result is amazing.! Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is one of my favourite games. 
 
  In this game you start off with not so great weapons. But the farther along you go, the better 
 your weapons can get and the more souls you steal. you buy more items and it is pretty much a standard 
 rpg, you level up, getting better all the time.
  The graphics for this game were really great and so was the sound. The boss battles were very creative 
 and challenging and there is alot of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shakanovirgo
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is a great game. I liked this game because of the 2 different difficulties, 
 the julius mode, the boss rush mode, but in the rush mode Konami missed 2 bosses: the last one 
 and one that had wings and was black (the one that was black was too easy but anyway they missed 
 him) . In the Julius mode I thought that Alucard was not alive anymore but I was wrong! And what 
 a surprise Alucard is Arikado! The last boss in the julius mode is Soma another surprise. He is 
 the dark lord but I wonder what is the true ending, Soma is not the dark lord anymore or Alucard, 
 Yoko and Julius kill Soma, if Konami continues with the series of Soma, I would like to know!!! 
 I also liked all the weapons but instead of an RPG they should have put a laser weapon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tocool340
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  My first impression was that this may be better than C: SotN. But I was wrong because this game 
 has flaws that may test someones patience. The story begins with soma cruz, who is said to be dracula 
 reborn. Although he is not entirely dracula, he is said to contain his power, and is the only one 
 who can revive him. The story takes place around 2032 or so because I don't quite remember the 
 time it had. Soma cruz is being chased by this evil cult who wants to revive the dark lord. This 
 evil cult has to candidates that needs to kill soma. If they kill him, they will be annouced the 
 dark lord. One candidate has the power of fire while the other has the power to minapulate his 
 enemy power if it has contact on him. The story basically takes place in a castle. The castle has 
 a least six different areas. Each area has it's own enemys and bosses. If you kill a monster, you 
 have the ability to take their soul and use their power. This is the part I hate because in order 
 to steal a monster soul, you will need to kill it over and over and over again. This will drag 
 the game out as to seeing that almost all monster souls are needed to advance through the game, 
 although these monsters souls are optional. You may spend hours trying to steal one monster soul. 
 This will seem repetitive and will kill the game value. But if you have time only your hand and 
 is a forgiving person, then you may feel right at home with it.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are perfect for this game. But killing a boss, you willl need to use the 
 touch screen in order to take the boss soul. And like I said before, trying to get a certain monster 
 soul can be a real pain.
  
  Graphics: These are really some good looking graphics for a 2-D game. With 3-D background graphics, 
 they are great graphics.
  
  Sound: The sounds are great also. The music is not repetitve. They are always different in every 
 area. The sound effects are great too.
  
  Value: You maybe play this game a good four times before you let it collect dust on the shelve.
 
  
  Overall: I liked the game but it's that stupid soul system thing that haves you kill a monster 
 a million times before you actually recieve their soul....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania DS is about as good as 2D platformers can get and its only hindered by one flaw, but 
 I'll get to that later. First the good, Castlevania has one of the most addictive game systems 
 for this type of game incoroporating RPG elements quite well into the mix of the game. Continuing 
 on, the graphics , control, and DS usage all works for this game just as pretty much everything 
 does it seriously only has one real flaw, THE PATHFINDING IS EXTREMELY FRUSTRATING. Trying to find 
 your way can literally take hours as you search through every possible path just to find the one 
 area you can unlock then completing it. But, other than that you should go out and buy this game 
 right now, DO IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raver22boy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  To start off, this is one of the best games on the ds to date. The graphics are terrific for being 
 2d, with little touches like fog and little movements in the enemies. There are beautifully rendered 
 backgrounds and terrific animations. The only graphical issue is that some attacks and animations 
 lag a little bit, but you will hardly ever notice it. The gameplay is terriffic, and can get highly 
 addicting. The exploration based gameplay, with the terrific rpg mechanics give a great gameplay 
 experience. The only problem is that it isn't that much different from the gba itterations of the 
 game. The sound i the game is awesome, all of the enemies have different noises that will be easily 
 recognizeable, and the music is terrific. The only other problem with the game is its length, the 
 main story, even with the final ending, will probably take you about ten hours to complete, but 
 there are tons of things you can do once you beat it for the first time, like the Julius Belmont 
 mode, the boss run mode, and just finding all the secrets to give you a hundred percent for the 
 game. This is a terrific game that everyone should have in their collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogogoman
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Not having played a great deal of castlevania I dont have much to judge it against, however i found 
 it a solid and enjoyable game with a lot of content.
  
  Gameplay is smooth and easy to learn as well as having a fun soul system to play around with.
 
  graphics are not beatiful but flow smoothly and easily with the pace of the game.
  Most of the tunes are good at setting atmosphere and are easy to listen to.
  Also it has plaenty 
 of replay value if you want to finish the whole game or collect souls or items or go through it 
 on julius mode etcetera..
  
  Lots of fun and definitelyworth buying if you like that sort of thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bettsy1987
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  WOW! This is an amazing game. Firstly the 2D graphics are amazing, well drawn and perfectly capture 
 the style and feel of Castlevania. The bosses are amazing and the first time you see them you will 
 be blown away. The enemies are varied and a lot are very intellegent. The sound effects are good 
 with some well done 'grunts' favoured over a few poorly done of speech. The music is also amazing 
 and i am still humming the tunes! The gameplay is classic Castlevania and the unlockable Julius 
 Mode feels even more like Castlevania. The inventory is well handled as is the enemy directory, 
 i can gurantee you will try and find every single one! There is also a good variety of weapons 
 and every player will certainly have a favourite. The new ability to quickly swap between weapons 
 is a great new addition to the classic Castlevania formula. The main quest is lengthy and when 
 combined with all the unlockable modes means one very long and enjoyable game.
  
  All in all the game is a brilliant action platfromer with great presentation that deserves to be 
 listed as one of the DS's best games. Everyone should own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandningaara
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 24, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  i played this game before aria of sorrow, but still, i enjoyed this game a lot. First castlevania 
 game for me, and i really did enjoy the experience. i really like the soul system, since it creates 
 an enormous amount of combinations of abilities to use against the enemies. The graphics are great, 
 and the music is awesome. (pinnacle music is the best btw) Though they should have kept the cooler 
 looking character pics from Aria of Sorrow, this game is still one of my favorites. It also seems 
 more challenging than Aria, as far as boss battles go, and the boss rush mode.
  
  I really like this game, it is a must for anyone with a DS and craving a 2-d side scrolling action 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davidhalo18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Many of us had our fair share of the Castlevania series. If you owned an original Nintendo, Super 
 Nintendo, Playstation or Playstation 2 chances are you experienced one of the many stories based 
 in this well known universe.
  
  The game starts off predictably following the last game which came out for the GBA called Aria 
 of Sorrow and pits you in the shoes of the ever famous Soma Cruz pretty much overnightly overcoming 
 the achievements of his last battle. The story is nothing much other then a typical one man versus 
 all monster fight to save himself but it does have memorable monsters and dialogue to keep you 
 interested.
  
  The games 2d graphics clearly show off the hard work the team put into utilizing the DS 2d capability. 
 While not completely mind blowing at first after witnessing the animation, quality and care that 
 was put into the creation of each of the dozens of monsters I felt myself more and more immersed 
 and loving the details that I could find in the background and the characters themselves.
  
  The musical notations and sound fx, while not completely on par with some other platforming 
 games out there, are still wide and varied. Swords like swords, and monsters sounds like, well, 
 monsters. While not memorable the background deserves praise for its eerie feel and style,
  
  Probably one of the most notable features of the game is the ability system. Soma Cruz is able 
 to absorb the souls of most of his fallen foes and use it to his advantage. This happens randomly 
 but just enough for you to get most if not all the powers even on the first trip through the game. 
 The powers are varied and unique and range among powering up abilities as well as to all out offensive 
 maneuvers. This is where it immerses you more and gives you an option wether you want to play the 
 game more tacticful or like most gamers, hand out in your face ass woopings.
  
  This goes for the weapons as well. From classical swords to axes to, yes, handgun, the weapons 
 are plentiful enough to keep you tuning Soma until he fits your needs, leaving plenty of your own 
 personality to appear in the game world itself.
  
  The DS microphone may not get attention but the touch screen gets a few gimmicky options that are 
 just enough to keep you noticing the feature on your ds. In the game you have to perform seals 
 after you defeat a boss to end his life and perhaps gain their ability. The seal is taught to you 
 and can be practiced before the match which is a great touch and it is exilirating to anxiously 
 get it done right after a boss fight because if you get it wrong, yes you guessed it, you gotta 
 duke it out all over again, but the penalty is not as massive as it sounds as the main bosses gain 
 only 1/2 there energy at most. 
  
  Another use for the touch screen is after gaining the special ability to destroy bricks, you guessed 
 it again, you pull out your stylus and start smashing way through areas. Sounds better in concept 
 then in practice for the bricks are pretty much standardly in place and predictable of what you 
 need to do, nor does it happen often so it balances it from being an annoyance as well.
  
  Overall the plot in Castlevania while a little more to the thin side is easily counter balanced 
 by it's great Graphics, gameplay and overall Fun factor making it easily another great condenter 
 from Konami and quite possibly one of the best Castlevania sidescrolling games to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychopete011
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the latest portable version of the series. And, in fact, it's possibly 
 the best since Symphony of the Night.
  
  Story
  Dawn of Sorrow is the follow-up to 2003's Aria of Sorrow, which was for the GBA, and it yet again 
 stars Soma Cruz. It is a year after Soma learned about the powers of Dracula inside him (Soma becomes 
 the Dark Lord when he is dead) , and he thought he could relax with his friend Mina. However, while 
 with Mina one day, a mysterious woman named Celia appears before him, wanting to ressurect the 
 Dark Lord, and attacks Soma. Against the wishes of Mina and Arikado, he goes to the base of the 
 cult that attacked him, which is strangely like a castle. He wants to get rid of Celia, so he can 
 put this Dark Lord thing behind him. You will meet more characters along the way, but it's basically 
 a noraml story. But the fact that it is not the normal Castlevania storyline makes it seem appealing.
 
  
  Gameplay
  Dawn of Sorrow is a sidescrolling action game, like previous installments of the franchise. But 
 this game is more than just hitting people with swords, spears, and axes. Dawn of Sorrow marks 
 the return of the Tactical Soul System. This unique system has you getting souls from enemies you 
 defeat, each with a unique ability, since every enemy in the game has a soul. There are four types 
 of souls: Bullet, Guardian, Enchant, and Ability. Bullet souls are attack souls that are activated 
 by pressing up on the D Pad and the Y button at the same time, which causes the activation of the 
 soul's ability. Guardian souls are used with the R button, and have lasting effects that drain 
 your MP while you're using the Guardian soul, and you can press the R button to cancel the soul's 
 usage. Enchant souls are souls, that do just that, enchant. They offer special bonuses, and activate 
 as soon as they are equipped, and they don't use MP. Ability souls are special abilities, such 
 as the double jump and being able to go underwater, that you usually get by beating a certain boss. 
 This may seem like a cheap addition, but these souls actually are important to progressing through 
 the game, and add a sense of stratagy, since using certain souls with each other can allow you 
 to devestate your enemy. You also get a special soul in the game known as the Doppleganger soul, 
 which allows to have two sets of equipment that you can switch at anytime without going to your 
 menu by pressing the X button so you can adapt to any situation. This really comes in handy during 
 boss battles. Basically, the gameplay hasn't been this perfect in a Castlevania game since Symphony 
 of the Night.
  
  Graphics/Sounds
  The graphics in this game may be 2D, but, hell, they're beautiful as hell. Characters are well 
 designed, the levels are well-thought out and are gorgeous, and the enemies are incredibly varied 
 in their appearences. Well, most of the time, anyway. Sometimes you get enemies rehashed from previous 
 ones like the Bone Tower, Bone Pillar, Bone Ark, and White Dragon. Weird. But, the bosses in this 
 game are all incredibly designed, and deserve to be respected (for design, not for working for 
 a cult) . The music is also well-composed, and the game sounds great.
  
  Extra Features
  The replay value increases by the number of extra features and easter eggs. Beating the game even 
 on normal difficulty gets you stuff! BUt it is also worth playing due to not only the multiple 
 endings, but also the fact that you can use your Soma to fight your friend's Soma, as well as trade 
 souls!
  
  Overall
  Overall, Dawn of Sorrow is a fantastic game, hands down. Possibly one of the best DS titles out 
 there! But, for all of us, you could get 11 hours or so out of playing through the good ending, 
 but the soul collecting is guarenteed to add more game time.
  
  GRADE: A
  PROS: Nice character designs, incredible gameplay, beautiful graphics, great music, soul collecting 
 is more addicting than it sounds, plenty of replay value
  CONS: Meh-ish story, short single player 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abid9
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is Konami's new game. It is a side scroller and is successful at that. 
 It is about how Soma saves the world and must go though the castle and save his friend. The game 
 has a lot of replay and is a ton of fun!
  
  Gameplay- An awesome side scroller, you will collect souls and have a lot of fun with them!
  
 
  Graphics- A very beautiful darkly colored game, full of detail!
  
  Sound- One of the best music a game could ever have, a shame they couldn't put voice over.
  
 
  Value- This game is definitely worth $35, there is a lot of replay, and collecting the souls will 
 take a while.
  
  Tilt- A perfect game for the DS, look forward to the next Castlevania! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebop89
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 18, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is a great purchase for pretty much anyone who owns a Nintendo DS. 
 There is just so little wrong here that its hard to think of a sidescroller surpassing this game 
 in the near future. The gameplay is simply fantastic. The hundreds of different souls, weapons, 
 and abilities you can use create a level of character customization and depth is just simply amazing. 
 If Dawn of Sorrow is to have any downsides though, it would be in the areas of graphics and sound. 
 Now don't get me wrong, the graphics and sound are really good, but both can at times just make 
 you feel like you're playing GBA. Now that's not to say they are bad, it's just that with the power 
 of the DS, both areas could have been better. The game is almost completely in 2D, which isn't 
 bad, but it would have been cool to see more 3D enemies to maybe show the power of the DS. Aside 
 from that minor complaint though, this game is nothing short of great. You get a lot for your $30 
 too. On a first time play through, the game can probably be beaten in 10 hours, maybe less. But 
 if you wish to see everything this game offers (I won't spoil aything for those who haven't played 
 it yet) , then this game will take you well over 20 hours. All in all if you have a DS, there really 
 is no excuse to not get this game. It really is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinnha
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This latest installment to the Castlevania stays true to the mechanics and storyline. Once again 
 set in a castle it's your job to save the world from a to-be-ressurected dark overlord. You gain 
 abilities by catching different monsters souls as you go along, some of which are very unique. 
 The number of creatures in the game is pretty massive, so in order to beat the game "100 percent" 
 you'll have to play it through more than once most likely to catch every available soul. I never 
 made it that far as once was enough for me. If you're a fan of the series you'll probably love 
 it, if you're new to the series you're at least going to like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigaman299
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is a sequel to the GBA's "Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow". After hours of gameplay, this 
 could get boring, but even after it gets boring, it's still fun to pick it up again, and take it 
 for a spin. It could, quite possibly, be one of the best Castlevania games ever.
  
  The gameplay is quite addictive. Pretty much the same as it's predecessor, Aria of Sorrow, but 
 with more fleshed out boss fights, and weapons (although, I must admit, Aria of Sorrow had it's 
 weapons too) . One of the things you might find, that's more creative than the previous games, are 
 the magic seals. Everytime you finish a boss fight, you will have to draw a magic seal in order 
 to finish it off. If you don't draw it correctly, it just doesn't die. There is also a map on the 
 top screen (the gameplay is on the lower screen) . You can change this by pressing select, whereas 
 then it changes into a screen filled with your character's stats, as well as your enemies weaknesses 
 (after you beat them, of course) . Like Aria, you use "souls" you collect from enemies as magic, 
 and, with a newly added "synthesizing" option, you can improve your older weapons by "synthesizing" 
 your weapon, with a soul. You can also, however, release your souls, therefore ridding of them 
 until you recieve another one of the souls. The normal mode, however, is quite short, but worth 
 playing for.
  
  The graphics are an improvement, and for a handheld, it's amazing. It consists of 2D gameplay (located 
 on the touch screen) , including a few, 3D backgrounds. It looks amazing, and makes the gameplay 
 look smooth. One of the only flaws is that some of the level designs could be unlively, and unfortunately, 
 boring.
  
  The music is probably the best part of the game. It's simply amazing! Even though it is, possibly 
 "low quality", fit the levels perfectly. Beautifully composed, you can actually seem to "live" 
 the level. The sound effects are quite good, but most of them are just Japanese words, such as 
 "Koi" (Come) , and "Shi ne!" (Die!) .
  
  The replay value of this game is, nonetheless, high. You'll probably be playing this game over, 
 and over again, and each time having fun while playing it. You might be one of the people aiming 
 for 100% map completion, and 100% soul completion (a nifty reward is given to you!) . There are 
 three endings in this game to keep you occupied =)
  
  In the end, I feel that this is an amazing game, and you should buy it, if you are a long running 
 Castlevania fan. It's much like Symphony of the Night (PS) , and I wouldn't recommend it if you 
 didn't like that game. If you liked it, however, this game is highly recommended, and is worth 
 the time, and money you'll use to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riotpirate90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best platformer/RPG that has come out in a long time. It is flawless in its execution 
 and the amount of fun you will have is hard to measure. The soul system is back and better then 
 ever. You can get a soul of every creature you fight or see thus allowing for a endless amount 
 of time being poured in just to get the last soul. the weapon system is fun to since you can combine 
 souls and weapons to create even better weapons thus allowing you to increase your arsenal as you 
 progress and calling for multiply souls of one time to be acquired. 
  As for the graphics they are not the best that they could have been and the sound is is good but 
 not perfect thus forcing me to give it only near perfect but its as close as your going to get. 
 The gameplay is fun start to finish where new and more difficult enemies appear as you progress 
 and as you level up you can see your improvement by the simplicity of killing lower level enemies. 
 if you still need to be persuaded then go look at someone else's review. But don't forget that 
 their are those you give to high and those to low so look for a average and that will probable 
 be your best bet on the quality of a game. Remember quality always beats out quantity when gaming 
 is involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyre577
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  You are probably reading this review right now and saying that "Oh this reviewer must be biased, 
 because he is scoring it a 9," well, I am not biased, and I just wanted to get that out of the 
 way. 
  
  First off, the first time I ever touched a Castlevania game was the horrible Lament of Innocence, 
 and I regret it every since. I first rented this game off of gamefly, but then found out it was 
 so good that I had to buy it, so I bought it.
  
  To describe the game as "just another Castlevania" would be kinda correct and kinda wrong at the 
 same time. This is partly "just another Castlevania" but, this is also a different game of its 
 own, with its own systems and such, while still borrowing from the highly-acclaimed Aria of Sorrow. 
 
  
  When you first play this game, you may scoff at the 2D graphics, but 2D Castlevania's have always 
 been Konami's strong point with the franchise, and because of that, it enables them to give vastly 
 more detail to the sprites then say, a current-gen console could give to a 3D one.
  
  The whole entire castle you are in is huge, and made up of multiple areas, each guarded by a boss 
 or two, and each having their very own unique theme to go along with it, to establish an atmosphere 
 for the areas.
  
  Regular gamers may scoff at how this game plays out in a simple manner, you draw magic seals by 
 connecting the dots, and you just go exploring throughout the castle, while leveling up and gaining 
 new weapons and armor, basically like any other dungeon-crawler. But, the magic seal system is 
 very innovative, as it actually forces you to think for a second or two during boss battles that 
 would usually require more brawns than brains. It helps put the boss battles in a world of its 
 own, and forces you to find them before you can go forward.
  
  Of course, its length for some professionals can be very short. It is possible to beat the game 
 in under 9 hours if you are good enough and fast enough. But, that doesn't mean it is a bad game, 
 just a bit on the short side, like many DS games as of late. 
  
  When you finally unlock Julius Mode (*slight spoilers for some*) it moves about in a very familair 
 sense that resembles the late Castlevania 3: Dracula's Curse, where you have 3 people in your party, 
 each with their unique strengths and weaknesses, and each with their own set of special abilities 
 at your command. Plus, the ending to Julius Mode may shock you if you haven't gotten the ending 
 in which it pulls off from, which can lead to some confusion as to what is going on.
  
  The music is a bit on the short side, only 28 songs, (and some of them are short, too) but they 
 stay mostly on the memorable side, as they play a very good beat that fits with the level it is 
 portraying. The boss battle songs are especially nice, with a heavy beat and tone to them that 
 can grow addicting.
  
  The graphics are very sharp, with great detail. You can really see for sure what DS' real strengths 
 is in the graphics department. Plus all the weapons are nicely detailed as well.
  
  The re-playability is varying for certain people. If you have no friends that have this game and 
 an enemy set mode, then yes, it can get boring. But, if you do, then it won't get boring and you 
 will have fun trying to get through each of your own levels together, racing for the fastest time 
 you can. 
  
  The gameplay lasts a while, and can be a perfect match for people looking for a quick fix or two. 
 Gathering weapons and leveling up feel just right, and the difficulty ramps up evenly throughout 
 the game, getting tougher as you move along, but for level buffs, this may be way too boring for 
 you to keep entering the same screen killing the same enemy (ies) over and over again.
  
  A game like this does not deserve to be overlooked, and serves as a rare gem for those of you who 
 are looking for a single-player game that just offers a multiplayer mode without going into too 
 much detail. I highly recommend this to newbs to the Castlevania franchise, and to those of you 
 unsure whether or not a DS would be right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGGDOGG91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  dawn of sorrow for the ds is by far the best game available for the system and perhaps the best 
 portable game available it stars soma the boy who a year ago escaped his fate in dracula's castle 
 during aria of sorrow (the next game im playing) the gameplay is solid and offers variety thanxs 
 to the ds's stylus u have to use magic seals to open certain doors and beat bosses or they wont 
 die but the combat can get very repetitive. the graphics are not the best around but they do get 
 the job done well and are fun to look at. the audio is very good and has a very dark creep tone 
 which fits the game well but i have to give it an 8 cause thier arent any voice overs. the game 
 has alot of modes like julius mode
  (u play through the game as julius belmont which is awesome) a boss rush mode (u fight every boss 
 in the game no breaks) asnd a racing mode which will keep u coming back for more. if you are looking 
 for an amazing ds game go out and pick it up now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cupcakeeater
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  castlevania dawn of sorrow awsome the graphics are perfect and the actionis nonstop. the boss are 
 the best they can be anything from a bird to a giant fish and they look great to boot anyone looking 
 for a ds masterpiece buy castlevania it is worth it all the way. the game will take about 5 hours 
 to finish. and another part that has always been the best part of the games is the monters my favorite 
 monster is the dead pirate thaey may be hard to kill at first encounter but soon there just fun 
 to kill. the a. i in this game is so awsome they act real and look great there is just too much to 
 say about this game it won't fit in a review buy it now its worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arber91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 7, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The game starts off well. You get a taste of the story, then you get into the gameplay really quickly. 
 It's not one of those text-heavy games in which you have to spend a long time reading, then FINALLY 
 it's time to play the game.
  It's one of the best DS games out to date.
  
  The music to the game is creepy. Yet it fits the scene. Where better to hear music that will scare 
 the crap out of you then at a place that will scare the crap out of you? The gameplay is like most 
 castlevania games. The movement is basically sidescroller. The weapons are lots of fun in this 
 game. To upgrade your weapons you have to offer souls that you had to get from the enemies. The 
 souls have 3 rarities, 1-star, 2-star, and 3-star. 3-star being the rarist. 
  
  The graphics to this game are good, but not anything to brag about. They're basic 2d styled graphics. 
 Better than what the GBA's graphics are, but they're not AWSOME.
  
  Definately one of the best DS games out to date. Shouldn't take too long to beat the game, but 
 you'll have fun playing. It has good replay value also. Mostly because you have to give up souls 
 that you can only get 1 of to get the best weapons. And if you don't care about that, there is 
 always Julius mode which is "Uber" hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShaneBeck
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 6, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  You play as Soma Cruz, a descendant of Dracula. After news of a cult with a plan of trying to ressurect 
 Dracula, Soma and a group of other anti-vampiristic friends go to their headquaters at a castle 
 to try and stop them.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Gameplay consists of Soma exploring the castle with a weapon equiped and 3 different souls equiped. 
 You have a basic attack with your weapon using the Y button. The B button gives a powerful attack 
 but takes away a chunk of your MP. You use A to jump. Pressing up+Y you use your equiped soul in 
 that category. You obtain souls by killing enemies. Pressing R uses another soul in a different 
 category. There is one other soul category but it requires no button.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics run extremely smooth. The anime cutscene at the begining is beautiful. The backgrounds 
 are lively and the bosses are jaw-dropping.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound overall is all you could wish for in a Castlevania game. The sound effects are fantastic 
 and the music is beautiful. The mix of organ-like music blends well with the castle atmosphere.
 
  
  Value:
  
  The game will last you a long long time. There are plenty things to do like; getting 100% on your 
 map, upgrading to new more powerful weapons, beating hard mode, beating Julius mode, finding every 
 soul, amongst other unlockables like a boss rush mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eourgh
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 6, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best castlevania games i've ever played. Nice graphics, sounds and gameplay. 
 At first comparing this with my Aria of Sorrow that graphics are by far the first big difference 
 between the two. everything is animated smoothly and perfectly. The sounds are pretty astounding, 
 good volume and every single detail are smooth. All in all a must have game for all Castlevania 
 veterans. Gameplay i would say are pretty nice. I used to play Aria of Sorrow and was happy that 
 the controls were almost the same but addtional buttons make it still satisfactory and blend with 
 the gameplay. Overall this game Rocks!!!! Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is a must have game for all 
 Castlevania lovers and veterans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowMarth03
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 5, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow
  
  Every time I put a new card into my favorite handheld, I find a new experience. Genre by genre, 
 the DS has revived my interest for gaming. First Meteos more or less initialized my faith in puzzles, 
 then Advance Wars renewed my enthusiasm for strategy, but now it's time for a different genre. 
 Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow proves once and for all that 2D action/adventures still have a lot 
 to offer, and that the DS is a perfect place for them to come to roost.
  
  Sure, you've had Metroid Zero Mission, Gunstar Super Heroes, and games like that, but the latest 
 sidescroller from Konami is something completely in its own league. The next game in the storyline 
 of Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow, arguably one of the best of the entire series, is a great credit 
 to its heritage, and expands it in every way.
  
  The game pulls you in right from the start with a compelling story. You are dropped into the shoes 
 of Soma Cruz, the reincarnation of Dracula himself, returned from the events of Aria. It's a full 
 year after the last venture into old Drac's castle, and things have gotten nice and quiet. You 
 mysteriously lost your "Power of Dominance", which allowed you to capture the souls of defeated 
 demons and monsters and use them in battle, but more on that in a moment. Of course, things take 
 a turn for the worse, as the leader of a cult bent on the return of a dark lord by any means pays 
 you a visit in the middle of a romantic conversation with your "friend", Mina. Since Soma is the 
 rightful heir of Dracula's powers, he must be destroyed before one of them can become the dark 
 lord.
  
  Of course, rather than allow the professionals (a mysterious character with dark powers, and a 
 professional vampire slayer of the Belmont clan) to do their jobs, Soma decides to take it upon 
 himself to do the job. After all, what kind of a hero would just sit around the house when there's 
 demons to be slayed? Sure, he's risking the fate of the world with his presence, but at least it's 
 for a noble cause.
  
  The story ties in perfectly with the gameplay, as your aforementioned Power of Dominance is the 
 center of your abilities. Whenever you kill a monster, you have a chance of gaining a monster's 
 "Soul", which, when equiped, allows you to use some of its abilities, gain power ups, or even summon 
 it as an ally. Every single monster has a unique soul, and some are even crucial to beating the 
 game.
  
  The game uses a strong RPG element, that allows you to contort stats like the best of RPGs to make 
 your character a reflection of your strategy. You have all the basic statistical tracking you'd 
 expect from any RPG, like Attack, Defence, and Intelligence, and you can quickly switch between 
 an extremely helpful Metroid-style map and a very detailed stat screen on the upper screen of your 
 DS.
  
  The souls give the game even more depth than you'd think, as you can upgrade most souls by getting 
 multiples, making them more powerful, less costly, or one of various other advantages they bring. 
 This time around you can even fuse them with weapons to create potent new ones with much more power 
 than their weaker forms. Your selection of weapons is quite diverse as well, with over a half-dozen 
 types, including daggers, swords, handguns, spears, and plently more, most of which are upgradeable. 
 Thanks to a helpful upgrade you get early on, you can even switch between weapon and soul sets 
 at a tap of the X button.
  
  The enemies themselves are some of the best I've seen, 2D or not. There's dozens and dozens to 
 find and destroy, and some are more worthy adversaries than many bosses in lesser games. Each is 
 chock full of character, making it shockingly easy to remember the name of each and every one. 
 It's that much more rewarding when you manage to capture a soul that lets you summon one. Every 
 enemy will stick in your memory for quite a while, especially with the characteristic sounds of 
 each.
  
  The bosses themselves are suprisingly diverse. Even though deep down you're just repeating a pattern 
 or task to defeat them like any other game, it makes you feel like you're really fighting tooth-and-nail 
 to take them down. Many are returns from old Castlevania games, but many are brand new enemies, 
 with brand new attacks and souls. Even the old ones have been remade to make it a new experience. 
 With such creative boss fights like the puppetmaster, you're sure to like them. Each boss has unique 
 music that is suited for its own battle perfectly, and just like all the normal enemies, unique 
 sounds as well.
  
  Ah yes, the sound. Ever since the 8-bit era, Castlevania has been credited with amazing multi-channel 
 sound, even with the most pitiful of capabilities. This remains true today, with a variety of music. 
 In fact, there are nearly thirty beautiful tracks that are instantly recongnizable whenever you 
 hear them, and are extremely atmospheric. On top of that there's the unique sounds for each enemy, 
 many of which are very creepy or disturbing when you first hear them.
  
  The graphics may not be anything groundbreaking, but they do their job, and they do it well. They 
 well exceed the GBA graphics, and add some great effects to the mix. You'll never see a bit of 
 lag in any part of the game, no matter the level of activity. The majority of the backgrounds are 
 hand-drawn much like in the previous games, but most are multi-layered, and many have cool 3D affects 
 to make them come to life. Every part of the sound and graphics is excellently done to create the 
 classic Castlevania atmosphere.
  
  How does it use the special features of the DS? Well I'm glad you asked. Of course, there's the 
 extremely nifty top screen use for quick reference to maps and stats, but the coolest feature is 
 in the touch screen. Once you weaken a boss, you must use the touch screen to draw a "Magic Seal", 
 once and for all sealing the monstrosity away. Of course, if you fail to draw it correctly or quickly 
 enough, the monster will come back with some health, so you'd better be quick on the "draw".
  
  Multiplayer is not a major feature of the game of course, but it can be pretty fun. Castlevania: 
 Dawn of Sorrow's multiplayer has two modes, both of which revolve somewhat around the Soul system. 
 In the rather self-explanatory Soul Trading mode, you connect with a friend in order to trade up 
 souls so that you can speed your soul collection, or add some power to your friend's lineup. The 
 other is a more classic multiplayer experience, called Vs Mode. You can set up a five-room competitive 
 gauntlet to subject your friends to. Simply use the touch screen to place them on the screen where 
 you wish them to appear. Of course, you must have the soul of a monster to place it on the field, 
 and you have a point limit for monsters per room. Once you boot it up with a friend, you each select 
 one of your premade tracks, and you and your friend race to the finish. You won't actually see 
 your opponent, but it will show his map location on the top screen. It's not an enormous addition, 
 but it is an excellent one.
  
  Even with all this, the game nearly doubles its replay value with several additions. First you 
 have several alternate endings, and I don't want to spoil it for you, but they're well worth it. 
 You've also got an entire secondary game mode that Aria fans will recognize, and probably forsee, 
 which is an excellent touch. Collecting souls and exploring the large areas of the castle that 
 aren't 100% required to beat the game are all great ways to add to the longevity of the game.
 
  
  So, with all this great content, gameplay, and replay value, what could possibly stop this from 
 being the game of the year for the DS? Well, there's really only one downside to the game, and 
 that's the difficulty level. There are several conspiring factors that cause this, and suprisingly 
 they are also the game's strongest points. The RPG system can be abused to make the game much quicker, 
 since just like any RPG, you can spend time leveling up to make your progress much easier. The 
 soul system is well balanced enough that it rarely contributes to the problem, but there are certain 
 combinations that can ease your progress just a tad too much. The only real way to avoid this completely 
 is to do a minimalist speed run if you're just that hardcore.
  
  -------------------------------------------
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  They're not spectacular, 
 but they do the job, and they have their moments.
  
  Sound - 9/10
  Spectacular. So much diversity in the tracks, and each is chock full of quality.
  
  Gameplay 
 - 9.5/10
  It can't get much better than this. Classic Action/Adventure with lots of the new and old.
  
 
  Lifespan - 8.5/10
  The somewhat low difficulty level shortens it, but thanks to soul collecting and some very cool 
 extras, it will last for a long while.
  
  --------------------------------------------
  Bottom line
  
  Despite the slightly low difficulty level, any action fan would be in trouble 
 if they missed this one. The RPG system is both concrete and skillfully implemented, as is the 
 soul system (for the most part) well balanced and incredibly diverse. Don't let this one slide 
 just because it's 2D, keep an open mind. After all, the DS is becoming the embodiment of both new 
 ideas and the complete renewal of old ones. This is just one of those games that is far more than 
 the sum of its parts, and you'd be giving yourself the short end of the stick by missing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tv-spelare
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  This was my first Castlevania-game and its also the best in the series together with Symphony of 
 the night. If you like 2-D graphics and kill monsters with coll weapons and spells you would love 
 this game. Its sometimes too easy and some bosses can be a bit tricky when you dont remember the 
 magic-seal. Because if you dont do the seal correctly you will have to beat the boss again until 
 you get the spell correctly. The graphics are amazing and the animations is at there best. I love 
 to control Soma and kill the monsters with all the coll weapons. Its all so beautiful. The sound 
 is also at its best with many good tracks. If you have a DS you should by this and if you dont 
 have one this is the biggest reason to buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sven-Ingvars
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 27, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is a sequal to a GBA game
  You take control of a boy who is dracula, but he's not evil and a cult is trying to resurecct the 
 real dracula, the game has multiple endings so you could fail and get evil or stop the evil cult.
 
  
  Soma can control souls, killing different monsters gives you different souls and as an example 
 one monster's soul named Mandragora gives you a power to send out a mandragora, who shouts and 
 takes much damage at the enemy around it. The more mandragora souls you have the more damadge it 
 takes. If you have 80% souls you get souls more often.
  You can upgrade you'r weapon using souls you have captured, but then you loose it so it would be 
 best to have 2 of the soul you are going to fuse with the weapon.
  
  There are several bosses and when you kill one you have to draw an magic seal and if you fail you 
 have to kill him again, but with less health points, the magic seals isent that hard but it's a 
 fun way to use the touch screen, other games just force the touch screen control in but in Castlevania 
 DoS it feels like they knew what they where doing..
  
  Boss souls give you often powers and if you use them you can go to places you couldn't go before, 
 and the castle is reeaaaal huge.
  
  Overall : The game is really fun with many endings and a big castle to explore.
  
  PS. I got 
 98.4% in the castle map :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkKefka
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:42 am PT
Review:  The first game of the Castlevania series for the Nintendo DS gives players what other Castlevania 
 games have been giving the last few years. Even tough some argue that the fact the game doesnt 
 change that much, the game system as well as the old-school 2D gaming is just one step closer to 
 perfection and each game is just as fun as the previous one. 
  
  The story is a continuation of Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow which was released back in 2003. A year 
 has passed since Soma escaped Draculas Castle and his own fate of becoming Dracula himself. 
 Now Soma encounters (he wasnt doing anything special) a mysterious woman who calls herself 
 Celia Fortner and is the head of a dark cult who plans on resurrecting the Dark Lord. Celia knowing 
 that Soma is indeed a worthy candidate for being the new Dark Lord makes a battle between Soma 
 and other two candidates of the Dark Lords powers. When Celia and Soma meet details about 
 the story arent revealed and Celia just attacks Soma thus re-activating Somas power 
 of Dominance which lets him control the souls of killed enemies. After the brief (for me at least) 
 beginning of the game or intro Soma goes out to stop the resurrection taking place into the Cults 
 HQ.
  
  The game takes place in the Cults base, which is similar in various aspects to Draculas 
 castle. Using the same standards as other Castlevania games you start the game really weak and 
 at level 1. But dont worry, as you progress youll gain experience and youll 
 grow stronger in level and attributes. Also as you explore the huge base youll be able to 
 use Somas dominance ability to capture and use the souls of fallen enemies. But getting 
 a soul isnt that easy as many souls arent easy to get and sometimes youll 
 have to kill an enemy more than once. For that there is a solution as enemies are restored every 
 time you enter a room (except for bosses) so if you just kill them all thing should be easier.
 
  
  Now for the main part of the games battle system, souls. There are four different types 
 of souls. The ability-souls give you a variety of special abilities like double-jump and walking 
 under water, and they dont waste any of your MP, they are automatic and you can turn them 
 off and on in the menu. Ability souls are mostly found when you defeat bosses, but also youll 
 find them in specific areas and enemies (just a few ones) in the game. Bullet-type souls give you 
 a special attack that can be performed by pressing the attack button and up at the same time. The 
 special attack is usually a projectile of some sort like the Skeleton soul lets you throw bones, 
 but remember that every time you use a bullet-type soul MP will be taken from your meter. Guardian 
 souls have different uses that vary from enemy to enemy. Such as the Chimera soul lets you grow 
 a tail the Bat Company soul lets you transform yourself to a bat, you get the idea how each Guardian 
 soul is different but useful. Guardian souls consume MP as you use them. The last soul type is 
 Enchant souls; they give you ability bonuses or passive stats. Ability souls wont use any 
 of your MP and once you equip one its effect will be activated. 
  
  At some point of the game youll get the Doppelganger soul which lets you switch between 
 two equip-combinations, which is very helpful and will save you some trips to the equipment menu.
 
  There are a lot of souls to collect, so the number of combinations is just limited to your imagination.
 
  
  But souls arent just used by equipping them; you can also fuse them to weapons to make new 
 and stronger ones. The specific place and person is detailed once you play for a little. Fusing 
 weapons and souls is fairly easy and free, but once you fuse you wont be able to use the 
 soul until you de-fuse them. Each time you fuse a new weapon will be revealed. 
  
  As for use of the NDS hardware, Castlevania: DS doesnt use that much of the touch screen 
 and ignores the mic. The touch screen is used for tracing magic symbols. These symbols will be 
 gained throughout the game and will be used when fighting bosses and to open certain doors. When 
 in a boss fight at the last moments (when you technically win) you have to trace the magic symbol 
 quickly to finish off the monster if not you have to fight it again until the magic symbol is on 
 screen again. The touch-screen is also used to control familiars (Ehh) and to break some ice cubes 
 once you have a special soul.
  
  As for the other qualities of the NDS hardware, CDS uses them very good. The graphics are as good 
 as Symphony of the Night and well detailed. Some 3d backgrounds and very fluid movements from enemies 
 and Soma as well. The sound and music are top-notch and very good. Sounds vary and some are recycled 
 and other very detailed like when you break something or you cut in half a zombie. Some voice clips 
 (the usual grunts and the ohh! s and arhg!) give the game a fresh feel. Music is just another reason 
 to love this game, the tunes are according to the scenario and fit just well with the game, but 
 some music gets lost in the background.
  
  The game also supports multi-cart wireless play for two players. You can create a custom scenario 
 with enemies you have defeated and challenge someone to see who beats the scenario faster.
  
  For unlockables they are a lot from different modes like Julius Mode, where you use Julius 
 and others as a continuation of a specific ending of the game. You can also unlock Sound Mode where 
 youll hear the music and voice clips of the game. Boss Rush Mode puts you against all bosses 
 of the game one after another.
  
  To finish this off: If you like any 2d or Castlevania game you are going to like this well made 
 game. That offers old-school gaming but with the technology of todays consoles. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptorrogue
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 9:08 am PT
Review:  Dawn of Sorrow is the newest installment in Konami's excellent tier of side-scrolling Castlevania 
 games. In fact, it is a direct sequel to the last of the three GBA Castlevania games, Aria of Sorrow. 
 So, if you have played any of the three, or Symphony of the Night on the Playstation, you more 
 or less know what to expect. Which begs the question, is this really the dawn of anything? Aside 
 from more Castlevania games on the DS, not really; this is just another "Dual Screen" acronym. 
 Despite the fact that the gameplay is essentially the same as the last 2-D Castlevania adventure, 
 this continuity in design is more of a good thing, unlike if it were another 3-D incarnation. To 
 players unfamiliar with these games, this means you'll be spending a lot of time fighting monsters, 
 collecting items, and exploring a large castle in tried and true side scrolling style. 
  
  The player assumes the role of Soma Cruz, the protagonist who barely escaped becoming the next 
 Dracula in Aria of Sorrow. The game opens as Soma wanders through town minding his own business. 
 Suddenly, the leader of a secret cult ambushes him. After quickly fending off the attack, he discovers 
 the cult seeks to resurrect Dracula. 
  
  Soma - who's none too keen with all that - sets out to track down the cult's base and thwart their 
 evil plans. The base turns out to be a replica of Dracula's Castle, which is an excellent excuse 
 to go traipsing through the old citadel once more. And in all honesty, because of Dawn of Sorrow's 
 superb and refined gameplay... there is still nothing wrong with that. 
  
  In usual Castlevania fashion, the player is dropped inside a monster-infested fortress with what 
 every penny-pinching vampire hunter would bring - a knife. Over time, however, this meager arsenal 
 of a simple knife will grow into a large collection of weapons: swords and spears for hand to hand 
 combat, tomahawks and guns for long range strikes. While you can probably just stick to one type 
 of weapon throughout the entire game without much problem, it's really fun to experiment with which 
 weapons work best for different situations. As you hack, slash, punch, and shoot your way throw 
 monster after monster, Soma will slowly grow in strength by means of the game's basic RPG-system. 
 Thanks to this element, don't expect the game to be leisurely paced or play like an adventure game; 
 it's action, action, and more action... reminiscent of Super Metroid.
  
  After defeating a monster, Soma will (by chance) obtain the ability of the defeated foe. Enemy 
 abilities are different for each monster and range from reducing the speed of your fall to calling 
 a creature to aid you in your struggle. While this system is the same as Aria of Sorrow; it is 
 much more organized and developed. For those who have not played Aria of Sorrow, this is a vastly 
 better system than Circle of the Moon's unconventional card system and Harmony's limited magic 
 system. With over a hundred monsters in the game, there are a ton of cool abilities to experiment 
 with. In addition to this, one of the characters, Yoko, can fuse the monsters you've collected 
 into a weapon. The whole system is compelling and rewarding enough to keep players exploring the 
 castle as much as they can, with a goal of forging the most powerful weapons possible.
  
  Speaking of exploring the castle, the level design is nicely improved over other titles. It's all 
 produced in a way where the castle is fun to explore, without the feeling of walking around aimlessly. 
 Though, in structure, most areas are basically still maze-like corridors, the enemies and art direction 
 for each area really work together to construct a different feel for each section. 
  
  Improving the pace even more is the subtle application of both Nintendo DS screens. As you follow 
 all of the action on the lower screen, the top screen will display a map of the castle. By pressing 
 the "select" button you can toggle between viewing the castle map or your character's status. This 
 keeps the action going nicely, as you don't have to pause game play to check for leveling ups or 
 where to go next. Unfortunately, the same can't be said about the use of the touch screen... 
 
  
  Enter magic seals. In order to finish off boss monsters in Dawn of Sorrow, Soma must "draw" a magic 
 seal. For you, this means after beating the boss silly, you must trace a symbol to banish the creature. 
 If you fail to do so, the enemy will regain some health and you'll have to repeat the process. 
 This can be more cumbersome than its novelty is worth -- seeing how players who want to keep their 
 screen fingerprint free, will have to pull out the stylus to do the job. Fortunately, the drawing 
 is fairly simple and won't require you to have a degree in art. On a more encouraging note, the 
 boss fights are, for the most part, impressive as always. 
  
  Graphically speaking, fans will quickly notice that Soma and company looks noticeably different. 
 Gone is the classic Castlevania art. It is replaced by something resembling the Saturday morning's 
 4KIDS TV. Even though the character portraits stick out like a misplaced stake in the Castlevania 
 realm, they are limited to dialogue moments and only represent a fraction of the graphical content. 
 The game is still fantastically detailed and greatly improved over the other GBA titles. From the 
 more fluid animation to the intricate background work, players won't be disappointed.
  
  In the sound department, Dawn of Sorrow doesn't dissatisfy either. This is easily the best sounding 
 Castlevania to grace a handheld. The stereo sound on the DS takes full advantage of making this 
 a great game to play with headphones. Like the others in the series, the music is excellent and 
 provides an upbeat soundtrack that is in keeping with the haunting theme of Dracula's castle. 
 
  
  Like all great Castlevania games, the adventure has a beginning and an end. This doesn't mean once 
 you beat Dawn of Sorrow it should sit on your shelves or be traded in. There is still quite a bit 
 left to do. While experienced players can marathon through the game in less than seven hours, they 
 will really miss out on exploring hidden areas of the castle. Players can collect monsters, experience 
 multiple endings, and search for unlockables. Duel mode is also an enjoyable feature.
  
  In duel mode, players can randomly place any monsters they've fought in an area, then race through 
 killing monsters. They can also overload the area with tons of enemies and see how many they can 
 take out. If a good competition is what you are looking for, use the wireless multiplayer feature 
 and race a friend through the monster rigged area. While this isn't the multiplayer mode fans hoped 
 for, it's a good step in the right direction.
  By and large, Dawn of Sorrow is an excellent action title not to be missed by fans of the series. 
 Players looking for a game similar to the Metroid series won't be disappointed either. However, 
 it seems Konami could have made better use of the touch screen feature on the DS, and also taken 
 a few more liberties with innovative game play. Even though the game gives you tons to do, many 
 of the elements are not centered on helping the player beat the game. Nevertheless, until the New 
 Super Mario Bros. comes out in 2006, this is the best platformer you can find on a next generation 
 handheld.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireemblems
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This is barely my second Castlevania game, i dont know how good it is compared to the others but 
 for someone thats not a hardcore fan of the series can apreciate how good of a game it is.
  My favorite feture of the Castlevania DS game is its soul feature it might takew a while but it 
 is worth it to get all the souls like other games you can upgrade your wepons simple wepons later 
 become sool and huge the way i like them, the Graphics for Castlevania DS are quite good actually 
 maybe on a screenshot you cant apreciate it as much but yes they are great. It is quite addictive 
 actually i loved it from the start right now it is the best DS game out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania enters the DS world in this impressive title. It doesn't journey too far from the gameplay 
 of other games in this ever-growing series, but it doesn't need to. It's fun from start to finish.
 
  The story revolves around a young boy named Soma Cruz, who previously avoided his destiny of becoming 
 the Dark Lord. Now he finds himself with the equally important task of preventing others from becoming 
 the Dark Lord. By exploring the base of the cult trying to create a new Dark Lord, Soma slowly 
 gains more powers and better weapons/items, all eventually leading to a number of battles against 
 those trying to gain the powers of evil. Items can be bought or found (and the weapons upgraded) , 
 while powers are taken from defeated enemies when Soma captures their soul. Predictably, the weaker 
 powers are easier to get, and you may need to defeat stronger enemies tens of times to finally 
 capture their power, but being a random percentage chance, you can also get it the first time. 
 And the numerous powers you get will allow you find a combination of powers you really like.
  The sound is a high point. It's beautiful and the music is better. The tunes have a wonderful quality 
 of being catchy, fitting the mood of the area you're in, yet not dominating your brain when you're 
 not playing. The number of monsters, over 100, keeps things very interesting, both because there's 
 lots of variety in combat and because each of them has a power to offer Soma. The amount of save 
 points and warp rooms (which can take you to any other opened warp room) serve well to prevent 
 agitation at the backtracking needed to get both optional goodies and essential items. Another 
 neat touch is the ability to wirelessly trade souls with friends. Do you and your friend have a 
 spare of a soul the other has yet to find? Problem solved. Most important: while bosses are fairly 
 tough, they're not cheap or unfair, and the end boss is a real doozy that will be a great test 
 of your skills.
  On the negative side, the map (which can be displayed constantly on the top screen) could have 
 been a bit better, especially from a size perspective. There was room to make it a good 10-15% 
 bigger, or even allowing scrolling or zooming would have been nice, as the light green used to 
 show room exits is tough to distinguish from the white of solid walls on the tiny map. The touch 
 screen could've been used more, too. For all the pre-release hype of drawing magic seals to defeat 
 some boss enemies, you still hardly use it at all, and only the very latter seals have any challenge 
 in drawing. Even the menus are more easily navigated with the DS' controls than the touch screen.
 
  Gameplay flows nicely, both in terms of story and the mappable controls. A gripe could be that 
 the jump button is also used in conjunction with the up button for one of the soul powers, so jumping 
 to hit enemies and then attacking often leads to accidental use of power if you instinctively press 
 up when jumping. The graphics are pretty nice, but some areas could've had a tad more detail. Sound 
 is beautiful, and only could have been improved by having more audio vs. text conversations. The 
 game is over in around 10-12 hours, depending on how much of a completest you are, and some minimal 
 value is added in a Boss Rush mode and Julius Belmont mode, both added after game's completion. 
 All in all, this is yet another game in the series that will please both Castlevania fans and newcomers 
 who are just looking for a fun, 2D adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 21, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I bought DoS because I was bored with my DS. Boy! I was NOT dissapointed. Its an awesome game with 
 a lot of replay value. The tunes are awesome and catchy, and the story continues the great Castlevania 
 time line. 
  The reason the game has much replay value is because you can try collecting the soul of EVERY monster 
 in the game, and it will keep you playing and playing. When you collect a sould, you can fuse it 
 with a weapon to make a better weapon, or you can use it to get a special abilty.
  There is also 3 endings which each drastically change the story. Beware! The boss for the last 
 ending is INSANE!
  This game is awesome, and I highly recommend you check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barbierian205
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 11, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is the most appealing aspect of this game so I will start there. The core gameplay 
 involves a regular slash attack and a high powered super attack. They are mostly the same except 
 the super attack consumes MP every time it is used. These elements are complemented by magic soul 
 powers that allow you to summon one ability of enemies that you have killed and collected the souls 
 of. You can summon creatures, use their special abilities, and even get moves that let you stay 
 airborne longer and dodge enemy attacks. Some souls even let you use new weapons like a spear and 
 bow & arrow. The controls are intelligent and responsive and all aspects of the gameplay are solid 
 and consistent. All of these things make the gameplay incredibly fun and challenging.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics for this game are very GBA-esque in that the environments enemies 
 all look like they came almost straight from the GBA versions of this series. This does not mean 
 the game looks bad by any means, because it doesn't. There is a cool motion blur-like affect when 
 you jump and dodge. The environments are detailed but still very reminiscent of most GBA games 
 rather than DS games. This does not hinder any aspect of the game because everything is very crisp 
 and clean and the game still looks good in motion.
  
  Sound:
  
  Sound is just about the same as graphics. The music is catchy but sometimes gets annoying after 
 a while. The sound effects are pretty decent but they all sound reasonably real and not canned 
 at all. 
  
  Overall, Castlevania: DOS is a very good action adventure game that delivers in every category 
 and definitely will not disappoint, whether you are a series fan or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hirohiigo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, while it didn't particularly catch my interest before I got it, is 
 without a doubt one of my top-10 favorite games. While it's a 2D sidescroller, they mastered what 
 is just right to make two dimensions great. The gameplay is smooth and fun, and I have no complaints 
 about it. The difficulty is just right; you'll get stuck, but not stuck enough to throw your DS 
 at the wall in frustration. The story is excellent and without flaw. The music is top-notch, one 
 of the best soundtracks I've ever heard. Even the replay value is great. I'm playing it over for 
 my second time and I still feel as excited about getting to the next boss as I did my first time. 
 Julius Mode and Boss Rush Mode also add to the replayability. Overall, get this game. It's very 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brightshadow525
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  One of the biggest series to date, is the Castlevania. Since its early days it was a great series, 
 great story, great gameplay, and just great everything. This next installment of Castlevania, is 
 the sequel to the GBA title: Aria of Sorrow. This sequel dishes out more than the GBA could ever 
 handle. For starters, if you've played Aria of Sorrow, you know how much of a pain it was to switch 
 back and forth between game and map, game and map, over and over again. It was so annoying. Your 
 savior has arrived, and it's called dual screens. The top screen is always showing the map, unless 
 you change it to display your stats, and the stats of the enemy you just attacked. Besides that 
 the gameplay is rock solid. Although the story... actually it really doesn't involve too much with 
 story. However, the adventurous gameplay makes up. There is one big map. Everything is connected 
 to each other with warp rooms, so you don't have to go back and forth so long. By the way, the 
 map is huge! Don't be fooled by the size of the map on the top. To get from one side to another, 
 it takes some real time, especially with all the enemies along the way. Also, this map doesn't 
 suck... what I mean by that is, it shows you exact position, unlike some maps. Some maps just put 
 an X in a room that says, "You are here." This map shows where in the room you are. So if your 
 in the top right corner, it'll show you there. But back to the gameplay... It's just side-scrolling 
 goodness. See enemies, kill em. Speaking of enemies, the enemies are all creative and fun. They're 
 all different, with attacks and whatnot, but that doesn't change that they all die the same way: 
 with the swing of your sword. Your swords can be upgraded, combining them with souls you collect 
 from killing enemies. They are used up to upgrade your sword, giving it more deadly power. You 
 can also level up higher and higher, getting stronger along the way. This game was very well designed, 
 and the graphics are perfect. There's really nothing else to say except that, if you don't have 
 it... What are you doing there?! Go get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 7, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  The D. S. had almost no appeal before this game. Castlevania represents the top notch for D. S. gaming, 
 as it continues the story of Soma Cruz. Some of the bosses are unique (Rahab, Dario) , but most 
 feel tacked on in convienent locations, like Death and Abbadon. Still, this game has tons of replay 
 value, as you can collect all weapons, get all souls, and get all three endings. Unlocking Julius 
 mode plays off of the story like if you failed your quest as Soma. My only other complaint is that 
 the D. S.'s unique features weren't used (the only soul that I found that relies on the touch screen 
 is Alura Une) as much as they could be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keyboard_
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Once again , another great castlevania game.
  You'll play as Soma Cruz ( Aria Of Sorrow) again
  To stop a cult , who seeks to kill Soma and 
 revive the dark power
  of dracula inside him . Characters from AoS
  also returned to this game , Such as Julius , Genya ..
  
  Great replay value , 2d graphics 
 and sound.
  Now with a new Julius Mode , where you can play as
  Julius , Yoko & Alucard and Enemy set mode. ( multiplayer . vs mode)
  Select the enemy and put 
 them into a section of the castle 
  Both player needs to defeat all the enemies and race to the end. 
  
  I never played such a 
 great castlevania game since 
  Symphony Of The Night ( PSone) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ParkCarsHere
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2006 5:33 pm PT
Review:  As a disclaimer, this review is written by someone who has never played a Castlevania game before 
 this one, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow for the DS.
  
  This is an amazing action game that should not be missed by any DS owner. First of all, Gameplay, 
 an essential role for every game to excel in. The games' main goal is to complete the castle (a 
 very, very, very big castle) while leveling up your character and gaining souls, which are a kind 
 of powerup gained randomly from certain monsters, including one for every boss you defeat. The 
 action is flawless, and fighting enemies is very fun... and that's a good thing, as you'll be fighting 
 a lot in this game. Everytime you exit a room, everything respawns, and there are many enemies 
 inside each room, so you'll be fighting a lot. However, it never gets overwhelming, especially 
 once you learn the certain characteristics of each monster.
  
  Graphics are also amazing. While this is a 2D game, the art is very well done. For instance, when 
 you are out in the cold, you can see the breath of your character, and his clothes waving in the 
 wind. Small details like these help make the game very nice to look at while you're cutting zombies 
 in half.
  
  Sound is great as well. Everything blends together nicely and you never feel like you want to shut 
 the sound off or anything like that.
  
  The value is the only thing I would rate low on this game. After you beat the game (which I guess 
 is pretty short if you just go straight through... I wouldn't know as I tend to explore and gain 
 everything available) , there is little to make you go back. Sure, you can beat the game again as 
 another character (which is unlocked after you beat the game) , or you can play boss rush mode (defeating 
 all the bosses in a time trial type mode) , but after that, you may not pick it up for a while. 
 However, this gane is such a good one to play through the first time, it doesn't effect the game's 
 rating at all.
  
  Overall, I would say this is an amazing game for the DS, definately one of the best ones out right 
 now. Buy this if you want a great action game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feelgoodinc2005
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow, is underrated. Like all Castlevania games, the side-scroller ones are 
 the good ones, and the platformer RPGs are the bad one. I'm a fan of the NES, so I love this game! 
 This is the remake of the original Nes, and sometimes people refer it to the Nes Classic Series 
 on the DS. Of course, the other castlevania nes classic series on the GBA SUX, this one is a whole 
 lot better. Really, I never enjoyed the Castlevania games on the GBA, like because i have circle 
 of the moon, and it is boring, to me. 
  Well, also, I don't like the story that much. In this one, he meets someone who tells him the way 
 of getting the Dracula thing out of his body (the huy is Soma) , so he does, but the person (i don't 
 know who the hell the person's name is) is trying to kill soma to destroy dracula. What's the point 
 of doing that. 
  Circle of the Moon has some major glitchs, and how can it be classified under horror-fantasy Rpg 
 side scroller. These games are classified under so many stuff! Well, on Dawn of Sorrow, there is 
 also a mode where you can pick all the monsters you want, in 5 rooms, and you have to get to the 
 last room. It's fun!
  This game can hold up to three files, so you don't have to buy seperate. Buy this game, and it 
 will do good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xBlitzerx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  First off, this game is awesome! If your a Castlevania fan, I'm sure your loving it! If your new 
 to the series, this is a great way to start things out (well actually you should play Aria of Sorrow 
 first, since this is a sequel) . Although if you don't really care about the storyline, you can 
 still have fun with this game.
  
  Gameplay: DS features don't play a huge role here, but that's not really a bad thing. Konami could 
 have easily messed up the game by making it too gimmicky. You can use the stylus to break some 
 special blocks or direct your summon. Also the top screen is a very nice addition to the series. 
 Having the map or stats up there makes things much more convenient and maybe even easier. The soul 
 system and Soma are back, and it's much more refined. The hit detection and overall flow of the 
 game is great.
  
  Sound: Another stellar Castlevania soundtrack. I liked this one much more than Aria's (and that 
 one was great) . Sound effects are also good. There are even a couple old school tracks re-done, 
 oh the memories.
  
  Extras/Unlockables: As with most Castlevania games (well recent) , there are TONS of extras. The 
 usual Boss Rush mode is back. There is also Enemy Set mode, which lets you place enemies on a set 
 map and then play through it. There are 4 playable characters total (including Soma) , but I don't 
 want to spoil anything. I'll just say fans of SotN will be REALLY psyched. Sound mode is also included.
 
  
  So overall, I think this is one of the best games in the series. Do yourself a favour and go pick 
 this up! (if you don't have a DS, get both!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carolynmichelle
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Since 1987, Konami's long-running Castlevania series has told the stories of heroes past and future 
 who have been called upon to prevent the return of Count Dracula, stopping his followers from their 
 nefarious plan to hide money and other goodies in every smashable light source in the world while 
 they're at it. The most recent chapter in the series, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, is an extremely 
 well-crafted side-scrolling adventure that longtime fans of the series and the genre shouldn't 
 miss. 
  
  In Dawn of Sorrow you play as Soma Cruz, who made his first appearance in Aria of Sorrow for the 
 GBA. He's the reincarnation of Dracula, and a snappy dresser to boot. He doesn't actually want 
 to be Dracula though, so when he learns of a cult that's trying to resurrect the dark lord, he 
 heads for their castle headquarters to put a stop to their schemes. Throughout the game, you'll 
 explore the surprisingly vast lair of the cult, doing battle with enemies of all sorts, from tiny, 
 irritating imps to comical skeleton waiters to massive, gruesome rotting fish things. 
  
  The variety of foes you encounter in the game is truly impressive, and as you defeat them, you'll 
 earn experience points that will make Soma more powerful. In addition, you'll collect souls from 
 the enemies that will grant Soma all kinds of different special attacks and new talents, like the 
 now mandatory double-jump and the amazing ability to -- get this -- move underwater! You'll also find 
 numerous types of weapons throughout the game, ranging from knives that do little damage but can 
 be used quickly to tremendous battle axes that do significant damage but take a few seconds to 
 swing. You can also purchase weapons from Soma's buddy Hammer who sets up shop near the fortress' 
 entrance, and visit the friendly witch Yoko to bind souls to your weapons to make them more powerful. 
 A warp system makes it easy to get back to this area and to get from there to other areas of the 
 fortress which you've already explored. 
  
  In addition to all the fighting, you'll also be doing a whole lot of exploring and a fair amount 
 of puzzle solving. The upper screen on the DS displays a map of the castle, indicating which areas 
 you've been to and which you haven't yet visited. Many areas require that you obtain a certain 
 soul before you can reach them, but the game doesn't hold your hand. It's always up to you to figure 
 out where you need to go next and how to get there. None of the puzzles are terribly difficult, 
 but some of them can be a bit tricky. On the whole, these elements feel just right and provide 
 a good alternative to all the monster-hacking you'll be doing. 
  
  There are two ways in which the game makes occasional use of the GBA's touch screen. One power 
 you acquire early on allows you to smash certain blocks by touching them, but you won't find much 
 use for it in the later parts of the game. It doesn't detract anything from the experience, but 
 it's not implemented especially well and feels like a bit of an afterthought. Secondly, throughout 
 the game you'll acquire a number of magic seals. Each seal has a unique pattern that must be traced 
 on the touch screen in order to activate it, and as you progress the seals get increasingly complex. 
 These need to be used each time you fight one of the game's boss enemies. When you deliver the 
 final blow, the magic seal will appear on screen and you must correctly enter the pattern. If you 
 do, the enemy is defeated. If you slip up, the enemy regains a bit of his health and the battle 
 continues. Time is a factor in entering these, but the clock doesn't start ticking until you start 
 inputting the pattern, so you don't need to fight the boss with the stylus ready in your hand or 
 anything. Overall, this is a better implementation of the touch screen and adds a little bit of 
 extra suspense to the game's already intense boss battles.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow is pretty gorgeous to look at. The lair has a number of distinct areas, all of which 
 are lushly detailed. As mentioned, there's a really impressive variety of enemies throughout the 
 game, some of which are staggeringly large. The animation is fantastic, particularly when it comes 
 to Soma, who wears a long white trench coat just so it can flow attractively when he moves. Perhaps 
 the most impressive aspect of the game's visual presentation is the way that certain areas use 
 a number of backgrounds to lend a real sense of depth to the environment.
  
  The Castlevania series has often been hailed for its music, and Dawn of Sorrow carries on this 
 tradition pretty well. Each area of the fortress has its own theme, and while some tunes are more 
 memorable than others, all the music does a fine job of matching the tone of the game. Most of 
 the tunes are original, but the game does toss in one awesome theme that hearkens back to the series' 
 roots. The sound effects all serve their purpose well enough, too.
  
  Speaking of the series' roots, there's an unlockable mode in Dawn of Sorrow that those who prefer 
 doing their vampire-hunting the old-fashioned way (with a whip and a big ol' cross-shaped boomerang) 
 should really appreciate. The aptly named Julius mode has you take to the fortress as Julius Belmont 
 and, in a great throwback to Castlevania III on the NES, you'll gain the ability to switch between 
 a total of three characters who each have their own skills. The original adventure, which has a 
 few different endings, will probably take most players somewhere around ten hours to complete, 
 and the Julius mode certainly adds some pretty significant replayability to the game while also 
 taking the game's story in an interesting new direction. The game also gives you the option of 
 fighting all the bosses in a boss rush mode, creating and fighting through your own courses in 
 enemy set mode, and racing friends through areas you've created in wireless mode. 
  
  These are scary times for fans of games like this. Now that even our handheld systems can produce 
 3D environments, it seems plausible that the side-scrolling adventure may be on the brink of extinction, 
 which is all the more reason to be thankful that Konami has produced such a well-crafted example 
 of the genre for the DS. If you enjoy a good old-fashioned 2D adventure game, don't miss Castlevania: 
 Dawn of Sorrow. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aeris100182
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  As far as I can remember the Castlevania series has been around ever since the original NES. To 
 see even still as 2-D titles evolved is quite amazing. In Castlevania DoS the gameplay it much 
 like playstation title Castlevania SoN. Full of mazes that will keep you busy from hours on in. 
 The cartoon realistic bosses keep the suspense with actioned packed sound to keep the player amused 
 in the gameplay experience. The secondary weapon are basically the same as the classic but runs 
 off your magic meter instead of numbers and the magic system is based off tactical souls that you 
 earn from defeating bosses and monsters. Altogether if you are a castlevania fan or a new comer 
 you will fine this game very catchy and addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZabuzaR
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2006 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Even with all the similar gameplay in every RPG based Castlevania game, this one has got to be 
 the best one yet. The gameplay is mainly the same as the other Castlevania games but its still 
 good. Graphics are Superb for a DS game. There is a lot of stuff you can unlock in this game which 
 is cool like Juluis mode. This has got to be one of the best ones in the series. RPGs then If you 
 however want a diffrent Castlevania game then well.. your out of luck. But with the extra stuff 
 in the game it gives you a high replay value to the game. So if you like Castlevania games or just 
 like RPGs then pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benihana7
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 28, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow for the DS is the sequel to the GBA title Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow, 
 that debuted in 2003. And while Dawn of Sorrow is quite similar to it's GBA counterpart in a lot 
 of ways, there are many things that set the two apart... both good and bad. 
  
  -- PREFACE --
  Dawn of Sorrow takes place one year after the events that took place in Aria. 
 Soma Cruz, the protagonist in both titles, was revealed to be the next Dark Lord, or namely Dracula. 
 This was signified by his ability to steal the very soul of his defeated enemies and use their 
 power as his own. Soma prevented himself from fully gaining this power and stopped his transformation 
 into Dracula with the help of his friends and counterparts, all who make a reappearance in Dawn 
 of Sorrow.
  So anyways, one year after all this had taken place, Soma believed that everything was over, but 
 he was wrong. A mysterious new cult, led by the priestess Celia Fortner, attempts to kill Soma 
 in order to release his dark power, which had lain dormant until their encounter with eachother. 
 Once she fails and flees, Soma soon tracks her down to a massive Castle and begins to unravel the 
 reason for her attempt on his life and why the power of the Dark Lord has returned to him. 
  
  -- GAMEPLAY --
  Dawn of Sorrow takes all that was good from the classic Castlevania 2D-esque 
 style and makes it even better, keeping the visceral actiony elements with some great storytelling 
 and solid gameplay. Everything runs smoothly and each of the dozen or so weapons (which range from 
 your fists to massive two handed swords) has it's own feeling of weight and power. Some are quick 
 and slightly weaker than the slower, but reasonably stronger two handed weapons like hammers and 
 swords. There are weapons for everyone's tastes here: Katanas, Brass Knuckles, Swords, Halberds, 
 Spears, Throwing weapons, Maces, Hammers, and even sword chains; almost every style of melee weaponry 
 makes a showing in Dawn of Sorrow, and each one is fully upgradable and a blast to use. It's good 
 to try and collect all of them, so you can experiment with each type to find a one you really like. 
 
  One of the best and more prominent elements of Sorrow is the ability to collect your deceased enemies 
 souls and use them to your own advantage, be it combative or not. You can only equip one of each 
 soul at a time though, so it requires a tad bit of stragedy to advance through Sorrow. The game 
 has 4 types of collectible souls: Bullet, Guardian, Enchant, and Ability. Bullet souls consist 
 of all the projectile souls, and are the most abundant type in the game. Guardian souls allow for 
 Soma to summon a "Guardian" that resembles the fallen soul from which it came; most of these are 
 shield-type summons, but there are some that will actually protect you and attack where you command 
 them (by using the touch screen to select the desired enemy) . Enchant souls will boost your abilities 
 and grant you stat boosts. The last type are Ability souls. These souls grant special powers and 
 are always activated; you can have all of the 8 Ability souls activated at a time, since all are 
 essential to advance in the game. They give you powers such as double jumping, being able to dive 
 in water, and break the various ice crystals that will block your way. There are roughly 120 souls 
 to collect throught Dawn of Sorrow, and while some are much rarer to find, others can be aquired 
 with much ease. But all are recommended to nab, since each will offer something new to the table. 
 But some can be incredibly worthless and have no point other than to annoy you... so pick your arsenal 
 wisely, for using souls in tandem can procure even more advanced ablities. 
  Another great feature, which utilizes the touch screen to great extent, is when a boss (which are 
 all deviously made and a blast to fight) is defeated, you much quickly use the stylus to draw a 
 seal to fully defeat said boss. If you cannot get it finished in time, the boss will regain some 
 of his health and you must redo the process again. The seal-drawing process in Sorrow is really 
 the only feature that correctly uses the stylus and the touch screen... but it's not that much of 
 a problem, since the game is great without many touch screen functions. 
  
  -- GRAPHICS --
  In the graphics department, Dawn of Sorrow doesn't dissapoint for a DS title 
 and although it looks nearly identical to the GBA Castlevania titles of the past few years, there 
 are quite a few differences that set it out from it's predecessors. The sprite animations are execellent, 
 which consist of everything from magical showers and laser beams to entire armies of locusts and 
 scythes. Some are simple while others get incredibly over the top... and the game keeps a steady 
 fps even when the screen is filled with intense action and particle effects. The backgrounds are 
 all great to look at, so while you traverse the castle you'll come across meticulously detailed 
 locals like The Garden of Madness and The Pinnacle, located at the very top of the castle. All 
 of the areas details vary from outside places to deep blood covered dungeons and ancient crypts. 
 
  The really only bad thing is that even after so many 2D Castlevania games, Konami still can't do 
 character models to save their lives. The models are blurry and just plain ugly, but it's easy 
 to get past once you really get into the game. The models of the enemie characters (especially 
 the bosses) are done quite well, it's just the human characters that needed a little more refining 
 to them.
  
  -- SOUND --
  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow features some execellent classical music and some good rock-like riffs. 
 And while many of them are not exactly memorable, they still compliment the game very nicely. Each 
 specific area of the game features it's own unique score that fits well with the overall mood of 
 the area. Outside areas will have a really high tempo and is fast paced, while the more "dead" 
 areas like crypts and dungeons feature a more somber and toned down score. All of the weapons and 
 souls in the game have their own distinct sound or chime that goes quite well with the associated 
 weapon/soul.
  There is no voice acting in Sorrow, only the occasional grunts and cries of the main characters 
 and and supporting cast. Most of the enemies featured throughout the game will have their own particular 
 sound to them, but more than not most of them wont give off any kind of noise, except a cry of 
 pain when you hew them down. No real music from past Castlevania titles are present in Sorrow, 
 but the one thing that all will remember is the main Castlevania theme that was used in the first 
 title on the NES. But I'll let you find out where it's featured. 
  
  -- VALUE --
  There is a fair amount of replay value to be found in Dawn of Sorrow, and most of it doesn't seem 
 to be wantanly tacked on by the developers. With the 120 or so souls to collect, you will probably 
 be spending a whole lot of time trying to snag each and every one of them. The weapons themelves 
 upgrade a multitude of times, each time with a different look, so if you are the curious type you 
 could always try and upgrade them all. The one catch is that is takes souls to upgrade all of these 
 weapons; and the last upgrades to each weapon needs to use a boss soul, so if you wish to collect 
 all 120 souls and get each weapon at it's max, you're going to have to run through Sorrow at least 
 another time to fully complete everything. And with such a massive area to explore, it's always 
 great to just break away from the storyline and just explore for a while (although you will be 
 hindered by barriers for a good portion of the game) . 
  Also there is another way to play Dawn of Sorrow with entirely characters, though you will still 
 follow the game's main storyline, it's from a different perspective and is a great addition to 
 an already long game. The main story itself should last you around 16 or so hours (depending on 
 how much you wish to level up, since the max is 99) , so you should have plenty to keep you distracted 
 for quite a while. 
  
  -- END THOUGHTS --
  With it's tight controls, great graphics and sound, and a fair amount of replayability, Castlevania: 
 Dawn of Sorrow is an execellent DS game and is a solid recommendation for any fan of the series 
 or anyone who wants a great action/adventure title for your Nintendo DS handheld. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is one hell of a great game. I haven't played a Castlevania game this 
 good since SOTN on PS1. You play as Soma Cruz and you are out to stop a cult from bringing back 
 the awesome dark lord.
  
  This game plays alot like SOTN and the other Castlevania games released on the GBA but it has a 
 few new features. The coolest of which is the ability to take the souls of defeated enemys, which 
 give your character special abilites or power-up weapons. The other feature has to do with the 
 touch screen, to defeat a boss you need to trace a magic seal on the touch screen to defeat it. 
 If you don't trace the seal correctly the boss will come back with some hp and you have to try 
 it again, thankfully the game is forgiving because I've done some poor magic seals in my hurry 
 to get past the boss I'm fighting. 
  
  Other then those two features this game plays like the other games released on the GBA and SOTN. 
 Actually, it plays like all the 2D Castlevania games but has the level system that was introducted 
 in SOTN. And yes there is grinding in the game if you want there to be, not in gaining new levels 
 but getting souls. You can carry a set amount of a certian enemy's soul, the more you have the 
 stronger the special effect it grants you. Plus it's nice to have extra to put into upgrading your 
 weapons. So like in the other Castlevania game you make your way through the dark lord's castle 
 fighting enemys until that final battle. Most of the enemys have been in the other Castlevania 
 games but there are a few new ones.
  
  The graphics are great, this game looks as good as SOTN and better then the GBA games. The backgrounds 
 look great, Soma looks great and moves nice and smooth, and all the enemys look great and move 
 smoothly.
  
  The music is very good and sounds like something you would hear in a Castlevania game. And all 
 the sound effects sound similar to what you've heard in other Castlevania games.
  
  Overall this is a great game, it's easy to get hooked on and it's the most enjoyable DS game I've 
 played yet. If you haven't played a Castlevania game for awhile it's worth it to look at this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombiekiller84
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. I am 13 hours into it and I am just leveling up and trying to get 100% game 
 and soul completion. If you own a DS then there is no reason not to own this magnificent game. 
 Only downer is not having your stylus ready when you need it to draw a spell at the end of a boss 
 fight. This can be very annoying but it id still an amazing game. There is also different endings 
 and a great extra mode entitled Julius mode which alows you to play as three different characters 
 and is somewhat of a different experience so is has dome definite replay value which is very good 
 and very important to a gamer like me. Overall this is a must have so go and pick it up ASAP because 
 if you don't then you are missing out on an amazingly awesome game experience that any gamer should 
 deserve to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicboom713
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  For nearly 20 years, the Castlevania series, regardless of the system its appeared on, has always 
 been a symbol of gaming excellence. 
  
  Fortunately, for Nintendo DS owners, the newest incantation in the long running Konami series, 
 Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, continues the series quest in greatness. In fact, many might make 
 the case that Dawn of Sorrow may be the best Castlevania game since Symphony of the Night reestablished 
 the series on the Playstation almost 10 years ago.
  
  Taking place after the last game on the Gameboy Advance, Aria of Sorrow, gamers will see that 
 the journey of Soma Cruz has just begun. After finally learning to tame his demonic power in the 
 previous game, Cruz must now put his power to use in deterring a demonic cult from reviving the 
 dark lord once again, using any means possible.
  
  Those that are familiar with the series will find that Dawn of Souls looks and plays remarkably 
 familiar to Symphony of the Night. Its amazing how Konami managed to create this game on a system 
 not known for great graphical capabilities and still turn out a very solid looking game.
  
  On the gameplay front, like most games in the Castlevania series, Dawn of Souls controls remarkably. 
 Veteran and newbie gamers will find controlling Somas actions a synch after only a few short minutes 
 of gameplay. 
  
  What is also interesting is how Konami decided to implement the DSs touch screen in Dawn of Souls. 
 Using the touch screen to draw a magic gate around the games bosses to defeat them truly ties 
 the best aspects of the game into the ability of the system, making for not only a great game, 
 but a game that couldnt be done on any other system.
  
  Making Dawn of Souls an even more enjoyable title is its length and the appearances of several 
 memorable characters in other gameplay modes. Taking anywhere from 10-15 hours to beat depending 
 on your gaming ability, Dawn of Souls is one of the most challenging games on the DS. 
  
  Also considering that beating the game opens up Julius Mode, in which gamers get to play through 
 the entire game with the last member of the Belmont clan and a few other surprises, Dawn of Sorrow 
 is a game that most will work very hard to finish.
  
  On the whole, Dawn of Sorrow is a must own game on the Nintendo DS for any hardcore Castlevania 
 fan or any challenge hungry gamer that has never played through any of the previous games before.
 
  
  Overall Rating 9 out of 10
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  
  Naysayers and Evildoers have only one thing in common. They both bashed the DS for the first three 
 months of it's incarnation. What say you now foe? Despite hand held console debates dating back 
 to Jesus himself, it's hard to overlook numerous masterpieces and and original games ONLY found 
 on dual screens. Such spoils are enough to make any gamer see the promised land and Castlevania 
 Dawn of Sorrow aids in putting the final nail in that proverbial coffin. 
  
  Sorrow is one of the first must have games for Nintendo's new system. It incorporates everything 
 from it's ancestral tree into a formula that has yet to really become broken all the while adding 
 enough new elements to keep this really tired and old series resurrected. Irony will have it that 
 ressurection is also the theme once again to this game's story. 
  
  Players once again assume the role of Soma Cruz (from Aria of Sorrow on the GBA) , a more in your 
 face vampire hunter than your average Belmont. Dracula is about to be brought back to life by a 
 cult and Soma is apparently is the key to accomplish this goal. Instead of waiting around to be 
 used for evil Cruz instead sets out to a famous castle where evil awaits him to stop the Count 
 from being resurrected once and for all. Overall the story is nothing inventive or awe inspiring 
 and by far this title's weakest spot. 
  
  Graphically the game is colorful and artistic. The game uses colors to display temperature thematically 
 and help you feel more than just see what Soma is experiencing. The animations are well drawn and 
 lifelike and the backdrops have such detail that you often see new things in places you have already 
 been to. Sound in Sorrows is archaic at times with a modern mix which help keeps the action moving. 
 Voice acting is done well and is surprising because it is done on the DS. Gameplay is key to a 
 videogame none-the-less and that is where Dawn turns from its themed Sorrow to a blissful and joyful 
 morning. 
  
  Capturing roots from it's predecessors, Castlevania doesn't stray too far from the sidescrolling 
 adventure we have come to love. A wonderful art and graphical interface. Memorable characters and 
 story elements. Skills still deplete magic points represented by hearts and a lot of the same bad 
 guys are around for a sixth or seventh round. The tweaks to the engine such as the roleplaying 
 elements and soul capturing are executed wonderfully and allow for much growth and exploration. 
 The castle itself allows for roaming and exploration and these two elements do an awesome job of 
 keeping the game non-linear while still forcing some story elements to follow one another. Soma 
 gains experience points from everything he kills so various parts of the Castle are much harder 
 preventing early exploration. If these harder areas do not stop Soma then ability based roadblocks 
 hinder progression until the needed soul is found. This combination reallly makes for a very good 
 balance as often there are many branching paths to choose from. 
  
  The soul collecting aspect of the game is even more time wasting and alluring simultaneously. Every 
 enemy in the game has a soul you can collect which randomly drops based on the rarity attribute 
 attached to each foe. These in turn become an ability that you can use if equipped. Some are useful 
 while others are not. Some stack and get stronger as more of similar types are found. A couple 
 are humorous and needed to unlock stronger abilities and hidden secrets. One or two can even be 
 used creatively. On top of all of this soul collection are items and weapons at your disposal. 
 Captured souls can be sacrificed to create stronger weapons and certain creations can only be obtained 
 through combining boss souls.. 
  
  In addition to the superb gameplay, the technical layout utilized by the DS makes you fall instantly 
 in love. Simply put - the mere fact this game is dual screened is a godsend. No more pausing to 
 look at maps or check out statisitics. The only time you pause the game is to go into the inventory 
 and ability screens to remap Soma's arsenal. This saves a whole lot of time and makes me wonder 
 how I have ever played any other sidescrolling game without a dual screen. The touch screen is 
 used very little in this game and it's only incarnation feels very gimmicky and almost an afterthought. 
 
  
  Wrapping up a wonderful game are some of the extra features found embedded into such a small DS 
 cart. There are extra modes to play that will keep any really interested gamer occupied for another 
 10 or 20 hours after beating the game. Boss rush mode is entertaining and the ability to create 
 a castle and place your monsters in it and having friends connect via wi-fi to press on through 
 such a gauntlet is entertaining if a little shallow in it's implementation. There is even a second 
 story mode featuring the support characters!
  
  Castlevania has always been a must play for casual and hardcore gamers alike. Dawn of Sorrow is 
 no different and really is a title that is not only unique but fits the system it is played on. 
 Buy it before the sun sets! 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8bitantichrist
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  As for that headline above, yes, Dracula's castle has a Guest House. And a Church. Do the math 
 for me there. Anyway, it's a new Castlevania, so it's worth a few words. After Circle of the Moon 
 on GBA, the handheld Castlevanias have been going kind of downward in terms of theme. While Harmony 
 of Dissonance and Aria of Sorrow were good games, they felt a little to bright and colorful to 
 be Castlevania. Dawn of Sorrow follows the trend, ditching sinister-looking devils for curry-throwing 
 waiter skeletons. On the gameplay side, it's more or less the same package. Run around a big castle, 
 level up, find better weapons, and kill some big bad bosses. Honestly, it's growing kind of tiresome. 
 If you get bored easily, the exploration aspect will likely drive you to madness. Fighting monsters 
 along the way, however, remains fun. Everything from classics like skeletons and zombies to Bigfoot 
 (yes, Bigfoot) are waiting in the halls of the castle. Some of the bosses are easy, some tough, 
 and some just downright confusing (Puppet Master, I'm looking at you) . The story mode is relatively 
 short, but it does have several endings to see, and a Boss Rush mode and a level creator of sorts, 
 so you have quite a bit to do after the credits roll. The graphics are clean and crisp, and the 
 animation remains smooth and natural. The music is better than HoD, but still nowhere near CotM. 
 Konami implemented a pretty clever use of the touch screen in puzzle solving, and even worked it 
 into boss fights. After a boss is pounded on enough, a circular grid appears, and you must draw 
 a specific type of magic seal on the screen to vanquish the enemy. It works pretty well, and definitely 
 adds to the tension of the fight, as you must move fast, or the seal will be broken and the enemy 
 will regain some strength and continue to fight. New abilities are often gained through defeating 
 bosses, which in turn allow you to access new areas. You can take enemy souls to gain new attacks 
 and improve your attributes, or fuse them to weapons to create better ones. Weapons can be bought 
 from the merchant or found on enemies or in the castle itself, each with their own strengths and 
 weaknesses. While Dawn of Sorrow is still solid fun, I'd love to see the series return to it's 
 darker side like Circle of the Moon or Symphony of the Night. If you need some good old-fashioned 
 side-scrolling goodness, buy Circle of the Moon. If you're looking for some good old-fashioned 
 side-scrolling goodness with a touch screen, but Dawn of Sorrow. While you do that, I'll be over 
 here, wondering why Dracula's pad has so many dead ends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55link55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  If you liked Aria of Sorrow, you will love this game. I haven't finished the game yet, so there 
 are no spoilers in this review. 
  
  First off, graphics, what can I say, the graphics are great for the game. They are perfect, there 
 isn't much more you can give to it visually. 
  
  Gameplay, wow, talk about gameplay... everything is in here. With the new addition of the touch 
 screen it makes the game that much better. To be honest though, there is the whole magic seal thing 
 that after you beat a boss you must do a pattern shown on the screen to seal the boss, I did have 
 trouble with this because find the stylus isn't used much during gameplay, so you put it down, 
 then beat the boss and find yourself fumbling around try to get it to seal the boss. But once you 
 get a technique to hold it so it doesn't disrupt your playing, then your set. 
  
  Sound isn't that bad, I find it could be a bit better, but I do like it... especially the Background 
 music, it is nice... some of the enemy noises could have been better, the sound was a low point 
 for me in the game.
  
  The game offers many things to do and ways to get things done, you'll find there is back tracking, 
 but it isn't boring backtracking, the game keeps you quite entertained for a long time, and I would 
 suggest if you have a DS and like these types of games, get this game, because it is a great game 
 to add to any DS collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orochi_RockMan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 8:26 am PT
Review:  Ever since the PSOne release of Symphony of the Night the Casltevania series has latched onto this 
 Metroid-esque style of exploring the castle with a grip only rigamortis could provide when tt comes 
 to their 2D titles. Is this a bad thing? Hellfire no. It suits Castlevania more than it did Metroid. 
 Dawn of Sorrow is another one of these.
  
  Konami has added some new life to the Castlevania series with Dawn of Sorrow and its GBA prequel 
 Aria of Sorrow. Aria started a new storyline in the series, adding more characters in one game 
 than any other before it, Dawn of Sorrow is a direct sequel and takes place only 1 year after Aria. 
 Dawn storyline features some things that would be considered big time super spoiler for people 
 who haven't played Aria. So if you'd like to play Aria BEFORE Dawn [And good luck hunting down 
 a copy of it] then skip the next two paragraphs, it explains the new storyline and mentions said 
 spoiler.
  
  The main character of Aria and Dawn is one Soma Cruz, who is Dracula reincarnated. I know, you're 
 all thinking HOW THE HELL!? Well remember those wacky Belmonts? After only 1000 years of trying 
 one of them finally made good. Julius Belmont killed Dracula in 1999, Drac was too busy updating 
 his hellish castle to avoid a Y2k crisis and fell quite easily. And lo and behold Soma was born 
 with Dracula's soul before some insane cultist could resurrect him. But we all know that's not 
 going to stop them from trying right? But that's okay, because now we have the organization known 
 as Church. A secret organization dedicated to hunting down the forces of evil in general. Two noteworthy 
 members of said organization with a passing familiarity with this whole Dracula thing would be 
 Yoko Belnades [Remember Castlevania 3?] and Genya Arikardo [Gee... wonder who this is]
  
  And so, Dawn of Sorrow features a storyline that revolves around an insane cultist and her attempts 
 to kill Soma and ressurect Dracula using the bodies of two people that were born at the moment 
 Dracula was killed and in such inherited some of his power. These two candidates for the position 
 of Microsoft CEO... oh uh... I mean Dark Lord must prove themselves worthy by killing Soma. So naturally 
 Soma heads right into their lair to kill them first. 
  
  Like I mentioned before this game has the Metroid-esque style of exploration. Which is you can't 
 go certain places until you have the ability required to reach them, and getting new abilities 
 let's you backtrack to places you've already been and access previously unaccessible pathways. 
 It's more fun than it sounds, I promise.
  
  The game pretty much mimics Symphony of the Night in that Soma levels up gaining more Hp, Mp, and 
 increasing his stats, he can buy and find equipment. He can equip one weapon, one piece of armor, 
 and one accessory. Soma special ability is that to absorb souls dropped by defeated enemies. Every 
 enemy in Dawn of Sorrow has a soul that gives him either an ability the enemy used on him, the 
 ability to summon said enemy to fight alongside him, or just boosts his stats in some way. Soma 
 can equip one of each kind of soul at one time, but he's always got the rest with him so you can 
 switch them out whenever you want. The rate at which enemies will drop souls is dependant on Luck 
 and sometimes certain other conditions.
  
  Soma can also use these souls to upgrade his weapons. But once you do this you lose that soul. 
 Which is no big deal if it was the soul of a common enemy, but if you used the soul of a boss monster 
 to power up a weapon... that soul is gone for good. You'll be able to see what it will do to the 
 weapon you're upgrading before you actually commit to it, so you'll know ahead of time if it's 
 worth it or not.
  
  That's about all there is to the game's system save the one bad thing I could possibly say about 
 this game, but as usual that's saved until the end of the review. The graphics and sound are amazing. 
 Fluid 2D animation mixed with colorful backgrounds and enemies reminiscent of Symphony of the Night 
 are certainly not a pain to look at. The soundtrack I must applaud. It really is something, especially 
 when you consider that the composer was essentially working on two Castlevania games at once, she 
 had to do Dawn of Sorrow and Curse of Darkness at the same time. And as always her talent for making 
 the music perfectly reflect the surroundings shines through.
  
  Now for the extra goodies. There's a New Game Plus mode, which lets you play the game with all 
 the stuff you had at the end, minus a few certain souls. No Castlevania game would be complete 
 without the chance to play as a Belmont and there's one of those modes. This Belmont will also 
 get 2 other characters to join him in his game mode andy you can switch between them ala Castlevania 
 3.
  
  YAY THE BAD NEWS! Alright, what DS game would be complete without making at least *some* use of 
 the touch screen right? I mean you can't just make a good game for the system without throwing 
 in some half-assed attempt to incorporate Nintendo's overly innovative tendencies right? Well that's 
 where Magic Seals come in.
  
  You play Castlevania on the touch screen, with the top screen used for Status or Map display. Throughout 
 the course of the game you'll come across Magic Seals. Which are certain geometric shapes that 
 must be drawn in within the confines of a circle with the stylus. What are these used for? Well 
 they're used to kill bosses. That's it. You need them to open the door to the boss rooms, but they 
 *automatically* draw themselves when you walk into the door. What they DONT automatically do... is 
 kill the boss for you.
  
  You're fighting a boss and land what could be the fatal hit, then the magic seal pops up on the 
 screen and you have to quickly and flawlessly draw the seal to kill the boss. What happens if you 
 mess up? Well the boss gets some life restored to him and you keep fighting until you get a chance 
 to draw that damn seal again. You heard me... if you can't draw the Seal right, the boss doesn't 
 die. You however, die quite easily, so if you can't get that seal drawn on the spot like that... you'll 
 be fighting the same bosses more than a couple of times.
  
  This is the only thing wrong with the game that I can find. If it weren't for this half-assed attempt 
 at using the touch screen this game would be perfect. But therein lies the flaw with the DS. Just 
 because the system HAS a touchscreen doesn't mean that you MUST make use of it for a game to be 
 good. 
  
  So there you have it. Dawn of Sorrow is an excellent Castlevania game with a refreshing storyline 
 and great soul sucking gameplay. Its only flaw is the incorporation of its parent systems defining 
 aspect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendrix_jr08
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  i love this game, its fun and hard to put down i still haven't and i have so much left to do, it 
 has an exalent replay value with extra modes to unlock that are equaly as good, it is i little 
 bit to easy and to hard at other points but dispite that it is still an awsome game the julius 
 mode is great old skool fun with elements from the classic castlevania..... it stays with the same 
 2-D super nintendo graphic but with some 3-D in the backround, it uses the touch screen witch enoys 
 me, after you defeat each boss you draw a patern (magic seal) that you need to remember, it's easy 
 at first but the last couple times it's realy hard to get the magic seal in time and instead of 
 dying it gains slighty more health and you continue the battle 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakeEx3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 22, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is the sequel to Castlevania Aria of Sorrow for the GBA. As Soma Cruz, 
 you're... well, I won't spoil the story for you.
  
  The game is basically classic Castlevania. Developers from Symphony of the Night worked on this, 
 so you know it's good. When exploring the castle, you'll definitely notice how huge it is. Very 
 huge. There is a variety of different places to go to, like a village, a water world, a chapel, 
 etc. The game puts you against a whole castle full of enemies, and these include knights, undead, 
 bats, animals, and ghosts. There is a HUGE variety. Basically the whole premise of the game is 
 to fight these guys, explore, gain items and souls, progress through the story and castle, solve 
 puzzles, and finally beat the last boss.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay is true to typical 2-D Castlevania. You can watch the videos to see for yourself. 
 You have a variety of weapons at your disposal, each with advantages and disadvantages. For example, 
 axes have a long range and are powerful, but they can't hit anything at close range. Throwing weapons 
 have good range but are generally weak. Short swords are faster but weaker than greatswords. You 
 can upgrade these weapons via collecting souls. Each time you kill an enemy, you have a chance 
 at gaining their soul. These souls can be used to upgrade weapons and can be used as abilities. 
 Some souls are necessary for passing places, to places you couldn't get to before without getting 
 something. Some are just for combat or travel. Keep in mind almost, if not every enemy can have 
 a soul. The controls in the game are simple. The buttons can be switched around. The options are 
 to attack, super attack (Uses MP) , jump, switch attribute sets, dodge/action, and activate soul. 
 You can have 3 different souls at a time, one being attribute, one being a "bullet" soul, and the 
 other being sort of like a transformation soul. You can gain experience by defeating enemies, and 
 level up to get better HP and MP levels, strength, etc. During the game you may have to look at 
 the map or statistics. The upper screen takes care of that. Sometimes you'll have to go to the 
 menu to switch around souls a lot, but that is taken care of once you can switch soul/weapon sets. 
 The touchscreen is not really used except for three things. You can press things with the touchscreen 
 though it's not needed. You can destroy certain blocks with the touchscreen once you are allowed 
 to do so, so you can solve puzzles and such that way. And once you beat a boss, you must magically 
 seal them by drawing a pattern that you must obtain to unlock some doors and defeat bosses. If 
 you fail, the boss is revived with a little HP. The symbols get harder to draw as you progress. 
 It would've been nice if they added some more touchscreen functionality, but it's ok.
  
  GRAPHICS
  This is a 2-D Castlevania. And it has one heck of a presentation. The bulk of the game 
 is 2-D, but some backgrounds are 3-D, and some other subtle things are 3-D, such as some components 
 of enemies and visual effects. The animations are beautiful and smooth. All the sprites are detailed. 
 The visual effects are smooth and look just plain kickass. One thing that's bad about the graphics 
 is the art style of the boxart, characters (In talking sequences with text) , and intro movie. It's 
 anime. Yes, it may be good for some people, but the old art style was so much more detailed and 
 unique. Still, that's a minor problem.
  
  SOUND
  Sound in this game is awesome. Basically every single action in the game has a sound for it. The 
 background music fits the theme and sounds good. There's even a song remixed from Circle of the 
 Moon. One song sounds like Thriller by Michael Jackson at first, but it takes a unique spin soon 
 after. There is nothing wrong in this catagory.
  
  VALUE
  The game itself is about 10-15 hours long, depending if you try to go for the multiple endings 
 (Yes, there are multiple endings!) . It can get even longer if you want to collect more souls, which 
 can lead to better weapons, stronger attributes, and more unlocks. The unlockables in the game 
 are good, though they leave you wanting more. There is a harder difficulty, boss rush mode, a sound 
 test mode (Which shows how much sound effects are in the game) , and an alternate character gameplay 
 mode. This mode enables you to play as 3 different characters, and you can switch from them. They 
 can't get souls and you can't go into a start menu to change their weapons. But they are unique 
 enough to make it worth the unlock. Still, if you aren't a dedicated gamer you either won't finish 
 all these unlocks or even unlock every one 
  
  All in all, this game is great. It is a must buy for DS owners and Castlevania fans. It's a great 
 buy for anyone at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerdude9
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania is a truly great series. Its been around since the early days of NES. It evolved when 
 it went onto the SNES, and turned into one of the best action/adventure style game. When the series 
 hit Game Boy advance they were again one of the best games in their genres. With each game the 
 franchise became one step closer to perfection. 
  Dawn of Sorrow, the first Castlevania on the DS, is the sequel to last years Castlevania: Aria 
 of Sorrow. You play as young Soma Cruz, a teenager with the power to dominate enemy souls, or basically 
 copy what an enemy can do and use it if you get the enemy "soul". The game takes place in 2036, 
 one year after Aria of Sorrow. You try to Stop a men from becoming the new Dark Lord, and much 
 happens as you explore the castle in which the game takes place
  You get many weapons to use in the game. All of which upgrade into a stronger weapon when fused 
 with an enemy soul. This allows you to get weapons way ahead of what you can buy, and really have 
 a favorite weapon. You unlock many abilities as the game progresses. You get the famous ability 
 to double jump, High jumps, ability to swim, as many more. All the souls you collect are used during 
 combat. Also. There are 3 types of souls that you use. One type is a bullet soul; you just use 
 them like a ranged weapon. An stat enhancing group, when equipped they make you stronger, faster, 
 etc. there are also Guardian souls, which can attack enemies, or let you fly or turn into a bat.
 
  The game is played the same as others in the franchise. Expore the castle, kill bosses. It is 
 great fun to play and last about 20 hours if you dont rush throught the game. The graphics are 
 beutiful. The Backgrounds are all nice and look 3d. The sound is good and it has extra unlockables 
 that make the game last even longer.
  YOu have to get this game if you have a ds, and in general its just a great game to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slashx07
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is superb it made want to keep playing even when kept dieing
  I loved the masters and monster design it was to good but the enemy set mode didn't offer that 
 many monsters to choose from that's why i give it
  8.7 the enemy's in that mode were weaklings they should of let you put masters that would of made 
 it a perfect 10 but for the rest of the game it was good i almost beat it i;'m on the last master 
 but not for long on my blog i put i didn't ike the ending because i saw the worst ending that's 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawk456
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 17, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  In 120 words or less If you enjoyed the side-scrolling action of the original Castlevania released 
 for the NES in 1987, grab your stylus and buckle-up for 10+ hours of fun with the Prince of Darkness.
 
  
  The basic game is the same but with significant tweaks and improvements in gameplay, control, story 
 and functionality. Depth is added with the collection of weapons and monster souls. The touch screen 
 is incorporated by requiring you to draw signs to destroy bosses, a nice touch (pun intended) .
 
  
  Bottom Line: If you have a Nintendo DS, you need to add Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow to your collection.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomusername8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Konami made Castlevania ever sence 4 generations ago in the days of the NES. No wonder why it has 
 lasted even to this very day cus of one reason, THE GAMES WERE GREAT! Though none have been as great 
 as what I call the "Sorrow" series of games. Next to Symphony Of The Night this is one of the best. 
 Join the white haired heroin wait I mean hero Soma Cruz as he sets out to chase a mindless cult 
 from reviving Mr. Dark Lord or as we know him Dracula. Sure Dawn Of Sorrow sounds like a Alternative 
 band but its actually the lastest of the Castlevania series. The Gameplay is why we guy this game 
 it keeps the good old Castlevania feel with the mechanics of Aria Of Sorrow's soul system. Though 
 the big problem is the touch screen the only use for it is breaking ice blocks and drawing pretty 
 magic seals with your stylus but thats it nothing else. Mr. Happy Killy Magic Seal is nice but more 
 of the use of the screen then that Konami is that to much to ask? Anyway the grafics are nice blending 
 2d gameplay and enviroments with 3d backgrounds well it does that sometimes actually but at the 
 pinnicle when you move so does the view of the church in the dstance. Sound is great also keeping 
 the mood of walking though a giant castle and killing enemies with your sword or whatever weapon 
 you use. The story is average and the game is short but there is so much to squeze out of this 
 puppy exepcialy being able to go though the game as Alucard THE SON OF DRACULA! Its a great game 
 but more use of the touch screen is all we ask for though still magic seal is cool. Just not the 
 **** as we refer to it. Though alot of replay value you cant go wrong with this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehkillerkoala
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  I never thought that a sidescroller could be as good as Circle of the Moon but somehoe Konami managed 
 to blow my mind once again with their awesome Castlevania series. When I first heard about Castlevania 
 for the DS I couldn't wait and now that it's out it passed my expectations. I never thought a sidescroller 
 could make me get so pissed off at a boss batlle... I mean.. happy that I beat a boss.... yea.... STFU!!!!!! 
 Anyway this game, even though hard to find where to go sometimes (THANK YOU GAMEFAQS!!!!!) , is 
 still an awesome game that should be played by anyone looking for a good sidescroller or just if 
 your a Castlevania fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karzon89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  Because Circle of the Moon was such a great game, i was excited to see a new one in the series. 
 The game has pretty good graphics for the DS's standards. I commend the makers of this game for 
 creating such a beautiful side-scroller; it has arguably the best graphics for a side-scroller 
 to date. Sound is great, so well done, i find myself singing these songs on my free time. The Selection 
 of weapons and souls are awesome! I think they could have worked a little more on the accesibility 
 of the souls, but nevertheless, all DS owners should have this game. Great storyline as well, very 
 suspenseful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BobbyBobby85
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Konami is one of my favorite developers, and Castlevania is probably why. This franchise has seen 
 it's peek on the Sony Playstation with SOTN, and every Castlevania game to follow has tried to 
 mimmick what made the PSone classic so great. Needless to say, Dawn of Sorrow is about as close 
 as you can get to perfected 2D Castlevania without actually being Symphony of the Night.
  
  The game looks and controls very well, with quite a catchy soundtrack to back it up. It's also 
 nice to see some 3D backdrops to accompany the silky smooth 2D graphics. Unfourtunately, The story 
 is a bit lacking, and it can be quite a hassle to gather souls and try to get every last one of 
 them. Even so, this soul setup is easily one of the better refreshments the series has seen in 
 it's evolution, pioneered back in Aria of Sorrow for the GBA. Only this time, you can use spare 
 souls to make new weapons and so-forth. All-in-all, a good game.
  
  What I like about this game: Great in-game visuals, lengthy adventure, and nifty take on the soul 
 system. Julius mode adds to the replay value, Secondary real time map screen actually comes in 
 handy more than one would think, subtle artistic touches such as Alucard not having a miror reflection 
 for being part vampire, and many more
  
  What this game could do without: Goofy Anime character art, touch screen controls that are clever 
 but not ellaborated, frustrating delay when morphing to bat form, lacking story and easy difficulty.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: morales664
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is the long awaited sequel to Aria of Sorrow. Not only this but it's 
 the first Castlvania game for the Nintendo DS. The game features upgraded visuals, dual screen 
 and touch screen features, which were not apparent in previous games.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  The gameplay is very similar to previous games; it' s a sidescroller with jumping and attacking 
 with various weapons. Soma also has the ability to fly around and use enemy attacks. You have the 
 ability to use different souls from different enemies in order to progress the game, each boss 
 you defeat will acquire you a technique to get past a certain area. One negative thing I could 
 say about this is that the Touch screen features which require you to draw certain symbols on screen 
 and break blocks to clear path. can seem more of an obstacle rather then something which is needed 
 in the game. Let's hope Konami doesnt implement this in the next game and try to think of something 
 more useful.
  
  Graphics- 10/10
  
  Simply beautiful, best 2d graphics you'll ever see. Although the gameplay maybe similar to the 
 other games the graphics and visuals of the game really stand out. Whether it's splashing onto 
 the water or beating huge bosses it looks great.... the model's of enemies, characters and background 
 surroundings are done superbly well. You couldn't do a better Castlevania game visually.
  
  Sound/Music - 10/10
  
  Again, one thing that makes Castlevania games stand out against others 
 is the well-produced music. Each set of tune is re mastered from the old one's and they just sound 
 brilliant. It's clever as well how each area blends in with the type of music that is playing. 
 It's just wonderful to hear.
  
  Overall Rating - 9/10
  
  In all I think this game is superb. It's the first DS game Ive actually managed to enjoy. It's 
 got loads of replay value and a Multiplayer mode. You can also be different characters after you 
 complete the game. There are also loads of hidden secrets within the game. If you're a fan of 2d 
 Sidescrollers or just have a DS and want a non-virtual pet game.. then this is a must buy. As for 
 Castlevania fans, they should really save up a DS for this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: youstupidideot
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  aa  aa  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f8al13
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  this is an awsome game the best side scroller ive ever played definetly. is so awsome lots ao unlockables 
 like julius mode or boss rush yeah well like i was saying before i'd recommend it its so good of 
 a game. yeah and theres lots of bosses and there always cool. and theres tons of souls that you 
 can get o and if you dont want the soul theres weapon synthes is that you could do to fuse it with 
 your weapon and make your weapon better theres just so much to tell you i cant even tell you all 
 of it wow its such a good game yeah its sweet. and theres lots of items that u can get like tons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamakaz2088
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  If your one of those people who thinks there's nothing left to be had in 2-D sidescrollers, I have 
 to say this one thing: YOU ARE AN IDIOT! Castlevania: DoS proves that there is still stuff to be 
 had in thw world of 2-D gaming. Besides, even though everything in made up of sprites, they are 
 some of the best I've ever seen. There are lots of little details, for example: When your outside 
 in the winter you can acually see Soma's (main character) breath. The controls take some getting 
 used to, but once you've got them down, it's second nature. soul collecting is a new feature that 
 really adds a lot of depth. After defeating an enemy, they will ocasionally realease there soul 
 which you can absorb. This gives you new magic powers that can be plainly used or combined with 
 your artillery of weapons to create much more deadly items. The sound it also top notch, with songs 
 that you will surely be humming long after a playthrough. Overall, Castlevania: DoS is a must-buy 
 for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr33nHippo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is an exciting and addictive game. In the game you travel though a 
 castle finding the 15 bosses. Each one of the boss battles add a new challenge. Once you play a 
 boss once you have to find a strategy for which skills you will use that will give you the advantage. 
 This is what i enjoy about the game. The boss battles are each different and equally enjoyable. 
 The use of the dual screens works perfectly, as the top screen displays the map of the castle which 
 will make it easier to travel throughout the castle. The stylus is used to seal up the bosses once 
 you beat them. This can get sometimes annoying, since you can forget how to draw the certain seal. 
 
  
  Overall Castlevania is a great game. This is the first castlevania game i have ever played, and 
 i am pleased. Some people might say it is short, but in my opinion it lasts a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow
  Sorrow is that this is hailed as possibly the best in series
  
  Graphics (12.5%) - 8
  Controls (15%) - 8
  Variety (25%) - 7.5
  Replay (25%) - 6
  Sound 
 (7.5%) - 8.5
  Depth (15%) - 6.5
  
  OVERALL - 7.19
  
  
  Graphics - 8
  The graphics are excellent in terms of the sprites used and character animations and motion. However, 
 the animations are limited, action slow and backgrounds bland. But those are simply relative to 
 the sprites and are still good. What I have a problem with are the collision detection problems 
 -- namely you usually don't get hit above the shoulders, some enemies are hard to tell what it 
 is that you can hit and what can hit you.
  
  Controls - 8
  The controls are basically attack, special attack, jump, soul power 1 and soul power 2. It works 
 well for the most part, but the soul power 1 defaulted to Y+Up was accidentally triggered multiple 
 times through the game; it wasn't a problem, just an annoyance. The combat doesn't feel all that 
 tactile, though, as hitting and being hit is rather indistinguishable other than the small coloured 
 numbers that pop-up, but that isn't always helpful and your own health you'll end up relying on 
 checking your health bar (namely with bosses) . Being new to the series, I can't imagine playing 
 this game without the persistent map. Oh, and just let me make mention of the fact that the touch 
 screen soul trapping is an absolute pain -- you get little time; if you accidentally touch in the 
 wrong place at any point and you fail; and it's hard to do with your finger or fingernail.
  
  Variety - 7.5
  There are many baddies to fight, and even more weapons and souls to collect. 
 The souls are very unique unto their own, but the weapons all feel like one of three -- projectile, 
 thrust, or overhand -- but there are slight differences in quickness and size. The game is incredibly 
 short, though, taking me about 7 hours to finish on my first run through.
  
  Replay - 6
  For a game with lots of exploration and backtracking, you better make it long, and Dawn of Sorrow 
 is not. The slow plodding action is fun at first, but grows more and more wearisome as time draws 
 on and nothing really is changing or the plot progressing. The story is well, non-existent. Someone 
 wants to kill you and take over as the dark lord and you are out to kill the two prospects -- that's 
 about all. There are secondary characters, but you learn little if anything about them. I don't 
 know whether they are explored further in other Castlevania games or not, but Dawn of Sorrow alone 
 leaves the player in the dark. The ending I got was "We'll have to investigate that" in response 
 to an odd feeling your character had in an earlier battle -- apparently multiple endings are an 
 incentive to play again, but when the story is so menial in the first place, really, what's the 
 point. But enough about story, as it doesn't really matter much; let's move on to bosses. The bosses 
 are each unique and are both the highlight and disappointment. The two enemies you are out to kill 
 are in fact the easiest and most boring battles in the game, especially the final battle (which 
 is basically the same guy again with NO NEW ATTACKS) . It really feels as if I missed the end of 
 the game some how. The extras include playing through as a different character (basically just 
 a different sprite) and an abysmal level editor (place enemies whose souls you've collected in 
 the preset level, and you can only place in a narrow section of each area) . Ultimately, I can see 
 another play through, but that's still less than 15 hours when I really didn't find a great deal 
 of enjoyment the first time through -- although it was simplistic fun, it left much to be desired.
 
  
  Sound - 8.5
  Music tracks were very fitting and high quality, especially the rendition of the main theme in 
 the opening sequence (which begs the question why they didn't use that version instead of the game 
 rendition which I find to be the worst track in the game) . Boss cries are also very well done.
 
  
  Depth - 6.5
  Castlevania combat reminds me of "Cooking With Scorpion". Today in Castlevania, you'll learn Chopping, 
 tenderizing, chopping, cake decorating and CHOPPING. It's a rather one-dimensional combat system, 
 even with the soul system, as for the most part the soul attacks do minimal damage or aren't for 
 combat at all.
  
  Overall - 7.19
  I had somehow managed to avoid the Castlevania series, even on the NES. But with the high praise 
 of Dawn of Sorrow and many calling it possibly the best Castlevania ever. I walk away definitely 
 disappointed. Every aspect of the game was simply unsatisfying. It's by no means a bad game or 
 a boring game despite the overall negative connotation of this review -- it's solid, but not particularly 
 great in any area, and is very short. There are more negatives in this review due to the general 
 praising of the title that I find unwarranted. I suppose Castlevania fans will be happy, but others 
 I can't be so sure about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay in Castlevania: Dawn Of Sorrow is very fast-paced and fun. Basically, you 
 explore a castle in a side-scrolling fashion, taking town thousands of enemies along the way. By 
 defeating enemies, you earn experience, which allows you to level up once you have accumulated 
 a certain amount. Leveling up increases your stats, as well as your maximum HP and MP. Though the 
 game has these RPG elements, it is still an action/adventure game.
  
  By defeating a monster, you might be lucky enough to capture that monster's "soul". By acquiring 
 these souls, you can then equip them to gain cool attacks. These attacks are like spells, and can 
 help you to defeat enemies. Also, these souls can help you progress through the castle, such as 
 a soul that lets you transform into a bat, which allows you to fly, thus letting you explore new 
 regions of the castle. The whole soul system works very well, and it's surprisingly addictive to 
 search out and find each and every soul in the game.
  
  Throughout the game, you will also encounter a wide variety of bosses. These bosses are pretty 
 insane, which can lead to some pretty intense moments as you try to take down each boss. They're 
 all brilliantly designed, and you'll have a blast during each and every one. After you defeat a 
 boss, you'll use the touch screen to draw a magic seal, which lands the final blow on a boss. If 
 you fail at drawing the magic seal, the boss will regain some of its health, which you'll have 
 to take away in order to have another show at drawing the magic seal. These seals are pretty neat, 
 and while they manage to get pretty tough later on, they never get too out of control in terms 
 of difficulty.
  
  Basically, when it boils down to it, Dawn Of Sorrow's gameplay is just brilliant. It's fantastically 
 executed, and the action is never slow-paced for even a moment. You'll constantly be exploring 
 new places and fighting new monsters, and you'll have a blast during every second of it. This is 
 some of the best side-scrolling gameplay so far for the DS.
  
  Graphics: Castlevania: Dawn Of Sorrow uses 2D graphical sprites. However, while you might think 
 "2D? Why do that when the DS is capable of 3D!", you really must experience these phenominal graphics. 
 DoS's graphics surpass anything that the GBA could ever hope to accomplish. Compare DoS to AoS 
 (it's predecessor) . DoS has much more detailed character and monster sprites, which are animated 
 alot better. Also, Soma (the main character) has a cool glowing stream that eminates from his body 
 as you move. It's very neat and really adds that much more to the already awesome look of the game. 
 Furthermore, the environments in the game are very nicely done. All of the backgrounds look really 
 amazing and match each section of the castle nicely.
  
  Another neat thing is that when you first turn on the game, you're treated to an anime cut-scene. 
 This cut-scene is pretty amazing, and it looks like something you'd see on TV. That's a pretty 
 amazing accomplishment. Overall, Dawn Of Sorrow has amazing graphics, and definatly some of the 
 best that have ever been seen in a Castlevania game.
  
  Sound: Ah, one of my favourite things about Dawn Of Sorrow; it's music. This is some of the best 
 music that I've seen so far on the DS. It's got plenty of catchy tunes, and you'll spend plenty 
 of time in the sound room (after unlocking it) listening to the various musical pieces in the game. 
 The music in Dawn Of Sorrow is one of its biggest strengths.
  
  Value: Castlevania: Dawn Of Sorrow isn't an incredibly long game, but its got quite alot of lasting 
 value to it. I beat the game with the worst ending after 7 hours. However, there are two other 
 endings to get, and luckily, the game lets you continue off of your completed file to get the final 
 two. When I got the decent ending, my playtime was at about 8 hours, and when I got the best ending, 
 my play time was at 10 hours. However, keep in mind that I had to restart alot on the final boss, 
 and also keeping in mind that when the game is paused (and you are switching your souls and weapons) , 
 the timer doesn't go. Taking all of these things into consideration, I'd say that you'll have spent 
 about 13 hours by the time you get the best ending. You'll definatly want to get the best ending 
 as well, since it's got a couple of new areas of the castle to explore, as well as a ton of new 
 bosses. After you beat it with the best ending, you can play through the game as Julius in Julius 
 Mode, and you can see how fast you can beat all of the bosses in Boss Rush Mode. You can also play 
 through the game in hard mode, which is basically just a harder version of the game. All in all, 
 Dawn Of Sorrow has a decent length to it, with some neat extras that will keep you entertained 
 for a while after the initial playthrough. But even so, it still would have been nicer if the main 
 quest was a bit longer.
  
  Tilt: Overall, Castlevania: Dawn Of Sorrow is a masterpiece. It is definatly 2005's best action/adventure 
 game, and it is worthy of much praise. Anyone who owns a DS would be a fool to pass this one up. 
 No matter who you are or what types of games you're a fan of, you will enjoy Castlevania: Dawn 
 Of Sorrow. With its fast-paced gameplay, superb visuals, and amazing music, the only real fault 
 to the game is that it's shorter than some might like. Still, despite its less-than-average length, 
 Dawn Of Sorrow is and always will be a timeless classic, and should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hmasd
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  Look if you want to play a castlevania that you can beat in 3 days buy this game but if you want 
 to play an old fashion castlevania buy these games. 1. Castlevania circle of the moon 2. castlevania 
 aria of sorrow 3. Im not sure of the name but thcastlevania for ps2. I must admit the graphics 
 are great. I cant really say the story cause i only plyed aria of sorrow for 3 hours but its hard. 
 This game is short if you dont beat the game without fighting all the masters ( you dont have to 
 fight them) . The game is so easy even the masters were easy. The good stuff about this game is 
 that your able to get monster souls and when you do youll be able to upgrade your weapons instead 
 of having to pay for your weapons. The bad thing about the game is that they kept saying your going 
 to use the stylus over and over again. Well you only use the stylus to seal the monster which takes 
 2 seconds to do and break ice blocks which is not important after you use it the first time. So 
 just wait save your money so when the price gets lower you could but this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darrogamer06
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Well the latest in the Castlevania series is another fine addition. I am talking about Dawn Of 
 Sorrow and although I do not think its the best in the series or my favourite (Super Castlevania 
 IV) , its nonetheless a great game that has a good amount of unlockables and will suck you in for 
 a while. I believe the game is quite addictive and is reasonably hard but not too hard whether 
 games like DMC 3 and Ninja Gaiden are considered to be a couple of the hardest games out there. 
 
  
  I dont know if its the first true sequel to a Castlevania game but it is the sequel to the excellent 
 Aria Of Sorrow for the GBA in which you play as Soma once again and go through a large castle with 
 various environments including a water environment and of course where would be a castlevania game 
 without a clock tower level in it. 
  
  The graphics in it are not a big improvement from the GBA but I think they are great especially 
 with the bosses as I think some of the bosses looks particularly cool (Menace the final boss especially) 
 and some of the enemies also. 
  
  The sound in it I think is quite good also with the retro Vania tunes you can hear in certain places 
 and I believe some of the music in it is great although some reviewered dont think so. The sound 
 is not brilliant now and it probably shouldnt be since it really is the same sounds you hear from 
 the last 3 games on the GBA.
  
  The lifespan on this game is good because it will take roughly around 10-15 hours for the average 
 gamer to complete but there is Julius mode and hard mode to unlock there thus you can play the 
 game some more thus add the lifespan of it.
  
  Dawn Of Sorrow is a great addition to the Castlevania series and hopefully we will get our hands 
 on another great CV game on the handheld soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanana
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania is easily the best game out there for the ds. If I had a guide I would consider it 
 (other than for the sound and graphics) possibly flawless. I am a little stuck in the game but 
 it is great. There is almost everything that a Castlevania game should have and more, weapon and 
 item upgrades, crazy powers, guns, bosses, but, from what I know, no whip. This games is more than 
 deserving of it's rating. I do not play with the sound beacuse it is not the greatest but this 
 game is DEFINITELY worth the $30-$40.
  
  For future references, I would also love to see a much better graphic and possibly 3d version of 
 Castlevania for the DS. There was also almost no point to the touch screen other than for to irritate 
 the player by making them randomly pull out the stylus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariobros123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:22 am PT
Review:  Caslvania ds is so awsome. It is one of the best releases of the year. Everyone probably thought 
 that since Castlvania was 2d it was going to be horrible.
  
  Lets start with the graphics. I have never seen graphics this good for a 2d game. It is unlike 
 any other 2D game out there. The enemies especially the bosses look incredible. They look real 
 for once. It's not your adverage 2D game. The fact that it is on the DS allows higher graphics 
 makes the game look clearly incredible. 
  
  The gameplay is nothing to snease at either. The enemies are actually moving real like. There not 
 sliding across the ground or staying in one spot. They actually have different attacks. Thaaey 
 can do anything from punch to spit fire. You to are equipted with more than one move. There are 
 special attcaks and regular waepon attacks. You can jump slide or use weapons.
  
  There is not just one weapon to choose from. You have knives, short swords, long swords, and even 
 a 9 millimiter. Thats right a hand gun. Not only are there weapons but armor to. You can find or 
 buy items from the shopkeeper. If thats not eough you can upgrade your weapons. Thats right change 
 your knife to a short sword and so on. Once you acuire a certain skill you can change items using 
 the y button. That means you could swith from a knife to a battle axe.
  
  The attcaks are also choosable. You could use bombs to throw at enemies. You can even summon enemies 
 you've destroyed. Doing this will take away from you special meter. Your special meter refils reguarly 
 allowing you to use special attacks more often.
  
  Not enough well than face off in multiplayer battling your best friends. Sadly there is no wi fi 
 or single card play. Even sadder I have yet to try this feature because I have no one to play with.
 
  
  This game is the bomb. I recomend it to anyone who likes somewhat of an rpg with action. Actually 
 I recomend this one to anyone with a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Murasaki-kun
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I love this game. I was planning on not getting this, until my friend got it. He let me start 
 a new file, and I loved it. The touch screen wasn't used much, sure, but this was still an awesome 
 game. I love RPGs, and this helped me get through boring car trips. It has a storyline that just 
 makes you want to find out what happens next, and it had 3 endings. When you get a new soul, you 
 just have to try it out and see what it does. Another part of the game that I liked was the upgrading 
 of the weapons. Once you get the spear to the latest level, you get an electrically powered spear 
 that blasts the enemy with electricity on it's special.
  
  Ok, now for my least favorite part, the bad of this game. This game is a little easy if you have 
 the right souls. The bosses don't really have much of an A. I., and they do the same things, so 
 you can easily not get hurt at all on most of them. The only one that really proves a challenge 
 is Aguni and the final boss of the last level (Forgot his name) Also, the seals prove to get annoying, 
 especially when you don't know when they're going to die. I must've lowered Gergoth's health to 
 0 five times until I actually sealed it ( I forgot the seal xp)
  
  This game is a great game for those who liked other games in the series. There're many hours that 
 you will spend in this game, filled with fun. There aren't many games on the DS that I think will 
 top this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poltergeist86
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, as you already know, is the recent entry of Konamis long running 
 vampire-killing, Dracula-slaying action-adventure series. It is also a direct sequel to GBAs Aria 
 of Sorrow, which was also a really good game. 
  
  C: DoS features again the same hero from AoS, Soma Cruz. This time he is to stop a cult that wants 
 to resurrect Dracula (as there is always people fool enough to revive him, oh well) . This game 
 also features the same soul system introduced in AoS. Basically you kill a monster and you get 
 a (small) chance to get and absorb its soul which in turn grants you an ability reminiscent (generally) 
 of the monster. As you AoS players know, getting one soul was just fine and getting more did not 
 grant you any more power, but (and a big one) , in DoS you can accumulate souls and each time you 
 get the same soul the ability that it grants get stronger. Another aspect that this game gets from 
 other Metroidesque Castlevanias is the weapon, armor and accessories that you can equip and are 
 found all about the castle (or you can buy them) which are priceless in order to beat the game. 
 However, this time around, in order to get better weapons, you must go to Yokos shop. She can 
 mix souls with your weapons to create stronger weapons (and this is really important because this 
 is how you get the best weapons of the game) . These two changes to the soul system grant this game 
 more length, depth and fun since you have now an excuse to get more souls out of monsters.
  
  Additionally, because this is a DS game, you get some touch screen functionality. These include 
 breaking some crystal blocks in some puzzling rooms and to seal away bosses. Thats right, when 
 you fight bosses you slay them (as always) but then, in order to finish it, you have to draw a 
 certain magical pattern with your stylus and that will finish it for good. These patterns are found 
 throughout the castle and you must find them in order to be able to enter the boss room. You also 
 have another extra screen and it is one of the best things that have happened to these series because 
 you now have the option to display the map ALWAYS on the top screen or if you tap select, you 
 switch the screen to some sort of status screen and monster info. It tells you the name of the 
 monster currently (or last) attacked, its weakness, items that it can drop and weaknesses. Both 
 screens are really helpful and adds a lot to the games interface.
  
  Graphically this game looks pretty. The animations of Soma and all the characters, monsters, etc. 
 are well done. The only drawback I saw was that some of the backgrounds were a little too plain. 
 For example, the castles 2nd area is the Wizardry Lab, and you may think its full of potions, 
 books and floating things but instead it looks like an old storage of sorts. Do not mistake me, 
 art is great in this game, but a little more inspiring castle would have been better.
  
  The sound in Dos is good. All things sound as they should but in terms of soundtrack, only a few 
 songs stay with me (in fact, AoS soundtrack was better) . This is a shame since I LOVE Castlevania 
 music but this games music is nothing out of the ordinary.
  
  Finally this game gets some replayability. After you finish it you can play it again on hard, and 
 you get to use another character (which turns out to be 3 but I wont spoil it, youll be on for 
 a treat) , and finally you will want to collect all weapons and souls.
  
  In conclusion, if you have a Nintendo DS get this game, it is worth it. It is one of the best DS 
 titles around (the reason I got a DS in first place was because of this game) . I absolutely recommend 
 it and be sure, you will like it. If you want more proof, Im currently playing it for the 5th 
 time and it is still fun. Buy it and have a great time!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hellmen21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit, I have never played a Castlevania game in my life, and it hurts me awfully when I hear 
 the iterations in the series getting fantastic acclaim. So finally, I went with my gut and bought 
 Dawn of Sorrow for the DS. Did I regret it? Heh, if I did, I would still have plenty of free time 
 left in my life.
  
  When you first get into the game, it seems like another boring hack-and-slash game with a few nice 
 elements implemented into the formula. But after awhile, it get's better and better once you collect 
 soul power-ups and better weapons, because the enemies get more interesting, and the boss fights 
 are more incredible then ever.
  
  Probably the most confusing part about Dawn of Sorrow is that the weapons you use don't really 
 have combos or strategic uses. They're just hit-and-hack sort of weapons, and yet, you can't shake 
 the feeling that it's so damn fun to do.
  
  Maybe it's because the special power-ups you use look so damn neat and are incredibly effective 
 at the same time. Which reminds me, there are three different types of "soul-power" that can be 
 abtained by destryoing enemies and they can used throughout the game:
  
  1) . The Bullet-type soul.
  
  This is used as an offensive power, i. e. throwing knives, creating 
 a wall of fire, and so forth. And this isn't a "filler" sort of thing either. You'll be knee-deep 
 in enemies that'll force you to use them, and believe me, you'll use them often.
  
  2) . The Guardian-type soul.
  
  The title pretty much says it all........ well, most of it actually. 
 While some are used to protect you, some of them are abilities to access certain areas or puzzles. 
 For example, the Flying Armor soul grants the bearer to fall a lot slower, making this easier to 
 cross large gaps and such.
  
  3) . The Enchant-type soul.
  
  This is somewhat of an upgrade for your character. These types of souls can give you special abilities, 
 such as increasing your luck, or raising your strength and so on. Trust me, if you use any of these 
 types of souls, they'll make your tasks a lot more simpler.
  
  4) . The Ability-type soul.
  
  This type of soul does not need to be equiped at all. Once you 
 take it, it will permanently stay with you throughout the course of your journey. If you happen 
 to find one of these, then pat yourself on the back, because these are extremely rare to find.
 
  
  If there is any thing to be said about the sound in Dawn of Sorrow, it is that it sounds like heaven 
 to your ears. The music in all of the castle many levels are just outstandingly well scored, and 
 it's one of the many reasons why this games is so great. As for everythng else, you have to hear 
 it to believe it when you fight the several bosses in this game.
  
  I know it's strange to call a 2-D side-scrolling, hack-and-slasher a "beautiful work of art". Truth 
 is, it's more then a work of art. Enemies are surprisingly detailed VERY well, and the backgrounds 
 and level designs are absolutely gorgeous to gaze upon. If there is anything to say about the characters, 
 it's that they look a bit........ well, "cartoony". It's not a bad thing, don't get me wrong. But 
 seeing as how the last games in the series looked a bit more "artistic", it's sort of disappointing 
 that it looks more like a kiddy game on the cover.
  
  All-in-all, Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is one of the many reasons why you should buy a DS. If you 
 do, and don't consider yourself to be a hack-and-slash fan, this game will definetly make you one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acekicka
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:45 am PT
Review:  For awhile the only experience I had with Castlevania, were the old school NES and SNES games, 
 until I played Symphony of the Night, had it not been for FF7, that would have been the best game 
 on PSOne. The way Konami introduced Metroid style play into Castlevania was the greatest idea I'd 
 ever seen implemented, I absolutely loved Symphony of the Night. Now onto Dawn of Sorrow, it has 
 the same Metroid style gameplay, but Soma the main character has the ability to absorb the powers 
 of his enemies as he defeats them (not just bosses, every enemy) so over the course of the game 
 you have a plethora of abilities at your disposal, some you will never use but great non the less. 
 The graphics are perfect I really wouldn't want Castelvania any other way, the screen is just so 
 small, lol. The funfactor though is through the roof if you like Castlevania or Metroid then this 
 is a must have. Overall I cant really find anything bad to say about this game except for the fact 
 its not as good as SotN, but its still damn good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koolsen
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I had mixed reactions on this game... It was entertaning but it just didnt wow me... Aria of sorrow 
 wowed me with its new soul collecting system and great bosses... It also had a great story. But 
 dawn of sorrow the soul system had already been done the bosses are mostly great the story still 
 beats out most other handhelds games. Its just that nothing felt new or fresh. The touch screen 
 parts ( drawing seals) feels tacked on. Why the AAA score then? simple the game is still i imersive 
 and overall great.
  Now on to graphics their great clear large sprites. All the movment is incredibly smooth. The sound 
 is great with music you expect from this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZephyrSB
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  When I bought my DS, I knew that besides Mario Kart (which came with the bundle) there was one 
 other game I had to try right away. That game was Castlevania. Having played Aria of Sorrow and 
 Circle of the Moon on the GBA, I was interested to see how Konami would improve on the already 
 robust system they had going in the previous games, and I was not disappointed.
  
  Like all Castlevania games, the gameplay is really important here, and the game certainly lives 
 up to its predecessors. The controls are tight and responsive, and equipping items and souls is 
 even easier than in Aria of Sorrow. The gameplay itself resembles most Castlevania games, in that 
 you're going through Dracula's castle (well, not exactly - but you'll see) and slaying monsters. 
 Since you level up in an RPG fashion by getting experience, it never seems like a boss or area 
 is unfairly tough - you can just level up some more if it is. That's not to say that the game isn't 
 challenging. Several of the boss fights are pretty difficult, but that's half the fun.
  
  The touch screen is implemented in a few ways. The first, and most important, is drawing magic 
 seals. Essentially, when you defeat a boss, you have to trace a symbol on the touch screen in a 
 few seconds, or the boss will regain some health and you have to do it again. The early ones are 
 pretty simple, but the later ones get fairly complex and make you act fast. Practicing them out 
 of actual fights is highly recommended, since although it might only take you one or two tries 
 in a boss situation, that might be more than you can afford.
  
  Additionally, the touch screen is used for breaking crystal blocks and commanding familiars, but 
 the former seems a bit forced and the latter is all but useless. However, they don't really take 
 much away from the game, either.
  
  The graphics may disappoint some fans of the DS who expect nothing but polygonal models ala Mario 
 64 or Sonic Rush. However, the sprite-based style used here has never looked better. Compare the 
 Castlevania games from the GBA to this one, and the difference is clear. The enemies and drawn 
 perfectly, with smooth and sometimes comical animations, like the skeleton Yorick who constantly 
 kicks his own head around. The backgrounds are sometimes done in a 3D style, giving an interesting 
 effect of movement.
  
  Yet all that would be marred if the sound were not up to par - this is a Castlevania game, after 
 all. If the GBA games had great sound, then the DS version is fantastic. Some of the themes are 
 a little forgettable, but many of them are interesting, lively, and pure Castlevania. The sound 
 effects, as well, are top-notch as usual.
  
  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow has to be one of the best games for the DS at this time. As far as 
 value goes, it may seem short, but then there's the task of collecting all of the game's many souls. 
 After that's done, there's an additional Julius Mode (which will bring back fond memories of Castlevania 
 3 for many) not to mention the Boss Rush mode, the option to start a new game+, and a brand new 
 multiplayer mode. All in all, Castlevania DS represents a great step forward for the series, without 
 losing sight of what made it so great in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uno-dos
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the latest iteration of Konami's decades-old franchise and the first 
 to appear on the Nintendo DS. Don't let the title fool you; this really isn't the dawn of anything, 
 except maybe a bunch more Castlevania games on the DS. And the subtitle here is simply a workable 
 way to include the letters D and S in the title of the game, as seems to be the requirement for 
 the platform at this point. Dawn of Sorrow actually takes place a year after the events in Aria 
 of Sorrow, which came out in 2003 on the Game Boy Advance. If you've played that game -- or if you've 
 played just about any recent Castlevania game actually -- you'll be right at home with Dawn of Sorrow, 
 because it's basically the same game repackaged to fit the DS. That isn't a bad thing though, because 
 the Castlevania games have long carried the torch for good, old-fashioned 2D side-scrolling gameplay, 
 and Dawn of Sorrow keeps that flame burning as bright as ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EYEInferno
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2005 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Before I ever saw this game in the shop i knew nothing about Castlevania, only heard of it by name. 
 But i saw gamespot gave it a good rating; 8.9, and i desperatly needed a new DS game ;) , so i bought 
 Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow.
  
  I immidiatly noticed the Anime/Manga style boxart, and, when I inserted my game in my ds, I saw 
 the same style as intro movie and as "cutscenes" throughout the game, well the cutscenes consist 
 of text-based dialogs with an Anime/Manga style pictures of the characters.
  
  The multiplayer is multi-pack only, for 2 players, that is alike skirmish, where you place your 
 enemies in a pre-made map, and then play through it, and to beat your top score; time.
  
  I personally dont like games like Castlevania, and Castlevania DoS didn't really interest me of 
 the 2D graphics, and the platformish way it is played, but to my suprise it was a really great 
 game, and still is.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  Castlevania is a game with a good replay value, great 2D graphics, great gameplay, great sounds 
 and a great story line. If you are looking for a RPG/Adventure game or just want a new game, Castlevania 
 is a good choise. It can be hard to some gamers, which can be either an advantage or a disadvantage 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Well, not really. You don't get to actually draw a pentagram in this game.
  
  BUT in any-case i've been following the Castlevania titles for some time, since Castlevania 2: 
 Belmont's Revenge (e. g the one with the funny early 90s, 70s influenced progressive rock music!)
 
  
  Its a pretty cool how far the platform genre for Castlevania has come. I have never really liked 
 the whole 3D Castlevania since it doesn't capture the same atmosphere or even concept of the platform 
 versions. However this time round, Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow has alot more features, updated graphics 
 and SOME fun bosses.
  
  Controls wise its pretty standard. In all honesty i thought the stylus pen was going to play a 
 much BIGGER part in this, however it doesn't really. You only use it after boss battles and in 
 clearing ice blocks from a room.
  
  That isn't so bad, the battles are generally fast paced like its predecessor Aria of Sorrow (aided 
 by ur usual array of CRAZY summons!) , but lets get onto the more important aspect of the game: 
 BOSS BATTLES!!!
  
  Boss wise this game kind of varies between kind-of-hard bosses and very easy bosses. Its pretty 
 unbalanced since the game throws the difficulty here and there off balance: For example, near the 
 end of the game the 2nd last boss is pretty tough... then the FINAL boss... is VERY easy. 
  
  I guess you could argue it depends on how much time you level and how much time you invest in getting 
 good equipment, but i still stand that there was a horrible balance between boss difficulty in 
 this game. Also they were all pretty standard apart from some of the cool visual bosses you see 
 later in the game.
  
  Sound wise, same old Castlevania keyboard music heh :) Gotta love it ;)
  
  I dunno... yes i'm 
 tottaly biased here cause i LOVE vampires and i LOVE Castlevania games but... in the end of the 
 day the PROS do out-way the CONS in whole makeing it a worthwhile game to add to your Castlevania 
 collection (if you have one) ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragnarok098
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 2, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Story
  You play as the main character from the previous castlevania game, Soma Cruz. In the last game, 
 he discovered that he was the new Dark Lord-Dracula. Soma stopped this from happening, and escaped 
 Dracula's castle which he had accidentally landed in. A year has passed since then, and Soma is 
 one day attacked by a woman named Celia, who intends to resurrect Dracula along with an ever-growing 
 cult. Soma pursues Celia to the cult base where the adventure begins...
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is very much the same to Aria of sorrow, where you could steal enemy souls. In case 
 you never played Aria of sorrow, it had a new system where you could gain the souls of enemies 
 and use their abilities to help you on your way. In Dawn of Sorrow, it's pretty much the same thing. 
 The souls are very well varied and all have useful traits. Some may cause a wave of fire to run 
 across the ground, others may cause Soma to lunge out at enemies with his tongue. There are plenty 
 of souls to collect, so you can experiment and find which ones work well with your playing style. 
 There are some souls that are required to complete the game, but they never really get in the way 
 of your preferred soul sets. You may also fuse your souls with your weapons therefore making them 
 more powerful. There are some weapons that can only be fused and not bought at the shop. Aside 
 from that, you've still got the basic castlevania "RPG" style gameplay. It's often times Non-linear, 
 so you can do most things in any order you want. You spend most of your time fighting monsters, 
 and jumping around on platforms. Theres also plenty of secrets to find, and a few bonus game modes 
 to unlock. The touch screen is used to break crystal blocks on screen that hinder Somas progress. 
 It's also used to target enemies for your familiars, and, more importantly, draw magic seals. Magic 
 seals are found throughout the game. The Magic seals are then used to defeat bosses. The formation 
 of the magic seal appears when the boss runs out of health. Correctly tracing the symbol seals 
 the boss, thus defeating it. If, however, you fail at tracing the symbol right, the boss will regain 
 some of its health, and you'll need to lower its HP once more to able to try again to seal it away. 
 Its health does not entirely refill though, thus removing some of the stress of having low health 
 yourself.
  
  Overall, the gameplay is very similar to Aria of Sorrow.
  
  Graphics
  The game has its excellent moments here. While the DS is capable of much more, the graphics are 
 still really good. The characters movements and actions are animated very well, and some of the 
 special effects of the game look excellent. Some, for example, are done in 3-D and incorporate 
 themselves in to the game very well, such as sealing bosses. The souls and attacks all look very 
 well done. The backrounds literally make you feel like youre there-in the action-as Soma Cruz. 
 From a technical standpoint, it may not be anything special, but it certainly does a great job 
 of making you feel as if your there. I personally thought they were very fitting.
  
  Sound
  The music is wonderful. It's clear, and I have yet to dislike a single track in the game. 
 The sounds are very clear, from the tiniest tink of a dagger, to the ferocious roars of some of 
 the monsters. Overall, something your ears should enjoy and hopefully not loathe.
  
  Replay
  There are plenty of bonus modes to unlock, and a New Game+ feature, so youre bound to 
 play this game at least two or three times. There's plenty of fun to be had finding all of the 
 souls, and chances are you won't obtain all of them in your first game.
  
  Overall, the game is lots of fun, and youre most likely going to spend many hours on it. The main 
 game can be finished rather quickly, but you'll miss out on quite a lot of extras and whatnot if 
 you decide to do so. The game isn't nearly as good as Aria of Sorrow was, but it is still an excellent 
 DS game nonetheless.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: oxjames
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 28, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  Gamplay: fun except that soul thing it took to long to get some of the even with the soul eater 
 ring i mean come on this it such a hasle but i got them all and the ax to it full and im got to 
 level 87 so i was happy with this game.
  
  Graphics: i loved the graphics they are how a castlevania should be not like the ones on n64 they 
 where stupid but those games were still a little fun tho.
  
  Sound: thegame had great music way better that halo {1 and 2} i mean it wastop grade music.
  
 
  Value: it is worth every penny i meen you should gettleast 25 hours if you didnt cheat with walkthroughs. {thoughs 
 are for queers and bd game players}
  
  Reviewers tilt: this a great castlevania game if i was you i would buy right now! you will get 
 25 hour at least out of it and a great gameplay also buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is the best 2D game I've seen. The plot, story, characters, and the 
 overall game are fantastic! It starts the game with Soma and his (girl) friend hangin' out. All 
 of the sudden, a women named Celia attacks him with these walking skeletons. Soma easily wins the 
 fight, and Celia escapes. Soma finds out that Celia has a tower and a clan that is trying to resurrect 
 Dracula. Of course Soma has stopped that from happening before, so Celia tries to kill him so that 
 he doesn't mess up their clan's plans. Soma travels to the tower, and you'll have to play it out 
 from there. The gameplay is amazing, and never gets old... at all!!!!!! Maybe the graphics are 
 2D, but they are the most amazing graphics that I have EVER seen! The music... is the one of the 
 most amazing parts of the game. Those players who play games, but keep the volume muted: TURN UP 
 THE VOLUME ON THIS ONE!!!! You won't be disappointed! A must own, and it also needs a best horror 
 of the year trophey (because it is considered a horror series) . Take my word on this one... if 
 you like guns swords and fighting the dead, or even if you don't, this game is one game that EVERYONE, 
 (yes, EVERYONE) should own. SO GO TO THE NEAREST GAME STORE AND FIND THIS GAME... NOW!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -tridgen-
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  well this is the first castlevania game i play an isnt bad the gameplay its fun it isnt too repetitive 
 and always makes you go back to one previous visited
  place just for go on in the story, the story its good
  and the ambiance too, well... if you are 
 one castlevania fan you wont le t pass
  this one and if youre not one castlevania fan its one must have for ds owners :p
  i dont know 
 what else to say cause i havent finished the game but for what i played its really good
  the bad parts well... almost dont have bad parts lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew_ds
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2005 12:19 pm PT
Review:  WOW. Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow, is the best ds game there is.
  
  The game play is very good, the controls are funfand there are many different ways to use them. 
 This game has well over 20 different weapons, to use plus several other things like summomning 
 zombies, bats, and other beasts to help you in your quest.
  
  The graphics are very good. The levels are very detailed and the creatures are excellent. 
  
 
  The music is beautiful and there is a good amount of songs that don't seem to get repetative.
 
  
  For 39.99. This game is defently worth the price.
  
  Buy This game is is the most fun you will ever have on the nintendo ds! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rageanmachine
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:55 am PT
Review:  I have always been a huge Castlevania series fan. There has been a few of them (ones on the big 
 consoles) that have really let me down. This game was the one reason I went out and bought a DS 
 this fall! This game is hands down one of the best games not only of 2005 but ever to be released. 
 The game play is awsome, graphics are beautiful, and replay value is very high. My son had really 
 stopped playing games till he saw me playing it and had to have a DS and Castlevania for his birthday. 
 If you own a Ds you have to have this game 1st and for-most. I have played many games this year 
 on all systems since I work at a game store and this is the best of all of them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afly727
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  this is simply the best castlevania game yet and probably the best ds game. nothing really bad 
 about this game just the bosses can get extremly dificult (the puppet boss) well what makes it 
 the best yet? first off once again the music is absolutly perfect. the gameplay is so much fun 
 even with some extremly hard boss battles it is impossible to but this game down. now there really 
 isnt a touch screen use in this but tracing a desighn which is perfectly fine not every ds has 
 to have major touch screen role. if you don'y get the point yet this game beats any plummer on 
 a kart or a boy with a wrench or baby luigi. go and buy this game now if you havn't 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martbigz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:21 am PT
Review:  I feel that Konami really did it this time. Castlevania : Dawn Of Sorrow is a perfect follow-up 
 to Aria Of Sorrow, which also were a helluva game when it appeared on the GBA. It might not seem 
 like much at first, but believe me, it will be.
  
  The gameplay alone is enough to capture me totally. I really enjoy playing this game. Everything 
 from grinding for souls, to big bossfights, is awesome. It'll keep you playing for a long, long 
 time. Of course, grinding for souls can lead to frustration sometimes, seeing as some souls have 
 a fairly low drop percent. But don't let that stop you.
  
  And the music, it totally rocks. Just like the earlier games, the music is very well done, and 
 it's just so comfy to listen to. And it's so varied, it never gets tiring to listen to.
  
  The graphics have improved a lot since Aria Of Sorrow. Everything is very well done, which you 
 can notice very easily. Jump on the roof of a car, watch the snow fall down. Is it necessary to 
 implement such a detail in the game? No, but it is sure to improve the gameplay experience that 
 you have, just feeling that they paid attention to the details.
  
  The story, oh it's so good. Just like the last 5 Castlevania games that I played, this story was 
 great as well. It's not the kind that'll suck you right in, but mixed with the gameplay and the 
 music, it'll hook you enough to play through. And then play through it again.
  
  Overall : It's close to perfect. If you own a DS, this is the game to buy. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: light_apprentic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 16, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  In castlevania dawn of sarrows you get a aray of weapons, anything thing from a simple knife to 
 a 9mm pistol. You also get a bunch of armor food and alot of other stuff. They us the touch screen 
 very well in this game, you will be havibg a styless in hand all the way through the game. Cause 
 who knows when your going to have to do a magical seal or break frozen blocks (which is realy fun 
 from my point of veiw) . Bot if your bord of playing animal crossimg over winter break pick up this 
 game it will atlest keep you busy for a few days, and plus they have multiplayer mode which is always 
 good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply one of the castlevania's. A thick weapon and customization system and lots 
 of weapons for you to equip yourself with. The storyline is a bit boring and cliche, and the experience 
 will be a very short lived one if you don't do the extended version (mirror) . Besides these minor 
 flaws the game is a constant state of excitement and fun, yet at times it grows frustrating and 
 plain boring, fighting enemies the hundredth time to get to the same spot. 
  
  Much lime Metroid series, you get new moves to get to new area's. Unique boss fights, great powers 
 as well as some very fun mode's that are unlockable. The use of the touch screen is painfully disappointing, 
 nothing that couldn't of been put on the GBA, so for its hardware it can be considered poor.
  
  Gameplay - 9
  Many weapons and many powers fused together with lots of moves to add to the 
 way you play this game. 
  
  Sound - 7
  A great sound, great sound effects, but ultimately the sound gets annoying after a while and fails 
 to stand on its own.
  
  Graphics - 8
  Like i said, the graphics are GBA-like, they could of easily made better platforms, characters, 
 although the backgrounds look great.
  
  Replay Value - 7
  Good for a second run with Julius and hard mode make it a satisfying replay.
  
  Overall - 8.9
 
  A very satisfying game that is a wonderful addition to anyones DS roster. A achievement, but the 
 game could of been so much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deepdreamer256
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the best game in the series since Symphony of the Night, maybe even 
 the second best in the series, you can't call yourself a gamer if you're not won over by it's hardcore 
 challenge and buetiful graphics, yes it's 2-D but it does'nt make it less mouth-watering, the gameplay 
 is challenging and action-packed, and the character building strikes a spot-on feeling of satisfaction. 
 
  
  Gameplay: 9 
  It's mainly a rehash of Aria of Sorrow but deeper and slightly larger, it takes quite a few enemies 
 from Aria who still have the same abilities as before. The game is challenging sometimes to an 
 un-bearable intensity but most of the time you can make your way past the bosses easily with plenty 
 of potions. The soul collecting is exiting but nothing compared to the character-building (Nothing 
 beats the satisfaction of getting all the ultimate weapons) and the exploration is as good as ever.
 
  
  Graphics: 9 
  Konami has mastered 2-D, the sprites are drawn with craft and care and brimming with neat little 
 touches, the backgrounds are deep and stretch far into the distance and parralax scrolling gives 
 them a fluid feel.
  
  Sound: 8 
  The game has some brillant tracks but these are in few numbers, some levels have repititive tunes 
 that drill your head in, and some mearly good, normally konami has done better than this, but it's 
 a great score all around.
  
  Value: 8 
  Getting 100% souls and a 100% map can take a slightly underwhelming 25 hours but there's still 
 much more collectable items still, the castle is large and filled with secrets that can be uncovered 
 quickly with the right souls. After you've completed the game there are some things to come back 
 for at least.
  
  Overall
  9.0 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerofthedawn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2005 12:16 pm PT
Review:  cv dos must be the best cv in the series because there is a soul system muiltple weapons unbelive 
 bosses it is just amazing the story begins after a year of the events in aos once again the dark 
 cult wants you to be the evil dark lord dracula there is a lot of unlockable secrets it is addicting 
 you will spend the day trying to find every soul and castle perceatge you play as soma cruz and 
 there is a lot of charcters than usaul in a cv game multple ending make this game to play just 
 to get for the ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bio_hasard
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  this game is crazy the sound is really good, it is the best looking 2d game i have ever seen this 
 is so great i love this game i think every one with a ds should get one copy of it "go dracula!!!" 
 lol well just buy this game the price is really good to go out and buy it now, the game play is 
 fun there is a ton of wepones and souls to collect and the boss fights are fun that u have to do 
 sings with the touch screen. i spent a lot of time playing it when i got it, it blew me away. this 
 is just awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BR0M
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  The game is absolutely wonderful. It is my personal favorite game launched for the DS all year.
 
  It is very similar to Metroid Fusion and Castlevania Aria of Sorrow (the prequel.) If you like 
 either game, then this game is guaranteed fun. There is a huge replayability factor. You get about 
 10-12 hours in Soma mode and then you unlock the really cool Julius Belmont mode another 10- 12 
 hours. It has a fun multiplayer mode where you can create your own obstacle course of enemies to 
 challenge your friends to attempt to defeat. You also get a Boss Rush Mode. It all boils down to 
 weeks of fun. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stiker71
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 15, 2005 7:42 am PT
Review:  Let me say i love this game ive beat it and i love it my second fav game (mario kartslast longer) This 
 is my first Castlevania i did not know anything about it yet i love this game. Let start with all 
 the modes theres
  -Boss rush mode
  -Main story mode
  -Julies mode
  -Monster set mode
  -Sound test mode
  Now il tell u about them all and you dont have these all from the begining 
 you have to unlock them or most of them.
  
  Boss rush mode you unlock affter beating the game destorying the soul atached to the fire dude. In 
 this mode you have to beat all the bosses in the quickest time that you can and depending at your 
 time you will get a prize.
  
  
  Story mode is the main game you are soma trying to stop the clut. Very long nice game with 3 diffenrt 
 ending (witch you can get all of) and after you beat the game you can go tough it a second time 
 in harder mode.
  
  Julies mode is were affter u beat the game with the first ending julies will come after you. Sadly 
 theres no potions in this mode so its much harder but you can get the girl and the other guy on 
 your team with is very fun.
  
  Monster set mode is were any souls of monsters that soma has got you set them in a 5 room dongen 
 where u can race tough it and try to get the fastest time or play with your friend in it.
  
  Sound test mode its a sound test mode what you want me to say?
  
  So
  PROS
  -long nice 
 game
  -very very fun
  -great for even those who never played a game in the seris before 
  -many fun modes to chose from
  CONS
  -very sad usage of the touch screen and no mic usage
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackle_shaboz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 12, 2005 10:36 pm PT
Review:  For Its Its Game It RULES! I Shall Always Remember This Game It Is Kind Or Sofar One Of The Best 
 DS Gams I Have Played So Far. I Give 2 Thumbs, Up 4.5 Stars, Get It And Try It U Wont Be Bored 
 This Game Is Off The Hook. If I Were U A Big Castlvania Fan And Had A DS I Would Get It For Its 
 Cost It Should Be A Little Bit Less Though Get It Buy It Or Even Rent It Castlevania Is The Best 
 Ds Game I Played So Far. Why are You Here When You Should Be Buying The Game Go Now Try It And 
 You'll Love It. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanewolfninja
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 18, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  the ds has been on a roll so far this year with advance wars nintendogs mario kart and and the 
 rencarnation of my fav game of all time super mario 64. but on october4 2005 a game called castlevania 
 dawn of sorrow and boy is it dang good. you play as soma from aria of sorrow, and thats enough 
 for the story. the gameplay is your basic 2d formula but it advances it and carves it into perfection. 
 jumping and salshing has never been so fun the bosses are just what they should be hard, even if 
 you level up enough. inorder to completly kill them you must do a seris of magic seals on the touch 
 screen. the weapon creating offers some much value cause going to capture the souls takes time 
 and lots of it . for instance you want to upgrade your spear into partizan you must capture a axe 
 armor soul. souls will randomly appear, usally the best way to capture one is to go back and forth 
 through a door. there is a lot of exploration do and the backround envoirements are going to make 
 you sit and stair at them for a long time. the sound is amazing konami does it again with thier 
 musc. it sounds nice and catchy creepy and rocky a nice mixture of music just to keep the beat 
 going. thats about it if you dont have a ds and dont want this game then chances are you are mentally 
 challenged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halorocks1234
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2005 7:16 am PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of sorrow has a great weapon system. When you kill an enemy sometimes you get 
 a soul. With that soul you can make certain weapons. I made a Bhuj. It does 86 damage and it is 
 great. This game alos has great bosses ranging form easy to diffcult. You will be addictied to 
 this game espically the enemy set mode where you can make your own level by putting different enemys 
 in the level. This is a great game for gamers who played the previous castlevania series and for 
 people who never played it like me. I give it a 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallen_Riku
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:28 am PT
Review:  This was my first Castlevania game. I have been looking for a while for a good RPG to play and 
 sadly couldn't find one that appealed to me. (Lunar Dragon Song turned out to be a flop, and Mario 
 and Lugi isn't the type of RPG I am looking for as it isn't... how to say this.. RPGish despite 
 it being an RPG. Such as not having traditional RPG spells and such. Anyway about Castlevania: 
 Dawn of Sorrow.
  
  I settled with Castlevania as it was an Action/Adventure game, but you could gain experience from 
 fighting NPC's. So even if there were a little backtracking in the game, it would only make your 
 character stronger. When I bought this game, I figured it would be sort of like a side scrolling 
 devil may cry game. (Which wouldn't be bad) .
  
  I found the game quite addicting and even though I am not familair with the Castlevania Games, 
 this game has peaked my interest and I am currently considering whether or not to buy the prequel 
 for the GBA.
  
  The gameplay is mainly hack and slash. You will be able to use different weapons along the way, 
 but they don't matter too much. The different weapons are different in the speed and power of each, 
 but not enough in my opinion. I used the strongest (and slowest) weapon and didn't run into any 
 problems. 
  
  Gameplay: While the game is hack and slash, you do a lot of movement to avoid attacks, so the game 
 isn't too monotonous.
  
  The Map of the game slowly expands as you explore the different levels of the game (all which can 
 be revisited) . The map of the game is really just the layout of a huge castle, and there will be 
 certain rooms that allow you teleport to other parts of the castle which is a HUGE help. The only 
 downside to this is you may find yourself backtracking quite a bit to find the next area you are 
 supposed to advance to. Like you may defeat a boss which will bestow upon you a certain skill that 
 allows you to squeeze between an opening in a wall, which is located 3 levels across the castle 
 and you would only know about it if you came across it earlier in your journey or if you just backtracked 
 and did some random searching..
  
  Another unique thing about this game is that for every monster you kill, there is a chance you 
 can absorb their soul and gain one of their abilities. Bosses will always drop their souls, but 
 random NPC's only drop their souls by chance. So if you find yourself wanting the ability to shoot 
 lighting, you may find yourself killing the NPC that can shoot lighting multiple times, before 
 gaining the ability to get its soul. (This of course gets easier as you aquire certain items and 
 level up.)
  
  Story: You don't really have to play the other Castlevania games to enjoy this game as their isn't 
 too much character development or complex plots, although there is a twist here and there. If you 
 are a fan of the Castlevania series, you will enjoy it alot more since the characters in this game 
 are from the previous games.
  
  Graphics and sound: These aren't really a critical part of gaming in my opinion, especially being 
 handheld. You can't have too high expectations considering, but it actually isn't bad at all. For 
 the DS, it is probably the best I have seen at this point in time for it.
  
  Replayability: Ahh.. the most important part of buying a game and getting your money's worth. I 
 can honestly say that this offers a good replayability feature if you enjoyed the first run through. 
 Another thing that is unlocked once you beat the game (yes their are other things) is a mode called 
 Boss Rush Mode, which allows you to fight all the Bosses where your goal is to defeat them one 
 after another as fast as you can.
  
  Multiplayer: Not much can be said about this. If your bought this for the multiplayer, you will 
 be disappointed in my opinion, although I have played it myself. You can trade souls you have captured 
 with someone else (not too bad) or you can create custom levels and RACE another player on foot 
 to the end and whoever reaches the end win... kinda lame in my opinion, but who knows. I wish the 
 game could have been made Co-op...
  
  Rent or Buy?: Buy this if you are a DS owner and are looking for a good Action/RPG type game as 
 this at the moment is probably the best one out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljmjag
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 10, 2005 1:17 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Castlevania on handhelds since the first version was released on the black and 
 white original GameBoy. Twenty years later, I'm sorry to say that not much has changed. So what 
 if the game is now in color and you have 2 screens on the DS. The game is unchanged and is fundamentally 
 the same 2D scroller that the original was back in the mid 1980's.
  
  In a word, the game is boring. It is repetitive and amounts to not much more then hitting the bad 
 guys (ghouls, animals, it matters little) with your current favorite weapon and casting a spell 
 or two to get past some big boss or obstacle.
  
  This game is not innovative and not particularly fun. I understand that a lot of people seem to 
 enjoy this game they are certainly entitled to their opinions but it is just lost on me how this 
 game can be labled as great when it seems to me to be a tired rehash of a title that has existed 
 for 20 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumb_bum
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Maybe i didnt like it cuz im not a fan of the series or maybe its just that it SUX!!
  at first i found it really good but after a coupl of hours it got really boring cuz face it all 
 u do is press one button to use ur weapon and another to do a spell for the whole time and i say 
 again it sux!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  The graphics arent that bad but then again i4got how they look like cuz i havent played in along 
 time cuz i got too bored.
  
  I remember that the music got so irritating that i used to put the volume down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wezdog564
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 8, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania has always been a good game, but it makes it mark on the DS perfectly. 
  
  Gameplay: Its a 2D sidescroller so thers not much they could have done wrong. The controls are 
 nice and smooth and precise. The symbol drawings that you have to draw to defeat the bosses is 
 a good use of stylus, but the only problem I have with their use of the touch screen is the ability 
 to destroy little ice blocks (or whatever they are) by touching them. I thought that was just a 
 gimmick just to include more touch screen compatibility. 9/10
  
  Graphics: For a 2D game this is very nicely done. The character models look like they should and 
 move fluidly. Although they show no facial expressions during the game the cutscenes offer a little 
 emotion. The enviroments is beautiful, and the design is intuitive. 9/10
  
  Sound: Absolutely wonderful. This game has one of the best soundtracks on the DS (if not ever) . 
 Evey area has different music to it that fits the setting, and it never gets old. There isnt any 
 voice overs but there never is on a handheld title. 10/10
  
  Value: The story mode is long. Ive put about 15 hours into it and am nearly to the end. There is 
 plenty of replay value due to the alternate endings and hidden items hiddne throughout the game. 
 There is even some multiplayer, but nothing big its just a little create a map kind of thing that 
 you can share with others, but its pretty fun, my friends and I made some and its actually very 
 entertaining. 10/10
  
  Castlevania knocks it out of the park in its DS debut, and I am hoping they make another. 9.5/10
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: player254
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 7, 2005 3:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is perfect the gameplay is awesome, the graphics arent that great but the value is perfect. The 
 game is especialy fun when your uncovering the endings and exploring new rooms and using the many 
 weapons and secrets in the game plus collecting the souls youl find in the game plus destroing 
 the many bosses and mastering the seals. i give it a 9.8 I wouldgive it a ten but the graphics arent 
 that great but the rest is perfect so I THINK ITS THE BEST GAME FOR THE DS because there are MANY 
 souls to collect and combine your collected souls with your weapons . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze0506
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 2, 2005 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Konamis long-running Castlevania series has hardly missed a step. From its humble beginnings as 
 a simple side-scroller, to a nonlinear action game with light RPG elements, and even some 3D incarnations 
 here and there, Castlevania has a kind of status thats attained only through years of successful 
 releases. Dawn of Sorrow proves a number of things: 1) Konamis still got it; 2) 2D games are 
 still viable; 3) 2D games work well on the DS, just like they have on the GBA. Dont forget that 
 Sony once disallowed 2D games on their PlayStation, but they thankfully backed off; there was a 
 demand for 2D games then, and there is one now. The only thing that has changed is the platform 
 on which new 2D games are hosted.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow (DoS hereafter) takes place one year after the events of Aria of Sorrow. Soma Cruz 
 is living a normal life until hes attacked by a cult who wants to revive the dark lord Dracula 
 because hes a necessary evil (no pun intended) . Black has its white, yin has yang, the Jedi stand 
 opposite to the Siththe cults goal is to basically restore balance to the world. It doesnt take 
 long for Soma to get into the thick of things, and soon enough youre in a huge castle, laying 
 waste to every creature in existence. Its all familiar territory, especially if youve played 
 Aria of Sorrow prior. The Mega Man-like soul system returns, but it has been refined so that you 
 can power up souls by collecting the same soul multiple times. You can also use souls to upgrade 
 weapons, which cuts down on hunting for items, but at the same time increases the need for souls. 
 The weapon system from Symphony of the Night is back; all weapons have a secondary ability which 
 is easily accessed with the A button, as opposed to entering random d-pad commands. The secondary 
 attack consumes magic, though, and is not worth using until youve leveled up quite a bit.
  
  The graphics are excellent, and are the best of any 2D Castlevania game to date. Soma and his 
 friends are now taller and animate better than before. Enemies are also animated well, and they 
 still come in various sizes. The music is pretty good, though no Castlevania soundtrack after Symphony 
 of the Night has been exceptional. The sound effects are what you would expect; theyre nice and 
 clear, and there are bits of voice clips from both friends and foes (the way some characters say 
 Soma! is funny) .
  
  For extra modes, you get the usual stuff, like boss rush and sound mode, but right from the start 
 you get an enemy set mode, where you challenge your friends to run through your custom-made gauntlet 
 of enemies. Future games could enhance enemy set mode to change the room types, or even allow the 
 player to make their own rooms (one step shy of a create-a-castle mode) . Best of all, though, 
 is the Julius mode. This time, Konami actually put some thought into this mode type, and included 
 a story, multiple playable characters with different skills, and the ability to level up. You even 
 get a different final boss, which makes this mode worth the time to play through.
  
  Youve probably seen the complaint in other DoS reviews, but it bears repeating because it needs 
 to be addressed: hunting for rare souls/items needs to be done in a way so that you dont spend 
 what could potentially be hours killing the same enemy over and over again. Heres one possible 
 solution: an item that makes the last enemy killed drop its soul when that enemys death results 
 in raising your level. Another problem, though minor, is the use of the touch screen and the second 
 screen. Having a map onscreen at all times is great, but you still have to pause to access the 
 menu for other things. As it is now, all you can do is draw seals (a gimmick at best) , break crystals 
 (few rooms have them) , and target enemies for your familiars (pointless) . If Konami had switched 
 the screens around, the touch screen could have been used exclusively for managing the menu and 
 switching between different screens. Needless to say, DoS is not the best example of showcasing 
 the DS touch screen capabilities, but ultimately its not a big deal, so dont give it too much 
 thought.
  
  DoS stands as the best Metroid-style Castlevania to date. Its combination of great visuals and 
 sound, refined gameplay, and nice extras make DoS another must-have for the DS. DoS is further 
 proof that 2D is alive and well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ch0zNwaN
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 1, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow was the first game that I purchased for my DS and I consider myself 
 lucky that I picked a winner. There is a very good balance in regular play and play with the stylus 
 and a pretty good length. I give this game a 9.6. I would recommend this game to anybody that enjoys 
 swordfighting, rpg's, vampires, dead stuff, and magic. There is also alot of good music, different 
 tunes for each level, and the main character looks cool, who can play a game where the main character 
 looks like a chick? Unless the main character is a chick, but you will find that Soma Cruz is severe 
 PWNAGE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bacarlson99
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2005 10:53 am PT
Review:  I must admit I am one of those people who rarely if ever finish a game with 100% completition. 
 Usually games have so many difficult to impossible side quests which take far too long with too 
 little payoff to even bother, and with so many games on the market my patience wears thin. So I 
 am truly shocked that I continued to play Castlevania long after I beat the game, trying to visit 
 every room in the castle and unlock everything. This is a wonderful game, well balanced and challenging. 
 The only issue I have with the game is the soul collection process, which can be tedious at times 
 fighting the same monsters over and over again waiting for them to drop their precious souls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioRPGer
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 4:15 am PT
Review:  Gameplay-Never before have I played a game with such fluid control. With the tap of a button (or 
 two) yopu will be swinging your weapon or spell in no time. The touch screen can be extremely cumbersome 
 but once you get it down, the touch screen is a great use for drawing seals to rid bosses and clearing 
 magic chrystals out of the way. Fluidity with the face buttons is a plus though.
  
  Graphics-These 2-D graphics are amazing. Nuff said.
  
  Sound-This game has the most excellent 
 score for a handheld I have ever come across and combine this with some awesome monster grunts 
 and sword slashes, and youll have your DS turned all the way up faster than you can say "Mario rules".
 
  
  Value-This should be an excellent game for fans and newbies alike. If you love 2-D platformers or 
 dungeon crawlers GET THIS GAME.
  
  Post me if you think Zelda twighlight princess is taking way too long!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpeedRunnerx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I just bought a DS with this game and I have to say that I'm truly impressed by both the Nintendo 
 DS and this game. I really enjoyed Castlevania: Circle of the Moon (the only other Castlevania 
 game that I've played) and this is just as good. The music is fantastic, the tunes in the game 
 just get stuck in your head. The 2D graphics in this game are top notch. The game is a beautiful 
 work of art. The gameplay is deep and addicting. There are tons of places to explore and enemies 
 to fight. I don't remember any game having this many bosses to fight. If you are skeptical about 
 buying a DS and Castlevania, don't be. It is very much worth your hard earned cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoccoC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Game play is perfect. I like the drawing part of the game, because it utilizes the touch pad function 
 of the Nintendo DS. Soul system is great. Weapon variety makes the gameplay much better than the 
 first castlevania aria of sorrow.
  
  Graphics are great, but not perfect. The graphics on this game are much better than all game boy 
 advanced Castlevania games. At least death in this game does not look badly designed!
  
  Sound is great. Voice acting enhances the game. Most songs in the game have a good rhythm. Sound 
 effects are also well executed. Some sound can get dry after a while such as the main character 
 getting damaged.
  
  Value is good. The game is a bit short, but amused me for the first 10 hours of play. Some extras 
 help, such as boss rush mode, hard mode main game, and enemy set multi player mode.
  
  All in all, this game was great. 9.4 because some things could have been better.
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bvinton45
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 2:29 pm PT
Review:  With most games these days taking place in huge 3D worlds, it is always fun to play a 2D game. 
 What really makes this game fun and seperates it, is the dual screen. How many times have you played 
 a game that has real potential for greatness to be derailed by constantly switching back and forth 
 from the gameplay to the map screen. This is no more on the DS. Konami put the map on the top screen. 
 So you can play and easily tell where you need to go without toggling back and forth. This is a 
 huge benefit in towards the gameplay. I loved it.
  
  The graphics where very well done. There is no dead spots or slowdowns. Everything just moves well 
 and looks like it belongs. Plus, the layering of the graphics gives it an almost 3D feel. 
  
  The story is where this game lacks a little bit. It flows pretty well, but that is not the 
 major selling point of this Vid. I enjoyed it and it made sense, but if the story was little stronger 
 it would have pushed this game over the top.
  
  I would recommend this game to any DS owner. While the story is not the strongest, the gameplay 
 on dual screen makes up for it and then some.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryder13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 10:35 pm PT
Review:  Though Dawn of Sorrow is nothing new for the Castlevania franchise, sticking with the "Metroidvania" 
 style developed for Symphony of the Night, it has unquestionably refined and balanced Castlevania's 
 superb gameplay, to deliver 2D platforming's most enjoyable, well-made adventure ever.
  
  While the fact that Castlevania has barely changed since the release of Symphony of the Night is 
 a tad annoying, the level of criticism Konami gets for this is, in my opinion, bizarre, considering 
 the number of games of various other genres we see that barely deviate from previous games in their 
 respective series, or even other games in the genre, that have absurd praise heaped upon them. 
 For example, what did Halo 2 do to really differentiate itself from the original? Other than the 
 fact that God of War was a particularly well-made one, what makes it better than every other ham-fisted 
 button-mashing 3D brawler out there?
  
  It is this praise for many such games I find particularly galling; while games like God of War 
 et al reward your ability to hit the attack button until everybody dies, Castlevania is, and has 
 always been, a welcome alternative with gameplay that actually rewards patience, alertness and 
 skill.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow, in particular, meets my notion of gameplay goodness; while the gameplay in all 
 Castlevania games has been excellent, in Dawn of Sorrow it has been balanced to a degree that has 
 not been achieved in any game in recent memory, nor indeed any other in the series. No playstyle 
 is inherently better than any other; which equipment and souls you choose to use are completely 
 up to personal preference, and unlike in many other games, you will never suffer for not using 
 a particular weapon or not finding a particular piece of equipment.
  
  Additionally, Soma controls better than any other Castlevania hero that has come before; his moves 
 are easy to execute, and the enemies he faces have attacks that meet in that happy place right 
 between difficult to dodge and impossible to dodge. This facet of Dawn of Sorrow is realised 
 especially well in the games boss battles, many of which will be some of the most enjoyable youll 
 ever encounter  guaranteed. And nothing has ever put a Castlevania gamer in the moment before 
 quite like the drawing of magic seals to vanquish the games bosses.
  
  However, Dawn of Sorrow is not without flaws gameplay-wise. The fact that yes, the game does play 
 similarly to previous Castlevanias not withstanding, the game still retains facets that mar an 
 otherwise perfect experience in terms of control. Some bosses, like in all Castlevanias, pale in 
 comparison with some of the games better fights and seem to have been added to serve only as filler. 
 The same can be said of some of the games regular enemies as well, which seem to exist only to 
 test your ability to use potions and not your skill, with attacks that will hit you regardless 
 of what you do. Finally, the games last boss, without giving too much away, was, to me, a disappointment.
 
  
  The presentation of Dawn of Sorrow is brilliant as well; the game sounds wonderful, with, considering 
 technological inferiorities, a soundtrack that almost meets the lofty standard set by Symphony 
 of the Night. Other than a couple of drab areas and a disappointing face-set, Dawn of Sorrow is 
 definitely the best-looking Castlevania game; the character sprites are superbly animated, and 
 some of the backgrounds will shock you with how jaw-droppingly gorgeous they are.
  
  As a fan of the series who will play through these games multiple times regardless (and spend ages 
 getting every soul, all the best weapons, etc) , there is plenty of replay value for me, but even 
 individuals who arent likely to savour the sweet nectar of meticulous over-completion will find 
 plenty to keep them occupied; Boss Rush mode, Julius Mode and a great Sound Mode add plenty of 
 life to an already reasonably lengthy adventure.
  
  In closing, Dawn of Sorrow is undoubtedly the best Metroidvania game yet. While its not really 
 anything terribly new, it comes closer to perfecting Symphony of the Nights original formula than 
 any other game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 105506
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:44 pm PT
Review:  after a long time theres a game with a true gameplay.
  
  Graphics: the graphics are very good for a handheld sistem so i realy enjoy this game alot since 
 it takes a long time to beat :P
  
  sound: ahh reminds me of old aria of sorrow that it was good also but this one is even better with 
 better sound effects.
  
  everything else is the same so i give alot of thanks to the ppl that created this game.
  
  
 So this graps up my review for today then i recomend buying this game it is total fun for a castlevania 
 game like me lol. *goes to play dawn of sorrow* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mithosboucher
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Great game, you have fun playing it for the first hours until you get the "crappy" ending... but 
 after that, that when the fun really begins. the castle is quite big and fun to explore. the soul 
 system is fun and collecting souls gets addictive from time to time. Awesome game for adepts to 
 the Castlevania series and also for the ones that are new to the series. To make all of this short, 
 Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is a highly addictive game, it has awesome gameplay, good fitting 2d 
 graphics and even a bit of 3d, and good music as well. Its worth your money and your time, definitly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FutureDeveloper
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 27, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Castelvania: Dawn of Sorrow for the good ol' DS is the start of many great games to come to Nintendo's 
 new ( or, rather, one year old) handheld funmachine. It follows the flair of the classic Castlevannia 
 games and throws in some new stuff. Dawn of Sorrow takes place a few years after Aria of Sorrow 
 for the GBA and includes the main character, Soma Cruz. It also still includes some light RPG elements 
 from Aria of Sorrow, which I found to be handy. Hard boss got you down? Level up a bit and give 
 it another go! The level system will also keep you playing for hours after you have actually completed 
 the game. I didn't really like the anime art at first, (especially on the cover of the game) but 
 it gives a bit more character to the game. The graphics are old school 2-dimensional ( which I 
 love) and animate nicely, ecspecially the bosses. The enemies are varied and many classic baddies 
 make some nostalgic appearances. The sound is crisp and satisfying, complete with some vocal phrases 
 and shouts. Weapon swipes and hits sound meatty and rich. To top it all off, Dawn of Sorrow also 
 has excellent replay value. Give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGSEYBABY
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  
  
  I really enjoyed this new installment of the castlevania series. The interaction with the DS touch 
 screen was really cool. Making the diagrams to kill boss enemys was cool but frustrating at time 
 because if you didnt do it fast or on track enough you would have to beat on the boss for a little 
 while and try it again. Sending your friends through your own custom dungeon is a cool way to test 
 your fine tuned characters. Also playing as one of the legendary Belmonts was fun but not as cool 
 as the first time through. If only konami can do the magic they get from the Game boy versions 
 back onto the consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobisoma
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow (Nintendo DS)
  
  Gameplay: 10/10 Castlevania changes for the better in this installment of the series. The controls 
 in this game are pretty straight forward. The new seal art utilizes the touch screen by causing 
 the player too draw a Magic Seal with the touch Screen to finish the Boss off, but if drawn incorrectly 
 the boss regains half of its health and you will have to weaken him all over again. The replay 
 value is extremely high; after you beat the game you can continue the adventure by capturing all 
 the souls. The Character designs are awesome too.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  The graphics here are fairly good for a 2D DS game. Some parts in the game look much better than 
 other parts, like the magic seals and soul summoning. I personally think the 2D graphics are good 
 enough. This game shows that sometimes gameplay is better than graphics. Just compare the ratings 
 on the 3D castlevania's and the 2D ones. Sound 10/10
  The music in this game is very impressive. The songs really set the mood of the level. The music 
 was perfect. Plus, the character sounds were preety good. Nothing was wrong with the sounds.
  
  Multiplayer 7/10
  Theres nothing special about the multiplayer in Castlevania. All you do 
 is set up a map and place the souls you captured on the map so that they attack you and your oponent 
 while you are racing to the end of the map. Difficulty 8/10
  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is a medium difficulty game. Some levels and bosses of the game prove 
 to be difficult though. At the very beginning of the level you have full health and 2 minutes into 
 the level youre dead. Another hard part is collecting all the rare souls. Dont be scared off 
 though, its only hard for gamers new to the series.
  
  Closing Comments
  This is one of the best DS games out there now. Its a definite buy and addition to your Nintendo 
 DS Game Libary.
  I definitely recommend it to anyone who owns a DS. Go out and check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pichu0102
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 25, 2005 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania DS is an excellent game for the Nintendo DS. The graphics of this game are quite good, 
 and the effects are astounding, even though it is a sidescroller. The music doesn't sound out of 
 place for the theme of this game, although some of the sounds seem a bit off in some places. The 
 gameplay is solid and smooth, and the controls feel just right. You can even customize the controls 
 if you wish to. The soul system in this game and the urge to collect all of them and see what they 
 all do give this game an excellent amount of replay value. Overall, this game is one of the gems 
 for the DS this year, and is definitely worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mighty_shark
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 23, 2005 10:00 am PT
Review:  This was the first Castlevania I ever played........ and I instantly fell in love with it.
  
  The ability to gain the abilities of your enemies as you beat them was a genius idea. The sprites 
 are pretty nice and the bosses are the most challenging and the most brutal looking that I have 
 ever seen. The areas in this game are also gigantic.
  
  However, the DS touch screen magic seals part are just a waste of time. They are in game because 
 Konami could put them in rather than should.
  
  Overall, this game truly brilliant. It is hardcore and gamers shoulg prepare themselves for a truly 
 hardcore game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mourned_Soul
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  In Castlevania: dawn of sorrow, you play as soma cruz who is trying to stop this cult, but you 
 already know that dont you? So lets talk about gameplay, witch is very good. the controls feel spot 
 on, using souls is very easy to do, the replay value is tremendus! you can go back and collect all 
 the souls and try and get the secret items such as the 3 7's suit and such. Plus beating the game 
 will net you secret modes such as boss rush mode where you battle all the bosses in a row and if 
 you get a quick time you unlock nore items for story mode, julius mode where you play as julius 
 belmont. (and yoko and arikado too) You can also try and upgrade your weapons via yokos synthesizing 
 shop witch is really cool. Now lets talk graphics, the sprites look great on all the monsters and 
 charecters and the backgrounds are very detailed but it is a 2-d game so its not as good as say 
 nintendogs but still the graphics are really polished better than the gba could handle. And now, sound. The 
 sound in this game is awesome, the music is the best ive ever heard on a handheld and the grunts 
 and args! sound really nice! All in all this game is not to be missed, if you own a ds you should 
 get this game.-jacob. d 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aerialslayer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best DS games i have ever played. I am a huge castlevania fan and this 
 was the top. i am really looking forward to see more castlevania games for the DS. I spend alot 
 of my time playing this game and it is really enjoyable. I love the gameplay, and the way they 
 set the game up. They did a really great job, therefore i shall give it a 10/10. I say the only 
 bad thing about thid game is that they should have had more skills and they should have made it 
 easier to equip the souls with like a button or something. But those aren't really big things at 
 all. Keep up the good work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spira12
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, takes place a year after the events in Aria of Sorrow on the GBA. 
 As the story unfolds, you'll learn about this coult lead by a strange witch, Celia Fortner, who's 
 trying to ressurect the Dark Lord Dracula. The difficulty in this game becomes progressively hardly, 
 but it definitely doen't become overly easy. 
  
  The gameplay is deep and very immersing. There's a complex equipping system that really gives you 
 that RPG feel. There's a vast array of enemies to battle and Dracula's Castle is HUGE. You'll constantly 
 be having to buy potions because some places are filled with tough enemies. The battles where you 
 have to kill them drawing a maigic seal on the touch screen can be a little akward. (especially 
 since you're so full of adrenaline that it's hard to draw them correctly) The last ones can be 
 very complex.
  
  The graphics are great, it's just that it SORT OF looks, to me, like Aria of Sorrow. They're really 
 good though. Believe me, if you buy this game, you definitely won't be complaing about the graphics.
 
  
  I love the music in this game. It definitely stays true to the Castlevania style, but mixes in 
 some new tunes too.
  
  The game is pretty long, and there are a couple of fun unlockables to be discovered. I found it 
 to be worth the money.
  
  Overall, I really enjoyed playing this game. The unlockable Julius Mode can keep you going too. 
 I'd recommend this game not just to fans of the series, but pretty much anyone who likes RPGs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2005 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is pretty much the same game you have been playing for years now in 
 all 2-D Castlevania games. But the level of detail and the amount of content make this game a very 
 worthy sequel. I started the game wondering if its all just the same all over again, but as the 
 game went on I was hooked at what is easily the best Castlevania since SOTN.
  
  The game is a direct sequel to Aria of Sorrow so the main gameplay mechanic of that game, the soul 
 retrieving is the same. Now you can have multiple souls to make your powers stronger or use them 
 to create new powerful weapons. The result of all this is that you will be hooked on fighting enemies 
 hoping to get that new skill, its a lot like Pokemon, you will want to catch them all. 
  
  The game has the same layout as all Castlevania games since SOTN, you explore a metroid style castle 
 while fighting tons of enemies and great boss fights. This games castle is massive and packed to 
 the brim with tons of secrets. I actually found the backgrounds boring in this game, and the castle 
 theme is getting repetitive but they added so many neat gameplay elements that its easily the best 
 castle to explore since SOTN. This game will require you to go back and forth throughout the castle 
 as you learn new skills that open it up piece by piece, sometimes it could be pretty clever the 
 way the powers are used. Plus there are a ton of rooms that are basically puzzles, for instance 
 you will find a room with a chair, if you sit you get an item, or a room with test your strength 
 with a hammer style game. Also there are hidden enemies in some backgrounds where you have to read 
 newspapers and put together the clues on how to summon them, its all great stuff that add a lot 
 to the constant action.
  
  The gameplay is top notch in this game, there is so much variety in the weapons and powers you 
 can chose, almost no two people will play the same way. Plus the inventory quick switch button 
 is a godsend, finally you can instantly switch styles with the press of a button, makes it great 
 when you need to alter your strategy. The boss battles are some of the best and hardest I have 
 played in a while, they really test your skills and provide great eye candy. The only problem with 
 the boss fights are the stupid symbols you need to draw with the stylus, its totally pointless 
 and most of the time its hard grabbing the stylus in time. 
  
  The game also has three different endings, much like SOTN, the best one takes you to a whole new 
 area of the game. I found myself actually caring about the storyline in this game it was pretty 
 well done, the endings are neat as well. When you beat the game you unlock Julius mode which is 
 like another game onto itself. You play through the same game but now with Julius, a magician, 
 and Alucard. Each has their strengths and weaknesses and each have unique powers. What you get 
 is a totally different approach to the game, it will feel vastly different from the main game cause 
 of the uniqueness of the three character system. Plus having Alucard around is just nostalgic, 
 you will probably be him most of the time. Also after you beat the game you get a hard mode and 
 boss rush mode, there is a lot of value in this game.
  
  The graphics are a huge improvement over the GBA games, it is on par with SOTN. The enemies are 
 well animated, the boss battles are spectacular, its just a nice game to look at. Sound wise its 
 not the best original score but it has enough classic tunes to make you feel right at home with 
 Castlevania. 
  
  Really the only problem with the game is that it still follows the same formula SOTN layed out 
 years ago, which is fine cause it is still great to play. The Castle is getting boring though, 
 and they need to change up the gameplay a bit already. Still, DoS is the best Castlvania since 
 SOTN, you will forget that you are playing the same style game again and just have a blast playing 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TimJL362
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 9:31 am PT
Review:  This is unquestionably a rock solid game, which in my opinion can be noted as the best Castelvania 
 game ever, and you would truly be doing yourself a grave injustice if you fail to add this shining 
 example of what a platformer should be to your DS collection. 
  
  The gameplay is brilliant, while simple in practice. You will navigate a huge almost maze-like 
 castle as you grow stronger, and encounter a large cast of unique enimies along the way, all of 
 which have souls that you can use to your advantage, some of which a very rare. The game also features 
 multiple endings, as well as a few unlockable modes which add great replay value to an already 
 meaty adventure.
  
  The games visuals are supurb, and quickly put to rest the theory that the DS's 2D capabilites are 
 not much better than the gba. The game's Music/sound is crisp, clean, and for the most part aurally 
 pleasing, as would be expected from a Castelvania game.
  
  These games are selling fast folks, so I reccomend you pick up a copy as soon as possible, you 
 won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustopants
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Castlevaina: Dawn of Sorrow is defidently one of the best titles to come out recently for the Nintendo 
 DS... but maybe they could have did a bit more to it to make it perfect
  
  Gameplay: 9 - The gameplay is quite good, and if you're a fan of Castlevania games, or sidescrolling 
 games, then it's defidently good for you... but, it's not much different from any other castlevania 
 games, and it could get a bit repettitive and tedious after a while... other than that, the gameplay 
 is great!
  
  Graphics: 10 - The graphics are nothing short of amazing! vivid, colorful, 2-dimentional sprites, 
 combined with a bit of 3-d modeling for backgrounds or special effects... The animations flow excelently, 
 everything animates very smoothly and also has lots of detail put into it... the graphics are great!
 
  
  Sound: 10 - The soundtrack to the game is excelent, caturing the whole mood of the game and having 
 a catchy beat to most of the songs. the sound effects are also solid, almost every monster has 
 a different voice for themselves.
  
  Value: 9 - the game has quite a bit of replay value to it... theres lots of unlcokables and stuff 
 to collect... theres also a multiplayer mode that is pretty fun... but collecting everything does 
 get a bit boring after a while...
  
  Overall: 9.2 - Overall, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is an excelent DS title that should be in anybody's 
 collection... it has lots of replay value, great graphics, a great soundtrack, and if you're not 
 sick of the old-school castlevania format by now, then you should defidently pick this one up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodyLeper
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Breaking the crystal blocks after defeating the second boss was hardcore fun to me! This is the 
 best game I've played for DS.
  
  A quick hint for the beginning!
  After defeating the first boss you get Flying Armor. EQUIP IT!
  You need it in the next room.
 
  Jump from the lower platform and use the Flying Armor to get to the high platform where the sword 
 is located. It can really screw you up if you don't notice! Oh, and before fighting the first boss 
 Equip the short sword if you have one. And throw bones at the boss too it seems to do a reasonable 
 amount of damage... I'de say this game has pretty good replay-ability. And if you're a Devil May 
 Cry fan this game may suit you well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wulfei
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 13, 2005 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is most like: Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow.
  
  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is a beautiful games, especially for the Nintendo DS. The backgrounds 
 are the parts that I enjoyed the most, aside from being beautifully detailed and colored, it provides 
 a sense of depth with objects in the background (the moon and the depths of the castle) , middleground 
 (the walls and pillars) , and foreground (all the breakable statues, etc.) 
  
  I loved that there were over a hundred amazing creatures, and a whole bunch of weapons that can 
 be upgraded in to more powerful weapons.
  The music gives off a nostalgic feeling of the previous Castlevanias, as well as the monsters. 
 
  
  I rated tilt factor really high, because besides from having three alternate endings, there's also 
 a hard mode (where everything's harder and you get the hell flame soul, which is dracula's move 
 in the old Castlevanias) , and a Julius mode (where you play as Julius and two other characters) . 
 
  
  Some people would think that the game play is repetitive, but I think that's what makes it like 
 classic Castlevanias. 
  The only thing that disappointed me was that they jam packed the story in the beginning, the middle, 
 and the end. The story wasn't really balanced through out the game. The other problem I had was 
 that Ayami Kojima (artist of the previous GBA Castlevanias) didn't do the art work, but I have 
 to admit, it grew on me.
  
  On the Postive side:
  + Beautiful... everything.
  + Feeling of nostalgia (like all the other gameboy/nes Castlevanias)
  + A ton of great looking 
 monsters.
  + A lot of stuff to play. (Story mode, Hard mode, Boss Rush, Julius Mode, and a 2-player dungeon 
 rush that you design)
  
  On the Negative side:
  - Story's not balanced throughout the game
  - For some people, gameplay could get repetitive.
 
  - I personally miss Ayami Kojima's artwork.
  
  If you enjoy playing the classic 2D side scrolling Castlevanias, then definatly play this one. 
 Trying to get 100% makes this game frustrating, yet very fun at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefreak1876
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 9:42 am PT
Review:  If you are one of the people (like myself) who have been waiting for a ds game where you can just 
 have fun, wait no longer, for here is Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow!
  
  The story takes place in 2036, one year after Aria of Sora where Soma (the protagonist) and Mina 
 (his "girlfriend") are minding their own business when a witch named Celia (the leader of a cult 
 to resurect dracula) comes and transports Soma to Dracula's Castle.
  This is a pretty brief description of the story but that is pretty much what happens. The story 
 kinda just stops for most of the game until near the end where it goes on just a little bit more. 
 The story isn't one of Castlevania's strong points, but it doesn't really matter because Castlevania 
 isn't a "big, long, confusing story" type of game.
  
  The gameplay in Castlevania is simple, the control pad is to move, Y is for a regular attack, B 
 is to jump, A is for a special attack, and X is for doppleganger (which you get later in the game) . 
 There are 8 different types of wepons: swords, great swords, katanas, raipers, polearms, axes, 
 knuckles, and some miscellanous sets of weaker items (like bomerangs, handguns, etc...) . these 
 wepons can sometimes be upgraded to make them stronger by using a certain soul, this is called 
 weapon synthesis. However, not all weapons can be upgraded, some weapons that are exceedingly expensive 
 can't be upgraded. This is extremely disappointing to me, but the weapon synthesis is still a nice 
 feature to the game.
  Now, one of the more interesting parts of Castlevania is the use of souls. Souls can be required 
 when you defeat an enemy, but, you don't always get a soul, since the rarer the enemy is, the harder 
 it is to get their souls. This adds to the strategy of the game.
  Souls are classified into three categories: Bullet, guardian, and enchant. Bullets are triggered 
 by pressing up on the control pad and Y at the same time, guardians are triggered by R (sometimes 
 you have to hold R down) , and enchants are always on. You can only have one of each type of soul 
 at one time.
  Unlike most of the ds games that utilizing the ds's touch screen, Castlevania actually doesn't 
 use much of the touch screen. The game uses a "magic seal" system where you occasionally find seals 
 where you have to memerize a pattern that you trace when you defeat the boss. However, if you mess 
 up the pattern the boss will can gain hp and you will have to fight him even more. This can get 
 annoying because you will find yourself fumbling over the stylus while still trying to defeat the 
 boss. Therefore, the system is rather unnecessary and would probably be better off without it.
 
  
  The graphics in Castlevania are simply beautiful. The game is a sidescrolling adventure with some 
 very, very good 2d backrounds. Some people might not like the fact that it is in 2d instead of 
 3d, but I think it is just fine. 
  Every enemy has its own certain look that you can instantly recongnize. Also, spells, and attacks 
 are so fluent and smooth that they match the greatness of the backrounds. 
  
  The sound in the game is also fairly good. The music is well suitable for a castlevania game and 
 the songs change every time you go from one part of the castle to another or when you go through 
 a door to another part of the castle. 
  There are some brief phrases Soma says when he attacks or gets hurt but other than that, there 
 really is no voice acting. 
  
  The length of Castlevania is surprisingly short and easy. It is definently not as hard as the previous 
 Castlevania games, and it shows. Boss fights are a little too easy at some times, It would be a 
 lot more fun if they really made boss fights hard so that it took a little more time to finish 
 off them, but it is still a fun experiance regardless.
  Even though the game is short and easy, there are quite a few extras. There are rare rings and 
 rare souls that can take a while to find and get. There are also some "unlockables" for the multiple 
 endings that include some very cool modes like "hard" mode and even a mode where you can play as 
 a different character. 
  
  Overall, Castlevania is a great game that everyone with a ds should at least check out.
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LauraPalmer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:07 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the first Castlevania game I have played in a long time and it is 
 great. I am a huge fan of the originals and this game certainly measures up to the classics. I 
 love the side-scrolling action and the graphics are quite good. There really isn't a whole lot 
 of touch screen action, but it really doesn't matter because the rest of the game makes up for 
 it. The enemies in the game combine the classics with the new. And the ability to use enemies souls 
 for new powers is really fun. This game has great long term gameplay also with alternate endings 
 and hidden gameplay. Definitely a must buy for the DS and one of the best games for it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joetotheizzle
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 8:32 am PT
Review:  About a month and a half ago, I preordered Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. To put it lightly, I was 
 very skeptical. After all, it was my first Castlevania game. Well I guess you could say it is not 
 my last. 
  
  Dawn of Sorrow is, as many Castlevania fans had hoped, a great game. Quite frankly, its effects 
 and visuals are beautiful. Its music isn't in the category of "leave the sound off to save the 
 battery", it is also a great aspect of DoS. 
  
  The gameplay of Aria of Sorrow is good. Wait, I mean Dawn of Sorrow. But that is exactly the problem. 
 Konami didn't do very much to set them apart. Aside from some annoying touch-screen functions, 
 the gameplay is virtually the same. 
  
  Although Castlevania may have lacked innovative gameplay, that isn't enough for you to leave it 
 on the shelf. Although it doesn't break out of its handheld casket yet, the gameplay is still very 
 entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etcetcetc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 3:44 am PT
Review:  Well i am speechless all i can say is read gamespots review. This game is just too perfect for 
 me. The gba version just left me wanting more and the ds version has finally quenched my long thirst. 
 Dont let the 2d graphics put you off this is on heck of a game.
  
  Graphics- nothing that couldnt be done on gba
  
  Gameplay- Been there done that but with an 
 extra sprinkle of spice to it
  
  Sound- As geeky as this sounds i really liked the music of the gba one so the ds version well same 
 thing here.
  
  Overall- What i was waiting for and more. Kind of put off by the 2d graphics but seeing the recent 
 3d castlevania get a 6/10 kind of makes me glad the ds one isnt 3d. Deffinately worth renting, 
 this is the kinda love or hate sort of games so rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrCHUP0N
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 4:50 pm PT
Review:  [This review appears originally on Trigames. NET]
  
  The Castlevania franchise has seen its ups and downs. It has seen masterpiece classics, 3D fumbles, 
 and a dramatic and triumphant gameplay shift which led into "is it a rehash?" questions. Let's 
 talk about that last one. Twenty-plus games in, with the last fifth of the series using the same 
 Metroidvania mechanic, is Konami headed for Cap-milk-a-franchise-com status? Perhaps the Nintendo 
 DS iteration, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, would present new and exciting possibilities for the 
 franchise.
  
  One can dream. But what Dawn of Sorrow does present is a beautiful looking, sounding and playing 
 2D near-masterpiece that begs to be picked up by any Nintendo DS owner with half a brain. While 
 many a gamer - myself included - will at first have qualms about playing the "same" exploration-based 
 game for a fifth time in a row, Konami makes it really difficult to not appreciate the admittedly 
 stale idea by delivering great execution, a deeper extension of Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow's Soul 
 system, and extras that take us back to the linear, action-oriented Castlevania of old. 
  
  Soulful
  
  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow puts us back in the shoes of Soma Cruz, the student 
 protagonist from the previous game in the series, Aria of Sorrow. Taking place merely a year after 
 that title, Dawn of Sorrow is as direct a sequel as you'll ever get in the Castlevania series. 
 It seems that a cult isn't too pleased about the foiling of Dracula's resurrection, and its leader, 
 Celia Fortner, has set out to find new candidates to receive the soul of the Dark Lord. Oh, and 
 put Soma out of commission for messing sheite up the last time around.
  
  In addition to the story being a direct follow-up, the gameplay follows suit. Not only is the same 
 "Metroidvania" modus operandi at play here again, but at its core the "system" is the same as Aria 
 - the tactical soul system. As Soma defeats his enemies, there's a good chance that their souls 
 will be released for him to collect. These souls give him different powers - Bullet Souls act as 
 throwable weapons, Guardian Souls give Soma different abilities on demand, and Enchant souls give 
 Soma inherent abilities like increased strength, better movement in water, or more robust defense. 
 Ability souls are effectively the ones that act as your navigation power-ups, the ones that make 
 the Metroidvania gameplay mechanic sing - double jumps and the like.
  
  If it all sounds the same, and you're chomping at the bit to shout "Rehash!", it kind of is. But 
 before shouting, do know that Konami has added a level of depth and Pokemonitis (Gotta catch 'em 
 all!) to Soul collecting. For starters, Soma is able "level up" each type of soul to a max of 9. 
 The more instances of a soul you have, the stronger the effect of that soul (and each soul upgrades 
 differently - one level up per soul collected or three levels up per soul collected, et cetera) . 
 Those same souls are also used to upgrade your weaponry, by letting you transform a simple spear 
 into a powerful trident, et cetera. In addition to the fact that there are over 100 souls to collect, 
 the ability to upgrade souls and use them for weaponry adds more incentive to fight and collect... 
 and it makes it more addictive too.
  
  Souls don't always surrender so easily, however, and this can lead to a bit of soul "grinding". 
 Though the game isn't difficult to the point where you need to consistently spend time leveling 
 up, this is more or less made up for by the soul collecting. Grinding isn't a big problem when 
 the game you're playing is well executed, but it did get on my nerves a bit at some points. It's 
 of course not mandatory to grind for souls to complete the game, which makes the situation a bit 
 better.
  
  What a Wonderful Night to Have a Curse
  
  Whether grinding or not, we can always take comfort in the fact that Konami has rarely slipped 
 with Castlevania's 2D gameplay. Dawn of Sorrow continues on the right track. Soma handles as comfortably 
 as Alucard did in the masterpiece Symphony of the Night, far removed from the slow-footed Nathan 
 Graves from Circle of the Moon. The controls are responsive, and mapped out just fine, presenting 
 no issues. Soma's attacks vary depending on what weapons he has equipped, with some appropriately 
 less responsive than others (try swinging a two-thousand ton hammer as swiftly as you would a short 
 sword) .
  
  Combat is straight-up 2D hack-and-slash, as usual content to leave the multi-hit combos to the 
 3D iterations. For the main game, the combat is certainly fun and well executed but in general 
 manages to be only a bit more challenging than the last two Gameboy Advance iterations. Playing 
 through Symphony of the Night recently had me struggling to keep Alucard alive early on, whereas 
 Dawn of Sorrow is a relative breeze with its more predictable, easier to hit enemies. The boss 
 battles, however, are thankfully not at all reminiscent of the "target practice" battles from Harmony 
 of Dissonance and Aria of Sorrow. There are patterns to learn and avoid, and quirks figure out 
 - such as the boss who seems to control your character via puppetry. In a nice addition to the 
 gameplay in general, you can also collect an ability soul that lets you swap between two sets of 
 equipment to adapt to different situations - nothing groundbreaking but incredibly convenient, 
 just like the ever-present map (or ever-present status and enemy info screen) on the top screen 
 of the DS.
  
  But as the past four 2D Castlevanias are any indication, the real meat is in exploring the castle 
 and figuring out how to open every nook and cranny. Here, Dawn of Sorrow succeeds greatly, as it 
 manages to avoid many of the long, monotonous corridors and nearly identical-looking vertical zig-zagging 
 segments that one might fear from a game of this type. Each of the sections are distinctly different, 
 from the large, intimidating open areas of The Pinnacle, to the classic gears and clockwork of 
 the Cursed Clocktower, to the sometimes claustrophobic Wizardry Lab. In some cases it's almost 
 enough to make you want to approach each section with a different mentality of gameplay.
  
  The level design does bring back a lot of Symphony's "roundabout" exploring provided by barriers 
 that are opened by stepping on plates in the floor. This pretty much succeeds in only granting 
 you a shortcut through the halls of the castle, but there are some clever navigation tricks such 
 as throwing a puppet of yourself (which you swap places with upon its landing) through small openings 
 or at just-out-of-reach ledges. There's also a great sliding-tile puzzle that has you sliding around 
 the location of each room arranged in a four-by-four grid in order to pick up goodies and access 
 a different part of the castle. There're also rare sections of the castle where you'll need the 
 Balore soul to pick away at icy blockades to advance, and for those you'll use the touch screen.
 
  
  Castlevania: Screens of Touchment
  
  Admittedly, the touch screen elements of this game are "meh" at best. The aforementioned Balore 
 soul seems way too much like a throw-in gimmick, and it certainly didn't enhance the gameplay experience 
 for me because it's used just too rarely. It would have been nice to have more sections where you 
 had to create staircases for yourself, or even rooms that have two exits each hidden on opposite 
 ends by the blockades. It just doesn't feel fleshed out enough to feel like more than a wasted 
 experiment.
  
  The much talked-about "Magical Seals" are also unnecessary, and while a main part of the boss-battle 
 experience, also feel like a semi-cheap throw-in. Granted, at times it did make for more exciting 
 conclusions - oftentimes I found myself trying to calm myself down in order to draw a perfect seal 
 without rushing myself - but again I think that with more thought Konami could have found other 
 uses for drawing the seals, or at the very least give us harder seals to draw. I've read in places 
 that the seals eventually do get really hard, but I personally never had a problem with it - and, 
 this is important, I've never once had to use the stylus to draw my seals. The fingertip works 
 fine as long as you take your time (but no lolligagging!) and draw it right. Which makes me feel 
 - again - like it's a throw-in, because I rarely felt challenged as opposed to superficially panicked. 
 Complaints abound that it's annoying to futz up a seal and have to beat the tar out of the last 
 1/4th of the boss's hit-points again, and I think Konami could have taken a different route by 
 - for example - having the seals pop up mid-battle and giving you the bonus of some extra damage 
 inflicted upon a successfully drawn seal, et cetera.
  
  At the very least, as mentioned prior, the dual screens come in very handy. No, not revolutionary, 
 but the omnipresent map or status screen (your choice) provides for much more utility. It's become 
 the butt of many jokes - the DS being the system that lets you see maps - but you try it in this 
 type of game and tell me that it's not useful.
  
  The Sights and Sounds of Sorrow
  
  Continuing in Castlevania's fine aesthetic tradition, Dawn of Sorrow is an absolute beauty to look 
 at. It takes Aria's smooth animation, detail and coloring, and pumps it up to Symphony of the Night 
 levels. Sprite rotations, subtle 3D background effects and a fully utilized color palette are used 
 to great effect here. Similar to Aria, the game is predominantly gray-bluish where Symphony, Circle 
 and Harmony were more balanced, but it's still great looking. Soma is practically the spitting 
 image - animation-wise, at least - of Alucard, complete with his little forward lunge at the beginning 
 of his walk animation and delayed turn when he changes direction. He now even has a trail of shadows 
 behind him that look great. Large enemies like the Great Armor and Treant are awesome to behold. 
 The misty haze that permeates through the opening section - The Lost Village - comes complete with 
 settled snow fluttering down from the tops of parked cars and puffs of Soma's breath escaping his 
 mouth. The level of detail is simply stunning in some places.
  
  And yet, there are some brain farts here and there that sometimes just ruin the sense of wonder 
 you get from other locales. The Wizardry Lab, for instance, is mostly just a dumpy looking place 
 with barren walls and inimaginative gray coloring. The similarly plain, almost monotone-colored 
 basement level that leads to the game's final section is too unmemorable to be something you find 
 so close to conclusion. Especially in light of the rest of the areas, these brain farts stand out 
 even more.
  
  The rest of the game's visuals are too good to really whine about the nitpicks, though, and its 
 similarly matched by the mostly great music composition. Again the opening scene is triumphant, 
 pumping through that same level of power and determination given by each of the previous game's 
 successful opening tunes. It's followed right after by the pleasantly quirky Wizardry Lab tune, 
 which serves as redemption for that sections blase visuals. Dawn's score is mostly dominated by 
 empowering, uptempo tunes that are hauntingly memorable, well composed and orchestrated with high 
 quality samples - fully taking advantage of the DS's Gameboy-besting audio hardware.
  
  But again, like the visuals, there are a few brain farts that stand out due to their relative incompetence. 
 There's a garden section that has a pretty drab-sounding and even dinky tune that doesn't excite, 
 inspire, frighten or cause any emotion whatsoever. The waltzy tune - also boring and uimaginative 
 - is even worse than its dorky sounding Aria counterpart. It seems as if the good waltzes were 
 left back on the Playstation.
  
  It's time to stop getting so picky about the aesthetics and for me to get off my music-whore high-horse, 
 because the sound effects are easily the best part of the DS presentation. Just like Symphony, 
 screams, crackles, shatters, quips, laughs, moans, grunts and crashes all resonate cleanly through 
 the DS's speakers, better through a set of headphones, and phenomenally through a set of stereo 
 speakers. Try it - you'll love it, and you'll feel like you're listening to a horror flick.
  
  Old is New
  
  The capper to this already great experience, though, is the extra Julius 
 mode thrown in after you complete the game. Let's forget about the obligatory but appreciated Boss 
 Rush mode that Konami is so fond of for a second here. The Julius Mode, similar to other extra-character 
 modes in previous iterations, has you running and gunning through the game as one of the supporting 
 cast - Julius, to be specific. Fighting with the whip and the traditional cross, holy water, and 
 axes, Julius brings back great memories of playing as Richter Belmont - albeit a much better-controlling, 
 double-jumping Ricther.
  
  I did say one of the supporting cast, but I should have said the entire supporting cast - Yoko 
 Belnades and Alucard are accessible, too, in an incredibly awesome throwback homage to Castlevania 
 III: Dracula's Curse for the NES. No, the wall-climbing pirate ain't back for more, but what's 
 given is fantastic nonetheless. If you're an old-school 'Vania fan, which I am, you'd like to think 
 - and I don't think, I know - that Konami should make an entire game out of this concept. The Julius 
 mode is incredibly significant here, moreso than your typical "extra mode", because it represents 
 what I want to see more of in future Castlevanias. Mix in the best of the old with the best of 
 the new. And the next step would be to throw in something fresh and re-invigorating that, given 
 future DS iterations, really uses more than just the dual-screen convenience of Nintendo's most 
 recent portable machine.
  
  Vampire Killer
  
  While the touch screen mechanics don't do much for me, and it's of course similar to the previous 
 games, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is easily recommendable. The positives absolutely squish the 
 negatives under a twenty-ton weight. It is, in sum, a must-own for action-adventure fans and DS 
 owners alike. Though it falls just short of the truly killer-app status of DS titles such as Advance 
 Wars: Dual Strike and Nintendogs, and doesn't show off the touch screen for action games like Kirby: 
 Canvas Curse does, there's no denying that the title simply oozes quality, "rehash" or not. Hopefully 
 Konami makes this 'Vania its last hurrah for the pure Metroidvania style of play as producer Koji 
 Igarashi tries something different with the series for once, because it'd be hard to go on a higher 
 note than this - short of directly porting over Symphony of the Night, of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genfuyung
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 8:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitaly worth its price tag. Ive always loved castlevani and this game is a dream 
 come true. It implements the touch screne and creative ways and takes adavantage fo the hardware. 
 Intense boss battles, good weapons, and a classic but still awesome story and look this is my favorite 
 game on the ds so far other than jump superstars. Dont bother renting this game because you will 
 want it in your collection. With game sliek this the DS has a bright future ahead of it. With more 
 great games coming out this holiday season all us DS owners have a great holiday season to look 
 forward too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: my-username
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 20, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  This is the latest 2D castlevania to be released, and and it surpasses all the CV's before it. 
 The game starts alitlle slow as the main character, SOma Cruz, defends his girl friend using only 
 a stupid little annoying knife. Upon reaching the first area, the game picks up a a good clip, 
 and finding a new weapon is an easy task (in my experience, the first weapon i started with is 
 the one i ended with, after adding souls to it.) The Graphics are crisp and blend together nicely 
 with the backrounds, and the enemy designs are right up there with some bosses in other games. 
 some of the animation's seem out dated, especially when next to some of the better animation in 
 the game, but thats easily passable because the enemies with lame animations are usually killed 
 in less than a second. The sound is nice, with tunes that go wiht the environments but keep form 
 sounding too dark (particualrly the Wizardy Lab music) . The gameplay is excellent, retaining the 
 "CastleMetroid" style of play, but the backtracking (which may be off putting) is made much much 
 less tedious because of various warp points and the top screen's map. No longer is it neccessary 
 to pause the action to look at a simple map, now it is just a matter of a short glance upward and 
 you know where you're going. THe paltforming aspect is great as well, but its hard to describe 
 how great it is with out letting you kids try it hands on.
  The combat is simple on the surface, but when the souls com into play, it becomes a matter of knowing 
 what souls do what and the advantages and disadvantages. Soul collection is the only drawback, 
 as you may want one particular soul to upgrade a weapon with, bu tyou end up haveing to repetitiously 
 kill the enemy until 15 minutes later you get its soul, or in my case, fight one enemy 30 times, 
 finally get the soul, then have the battery die on me seconds later ( haha that sucked) . the replay 
 value is great with 3 endings and all the souls to collect, in addiction to hard mode and a side 
 mod ethat plays like the old school castlevania games. Over all, this is a must have ds title. 
 EDIT: I just played symphony of the night. THATS the best 2D castlevania, but this is a very near 
 second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jtrain3470
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 9, 2005 3:10 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is a great game! The game has elements of RPG/ Platforming/Action. 
 The RPG elements in Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow are your normal level, strength, defense, HP, etc. 
 If you buy this game you are going to have a LOT of platforming to do but you soon get used to 
 it.
  
  The DS does not put the touch screen to full use and when you do have to use the touch screens 
 (which are scare moments in the game) ; it is more of an annoyance than it is fun. The DS uses the 
 top screen to show your stats and with the push of the select button the top screen switches to 
 the map which you will be using a lot. So don't expect a lot of stylus use.
  
  Difficulty in Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is hard and if you have played any Castlevania games 
 before you know you will see the words game over more than you want. The annoyance of dying quickly 
 goes away due to the addictive game play.
  
  The Soul System in this game is great and it adds depth in the series. There are 100+ different 
 souls/monsters to collect. Collecting the souls can be hard and you are going to spend more than 
 a couple of minutes just to get just 1 soul from a monster. You might find yourself using soul 
 attacks more than your normal attack due to the vast array of souls in the game.
  
  The Weapon System in the game is easy to understand and it makes you work to get the better or 
 legendary weapons in the game because the need to collect souls to upgrade weapons. The weapons 
 in the game equal out for example a knife may be as good as a giant axe due to the fact that knifes 
 attack with speed and not strength. 
  
  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow has a TON of extras including multiplayer where you use the souls you 
 have captured in single player and set them on a map for you and a friend to race/fight your way 
 to the end first.
  
  Overall Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow has everything you ever wanted from the series and if you never 
 played a Castlevania game this be the one to get you started. You will enjoy every moment you hack 
 and slash, level up, and soul collect to the end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toppsseller
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 9:17 am PT
Review:  I got interested in the Castlevania series when Symphony of the Night was originally released for 
 the Playstation. I thought that game was remarkable and Dawn of Sorrow eclipses it. I always go 
 into Castlevania games wondering how it will keep my interest since most games are 3D and so much 
 more technically advanced. There are so many factors contribute to the overall experience. The 
 graphics are nicely done with diverse enemies and everything has a nice level of detail considering 
 the Nintendo DSs capabilities. The pacing is very nice in that every time you defeat a boss you 
 usually gain an ability that unlocks some other part of the castle. You will find yourself forging 
 ahead long after you should be in bed because you want to get to that next piece of the map. The 
 more time you put in the more powerful you become. The game rewards players who level Soma up. 
 You will gain extra souls that can forge more powerful weapons or be used helping you progress 
 through the game. It will take about 10-20 hours to complete. This is an excellent example of what 
 makes gaming great. As a side note if you are a collector I think this game, like most Castlevania 
 games will be hard to come by in the future. If you can locate the strategy guide to complement 
 the game I think you will a have nice package that will hold its value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_vash_x
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 7, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10 of 10
  
  I still remember playing the Original Castlevania and thinking of what a Metroid ripoff it was... 
 and now I clamor to any 2D game that keeps more to the roots of games as they were... made by gamers, 
 for gamers. Dawn of Sorrow keeps to the good old formula while adding a few things that aren't 
 too flashy and stave the bitterness I hold for what gaming is turning into... trust me... if you 
 like classic games that grab your attention and don't let go until you get a court order to do 
 so... then DOS will not do you wrong
  
  Graphics: 9 of 10 
  
  easily the best looking game on the DS to date... and while the animations were fluid and the backgrounds 
 beautiful and detailed... it just could have been a bit better
  
  Sound: 7 of 10
  
  Great Music... some kick ass sound effects... but in retrospect when you turn the music off... 
 the sound effects kind of suck. Nothing else much to say
  
  Value: 9 of 10
  
  This one's worth buying... and keeping. There's at least 20-30 hours to the average numb nut who'll 
 play it.... and hundreds to those collection freaks like me who just love to show off their crap 
 ^^
  
  Replayability: 9 of 10
  
  Even after beating the game *correctly that is* you unlock a completly different mode that changes 
 up the game considerably *and brings the game closer to it's roots* and even then there's Hard 
 mode which is a challenge in itself and worth grinding through for... overall I'd say this game 
 is a must own, if you end up hating it... don't blme me for being too young to appreciate a good 
 game when you play it :P
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cheezisgoooood
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2005 9:50 am PT
Review:  If you were one of the thousands of poor guys to get a DS in November of 2004, you know how hard 
 it was for us having to wait so long for a decent game. It took us 8 months to get Kirby and Meteos, 
 10 months to get Advance Wars, and 11 months to get Castlevania. That was a long time to wait for 
 good games. But now that we finally have them, it's easy to say that Castlevania is the best among 
 them all.
  
  At first, I wasn't all that impressed with the game, but trust me, this game grows on you like 
 a hungry tick. I soon found myself playing for hours upon hours just roaming the castle aimlessly 
 trying to see all that there was to see. For one thing, the castle is huge. There are so many rooms 
 and so many areas to explore, you most likely won't see all of it the first time you go through 
 the main game. Part of the fun is killing everything in your path so that you can level up and 
 make boss battles easier, as well as tougher stages. Eventually, if you level up enough, you can 
 kill anything that gets in your way with a single hit, and you can travel through the castle at 
 the speed of light. You also gain powers that make bosses easier, such as Death's scythes which 
 helped me to beat the normally hard boss, Abaddon, with unbelievable ease. There's so much to see 
 and do in this humongous castle, it will keep you playing for hours and will draw you into the 
 game like no other on the Nintendo DS system.
  
  Although the main game really isn't that long, you will find yourself getting lost a lot of the 
 time, and there are three different endings to get, some of which unlock different modes in the 
 game. The many enemy souls to collect as well as the levelling up will make you want to roam around 
 the castle for long periods of time.
  
  The controls are easy to adapt to, and all of the features are implemented nicely, save for the 
 touch screen features which seem out of place and often frustrating. When you beat different bosses, 
 you have to draw magic seals after you hit them enough times so that you can defeat them. This 
 is very frustrating because you can't pause to quickly grab your stylus and position your hand 
 correctly, and using your fingernail isn't precise enough. I found myself very frustrated after 
 beating a boss several times, but always messing up the magic seal at the end, then dying and having 
 to start over again. The soul that allows you to break bricks with your stylus also seems merely 
 tacked on there, and isn't really necessary. Everything else about the controls, however, is fine.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are fantastic for a 2D game. The Nintendo DS system really does prove 
 its superiority in producing crisp and clear 2D visuals over the GameBoy Advance. There are many 
 very nice looking graphical touches here and there, such as 3D backgrounds and smooth character 
 animations. I would even go as far as to say that, on the DS's small screen, Dawn of Sorrows looks 
 every bit as good as Symphony of the Night on PS2. Don't be fooled by the 2D visuals, this game 
 is easily the most gorgeous game on the DS system right now.
  
  Sound in the game is also excellent. The sound effects are all nicely placed. The music in the 
 game, although not up to par with Symphony of the Night's, is excellent and you may find yourself 
 humming several of the tunes from the different stages and boss fights in the game. Nothing sounds 
 out of place in the game.
  
  Although there are several modes of gameplay to play once you've finished the main game, none of 
 them are really that special or interesting. The only multiplayer mode featured in the game is 
 a racing challenge where two opponents race on their own screen to the finish line of any stage 
 that is chosen. You can make your own stages in this game, which adds a bit to the value, but not 
 much. There is a Julius mode which some people may like to play through with if they're complete 
 nuts who love to beat every game they play with %100, but again, if you're not a complete nut, 
 it's not really that interesting or different in any way.
  
  In conclusion, if you don't have this game, you have $40 in your pocket, you're in a game store, 
 and Castlevania is on the game shelf in front of you, but you pick up another game instead, you 
 are a complete moron. Go do yourself a favor and give this one a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eggchan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 6, 2005 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Many newcomers to the Castlevania games may complain that the graphics are not "up to par" with 
 the next gen system graphics because it is 2D, which makes the game a very bad game, and I will 
 have to thoroughly and wholeheartedly disagree with them. This game is beautiful in every way, 
 from the story to the graphics, and to the characters. This game is so impossibly hard to put down, 
 and will have you playing for hours.
  
  This game has a lot of replay value, and has many different objections to finish before feeling 
 completely satisfied with the game.
  
  The graphics for this game, as I said, are amazing. They are crisp, and clean, and the backgrounds 
 (some may have not noticed) are in 3D in some spots. This fusion of 2D and 3D graphics works so 
 well, that I didn't even notice it until 1/2 way through the game.
  
  The music is great, and in my opinion, the sound is clear and crisp. Sure, the musical score may 
 sound a bit familiar, but it's a familiarity that you want to revisit.
  
  You will be immersed in this world of darkness for hours on end, and is a great game for all DS 
 owners to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnCahgNeetoh
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2005 2:08 pm PT
Review:  At the first word to this title, I was very skeptical about this game. I was worried that it would 
 be just a rush title to keep the streak of having a Castlevania (regardless of quality) on a console 
 and portable. That's not to say the other for GBA aren't fantastic, or Lament of Innocences 3D 
 environment didn't add some flavor to the series. Although, you have to wonder when they will definitely 
 screw up a series like this. They can't KEEP making the side-scrolling Castlevania's great can 
 they? If you're sick of waiting for a failure I have some bad news.
  
  There isn't much to complain about when it comes to this game. It has almost everything that makes 
 Symphony of the Night so amazing. I have yet to play the GBA games, so I will the comparisons will 
 be to SotN for Playstation. The dual screen feature works like a gem. You can easily view the castle 
 you are battling throughout by just looking at the screen above you. No more pausing switching, 
 looking, and then going back into the game. Or you can switch to get some stats of the monsters 
 you are killing to view the number of souls you have. Why is this important?
  
  This game has an interesting feature where you collect the souls of the enemies you kill, and use 
 them to give you magic weapons (like the ever faithful throwing axe) , or another type of magic 
 weapon use for the shoulder button, or it will boost your current statistics. Souls stack as well. 
 If you have 3 Axe Wielder souls (out of 9 - the max) it will make the axe you throw more powerful, 
 same for the stat raisers. 
  
  Not all enemies drop a soul the first, second or even third.... hundred time you kill them. One 
 took me easily an hour of fighting constantly to achieve, but I have that kind of time on my hands. 
 There aren't any that are "necessary" for completing the game, other than the ones that bosses 
 drop, which you DO automatically get.
  
  If you have more than one soul of some enemy, or you just dont care about 100% completion; then 
 you can probably take that soul and forge it into a weapon and make it more powerful. It's up to 
 you.
  
  The plot is pretty standard of Castlevania. Evil people live up at the top of, or in the middle 
 of castles. It never was a Pulitzer winner, but we never played it for that, did we? There are 
 three endings. One of which opens up a whole new type of game. You go through the game as a Belmont, 
 or one of Soma's (main character) friends, or better yet... Alucard from SotN. This just said to 
 me that the creators knew where their roots were, knew what was the best, and game a bit of nostalgia 
 to their fans. It proved to be quite a challenge too; they didn't equip Alucard with the Crissaegrim. 
 Oh well, it's still fun as anything.
  
  As for the touch screen, it seemed to be only inserted just to take advantage of the feature itself. 
 You make runes with the stylus when you defeat a boss. Nothing major. 
  
  This has a feel of familiarity to the game that adds new characters, which adds a new sense of 
 playability to an already great franchise that has always proven that they care more about the 
 game play and the overall FUN factor, rather than making the graphics completely outrageous and 
 mind blowing. It's incredibly hard to go wrong with this game. If you are a Castlevania fan period... you 
 shouldn't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithlordJ
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 3:04 pm PT
Review:  A game that remixes most of the previous series gameplay, specially from Aria of sorrow. 
  It has many replay values, such as the secrets, the full map, the complete soul collection (which 
 obuisly comes with defeating every enemy in thegame) , the 3 endings, the hard mode, boss rush, and 
 Julius mode. This lst one has a gameplay that old school catlevania fans will like the best.
  it has 3 players that can be swapped any time. With Julius and its classic belmont abilities, Yoko 
 with its magic powers and recovery abilities, and Alucard with supernatural abilities, who would 
 not love this mode?
  The graphics do not use the full potential of the DS but that will not matter once you started 
 playing. The story is not as deep as other castlevania games, but it stills cover what it needs 
 to fill
  In fact, this game is one that should occupate your list, specially if you liked aria of sorrow 
 or other castlevania games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_2short4u04
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best DS games you can get right now. When you first start the game your saying 
 to yourself "WTF, these are 2D graphics on a 3D capable system" then you say say to yourself "oh 
 wait, 3D Castlevania games suck!" and you get over it. Hands down, the strong point of this title 
 is the gameplay. Attacking enemies so you can level up is and old hack, but this game takes it 
 a step farther, you can steal your eneimy's powers Kirby style 
  (Without the sucking) . Not only that, but you can take the souls you steal, and use them to upgrade 
 your weopons.
  The story is sensational and really makes you want want to play for hours on end. No doubt it will 
 keep you guessing. The controls are also honed to perfection, and are extremely tight. So you ask 
 me "What's the down side to this game." Well... it can get repetitious and you somtimes get stuck 
 once in a while wondering what to do, but that's about it. If your looking for your next DS game, 
 this is the one to get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ll_jun10r_ll
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 3, 2005 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Here we are, back in the castle, fighting evil demons, leveling up to the very next level cause 
 we cant beat the manticore, feeling mad cause you can't reach that really cool sword without the 
 ability to double jump. Yeah this is Castlevania. But there are actually some small differences 
 that dont change much but are still very important to the story. The first thing is that this story 
 doesnt take place in the 19th century, it takes place about 30 years from this point now, this 
 actually gives new features to the story, like several new weapons (like guns, yay!) , the next thing 
 youll notice is that, dracula is out of the house people, you wont find him here nor will you find 
 yourself as a member of the Belmont clan (unless you beat the game and unlock the Julius Belmont, 
 the real hero of the game, as well as the one who locked away dracula for those who aren't aware 
 of the stories timeline) . Instead you'll find yourself as Soma, a girly man who was trapped in 
 Dracula's castle one year ago with a group of people who are just as strange. He managed to escape 
 with the knowledge that he was the reincarnation of Dracula but was able to escape that fate. One 
 year later, a cult has formed and are pissed that Soma didn't become the new Dracula, now he has 
 to go to their lair and try to stop them from killing him and keep Dracula from being reserrected. 
 You'll definately have fun playing this game, especially if you've played any of the other games. 
 
  
  When it comes to gameplay, you cant get better from the DS system, this is a must have for all 
 DS owners. the graphics dont manage to push the system to its limits, but the game disigners were 
 able to do something with the touch screen by putting the game on it. They dont do much with the 
 touch function though, all you do make a magic seal to seal your enimies away, and smash up some 
 ice, because plastic is much more effective than a mythical sword enchanced by like 10 different 
 souls of your enimies. which brings me to another new feature that was also on the previous game, 
 soul collecting, or as they say on this game, dominance, but its really just killing your enimies 
 and then being able to use their powers. If you like Sonic the Hedgehog, then youll love the music, 
 i dont know who decided to make the sound track, but i dont think that techno rock music is something 
 that you should be hearing when your in a castle filled with demons. However, overall its a solid 
 9 out of 10 game and a must have for all DS owners along with meteos. So have fun while we're trying 
 to get this really cool sword without the double jump boots, crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slick_rick3715
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best games of the year. I got this game and could not put it down. 
 
  
  The game is a direct sequel to Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow, with Soma Cruz as its protagonist. 
 Other characters from Aria of Sorrow also appear in the game, including Genya Arikado and Julius 
 Belmont. It takes place one year after Aria of Sorrow and deals with an enigmatic cult who seeks 
 to kill Soma and revive the dark power of Dracula sleeping inside of him, as a sort of retribution 
 for Soma 'denying his destiny' in becoming the Dark Lord incarnate in the previous game. In the 
 cult's mind, Dracula represents the ultimate evil that must exist for there to be an ultimate good, 
 and with the Dark Lord sealed, that can't happen. Instead of running from this new threat, however, 
 Soma decides to take the initiative and confront his foes head-on, eventually discovering a castle 
 and monsters similar to those owned by Dracula, supposedly constructed by the cult as the scene 
 for the ritual required to sacrifice Soma and revive the vampire lord.
  
  The game also features most of Aria of Sorrow's main gameplay, including the Enemy Soul system, 
 Soma's ability to absorb enemies' souls and use their powers. This time Soma can gain stronger 
 abilities by aquiring more souls of the same kind, like summoning one bat guardian for every bat 
 soul he has. However, a new function is the "Magic Seal system", which allows the player to use 
 the DS stylus to draw a "seal" or intricate geometric design on bosses that are defeated. If the 
 seal is not drawn correctly, the boss can regenerate energy and continue to fight. The stylus can 
 also be used to control some summoned Guardian souls.
  
  The game's graphics really shows how powerful the DS can be, the backgrounds are simple brethtaking 
 in the way that they actually move as you move and the perspective changes as you move along also. 
 The graphics are also what I consider to be sudo-2D, because some bosses are actually kinda 3D, 
 but none-the-less these are the best 2D graphics I've seen in a long time.
  
  The sound is also a treat, most of the songs are interesting and catchy. All of the demons and 
 ghouls all have a nice scream as you kill them. I especially like the gunshots from the handgun.
 
  
  The gameplay is quite simply a blast from the past. The platforming is still a series staple, with 
 some interesting twists. The biggest addition to the gameplay is the use of the stylus to capture 
 bosses. Another fun thing is the ability to upgrade your weapons using captured souls, but be warned 
 if you want some of the more powerful weapons you'll have to say goodbye to some of your boss souls.
 
  
  The game has some great replayability in that you can unlock Julius Mode in which you play as the 
 vampire hunter Julius Belmont. You also can unlock a boss rush mode, where you go through and fight 
 bosses in a certain amount of time, if you get a fast enough time you unlock some fun things (no 
 spoilers here) . 
  
  All in all I really enjoy this game it has a quick learning curve especially if you are a veteran 
 of the series, the game has, like I said, great replayability and some of the best graphics to 
 show up on the DS so far. 
  
  I give Castlevania Dawn of Sorrows a 9.1 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vbares544
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  This game got me to buy a DS. I can tell you right now that it was worth it. I have been playing 
 the main quest for over 10 hours now and still have not found everything. Yes you can blow through 
 the main quest in less then 5 hours if you know what you are doing, but if your a collection freak 
 like me and have to get every last thing then you will be putting a lot of time into this massive 
 quest. There are some really cool hidden bonuses in this game. I won't give anything away, but 
 lets just say that there is an extra mode to unlock that will extend the life of this game by quite 
 a bit. The music is typical Castlevania goodness, and the graphics are some of the best 2D you 
 will see. I love that you can view the map on the top screen at all times. It really grows on you 
 and if you have to go and play a game that does not support it then you miss it. I tried to play 
 Zelda: minish cap afterwards and I hated the fact that I had to go to a different screen to look 
 at the dungeon map. I know... it's a small complaint, but like I said it grows on you. The touch 
 screen is used for only two things in the game, lucky they are both kind of neat. In order to defeat 
 the bosses you need to draw a special magic seal to hold them. There are a total of 5 seals that 
 get harder to draw as you go along. It can be hard to get the stylus out right after you knock 
 out a hard boss, but I havn't had to much trouble with it. You also use the stylus to break ice 
 blocks from the screen. There arn't to many rooms that have them but it is a neat addition. Hopefully 
 Konami will add more stylus support for their next Castlevania. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozzychrono
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 2, 2005 10:09 am PT
Review:  As soon as the game begins is grabs you. Alot of the same ideas used in Aria of Sorrow return in 
 Dawn of Sorrow but with more of a Symphony if the Night feel. The game definitely controls and 
 looks better then the GBA Castlevania games, and even looks better then SotN on the PSX. Tons of 
 new and old souls to collect and new powerups make this addiition a must buy! Not much use of the 
 touch screen, but the use it does make for it is perfect though since a game like this needs to 
 be mostly played in a more traditional d-pad and button way of game playing. The game uses alot 
 of effects that SotN used but look alot nicer on the DS screen. The game seems to be a bit more 
 on the colorful side then its past installments. 
  The boss battles to me is the highlight of the game. Pretty much every boss has its own unique 
 challange.
  Only downfall to me in the game was it was short and the castle map needed more hidden areas. Still 
 no Symphony of the Night, since SofN is about twice the size cos of the upside down castle, and 
 Alucard is alot more fun to control then Soma... but Dawn of Sorrow definitely became my 2nd favorite 
 Castlevania game.
  After completing the game you get the standard boss rush mode that started in the GBA series, and 
 also unlocks a Julias mode just like Aria of Sorrow... but the twist this time is you start off 
 as Julias Belmont and then pick up Yoko and Alucard to join your time and you can switch between 
 the three characters on the fly kinda like Castlevania 3 style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epoq
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 1, 2005 10:18 am PT
Review:  For those who don't already know, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is a direct sequel to the great Gameboy 
 Advance game Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow.
  
  So does it stand up to the predecessor? Hm, well, you'll just have to read on to find out.
  
 
  ~GRAPHICS~
  
  You've probably already seen screenshots, but screenshots are actually a pretty bad way to gauge 
 the quality level of a game's graphics. Sometimes screenshots make a game look a little better 
 then they are, or in the case of Dawn of Sorrow, they don't do the game justice.
  
  The pseudo-3d backgrounds of the snow village (and some later levels) , the multiple layers of parallax 
 background, the charater animations... they're all beautifully done.
  
  The same has to be said of the monsters. 
  
  No matter how small or enormous the monsters get 
 (some do get so large they're off the screen) , they are all animated absolutely smoothly and there's 
 no sense that any monster is of better quality than the other.
  
  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow has one of those perfect worlds where all monsters are created equally, 
 and that's a good thing.
  
  The graphical magic doesn't stop with the monsters though. The special effects in the game received 
 a more subtle graphical touch, but are none the less very impressive.
  
  So maybe you've heard someone say: "Well, it looks great and all, but I still don't get it. This 
 is something that, graphically, can be done on the GBA. So why make a DS game out of it??"
  
  Well, this reviewer sure has. Many times. 
  
  But you truly have to see the game in action 
 to understand that while this game is generally a 2D game, it's very much beyond what the GBA would 
 be able to pull off visually. 
  
  ~SOUND~
  
  You would think that after all the time and effort put into the graphics in the game, the sound 
 and music would be somewhere far off in the back of the developer's head, knowing that you could 
 save yourself a lot of time and money by just copying and pasting the sound and music from the 
 earlier Aria of Sorrow and get away with it.
  
  Well, with a few exceptions, maybe you could have. 
  
  But thankfully, it sounds (pun intended) 
 that the developers put every bit of effort into the sound and music of the game as they have taken 
 time on the graphics.
  
  There's ample amount of voice acting, although you shouldn't be expecting a cinema length voice 
 over-fest. The game's primary us of communication between the characters in the game is still text.
 
  
  The voice acting mostly comes in the form of grunts or short phrases spoken by Sohma or by some 
 of the various enemies.
  
  Now then, the music. You've probably heard of the phrase "beauty is in the eye of the beholder". 
 Or in this case, the ear of the beholder.
  
  Never the less, it's safe to say that the music in the game suits the game perfectly. It's a completely 
 original score and it sounds great.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  When it comes to gameplay, Castlevania games have always been an absolute blast to play. So how 
 does Castlevania DOS stand up to this long-standing legacy of incredible gameplay? 
  
  In one word: perfectly.
  
  The overall gameplay hasn't changed that much from it's predecessor 
 Aria of Sorrow, but that isn't to say that it's a bad thing.
  
  If you've played and enjoyed Aria of Sorrow for the GBA then you should pretty much know what to 
 mostly expect from this game. But the beauty of the gameplay in Dawn of Sorrow however is that 
 it kept what made the earlier Castlevania such a great game and then just added a few things here 
 and there.
  
  For example, when you are fighting a boss and knocked it's meter down, you'll have to complete 
 a kind of spell pattern to seal the boss monster's soul. While that sounds worrying at first, the 
 drawing system is actually quite forgiving.
  
  Another neat feature, though not used that often, is the ability the break certain ice blocks on 
 the screen by touching them. This certainly creates some interesting (though not very difficult) 
 puzzles in the game.
  
  Also, the top screen can either display the castle map or your statistics (gold, hp, experience, 
 etc.) , which might sound simple but is actually extremely convenient as it cuts down on the trips 
 you have to make to the menu.
  
  ~OVERALL~
  
  This is one of those rare achievements where a perfect balance of gameplay, graphics, and sound 
 come together to create what many believe is one of the greatest Nintendo DS games to date, and 
 definitely one of the best Castlevania games ever.
  
  If you've never really played a Castlevania game before but enjoyed 2D gaming back in the day, 
 then you owe yourself to give this game a try. You just might find yourself hooked.
  
  But if you're a long time fan and loved all of the Castlevania games of the past, then you simply 
 cannot go wrong with this latest iteration.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewPunk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 1, 2005 8:34 am PT
Review:  After playing throught Symphony of Night, Circle of the Moon, Harmony of Dissonance and Aria of 
 Sorrow, I believe Dawn of Sorrow could rival Symphony of the Night as the best Castlevania game. 
 DoS has so much going for it. The gameplay is near perfect, just as AoS is, and there are many 
 new souls and weaponry to try. The graphics are great (for 2 dimensions) and I love the enemy designs, 
 especially the bosses. Sound is amazing as always, and each theme fits in well with the certain 
 part of the castle. The story is there, however it is a bit lacking in depth. It's pretty much 
 a story you can predict right from the beggining. That aside, it is a very enjoyable game with 
 around 10 hours of gameplay or maybe more depending on how skilled you are to do everything in 
 the game. If you own a DS I certainly suggest you purchase this game, you really will not regret 
 it. Dawn of Sorrow is addictive and fun, and will definately not dissappoint anyone who tries it 
 out. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Posidin77
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2005 1:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is not much different from the GBA version Aria of Sorrow, but then again, Who cares. 
 This is a great, fun, and addictive game. Definitely worth the time and money it takes to play 
 this game. Heck, there are two games out for DS right now that I would buy the system just to play, 
 and Dawn of Sorrow Is one of them. This game is mostley a sequal to Aria of sorrow which released 
 a few years ago for GBA. However, it has a few new features that utilize the touch screen (such 
 as breaking blue cubes, and the magic seal system) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjgamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, really a must have title for the DS. If you're deciding between two really 
 good games for the DS, you'll wish this game hadn't come out yet to make it an easier decision. 
 This game rocks, it's just something about the castlevania series that makes it so great, and overall, 
 fun.
  
  First of all, the game is plain fun, really quite a great sense of action platforming, not only 
 that , but you can get the abilities of your enemies, which really shows alot of effort put into 
 the game, it's also cool, because sometimes an enemy has a really cheap move, now you have it. 
 You can combine souls, put them in weapons to make them dramatically more powerful, but it can 
 be hard, because you can trade boss ones. If you do tha before you get the chaos ring, say bye 
 bye to it. So sometimes it really can be a hard decision, especially since some souls are really 
 hard to get (*=Easy to get, **= A little annoying to get, ***= it's going to be a while before 
 you get the soul, unless you're lucky) .
  
  Of course, seeing you have the ability to get some very powerful abilities, by the end of the game 
 we have very long to get you save points, very hard bosses, and very unfair enemies. (The iron 
 golem) By the end of the game, if you get the bad ending (which is actually very cool) , you can 
 get Julius mode, of course I don't know if you get it if you beat the game on the good ending. 
 
  
  What also makes this game cool is if you get the worse ending, the game ends very soon compared 
 to the good ending. The worst ending is plain bad, just not worth playing the game, so if you get 
 an ending that really isn't worth it, that's not the real ending. When you get the bad ending, 
 the game is progressed for a little longer, and if you get the good ending you have to beat two 
 other bosses, including the final one. So it's a big difference.
  
  Once the game is beaten 100% (Which is actually enjoyable) , enemy set mode can be exploited to 
 the fullest, and boss rush mode with the best items in the game is alot of fun, and challenging. 
 There are alot of unlockables for the boss rush mode, and it can be pretty challenging, considering 
 you only have up to lvl 50, which is low by the time the game is completed 100%.
  
  What's also especially great about this game is that when you get a weapon, you can stick with 
 a knife, a mace, a claymore, a short sword, or a long sword, all obviously varying in size, attack 
 speed, and power. (knife= fast but weak, even the final level one, mace= Really slow, almost unbearable, 
 but extremely powerful by most of the upgrades) Some may even get attatched with their weapon, 
 considering if you get one you like, you'll stick with it almost immediately for the game, and 
 how you can upgrade it throughout the game, I still have my claymore from the beggining of the 
 game (vastly upgraded) . 
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty good, considering it's a 2D game, it looks pretty similar 
 to most of the castlevania games, except they look better and more 3D. What makes it different, 
 the animations, monster animations, fire animations, all the animations, are perfect. The framerate, 
 is perfect, there's even a 3D monster in the game (which is actually kind of pretty to look at) . 
 The graphics in this game are great, and some of the times you get to notice the backrounds in 
 the game, you'll realise almost each one in the game is different, some of the backrounds in the 
 game are 3D even. It's really a pretty game to look at if you look at the 3D especially. It looks 
 pretty.
  
  The music in this game is very good, one of them I don't neccesarily like, but everything else 
 is awsome to listen too, there are about 25 different songs in the game, each of the suiting the 
 area perfectly, and they all sound very good (except for one) . The boss songs, and big boss songs, 
 the final battle song, the final area songs, the special area songs, everything is so well placed 
 and nice to listen to (except for one) . It's very nice to listen too, and the audio for the monsters, 
 there are about alot of different sound effects for every monster, boss, the characters in the 
 game (about 200) , so many of them. When you start to listen to some of the sounds that come from 
 monsters, they all seem to explode with realism and life. It's actually suprising. 
  
  Considering how this game is really made for everyone, you can pick your favorite souls, favorite 
 weapons, alot of effort is shown in the end product of the game. Konami did an amazing job trying 
 to make this game perfect, and the end result is nothing less than spectacular. Buy this game, 
 it's made for perfection, it's made for fun in mind, and you'll have a good 2 months getting EVERYTHING 
 in normal, hard, and julius mode. (Including trying to get the RPG. Have fun, and remember, if you 
 have a choice between two games, buy this one, why? That's a stupid question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: francoaraneta
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2005 4:18 am PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is I assure you one of the best games you can get on a ds today. The 
 graphics are smooth, the sound is catchy and the gameplay is nearly excellent. The only thing about 
 Castlevania that ticks me off is that they could of done so much more to make this a more exciting 
 game. They didn't use all of the ds's capabilieties. They could of used the microphone and why 
 couldn't they find out more ways to use the touch screen. I mean come on. Yeah Castlevania is cool 
 game and all but drawing magic symbols and breaking crystals blocks is kind of lame. Even though 
 I am slightly dissapointed the endearing storyline, the excellent graphics, the music, and nearly 
 perfect gameplay, make this game the best ds game their is today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timinator18
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 27, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is good. 3D graphics are mixed in with the 2D characters. The effect is really nice. 
 alot of bosses, many souls to collect. WHen u beat the game u unlock modes that make u wanna play 
 again. This game is really great. The bosses are always different. They are difficult, but not 
 too difficult. I didnt quite catch on to the idea of the magic seal, but its easy and doesnt hamper 
 the gameplay very much. This game is probably the best in the series. I loved it. the music is 
 really great too. Use the headphones and u will be blown away. the speakers dont play all the music, 
 and it helps create an atmosphere. This game isnt that scary, but i dont think it was intended 
 to be. This game is a must have! go buy it! RUN NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltonnaslund
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:26 pm PT
Review:  The game is alot better than the GBA game previous. It has sharper graphics, touch screen, and 
 many other amazing functions. Definately the best DS game to be released yet. DS also proves, that 
 it knows when to do 2D games, and also when to do 3D games. This game definately is better when 
 it is 2D. The amount of different powers and weapons you can use is almost infinate. One disapointing 
 thing though is that alot of the powerfull weapons are also very heavy. But overall this game is 
 a must-buy for DS owners.
  If they were to succesfully make a 3D version of this game, it should wait for next Gen: preferably 
 on the Revolution 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seifervii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2005 9:34 am PT
Review:  After playing Castlevania for about a hour I knew this would be the same run of the mill 2D affair. 
 What separates this title from the previous efforts are the animation details and gorgeous environments. 
 Not since Symphony of the Night have I had such a beautiful view.
  
  The gameplay is above average with some unique features such as: the touch screen drawings, a much 
 needed map display, and not too cumbersome story interactions.
  
  If you've played and beat Aria of Sorrow on the Gameboy Advance you slide right in with DOS. Take 
 the time to thoroughly explore each section and cover the entire castle to retrieve all of the 
 secrets. 
  
  The additional play modes are fun and add a breath of creativity. I'd hope to see a two player 
 version of Castlevania in the near future and perhaps an increased difficulty setting.
  
  Overall a good package and a step in the right direction for the series.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 27, 2005 1:28 am PT
Review:  Castlevania is a must have for th DS handheld console. though not very innovaive or unique in gameplay 
 it carries a sense of addictive fun for your pleasure. i like the soul capture gimmick but i hate 
 how the dual-screen functions work the touch screen almost only for gathering new abilities is 
 a complete wasted effort. the game itself is a good addition 2 the growing DS software library. 
 i like playin as alucard from PSX ver. of sympothy of the night and the extra goodies unlockable 
 from meeting certain completion goals. Soma make his return as the heroe and so does the leveling 
 up system. the weapon and upgrading weapons functions at 1st are confusing but once you've gotten 
 use 2 flapping between your different abliltys its a downright great game. its an original but 
 not much of an improvemant. doesnt take as much advantage of the tocuh screen as i'd like it 2 
 and doesnt take good advantage at all with 2 screens all together. but it'll keep you bizzy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie_IV
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 26, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is one of those games that feels like you've played it already when 
 you first pick it up. It's the fourth new Castlevania game to be released on a Nintendo handheld 
 since Circle of the Moon was released during the GBA launch. It's also the fifth game since Symphony 
 of the Night to use a level design similar to that found in the Metroid series. It even continues 
 the tradition of using elements from RPGs like leveling up your character and equipping them with 
 more powerful weapons and armor. Yet despite all these conventions that have been carried over 
 yet again, it's still a blast to play, even if you've experienced those older games already. And 
 if you haven't, well, you're in for quite a treat. 
  
  The game follows the tale of Soma Cruz, who discovered a year ago that he contains the power to 
 become the new Dracula in his body. Not wanting to do so, he has fought to contain the evil within 
 him. However, a mysterious new cult has appeared that threatens to cause the rebirth of said evil. 
 In light of this, Soma and his friends set forth to prevent that from happening. The plot doesn't 
 factor into the game quite that much. Generally, you just explore the castle as you would if there 
 were no plot at all, being held up at different times by rather convenient roadblocks. You do run 
 into other characters occasionally, but this usually just results in more dialogue followed by 
 the continuation of gameplay as if nothing had happened. Watching Soma's fight to contain the forces 
 within himself is interesting enough to carry the plot, but it's the gameplay itself that makes 
 this title so compelling.
  
  As said before, Dawn of Sorrow is a platformer in the vein of the Metroid series. You explore the 
 castle on your own, never once getting any major hints on where to go, except for an occasional 
 hint disguised as a plot point. An automap is displayed on the top of the screen for you to keep 
 track of where you've been and prevent you from getting lost. This can be swapped with a stat screen 
 if you feel so inclined, but the map is more useful. The RPG elements generally don't lean towards 
 that much repetition, as you're probably bound to pick up enough experience fighting enemies as 
 you backtrack through certain areas of the castle. However, you will find that while an obsession 
 with leveling up isn't by any means necessary, it will make boss fights easier if you power up 
 just a bit before taking them on. Buying weapons and items to make Soma stronger and keep him healthy 
 is possible in a store located in a certain part of the castle, but you'll discover that many (but 
 not all) of the same items can be found for free around the castle whenever you'll need them, making 
 money hunting seem just a bit unnecessary most of the time.
  
  The most unusual feature of the game is it's Soul System. With it, you can absorb the souls of 
 defeated enemies to make Soma even more powerful. Different souls give you different abilities, 
 some of them allow you to summon monsters to aid you, others allow you to use new weapons and objects, 
 and some of the most important ones allow you new abilities that get you through areas that were 
 previously inaccessible. Souls tend to appear rather randomly, aside from most boss fights, but 
 you'll find them to be incredibly helpful. You also have the ability to fuse either extra or unwanted 
 souls with your weapons to make them more powerful. Doing so is an irreversible process, but it 
 makes your weapons much more powerful than they would be if you simply left them as they were, 
 and allows you to make Soma much more powerful than you could by simply leveling him up. It's annoying 
 how rarely some souls appear, though that could have a bit to do with how often some enemies appear, 
 but the soul system has enough creative twists and turns to make it fun to tinker with and make 
 soul hunting seem worth it. 
  
  The DS' touch screen has a few uses within this game. You'll discover first of all that you'll 
 need to use it to draw magic seals to finish off boss characters. Failing to do so will cause the 
 boss to regain HP instead of dying off completely. Doing so can be incredibly frustrating at first, 
 as the game appears to be incredibly finicky about how well you draw the seals. This becomes especially 
 aggravating as the act of doing so appears to be nothing more than a tacked-on excuse to use the 
 touch screen. However, it becomes clear soon enough that the game puts more emphasis on how quickly 
 you draw the seals than how much attention to detail you give them, and the feature can be mastered 
 and written off fairly quickly. You'll also come across a few areas where you need to use the touch 
 screen to carve a path through ice blocks that get in your way. This is done easily enough, but 
 it doesn't really lend itself to very much challenge, other than some occasional trial and error 
 with no real consequences. Most of the touch screen functionality in this game feels like it was 
 merely added by the developers in an attempt to give the player something to do with the DS' more 
 unique capabilities.
  
  Graphically however, the game utterly shines. It's clear that the game looks much better on the 
 DS than any of the GBA Castlevanias ever did. Everything has a highly detailed, vividly colored 
 look to it. There isn't a single enemy or object that doesn't look like it's taking full advantage 
 of the DS' power. Every bit of gameplay takes place on the bottom screen, so there's no looking 
 back and forth at the two screens during gameplay other than to glance at the map when you feel 
 it's needed. Everything animates smoothly, and there's a lot of detail in the different shades 
 of color that you'll find in the different areas of the castle. You'll notice quite a lot of detail 
 in the larger boss characters, who often seem to stretch the game's art style to it's limits. There 
 are also a few three-dimensional backgrounds located in some areas that are a very nice touch. 
 The graphics are a very high point in this game, but they don't overshadow the game itself, rather, 
 they compliment it as well as anyone could possibly ask.
  
  Sound is a small step below what's found in the visuals. There are number of very good songs in 
 the game's soundtrack, but none of them feel that memorable. Nearly every area does have it's own 
 unique tune, which is a nice touch. Still, there's nothing utterly mind-blowing there. The sound 
 effects do the job very well in this game, though they tend to blend in so that you dont notice 
 anything unusual about them after a while. There are a lot of voice samples to be found in this 
 game. Nearly all of them take the form of different shouts and cries that Soma comes out with when 
 he performs attacks or gets hurt during gameplay. There aren't any fully-formed sentences or anything 
 like that, as dialogue is always printed instead of spoken. You might find yourself annoyed by 
 Soma's voice samples eventually, as there's no way to turn them off and he always speaks whenever 
 he performs an attack. But with this current generation of consoles and handhelds, you're probably 
 used to that by now.
  
  The main quest in this game isn't terribly long, it'll probably take you around ten hours to finish 
 it the first time through unless you insist on collecting absolutely every single item and soul 
 that you come across. There are a few handy unlockables to be discovered when you finish the game 
 though, and this can give the game a bit more life beyond it's initial offerings. The core game 
 in itself is worth the price of admission alone, but the unlockables manage to make this game a 
 must-have. Even if you have played the previous games in the series, it would be a horrible mistake 
 to miss Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. It proves that there's still a lot of life left in the Castlevania 
 series, and its totally worth anyones money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: way2funny
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 24, 2005 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Probably one of the best Castlevania games out there. First lets talk about gameplay, it couldnt 
 have been better. I avoided some castlevania games because the controlling was so blocky and irritating, 
 for example the first NES Castlevania. They did gameplay just right, it couldnt have been better. 
 The graphics were also nice. Some of the weapons and effects i think could have been approved, 
 but the thing that amazed me the most was killing the zombies, the animation was just awsome. Sound 
 has always been top-notch in castlevania games. This is no exception. This game also has good replay 
 value, and the souls was very innovative and worked. The massive, (maybe not massive) but big choice 
 of weapons was awsome. It provided a different feel to Castlevania, because for the most part all 
 the other games you only have a whip. In this game you have a sense of individuality because of 
 the RPG system and weapons. It was just great, Only one word can describe this, Fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koomaster
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 10:54 pm PT
Review:  
  Castlevania for the DS instantly immerses you back into the world of demons and evil, following 
 the story of Soma from the GBA Castlevania, Aria of Sorrow.
  
  The game is rather unforgiving to newcomers as you are right away fighting some of the most gruesome 
 creations the followers of the Dark Lord can conjure as you venture forth into a recreation of 
 Dracula's castle.
  
  What makes this entry different is the amount of souls and weapons you can obtain through venturing 
 forth into the castle. But don't think demons all give up their souls, sometimes it takes a bit 
 of work to get just the soul you're looking for. Fortunately the game helps in this fashion by 
 giving you info about the creatures, their weaknesses, and how rare their soul is. Also helping 
 you out will be various equipable items and souls that increase your chances of finding that certain 
 soul you're looking for to complete your macabre ensemble.
  
  And why find souls? Well, to gain special abilities, to use the souls as weapons, or to summon 
 demons of your own to do your bidding. Also souls can be fused with conventional weapons you find 
 or buy to create a myriad of weaponry at your disposal. What was once a simple spear, can become 
 with a bit of work, a Giant metalic pitchfork of electrified terror. What was once a simple sword, 
 can become a glowing beacon of purity amongst the dark castle walls.
  
  Another thing Dawn of Sorrow has going for it is it's creation of atmosphere while you are exploring 
 the various rooms the castle has to offer. The graphics are some of the best the DS has to offer, 
 along with the beautiful character models, you'll notice the backgrounds and how they create a 
 3D feel during this sidescrolling quest of the night. Everything blends together brilliantly, and 
 the little touches here and there accentuate even moreso all the work that went into the creation 
 of the game.
  
  The background music is just the right mixture of a dramatic mood, yet unobtrusive for gameplay. 
 It becomes a part of the castle, adding to the atmosphere and unique style of each of the different 
 sections of the castle.
  
  The only hangup this version of Castlevania faces is it's inclusion of the stylus. After you deal 
 the final blow to a boss, you must correctly and quickly draw a seal (which you've previously obtained 
 in the game) in order to finish the boss off for good. Should you fail, the boss regains some of 
 his life, and you must repeat the process again. This is a like it or hate it feature. I found 
 it as a good twist, but at times frustrating. One thing to note, is that you have all the time 
 you want to begin drawing the seal, however once you start, you have to go through with it. It 
 took me till the 3rd boss to realize I didn't have to keep my stylus in my mouth during the fight 
 so I could quickly grab it to draw the seal. The earlier seals don't give much bother, but later 
 on as the seals become more complicated to draw, having to keep going on and on and on in the boss 
 fight because you can't draw the seal fast enough, is somewhat of a bother. Again, either you'll 
 hate the frustration, yet like the way it makes you feel more connected to beating the boss.
  
  The stylus is more clumsily executed in other ways; such as with breaking iceblocks, which 
 only appear in a few areas. The ice blocks don't fit in with the rest of the castle, and the puzzles 
 they create are rather juvenile to solve. Thankfully like I said, they appear in only a few areas. 
 Secondly you are supposedly able to control the diffent creatures you summon, by pointing your 
 stylus at an enemy and they will go to attack it. I found this work about 25% of the time at best, 
 and is a feature best left ignored.
  
  Lastly, if you've made it this far, you'll be intrigued to know that Dawn of Sorrow features several 
 endings, and depending on which you acheive, you'll receive extra gameplay and new unlockables 
 which will keep you coming back for more.
  
  Overall, Dawn of Sorrow creates a great presentation on the DS for anyone looking for some dramatic 
 action with creatures of the night, and more plot for the story about the Dark Lord. With a plethora 
 of places to explore, souls to capture, weapons to find, buy, create, try, bosses to destroy, and 
 unlockable to unlock, you'll find yourself wanting to take a hefty bite out of the game for a long 
 time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StreetFighter01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania is probably the best DS game so far. You can't go
  wrong with the amazing music and gameplay. It even lives up
  to the classic Symphony of the Night. 
 Its an improvement from
  Aria of Sorrow. It looks better, sounds better, and even has multiplayer.
  Just wished they used 
 the touch screen a little more and more 3D
  backgrounds would be nice too. Theres nothing really bad to say about this
  game. I encourage 
 anyone who hasn't played this game to give it a
  try! If you loved Symphony of the Night then you'll automatically
  like playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhys1elliott
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 8:55 am PT
Review:  The story follows Soma Cruz on a soul cealing adventure throgh a demon world. This game is better 
 than all the GBA installments and includes weapons from Samuri swords to handguns!
  
  The gameplay is brilliant it's a 2D sidescrolling platformer/RPG. When you kill an enemy you get 
 a chance of nicking it's soul, which means you gain special moves. Some are rubbish like throwing 
 a chicken meal, but others are very helpful.
  
  If you've got a bit of free time give this game a try it'll rock your world for a bit, but then 
 get boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrlGmr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 23, 2005 3:21 am PT
Review:  Complete review, and always spoiler free. 
  I hadn't really been looking forwards to this game. In fact, I didn't even know about it until 
 I went into Gamestop a few days before it was released and the clerk asked if I wanted to reserve 
 it. On a whim, I said yes. A few days later I came back to pick it up. I almost balked at the $35 
 price tag, but since they had already rung the game up, I bought it. I was feeling rather masochistic 
 that day, so I decided to open it up and start playing before checking any reviews. I'll break 
 down the different parts of the game and give my thoughts at the end.
  
  Plot: 
  
  The plot in DoS picks up a year after the events in Aria of Sorrow. A woman named Celia Fortner 
 has created a cult that maintains that for God to be the being of absolute goodness, there must 
 be a being of absolute evil. Since Soma is the reincarnation of Dracula and thwarted his fate of 
 becoming the Dark Lord, he's obviously in the way. Soma thinks that he has lost the power of dominance 
 since he lost all the souls he had previously and is reminiscing with his girlfriend Mina about 
 the events in the previous game. Celia suddenly appears and after asking him if he's Soma, she 
 summons some monsters and orders them to attack. Before Soma gets pounded into paste, Genya Arikado 
 shows up and gives him a knife to fight with. After having defeated the monsters, Soma is given 
 the location of Drac's castle by Hammer and journeys there. The plot is pretty straightforward, 
 but it does have a few twists and turns, depending on which ending you get. All of the main characters 
 from the previous game appear, and there are a couple of new ones in the form of the Dark Lord 
 candidates that Celia has picked to contest for the honor.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Overall, the graphics are amazing. Stunningly beautiful, especially the backgrounds. While most 
 of the game takes place inside the castle, there are some outdoor areas as well. Each area of the 
 castle has its own color scheme, and the outdoor areas are especially interesting. All of them 
 have multilayer backgrounds, and some of the areas have a 3D image as the farthest plane. So you'll 
 be walking around the town area where Hammer and Yoko have set up shop, and it shows a 3D cityscape 
 that scrolls realistically as you move around the area. 
  
  The character portraits have been reworked, and each character has their own portrait. The art 
 style has changed to a more general anime style than the gothic style that the prequal had. All 
 of the sprite animation is fluid, and there is no slowdown. The only ding I have against the game's 
 graphics is that a lot of the standard enemy sprites are ripped from other Castlevania games, mostly 
 Super Castlevania IV, SotN, and AoS.
  
  Sound: 
  
  I'm not really one that pays attention to sound in games, so the most I can say is that I though 
 the music was appropriate for what was going on on screen. Again, each area has its own music, 
 and again (unfortunately) the sounds for the recycled enemies are also recycled.
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  Gameplay in DoS is very similar to AoS, and to other 2D Castlevania games in 
 the past, especially SotN and those after it. The top screen of the DS can be switched back and 
 forth to either a Super Metroid style map, or an abbreviated version of the character status screen 
 that shows the last enemy you hit (including what that enemy drops, what their weaknesses and resistances 
 are, and how many souls you have from that enemy) , what your stats are, and your condition. 
  
  The game does make use of the touch screen, but it seems like the touch screen parts were tacked 
 on as an afterthought. Input via the touch screen is limited to guiding familiar souls, picking 
 your destination at the warp rooms, and magical seals. Magical seals are patterns you have to draw 
 on the screen, and are used to unlock certain doors and to defeat bosses. When you get a boss down 
 low enough, the magical seal pattern appears on the screen, and you have to trace it. While the 
 game is pretty forgiving and speed matters more than accuracy, if you screw up the boss regains 
 hit points and you have to beat them down some more until you get it right. 
  
  When you defeat an enemy, you'll sometimes get a soul that will upgrade Soma's abilities with things 
 like increased damage from behind, higher intelligence, regen, and so on. Some souls can be powered 
 up by gathering as many of them as you can. You can also use souls to power up your weapons to 
 obscene levels via Yoko's shop. The game can be somewhat easy if you spend a lot of time gathering 
 souls like I did. I stopped progressing about halfway through my first play and by the time I was 
 done getting all the souls, I breezed through the rest. Also, the game could be a bit short if 
 you know where to go, stick to the main quest, and don't do optional stuff.
  
  Replayability: 
  
  I would say that this game has a pretty decent amount of replayability. 
 There are a lot of hidden things and extras, such as special enemies and items. The game has three 
 endings, and two of them unlock extra features such as Boss Rush, Sound Mode, and Julius Mode. 
 Boss Rush and Sound Mode are exactly what they sound like: running through beating the bosses within 
 a time limit, and a sound test mode.
  
  Julius Mode is probably where you'll spend the majority of your time outside the main game. Basically 
 it is very reminiscent of Castlevania 3 and allows you to play the main game through as Julius 
 Belmont, Yoko Belnades, and Genya Arikado. The plot is a little different, but it is much skimpier 
 than the normal game. I think that was the idea, though. Back in the NES days, plots in the Castlevaina 
 series were classified as miniscule to nonexistant.
  
  A harder mode is also included as an unlockable, but since the game allows you to keep your old 
 equipment and souls (but not your levels, and it overwrites your old game) , it really isn't any 
 harder unless you resist the temptation to use them.
  
  My thoughts: 
  
  I can't really say that this game exceeded my expectations, but that's because I didn't really 
 have any to exceed. I've put over 50 hours into the game, I still haven't seen everything, and 
 I enjoyed just about every minute of it. As an old school gamer, DoS made me reflect for awhile 
 on how much we've lost in the move to 3D and away from side scrollers. 
  
  In my opinion, this game is worth buying a DS for all by itself. Get it. You won't regret it. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrFish62
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 20, 2005 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow continues the long line of portable Castlevania titles available on 
 Nintendo systems. While it doesnt offer any significant breakthroughs in the way of innovation, 
 it is still one of the most solid portable titles available and a must-have for any DS owner.
 
  
  The DS sequel to Aria of Sorrow renews the story that began on the Game Boy Advance. One year ago, 
 Soma Cruz discovered that he was destined to become the new Dark Lord. As the reincarnation of 
 Dracula, Soma possesses the ability to absorb the souls of monsters hes killed, gaining new abilities 
 and spells. Not too keen on the idea of being reborn as the king of evil, Soma and pals escaped 
 from Draculas castle. A year after these events, a mysterious priestess named Celia establishes 
 a cult with the sole purpose of resurrecting Dracula. Shocking? Not really. Inventive? No. But 
 its a hell of a lot of fun.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow plays exactly like its GBA predecessors. Soma starts off relatively weak, and there 
 are many areas of the castle you cannot explore yet. As you defeat enemies, acquire equipment, 
 and purchase maps, additional areas of the fortress will open up. The soul system from Aria of 
 Sorrow returns and has been completely revamped. Collecting enemies souls is an addicting, Pokemon-esque 
 endeavor that will yield one of four different results. Bullet-type souls grant Soma various special 
 attacks that typically enhance his ability to throw projectiles. Guardian-type souls consume magic 
 points as they are used and can be employed a number of ways including summoning enemies to fight 
 on your side, firing a devastating laser beam, transforming yourself into various creatures. Enchant-type 
 souls grant Soma special abilities or enhance his stats without ticking away at your magic points. 
 By defeating bosses, Soma absorbs Ability souls, such as the double jump, that allow access to 
 new areas of the castle. Equipping different combinations of souls creates new abilities and affects 
 your characters stats in various ways. Additionally, the game allows you to switch between two 
 different configurations on the fly by pressing the X button. Its an excellent feature and really 
 enhances the games strategy.
  
  Stylistically, Dawn of Sorrow doesnt stray far from its GBA roots. Throughout each of the castles 
 regions, youll notice a number of different themes that all fit nicely with the Castlevania series. 
 The DS, however, allows for more intricate detail than the GBA, and it shows. Enemies will often 
 occupy the entire screen, and some are given full 3D animations. Each background is vividly brought 
 to life through scrolling environments that approach Symphony of the Night quality. Graphically, 
 Dawn of Sorrow is everything youve come to expect from the Castlevania series and more. The DS 
 speakers also lend to some of the best music found in any game. The eerie tone and beautiful composition 
 of the pieces engross the player in the world of Castlevania. Sound effects are also crystal clear 
 and well-suited to the game.
  
  Speaking of the DS hardware, Dawn of Sorrow does employ a handful of exclusive features. Throughout 
 the game, a map of the castle is conveniently displayed on the top screen revealing the locations 
 of exceptionally well-placed save points and transporters. An admittedly minor yet oddly fulfilling 
 ability to sign your name on save files rather than typing it in is also a nice touch. Aside from 
 that, the only major use of the touch screen comes when a boss is defeated and you must quickly 
 draw one of five patterns to seal the demon away before it regenerates. These patterns are scattered 
 throughout the game and must be found to be used. If you dont scribble down the pattern fast enough, 
 the boss returns with a small but substantial amount of life left, and you must repeat the process. 
 In theory, this is a nice feature. Unfortunately, it doesnt pan out as well as the developers 
 might have hoped because it really only serves to frustrate players who have just finished an exceptionally 
 frantic boss battle. 
  
  Long-running fans of the series will not be disappointed with Dawn of Sorrow. It plays fairly easily, 
 but youll quickly become addicted to collecting the souls of all 100+ enemies. Anyone familiar 
 with Castlevania 3: Draculas Curse on the NES is in for a particularly appealing treat. Unlocking 
 the games Julius Mode allows you to play tag-team style as Julius Belmont and two other main 
 characters, each with their own strengths and abilities. Complete with retro music, holy water, 
 and that classic whip, Julius mode gives Dawn of Sorrow a much longer lifespan.
  
  Despite its minor flaws, Dawn of Sorrow is one of the best games available on a portable system. 
 Its a must-have for any Castlevania or Metroid fan, and is a near-perfect reason to own a Nintendo 
 DS. Whether youre new to Castlevania, a long-time fan, or havent picked it up since its NES glory 
 days, you wont be disappointed with Dawn of Sorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorago
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 20, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  I believe Dawn of Sorrow is an excellent game and that the people from Gamespot rated this game 
 solely on its potential and it's use of the touch screen (It was probably a bias editor who prefers 
 PSP over DS) . It is true that it uses the touch screen throughout 5% of the game, but games shouldn't 
 be rated by how good it could have been, but how good the game is aside from all the features that 
 aren't there. Castlevania deserves a score higher than a 9 because of the addictive gameplay. Once 
 you start collecting souls you want to collect more, plus the weapon/soul synthesis really adds 
 to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xtrememegabite
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 19, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  So this is how it is: a year ago, you were some how abducted into a castle which dwells in an eclipse. 
 After a while collecting souls, battling bosses, and exploring you find out that this is Draculas 
 castle and you, Soma Cruz, must help to defeat the evil king and save the world. All along the 
 way your friends help you and give you information and eventually you kill the man who is Dracula, 
 but as it would turn out he is not Dracula, but you are turning in the king of darkness.... and 
 now a vampire slayer is out to kill you, and you dont want to become Dracula. You now find out 
 that to stop the complete transformation you must stop the chaos which lay in the Chaotic Realm. 
 You do this and all is returned to normal, and you and your friends are returned back to earth... 
 now it is a year later....
  
  This is where dawn of sorrow begins and this is when a cult starts to rise that wants to resurrect 
 Dracula and to do this they must kill you... but you are not gonna let them, in fact you are going 
 to try and stop them, somehow. In to the cults base and through its many dark and treacherous 
 rooms you go exploring and battling for your life. You find out that there are 2 candidates for 
 Dracula and that they are trying to kill you along with the cult leader. YOU MUST STOP THEM AND 
 THE WHOLE PLAN TO RESURRECT THE KING OF DARKNESS.
  
  The game is very fun and has a pretty long lifespan. The graphics are much more detailed than the 
 previous GBA versions and so are the sounds, which is extraordinarily good. The game play is excellent 
 according to me. It is a lot like Aria of Sorrow: go around the castle, amass your soul collection, 
 defeat the bosses and eventually stop the cult. I have been played about 5 1/2 hours and I have 
 uncovered about 50% of the map... so the game is pretty long for a handheld game... pus there are 
 hidden modes such as boss rush, where you sequentially battle the bosses faced during the game, 
 and Julius mode , where you can play as a Belmont. This game impressed me very much and I recommend 
 it to anyone with a DS. Although I have not played the multiplayer, I know it consists of setting 
 monster which you have acquired their soul and placing them on a preset room with limits to the 
 amt of creatures then u trade your map w/ the other person and the faster one to complete the 
 course wins. There is also a soul trading multiplayer where you (guess what???) trade souls. The 
 game is overall great and the best DS game out so far in my opinion, but I still think that aria 
 of sorrow is better hehehe but I would give this game a. 9.25/10
  
  My ratings: 
  Presentation: 8.0  they did a pretty good jog advertising and whatnot 
  Game play: 9.0  its 
 good old platformer castlevania but if you disliked AoS, stay away!
  Graphics: 8.75  a good improvement from the GBA versions and from what I hear comparable to Symphony 
 of the Nights graphics
  Sound: 9.5  one word: excellent
  Lasting time: 8.0  the game is about 10 hours (I think) to finish the campaign fully.. but the 
 extras and multiplayer give a boost
  Multi-player: 7.5  I think that they could have made a better multiplayer or they couldve made 
 this single cart but it is nice to see new things
  
  Overall: 9.5 (almost perfect)
  
  -theONE
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonicStyles
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania is one of those franchises that was given birth along with modern console gaming, with 
 its releases spanning almost every platform to date. One may think that having twenty-two games 
 (with a twenty-third coming to Sonys PlayStation 2 and Microsofts Xbox) in a franchise would 
 start to make the series feel stale, but Konami has managed to keep one of its core franchises 
 fresh and, above all else, fun.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow is the direct sequel to Aria of Sorrow, taking place one year after. You play as 
 Soma Cruz, the reincarnation of Dracula himself, who takes a preemptive strike against a cult that 
 wishes to revive the dark lord by any means necessary. Old friends and new enemies make their appearance 
 as you progress in the story.
  
  Right:
   Plays off the mentality if it isnt broken, dont fix it by using the same style of gameplay 
 as its predecessor, Aria of Sorrow.
   An enormous area to explore, as Draculas Castle is what could be the biggest yet and filled 
 with secrets to keep you playing for hours.
   Unique Soul System allows you to gain abilities from every enemy in the game.
   Unlockable 
 characters to play as after beating the game.
   The top screen shows a map of the castle, removing the need to pause the game and look through 
 menus to check where one is heading.
  
  Wrong:
   Makes poor use of a majority of the Nintendo DSs hardware features. Use of the touch screen, 
 while innovative, is more of a hassle than a feature.
   Multiplayer seems tacked-on and isnt fully realized.
  
  
  The gameplay, as mentioned, 
 sticks very close to nearly all the previous games in the series. The player can jump with B, attack 
 with their equipped weapon using Y, switch equipment sets with X (a power gained a short way through 
 the game) , slide backwards with L, and use souls by pressing Up + Y or R, depending on the type 
 of soul. As Soma, you travel through Draculas castle, killing enemies that seem to have been designed 
 by some depraved childs nightmares, leveling up your character, and gathering items and souls. 
 Each part of the castle has its own theme, like a garden or a laboratory, and each of these has 
 its own unique enemies, music, and atmosphere. Enemies reappear once you enter the room again, 
 making it relatively easier to get a particularly rare monsters soul. Thankfully Konami has made 
 an enormous castle with lots of secrets to explore, and a vast array of weapons, items, and souls 
 to collect.
  
  So whats all this business about souls? you should be asking by now. Soma, being the reincarnation 
 of Dracula, has the ability to control the souls of once-living things. When Soma defeats an enemy, 
 their soul is added to his collection, to be equipped like a piece of armor or a spell. Occasionally 
 you have to defeat an enemy over a hundred times just to get their soul as it is based on random 
 chance, which is rather irritating but balanced in another view. 
  There are four types of souls in Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. The first of these are called Bullet 
 souls, and they act as offensive spells activated by pressing up and Y. Guardian souls are activated 
 by either pressing or holding R, and they generally create familiars or summon a monster to deal 
 an attack. Enchant souls are passive status bonuses, ranging from an increase in Luck to being 
 able to use Throw weapons twice as fast. The last type are Ability souls, which are souls that 
 are always equipped and cost no MP to use, the most common being the Double Jump. This type of 
 soul is gained by progressing in the story, not by the usual manner of slaying abominations.
  
  --
  
  If Dawn of Sorrow has any fault, its the rather shallow use of the Nintendo DSs 
 unique hardware functions. After defeating a boss, a circle appears on the bottom screen. By drawing 
 a correct line sequence, the boss is destroyed. If you fail to do so, well, I hope you like fighting 
 bosses twice. There is a fair amount of time for a player to draw their stylus from the holder 
 on the back of the DS, but it is still cumbersome and awkward to do after an action-heavy battle.
 
  
  There is a multiplayer mode that utilizes the wireless feature of the DS, but it is poorly designed 
 and the developers should have just stuck with the soul trading feature; players race through a 
 sequence of corridors and rooms, trying not to get too caught up in killing monsters in their path. 
 The best use of DS hardware is the second screen, which features a map. The days of having to momentarily 
 stop the action to see where youre going are gone, my friends. Although it may not seem like much, 
 I couldnt imagine going back to the start menu to see the map after playing this way.
  
  --
  
  Castlevania looks and sounds amazing. The backgrounds are fully animated and feature 
 amazing detail  they almost seem 3D at times! The sprites in the game are also as impressive, 
 with more detailed and more numerous animations, especially when they are slain. Small details 
 have been added to the Soma sprite that make him seem more realistic, like being able to see his 
 breath when outside in the cold. Mirrors exist in some rooms, and they help the illusion that it 
 really is a large castle rather than a series of halls. While most enemies simply burst into flames 
 (a Castlevania tradition) some are quite cool to watch. For example, as you strike the final blow 
 on a winged demon, its body breaks into parts and begins swirling into a black hole that is created 
 behind it. Or when you slay a teenage witch, who can barely stay on her broom to begin with, her 
 body combusts on the ground and a cat runs away.
  
  --
  
  Buy, Rent, or Avoid?
  This is a game that can be easily recommended to anyone who has even a remote liking of action, 
 adventure, or even RPGs. Far too long of a game to beat with just one rental, Castlevania: Dawn 
 of Sorrow is a game that should be purchased, if only to support more quality third-party games 
 for Nintendo systems.
  
  --
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Konami once again reuses the classic Castlevania style, sure, but when it is as finely tuned and 
 enjoyable as it is, then one has little room to complain.
  
  Visuals: 9.0/10
  The backgrounds are vividly detailed, and all the sprites have not only better quality animations, 
 but also more of them. Screens do not do this game justice; to see it in motion is the only way 
 to see how big of a leap it is over its GBA counterparts. Castlevania really draws out the power 
 of the Nintendo DS. 
  
  Audio: 8.0/10
  Even though cartridges are known for having low-quality audio in comparison to discs, this one 
 manages to sound amazing. The music is varied and sounds great, and the sound effects are equally 
 as impressive.
  
  Value: 9.0/10
  The multiplayer feels forced; more work could have been put into it, or it should have been removed 
 altogether. The adventure itself isn't particularly lengthy, but unlockable characters, game modes, 
 and a very large area to explore keep you coming back for more once it's all said and done.
  
  Overall: 9.4/10
  A stellar achievement from Konami and also one of the few third-party games 
 on the DS worth buying, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow rivals the greatness of Symphony of the Night, 
 and in some ways surpasses it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfilosophy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 5, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  There's not much I have to say to convince you to get this game. I mean, it's another Castlevania. 
 That should be reason enough to get it before it's so rare that people actually get jobs at Gamestops 
 to snag copies. That's the hell I went through to get Aria of Sorrow. I decided to drive around 
 and try to get it and I had elitist EB employees sizing me up by the games I'd mention showing 
 signs of regret. "Good choice... If only a copy were near." Eventually, I had to eBay it. Anyway, 
 I digress. The rarity of these games (which shouldn't be the case since the CV series is well-loved) 
 should be the number one reason you get DoS. Onto the actual game. It feels and plays like what 
 you'd expects, so it doesn't win points for revolutionizing things. Sometimes the stylus use gets 
 irritating since you need it randomly and when you're busy fighting bosses or enemies, but put 
 the stylus between your fingers and play normally until you gotta use it and you're good to go. 
 The system of magic seals to defeat your bosses adds challenge to the game because if you mess 
 it up, you gotta deal about a good 4th of damage to the boss again for another try. Thankfully, 
 it's not that hard to mess up on the seals since it cares more about proximity than accuracy. All 
 in all, I recommend this game if only just to recommend another title in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nes4life13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This new addition to the Castlevania series is by far the best, they have made some great improvements 
 & updates to it that make it all the more enjoyable. To simply put it this is the best Castlevania 
 game since Symphony of Night. The gameplay is by far the game's strongest point, it combines Metriod 
 style adventuring with old school Castlevania charm. While the game doesn't offer too many new 
 features, the ones it adds are still great, such as being able to use your enemy's powers. Antother 
 thing that makes the game near perfect is how much you enjoy playing it, you will be glued to it 
 for a very long time. Overall if you are a DS owner you simply cannot go wrong with this game. 
 If you don't own a DS I strongly suggest you pick one up for this game and Pheonix Wright Ace Attorney, 
 and what comes in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scentless
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 2:26 pm PT
Review:  I've played Castlevania games ever since the classics CV3, Symphony of the Night, and Aria of Sorrow 
 and even those games are surpased in the sheer elegance of play Dawn of Sorrow provides. The simplicity 
 of 2D gaming meets the subtle complexity of the Tactical Soul system first inroduced in Aria-the 
 bset combat system CV has seen, in my opinion. DoS takes old elements from the series (clocktowers 
 and medusa heads are still there) and makes them bigger, brighter and more robust. The map on the 
 touch screen is vital to your progress, and while not having to press "Start" to see the map might 
 seem trivial, in practice, it seems like the perfect solution. In previous games, you would constantly 
 refer to the map, but having it at the ready makes the whole experience more streamlined. The touch 
 screen seals added an extra layer of difficulty to the fights, but didn't rub me the wrong way. 
 Thankfully, the last battle doesn't really require it, and Boss Rush mode does it automatically. 
 Drawing the little sigils is fun, but I wish you could "freestyle" a seal of your own instead.
 
  
  Most the music isn't as "traditionally" CVish, and is more like Japanese Goth rock than anything 
 else. It's still very good, and fits the game nicely. A few of the themes still feel like classic 
 tunes, too, like the music for "The Pinnacle". Sound effects like the "Soul Get" will become familiar, 
 and make your ears tickle with glee.
  
  The game itself is pretty short, and took only two days for me to complete the main story line, 
 but it's very addictive: I couldn't put it down. After you've met the requirements, though, the 
 extras are what make the game. "Julius Mode" lets you play as Julius Belmont, Yoko Belnades, and 
 everyone's favorite feminine half-vampire: Alucard with gameplay similar to Castlevania 3. Even 
 some of the music are remixes of the old CV 3 themes! That alone made me squeal with delight. You 
 can start the game over with most of the souls you've collected, and there's a wireless battle, 
 too.
  
  The graphics blend 3D with the 2D sprites for a very cool effect, like in Guilty Gear and other 
 modern 2D fighters. I wish some of the character sprites were a bit bigger and more detailed, though. 
 
  
  All in all, the game brings back memories of the fun I used to have with 2D adventure/platforming 
 games, and makes me glad that the DS isn't abandoning the genre at all. Dawn of Sorrows mixture 
 of previous elements make for an addictive gaming experience, and the best Castlevania title yet. 
 In fact, this is the most fun I've had in a game for a long, long time, and will continue to be.
 
  (I'm playing it as I type.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAK333
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2005 10:59 am PT
Review:  its Excellent , cuz its mixed by puzzle, action, deep descovery, music & magic
  it has a cool charcters from heros to the evil ones & monsters & amazing back grounds and veary 
 nice 2d grafics drowing , useing deferent elments like wepons, cloths & accessorys make you increase 
 your stringth or lucks by equiping them & thats based a=on your strategy how to beat the game & 
 monsters as many things its has as the wepons is there ,so meny deferent wepons to by & equip and 
 more deferent styles of wepons like knifes deferent sowrds spears axes guns and other .. earning 
 souls and powers make the game much fun and magical than ever ,many more new things and much more 
 places and munsters to gain your level and play abelties 
  huge game much huger han the castle look like in the picture 
  its really deferent tnan any other 
 game
  along life game to explore with a ( (very beutefull) ) places in a misterius huge castle... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickscho
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 18, 2005 8:09 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  
  Like SOTN, and the other 3 games before it, this game focuses on exploration, RPG like skill advancement, 
 and action. Also, like the other games in the series, this game simply rocks. You explore the castle, 
 gaining power ups to advance to new areas Metroid style. On top of that, the whole RPG aspect is 
 here (leveling up, items, weapons, skills) .
  
  One great aspect of this game is the skill (spell) system. Every enemy in the game has a chance 
 to drop it's soul. When you get the whole, you have the ability to use it's power. Getting every 
 soul in the game, is a must for hardcore addicts.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, the best yet for any castlevania game on a handheld system. The bosses, 
 are, well, huge, and require strategy (using the right souls, items) , instead of just hack and 
 slash.
  
  The music is also wonderful. There are many catchy (and classic!) tunes. When you obtain the best 
 ending, you will unlock the sound test mode.
  
  There are multiple endings like the other games in the series depending on your actions near the 
 end of the game.
  
  The Duel screen things is a godsend. Seeing the map or the status screen at the same time you play 
 is wonderful. You will never want to play a game like this again without the duel screen after 
 playing this.
  
  THE NOT AS GOOD:
  
  There is not much bad about this game. It is very similar to the other games, with nothing really 
 newly groundbreaking to offer, not that it's a bad thing, why mess with an awesome formula? Still, 
 someone wanting more will get more of the game instead.
  
  The game does not really utilize the DS stylus. At the end of boss fights, you will have to perform 
 a stylus move to win, and it is used in a couple other aspects of gameplay, but you will play most 
 of the game without it.
  
  OVERALL:
  
  Excellent game. If you love the others, you will love this one. If you can't get enough of games 
 like this, buy it now, then wait for the next one! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoDS1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 8:24 pm PT
Review:  This is the first Castlevania game I've ever played, and I'm now dying to play the others. But 
 I don't think it can get much better than this. The upgradable weapon system is flawless other 
 than that it's a pain in the ass to get the right souls, but totally worth it.
  
  At first it reminded me of the side-scrolling Metroid games, but once you get past the first boss, 
 you know that it's completely different. I am a pure Nintendo fan, but I have to say that this 
 game is the best reason to get a DS, and it's not even made by Nintendo!
  
  The sound is really where this game lacks, however. Now I wasn't expecting heavy metal, but all 
 I've been hearing so far in this game is that eerie organ music you hear in monster films. It's 
 not necessarily a bad thing, but it could be a lot better.
  
  The graphics are amazing. As far as side-scrollers go, this is the best that I've ever seen. 2D 
 sprites have never looked more lively. The only bad part is that the blood doesn't look realistic 
 at all.
  
  Overall, this game is a must-have for anyone who owns a DS. If you don't get it, then you won't 
 experience the best that the DS has to offer until Metroid Prime Hunters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisigon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Ive been looking at a lot of the games for the DS ever since it hit the hands of many gamers. 
 The games looked fun, but I wondered: "Where are all of the adventure games I hear so much about 
 in the magazines?" Then I heard that Konami had a Castlevania DS up their sleeves. I saved my money 
 for a long time and got it the first week it was released. It didnt reach all of my expectations, 
 but it did keep my eyes on the screen for 2 days straight. I beat it fast, but I didnt beat all 
 of it. With many modes to play in and the regular mode to master, Castlevania had me in a strong 
 eye-lock and left my fingers in commotion. Im still playing it because I havent gotten all of 
 the souls, Julius Mode has me in a bind, Boss Rush Mode keeps me going back to the Original Story 
 to bump my stats, Wireless Mode is a great feature, Secrets are still uncovered, Puzzle's are still 
 unsolved, and the Sound Check keeps the songs running in my head. I love Castlevania DS, and Im 
 thinking that it is really going to start a long chain of great DS games and revolutionize the 
 way that haters look at the DS. It's addictive, it's fun, it's challenging, it's full of originality, 
 etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, ...
  
  Yeah, people  its that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l21yj
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2005 10:17 am PT
Review:  
  EVERY ELEMENT IN THIS GAME IS JUST PERFECT.
  
  SOUND   GAMEPLAY   GRAPHIC   VALUE   STORY!!!!!
  
  The background music is so great that I 
 even listen to them in the sound test mode.
  
  The gameplay mechanic is so deep and fun!
  
  The graphics represents the best 2d graphics!
  
  The length of this game depends on how 
 well and fast you play this game, approximately 15 ~ 30 hours.
  
  There are even more extras than you'd normally expecet!!
  
  BEST 2D ACTION ADVENTURE GAME IN 
 EVERY PLATFORM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordStanDeluxe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 16, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania has been seeing a lotta portable screens lately. First we get three great games on 
 the GBA and now the next installment for the DS.
  
  After Symphony of the Night, nearlly every Castlevania after that has sought to clone and emulate 
 that game perfectly. Each of them falling short because of the hardware being used.
  
  Now that the Nintendo DS is around, Konami has the right technology for creating a new magnum opus. 
 But thanks to one thing, the game trips and falls right before reaching that class.
  
  It's gameplay.
  
  While it is very fun, it's more or less Aria of Sorrow with a touch screen. 
 What made the GBA games so great was that each game had a diffrent play style which made each unique. 
 Dawn of Sorrow just takes Aria's gameplay, adds the whole "Seal-off-the-enemy". It'll seem neat 
 at first but the novalty wears off after awhile, esspeiclly when you have to quicklly whip out 
 the stylus to finish off the bosses.
  
  But it's still a great game. It's also finally got the right difficulty down. Not extreamlly hard 
 like Cirlce of the Moon or a walk in the park like Symphony and Harmony, it's just right which 
 makes boss fights a lot more fun.
  
  The graphics are almost as great as SotN's. The only problem with the graphics is that this game 
 uses a mix of old sprites from Symphony and Dracula X, and the new ones created for this game. 
 That might not sound bad, but it is notacble. You got the old, dark and detailed sprites from SotN 
 and Drac X vs. the new bright, not as animated nicely sprites of Dawn. It's even more notacible 
 when you play in Julius Mode. But don't let that take anything away from the rich visuals. The 
 backgrounds are all gourgoues. Dawn uses more 3D objects than the last few Castlevania's, and they 
 even look better than the ones in SotN. Even the sprites are less pixelated, just too bad a lot 
 of the things have choppy animation.
  
  Also the music is wonderful. It's compuser worked on Castlevania 64's tunes, so they may sound 
 a little more ambiant, but thats not problem. The music is crips and fresh sounding coming out 
 of the DS's twin speakers, not like the past three games where it sounded all muddy thanks to the 
 GBA's one speaker.
  
  And lets not forget the replay value. For once, the unlockable character is enjoyable. Like Aria, 
 you play as Julius with some form of a story finally. Also to make things even more cooler, Yoko 
 and even everyones favorite agnsty half-vampire Alucard joins his team (ala Castlevania III: Dracula's 
 Curse) to help you. Each character has a unique set of abilities to aid your quest and even better 
 is that Julius and co. can gang levels, so unlike the other CV's, you won't be weak the whole time 
 which helps even their games up a lot.
  
  All and all, Dawn of Sorrows is a great game. Might even have been perfect if it wasn't for a couple 
 little things, but don't let that stop you from having fun in yet another Castlevania. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waltercell
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Wow this game is the reason i own anintendo ds for now. I didnt played seriously any castlevania 
 games until i played aria of sorrow on the gba and i had a great time playing it. Now i got Down 
 of sorrow and of course it is better in many ways.
  It continues the story in aria of sorrow and the main objective of the game is to give no chance 
 to some bad people that want to ressurect dracula.
  Doing this you will go thru a castle killing all kinds of very well designed monsters gaining experience 
 points that will let you get to the next level or absorbing thir souls gaining abilities.... or 
 fusing this souls with some of the many weapons you can use in the game.
  I loved the soundtrack, i believe i ended up saving in the place where i most liked the music.... 
 it is really great and the sound effects are good too.
  I love you KONAMI please keep on doing great games like this one
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowheartless
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 16, 2005 1:45 pm PT
Review:  well maybe second best. best one since symphony of the night thats for sure. you almost have symphony 
 of the night in this game when you play as alucard. hes basically symphony of the night alucard. 
 love this game. love the castlevania series. been waiting for this game for awhile. got it on release 
 day right when gamestop got the shipment. fresh out of the delivery box. beat this and earned everything 
 in like 15 hours. if you're a big castlevania fan or even if you're just looking for a great ds 
 sidescroller to pass the time, this is your game. castlevania ftw. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BasFoot185
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 15, 2005 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Let this be known that this is my first review, and also that this is possibly the only reason 
 needed to buy a DS.
  
  GAMEPLAY: ok first off, DoS is just a ton of fun to play. The game is very non-linear; you can 
 go exploring around the castle whenever you want. There are lots of different weapons to use during 
 the game which are all evenly ballanced out by being slow and strong, quick but weak, etc. The 
 only problem with the weapons is that upgrading them can be hard at times because some of the souls 
 you need to upgrade these weapons are too hard to find, which brings me to my next point, souls. 
 Finding souls can be a great time consumer since there are so many to collect. Finding them can 
 be fun at times or it can be frustrating. Either way the souls are a very fun aspect of DoS.
  
  Graphics: the graphics in this game are awesome. Everything animates smoothly and just looks 
 great, including the backrounds. Not much more can be said about them, they're just superb.
  
  Sound: If you're worried about wanting to keep the volume down, don't be. The soundtrack is 
 very great to listen to and you'll probably be humming these tunes when your done with a playing 
 session. The sound effects are as crisp as you'd want them to be also. So two thumbs up to the 
 sound/music.
  
  I won't make a section for story, I will tell you that it is well told and entertaining.
  
 
  Conclusion: If you like side scrolling adventure games then you should give this game a shot. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpanishPeacock
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 15, 2005 8:19 pm PT
Review:  The latest Castlevania game out, it is possibly the best written storyline and most addictive in 
 the series. The actual game takes less than a week to beat, but has the best replay value I've 
 seen in a lot of games. After beating it, you can continue your current game and beat the last 
 boss (which is really fricking annoying at first) or start over the game with your souls (excluding 
 the bosses that give you abilities) and weapons. You can use weapons from your knuckles to great 
 swords and axes (it's fun to use a fist weapon and uppercut zombies so they fly upward) . You can 
 also unlock a more traditional "Julius" mode, which is like the older Castlevania games, in which 
 you use a whip and throw axes etc. Overall, Dawn of Sorrow is the only real reason why my DS is 
 ever in my hands and not being used as a $100 doorstop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sig12047
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 15, 2005 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo, Konami and the DS deliver once again
  This is actually my first Castlevania game and just like Advance Wars a few months ago, I must 
 say I am impressed. It is an enjoyable game that could keep your interest for quite a while. We 
 play the role of Soma Cruz, a possible candidate for becoming the new dark lord while he attempts 
 to stop all those he knows and cares for from being hurt by those that wish to bring the dark lord 
 back. Not everybody can be an elf, a plumber or a alien fighting suit wearing person...
  
  Graphics:
  The game has some impressive 2D backgrounds and the models look nice and there are 
 some little 3D and 2D effects that make it all the more impressive. Soma's breath can be seen during 
 the early part of the game while he is in the snow during a conversation he is having with another 
 person. 3D backgrounds and enemies come along too few and far between, but you are playing a 2D 
 side-scroller -- what do you expect? You wont be disappointed here, the game looks great.
  
  Sound:
  I was blown away with some of the sound in this game. A lot of it is really well done 
 and very interesting. Fans of the series dont need to worry about this.
  
  Gameplay:
  Ah, the most important feature there is. The DS focuses around offering new, unique and innovative 
 gameplay features. The touchscreen is used during boss fights to seal the bosses after you damage 
 them enough. If you fail, the boss recovers a little health and attacks you again. The seals can 
 be frustrating at times but I'll get to that later. The top screen serves as a map, which is actually 
 very helpful and it displays information about enemies, your experience, stats and other things. 
 Konami included many of the system's features but the game isnt a showcase for them.
  
  The game itself is a classic 2D side-scroller and in Castlevania (or Metroid) fashion, it pits 
 you against hordes of enemies as you run, jump and explore your way through a large area. The game 
 doesnt stray much from its other installments, but warp points now eliminate backtracking and speed 
 up gameplay. Soma can gain new abilities throughout the game with his power of soul domination. 
 It adds a fun collectors element to the game, it makes you want to see who does what and make Soma 
 unique to how you like him. The powers range from throwing cards to summoning cats to shooting 
 energy blasts. Many are as creative and interesting as the enemies that drop them but others are 
 disappointing. The souls can also be used to upgrade weapons, which comes in handy. The game includes 
 RPG elements and leveling, which should appeal to you real time RPG players. All in all, the game 
 is fun on just about every level.
  
  Replay:
  After you complete the games three endings, you are rewarded with a few special features including 
 Sound mode, Julius mode and Boss Rush. Julius mode is like a whole new game. In it, you use Alucard, 
 Yoko and Julius Belmont and together they go through the adventure Soma did. It can actually be 
 quite hard because you cant use soul powers or healing potions, but arent we all up for a little 
 challenge? Boss Rush mode pits you against all the games bosses and after defeating them (easier 
 said than done) with certain times, you can get weapons for Soma to use. Soul trading, exploration, 
 collecting, and leveling should make this game last quite a while.
  
  The Cons:
  Even good games have problems, but in this case they are relatively small. Ah, the seals. Penmanship 
 doesnt even matter, its all speed but you obviously have to make it similar to the design. There 
 are five in all, but one is optional. I had a little trouble with these at times, but the game 
 allows you to practice the seals whenever you want and once you get the hang of it, it's easy. 
 Another cause of frustration could be difficulty. The game isnt that hard, but if you try going 
 through it too fast or unprepared, you will die. The RPG elements of the game stress leveling, 
 upgrading and collecting and upgrading the souls so, again, problem solved. My only major complaint 
 would be the script, character interactions and plot can bea little flat and mediocre at times. 
 Rest assured, the fun factor takes care of this issue. Besides for the annoyance of some enemies 
 that seemingly never drop a soul, that just about rounds it all out.
  
  Conclusion:
  The DS proves it will be a great system once again. With games like this, it is well worth the 
 price. Fans of the series, fans of 2D gaming, fans of action games or RPG's or just gaming in general 
 should fall in love with this game. If you are looking for something to do, look no further than 
 Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_64
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 15, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok, welcome. I'm just gonna get right onto the review, of why this game is so great. So that you 
 can get done faster, so that you can rush out after reading this review, and go buy this game. 
 Remeber leave after the review, and BUY THIS GAME!!!
  
  Story
  Ok, the game continues off from Castlevania Aria of Sorrow. If you haven't played the game, then 
 I'll brief you in on it. You play as Soma, who is the dark lord (Dracula) , or at least he should 
 be, but he chose to go against fate, and not be the next dark lord. Well the game continues off 
 from the Aria of Sorrow a few months later, or a year I forgot. Anyways, some strange woman shows 
 up, threatening to kill Soma, and revive the dark lord. Yet, Soma doesn't take kindly to this, 
 so he decides to take matter into his own hands. Thus begins your journey.
  
  Graphics:
  Ok let it be said, right now, these are perhaps some of the best 2D graphics on any handheld. Yes 
 I even mean the PSP. This game is just so gorgeous looking (except the Anima faces, but that's 
 a personal issue) . There's so much detail in every bit of this game, it truly is a magnificent 
 sight to behold. Ok, there's some mixtures of 3D polygons mixed in with the 2D sprites, but it 
 all flows and moves so smoothly, it looks just beautiful. Did I mention the attention to detail 
 in this game? It's just so great seeing developers go the extra mile and giving life to each and 
 every individual character. Some of the things I've noticed when playing this game, is that the 
 enemies will react to many things. Like for example, in one room, there are two enemies I encountered. 
 One was Persiphone, and the other was a devil. When you kill the devil, he ends up having his body 
 parts flying into a black hole, and thus he is defeated. However upon doing so, I realized something 
 strange. The enemy Persiphone who's dressed in a maid's uniform, was holding on to her skirt, and 
 trying to keep her grip. This happened because she was near the black hole that was taking the 
 Devil away. I though it was really neat to see that. There's also the litle things like, dust clouds 
 that rise when Soma dashes backwards, hoping to dodge an attack, or his breath being visible in 
 the cold, because its... well cold outside. Ther'es more clever things hidden in the game, that 
 is just a joy to watch, and see happen on the screen. I don't wish to spoil it. Just let it be 
 known, these are some gorgeous, fluid, and lovingly detailed graphics.
  
  Gameplay
  As Soma, you have the ability to take the souls of your enemies. This power is called Dominance 
 (cool name huh? ) and with it, you can take the souls of enemies to give you some unique abilites. 
 There are three types of souls, Bullet, (consist of pushing Up on the D-pad and Y) , Guardian Souls 
 (mapped on the R button) and Tactical Souls (usually just boost stats like Luck, Defense, etc) 
 Well if you've played Symphony of the Night, or any of the GBA Castlevania games, you would know 
 how the game plays like. This game has some RPG elements where you can level up your character 
 and equip him with different weapons. You go around exploring the castle, hoping to find new abilities, 
 and thus unlocking new areas to the castle. (Sorta like Metroid games if you don't understand what 
 I mean) There's the ability to unlock other characters, and play as them. There's a Boss Rush mode, 
 which is where you're pitted against all the bosses in the game, in hopes to have the fastest completion 
 time. There's the main game mode, with Hard and Normal Difficulty. There's wireless multiplayer 
 modes like Soul Trade (trade souls with your friends) , and a racing like game, where you have to 
 race through sections of the castle, against your friend. (I've yet to play this, so I cannot say 
 anymore about this) . There's plenty to unlock in the game, and it will no doubt keep you entertained 
 for hours on end.
  
  Sound
  Right now, I must say, this is perhaps some of the best soundtracks I've heard on the DS ever. 
 It has such euphonious melodies, and wonderous compositions, that this game truly feels grand and 
 epic, thanks to the stellar soundtrack. The game gives as much detail in the sound, as it does 
 for the graphics. There's some great sound effects in the game, where each and every hit from you 
 weapon just sounds so natural. There's nothing in this game that seems out of place. Each sound 
 is placed apporpiately. From the loud thomping sounds of a Giant Armor taking steps towards you 
 hoping to finish you off, to the voice samples in the game, like where if you take a hard hit, 
 you will hear Soma say something (I don't know what, I think it's japanese) . It's great to hear 
 so much detail in the sound department for a handheld game like this.
  
  Final Note:
  Well I know it was a long review, but it's over now. Now you hopefully understand how truly great 
 this game is. You must buy this game if you are a DS owner, or plan on buying one. Also if you 
 don't own a DS, I think you should consider getting one now, because this game is truly great. 
 So now that I've finished my review, and you've finished reading, GO BUY THIS GAME NOW!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squids-Ahoy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is the first Castlevania to appear on the Nintendo DS. Though the touch 
 screen is poorly implemented, the overall game is still as much fun and as engrossing as ever.
 
  
  Dawn of Sorrow is the continuation of the Game Boy Advance Castlevania, Aria of Sorrow. At the 
 end of Aria of Sorrow, the main character learned he was Dracula, and almost became the dark lord 
 but was able to seal it away. Fast-forward a year, and a mysterious cult is trying to resurrect 
 the dark lord, which involves the main character. The story is largely just a platform for more 
 fighting, and as such doesn't get in the way of the gameplay, which is where the game shines.
 
  
  The game works as a typical Castlevania game does. You explore a castle, killing monsters, gaining 
 experience, gaining items, and unlocking different parts of the castle with skills and abilities 
 you gain along the way. The game also borrows the best parts from its predecessor, which is the 
 ability to gain the souls of monsters by killing them. This element adds sort of a ccg element, 
 and the satisfaction from collecting all the souls and seeing them grow more powerful is exciting. 
 
  
  The touch screen is the only flaw of the otherwise flawless gameplay, which is used to seal away 
 bosses. During the fights, when the bosss life falls below 0, you must seal him away by drawing 
 a specific rune on the touchscreen in a limited amount of time. While it isn't that difficult to 
 transition to the touch screen, and the runes are for the most part easy to draw, but feels poorly 
 implemented. There also are other powers, such as touching blocks to remove them, or guiding your 
 summoned creatures to attack other creatures, but all of these feel like they could have just as 
 easily been forgone in order to ignore the stylus all together. 
  
  Though the game is still two dimensional, the backgrounds, animations, models, and sprites are 
 look incredible and take full advantage of the ds hardware advances over the Game Boy Advance versions. 
 The music and sounds are also noteworthy, as the score as well as bleeps and bloops are all worth 
 listening to as opposed to just turning off the sound. 
  
  The multiplayer, in addition to trading souls, includes a versus mode which has you racing against 
 a friend to finish a specific map first. There's also a map editor included for making your own 
 maps. I have not had the ability to try this portion out, so I can't comment on it.
  
  The game has added some interesting unlockables, such as the ability to play as Julius Belmont 
 as well as a time attack mode to defeat the bosses. These additions are icing on the cake for an 
 already spectacular package. 
  
  Dawn of Sorrow is the first Castlevania game on the DS, and if the quality of this game is indicative 
 of Castlevania games to come, then hopefully it won't be the last. Hopefully however, Konami can 
 rectify the use of the stylus in future games, and better integrate this addition to make Castlevania 
 all it can be on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EncephalonOne
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 15, 2005 1:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Aria of Sorrow last year I was rather surprised at how good the graphic were 
 considering the hardware. Gameplay was solid and, as has been said numerous times, the tried-and-true 
 formula that Konami has been using for decades still holds up expectedly well. Very few people 
 who are my age actually realize how great we really did have it when 2-D gaming was king, but every 
 time I go out and pick up a slightly tweaked Castlevania title I am reminded exactly how great 
 a game can still be without employing an industrial-strength processor, astronomical polygon count 
 and bump-mapping. 
  
  Dawn of Sorrow is, far and away, my runner up for best Castlevania game ever made. (My favorite 
 in the series is still Symphony of the Night) It took almost 8 years to knock Super Castlevania 
 IV down to 3rd place. The DS hardware's implementation of the touch screen to create the magic 
 seals is pretty cool. Sure it starts out with a "V", but when you have to start drawing pentagrams 
 to smite your enemies; it's suddenly clear that this was not just an afterthought with the designers. 
 
  
  The soul-absorption system is a pretty nifty addition to the gameplay as well. It allows for a 
 bit of strategy and turning the tables on your enemies. 
  
  The weapon system so far is still a well-balanced feat. Larger weapons are slower, but are more 
 powerful and light weapons allow for quicker attacks but are much weaker. Along with the soul sucking, 
 there's also weapon-to-soul fusing. This allows you to actually free souls you have acquired and 
 fuse them to weapons that you either pick up from enemies or buy. In the beginning, this is all 
 really basic and your weapons really never gain much power. But later on in the game as you acquire 
 stronger souls and sharper weapons the weapons arsenal you can form can become quite intimidating. 
 Personally, I haven't even had a chance to play around with every single weapon I've already acquired, 
 but I hope to do so before I finish the game. 
  
  The bosses... Well, there's really no way you can be disappointed by the bosses in the game. They 
 start out pretty simple, but soon you are upgraded to the same scale enemies you have grown accustomed 
 to since the series was literally revolutionized in Symphony of the Night. The bosses have nice 
 sense of scale. 
  
  All in all, I'm more than satisfied with this game just as I have been with almost every other 
 Castlevania game around. This is a possession that you will not want to exorcise yourself from 
 anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonkiller173
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 15, 2005 11:16 am PT
Review:  There is about 150 enemies in the game and as far as i know each one has a special ability tied 
 to it that you can get! Several Different Endings Awsome main character lots of unlockables! the 
 use of the touchscreen is used but not over used. the only thing i have to quarrel with is the 
 length and the difficulty the game clocks in about 8-10 hours which is ok but i wouldve liked to 
 see it longer (although this games great success is going to prompt more castlevania games to the 
 ds) and the bosses arnt too difficult i usually beat the bosses in 1-2 tries. You can pick from 
 several different weapon types inclluding sword greatsword axe spear ect and each one you can upgrade 
 by colloecting specific souls and trading them in at the soul shop. Overall This is the best ds 
 game yet and if u have a ds or are getting one soon you will buy this game and you will enjoy it 
 period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2005 7:56 am PT
Review:  In the eyes of some, the DS has had a slow start to life with not too many big titles launching 
 early. That time, however, is over with the release of Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow. Continuing 
 the story from the successful GBA Aria of Sorrow, Dawn of Sorrow provides a solid adventure with 
 a long life span and some great visuals. The game thrusts you into the role of Soma Cruz, a teenager 
 who escaped his fate of becoming Dracula reborn in Aria of Sorrow. This time around a religious 
 cult is hell-bent on reviving the Dark Lord and will stop at nothing to achieve their goals. Since 
 the cult need Soma dead to revive Dracula, Soma sets off to thwart their efforts.
  
  In true "Castleroid" fashion the game plays out like it does in Aria of Sorrow and somewhat like 
 the legendary Symphony of the Night. You have a huge castle to explore that is limited early on, 
 but becomes more accessible as you progress and gain new abilities. You'll find that there is a 
 lot of back tracking and you'll find yourself running into dead ends early on. That makes the map 
 function all the more useful. The map is constantly displayed on the top screen (it can be switched 
 to a status screen that displays health, magic, etc at the touch of the select button) while the 
 action takes place on the touch screen. After having played a good ten hours into the game, I can 
 safely say that it is a great bonus to have access to the map without having to pause the game. 
 The only disappointing implementations of the DS' unique capabilities are in the touch screen use. 
 It's used for two things: to destroy crystal blocks in your way and to seal boss enemies. Crystal 
 blocks are few and far between and they seem out of place in the game, like it was just put in 
 to make use of the touch screen. Drawing the magic seal to vanquish a boss is more to do with the 
 storyline but it's still annoying. If you fail with the seal the first time round the fight will 
 continue until you get another go at sealing the boss away. These features could of been used better 
 or expanded on perhaps.
  
  The game itself is simple and rewarding to play. Soma can equip many types of weapons ranging from 
 axes to lances to boomerangs and long swords and each of them work well in different situations. 
 In addition to the standard attack activated with the Y button, the X button will unleash a special 
 attack that eats up some magic power. Some weapons have special effect here like warping behind 
 an enemy's back and stabbing them. As well as the weapons, there are various armors and accessories 
 that grant different effects. These effects can be resistance to certain elements, stat boosters, 
 etc. You'll find the game plays very smoothly. Soma performs various different action with a fluidity 
 only possible thanks to some good animations on Konami's part. Boss fights are very enjoyable thanks 
 to the diversity and challenge that Konami has put into them. You'll find that there is usually 
 more than one way to beat some of the spectacular boss enemies.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow's real lasting appeal comes in collecting all of the enemy souls. When you defeat 
 an enemy there is a chance you'll gain dominance over it's soul, allowing you to use it against 
 enemies at the cost of some magic power. Souls are split up into four main categories: bullet, 
 guardian, enchant and ability. Bullet souls are projectile attacks activated by pressing the Y 
 button whilst holding up on the D-pad, for example to throw a skeleton's bone. Guardian souls are 
 activated by holding the R trigger and have various different effects, both offensively and defensively. 
 Enchant souls are always active and are often stat boosters. You can only equip one of each of 
 these soul types at a time. Ability souls are also always active and are usually dropped by bosses. 
 These give abilities such as double jump, water-walk, etc. Collecting the 100+ souls will last 
 you a while, and while it may proves frustrating it is also very rewarding.
  
  As I mentioned earlier, the animations are smooth as can be. Dawn of Sorrow proves that there is 
 still life in 2D games (even if there is the odd 3D effect thrown in here and there) . The character 
 sprites are nice and large and are noticeably improved from it's GBA brother. Great attention to 
 detail has been paid in animating models and creating the backgrounds. The way in which a skeleton 
 fall to pieces after being destroyed is pleasing to the eye, as well as the various other effects 
 and such. The sound quality in Dawn of Sorrow is also something to behold. There is a diversity 
 in music ranging from haunting, spooky themes to more upbeat and techno tunes. I strongly recommend 
 you play this game with a pair of headphones; otherwise you won't be able to fully appreciate the 
 quality of sound the game cranks out.
  
  You'd be forgiven to think that Dawn of Sorrow has a low replay value, but it has surprising depth 
 in this department. Soul collecting will likely take you a long time (especially due to the frustrating 
 rarity of some souls) and upon completion there are a lot of new options open to you. I'll save 
 the specific details, but you can play the game from a whole new perspective. If you're a fan of 
 Castlevania or Metroid then you'll love Dawn of Sorrow. If you haven't played a Castlevania or 
 Metroid game it doesn't matter, because you'll probably love the game anyway.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  In short, the best DS games so far. The soul system works great, except for sometimes when you 
 keep killing an enemy over and over again without getting one soul. One of the games best parts 
 is the weapons part, where there are many types of weapons like Swords, Great Swords, Axes, Spears, 
 Knuckles, Boomeranges, Katana's, and my personal favorite, The Gun. The game has a variety of enemies, 
 and some puzzles might get a bit challenging. Then again, some enemies are just plain annoying 
 (Like the Ghost Dancers) while others look like mini bosses. Although, I did manage to kill the 
 puppet master in 20 seconds, just by hitting him over and over. The game also has 3 types of souls, 
 Bullet, Guardian, and Ability. The bullets use mostly projectiles, guardians protect you, and ability 
 automatically works. Bullet and guardian souls take up magic. Health is a major issue in the game, 
 as you can only buy 9 potions at a time, but if you get a certain soul, you can eat food for health, 
 and sit in chairs for health. In the game is relatively long and has many bosses. You use the touch 
 screen for moving ice blocks and for drawing magic seals which get more complex as the game continues. 
 The game also has a bit of multiplayer mode as well. The game has some glitches however, as I have 
 encountered enemies which looked like bits of code (Which they were) , but it eventually fixed itself. 
 Casltevania DS is one of those games that proves that sequels CAN be better than the original. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VarsityGamer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 14, 2005 5:37 pm PT
Review:  this game is worth the 30 dollars as a matter of fact i would happily pay next gen price for this 
 amazing ds gem. There is so much to do and collect and find in this game that you will lose your 
 mind. But its the gameplay that really makes the countless hours youll be spending with this game 
 awesome. The soundtrack is cool but nothing amazing. The use of the stylus really isnt all that 
 special but its almost a good thing that they didnt try and do something crszy with the stylus. 
 What is great is that the top screen shows the map and some other valuable pieces of information. 
 Overall this is probably my favorite ds game and you cant go wrong with adding it to the quickly 
 growing collection of good ds games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth-revan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 14, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  dawn of sorrow has the formulka set down by symphony of the night but takes it to a whole new level. 
 ill save you some time if you like castlevania at all go and buy this. all fo symphony of the nioghts 
 good points are here with only a few of the bad. ill get the bd out of the way, although it seems 
 different the weapons system and the soul collecting and being the reincarnation of dracula is 
 interesting its basic gameplay aspect is still here after all of these years [10] its run around 
 trying to find where to go and finding save points a little bit too few. the basic gameplay style 
 is the same run around find a boss kill it, get a new ability to let you go to another boss and 
 new areas of the caSLTE find and kill another boss, and so on but the formula on paper seems boring 
 it was executed perfectly in symphony of the night and is still executed perfectly now. there are 
 some major changes such as the ability to buy weapons instead of having to use the same one the 
 whole game round. there are also teleporters that help a lot with getting from area to area but 
 still makes it loses some of the i cant find where im going because you learn each new area quick 
 and every area has that said teleporter to teleport to other teleporters in the castle. basiclky 
 it makes getting around very easy. the weapons can now be imbued with the souls you collect and 
 every one of them is useful in its own special way but i fdound myselkf using the same ones over 
 and over again [ i ahd one that lets you stay in the air longer and makes you fall a lot slower] . 
 the bosses are as over the top as youd want and wopuld expect and each has a specail ablity that 
 turns out to either completly be your destruction or itselves. over all its got some great bonuses 
 [unlocxking draculas son alucard is the best bonus ive had =-) ] its got so much good stuff to it 
 that you need to buy it asap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielgriswold
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 14, 2005 10:13 am PT
Review:  I have never before played a Castlevania game and was weary about getting into a series that is 
 so established. I overcame this attitude and have delved into a game that has literally sucked 
 me in. The music is great, the gameplay is easy to pick up, and the graphics are just good enough 
 to bring me into an experience of being the hero, the anti-dracula Dracula known as Soma. I've 
 been playing this game on and off for the last couple days, and can say that it is an ideal game 
 for people on the go and who are as busy as I am. There are many save points so if you need to 
 stop for now and play later, there are many places to quit for later return.
  Not since Shining Force 1 and 2 for the Genesis and Phantasy Star 4 as well, have I enjoyed the 
 storyline of a game, and continued to by pulled back because I have been thinking of it during 
 the game. 
  I would say that this game is like a good relationship. It keeps on giving so long as you give 
 a little time to it.
  I am now a Castlevania fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holada
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  En todo aspecto este juego es genial.
  Si ests dudoso en que juego comprarte para Nintendo DS, no lo pienses ms y ve a comprar tu Castlevania 
 Dawn of Sorrow te doy mi palabra de que no te arrepentirs.
  Las grficas son parecidas a las del Aria of Sorrow, sin embargo hay muchos mejores efectos como 
 por ejemplo en las muertes de monstruos o en sus detalles.
  El sonido es increble, msicas pegajosas pero sin embargo muy buenas.
  Lo nico es que es un 
 poco corto, sin embargo uno queda satisfecho que aunque sea corto te asegur una calidad y diversin 
 asegurada. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thargorx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Gameplay is great, lots of tactics, moves.. So in short, you'll really enjoy 
 the game if you are even remotely into this type of game. I can go on and on about the good things, 
 but if you look at the other reviews, you get plenty of that already. 
  So forgive me if I focus on the only 'bad' thing I can give the game namely that you'll have to 
 do a lot of running around, retracing steps, redoing your path again and again. (Unless you use 
 the walkthroughs, which of course you wouldn't dream of doing.) Which brings me to my pet peeve 
 on any type of game: safe points. I'll never understand why games aren't programmed with a save 
 whenever you like. Safe points, no matter how well thought out, will never be there, just when 
 you need them. As with any game, you often will reach a point where you are desperately looking 
 to save or warp out when you're lifeline is getting dangerously short and your supply of potions 
 just ran out. Garantued that on the next corner, you just happen to run into a very nasty creature... 
 Anyway, the safe- and warp points are reasonably well placed, but you will still die on very unfortunate 
 moments forcing you to redo a major part of the way. Don't forget that creatures always respawn 
 when you reenter the room.
  
  Flavorwise it's maybe a bit lacking. Ok I never had any Castlevania games before so I may be missing 
 stuff. However, I'm kinda missing the flavor here. It's supposed to be a dark game, dracula and 
 stuff. Doesn't really feel like it though.
  
  But having gone through all these negatives, it really is a great game and you won't regret picking 
 it up. 
  Let's also not forget that with the dual screen, you get the benefits you don't even have on the 
 'full size' consoles. Having the map constantly available on the second screen is so great, you 
 can't help wondering how you could ever play game without it. It's like having the mini map on 
 screen, but way better. Other than that, DS does give some clearer graphics (watch that snow falling 
 of the car, beautiful detail) and sound, but there is not much use for the touchpad. Although you 
 can use the inventory window with the stylus and for me, I like it, it's more... intuitive that 
 using buttons. 
  
  Conclusion: go for it :-)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowshank
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:47 am PT
Review:  This game is one the best games i've ever had the joy to play on ANY handheld bar none. This game 
 offers hours of fun, with a gripping stroyline and excellent gameplay.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay on DoS is brilliant, it remains fun throughout the whole game and doesn't 
 get tedious or repetitive. The sould system is extremely fun to use, with the use of 150+ souls 
 at your disposal you won't go short of demon killing goodness. Also the bosses where plentiful 
 and unique and each one made you feel like a proud warrior when you beat them. However there is 
 one fault i have with the gameplay and that is the magic seals. The magic seal system is very annoying 
 especially during a boss fight such as Gergoth where you manage to get the seal up but slightly 
 mess up and miss only to return to Gergoth who wants to rain hot plasma death onto you. Still it 
 doesn't prevent the gameplay from being amazingly fun.
  
  Graphics: Graphically this game is amazing, although it is 2D the anime type sprites are still 
 very detailed. Also the characters all look amazing, each enemy looks just as grotesque as the 
 next, be it a zombie dripping with blood or a Killer Clown who burst into a brilliant cloud of 
 confetti once killed. There are also many nice effects that may be overlooked , for example if 
 Soma is outside when you stand still you will see his breath due to the cold air, also if you jump 
 onto a car it will wobble as you would imagine a normal car to and any snow on the roof will fall 
 off.
  
  Sound: The music in this game is incredible ; every area has its own music each one up-beat and 
 chilling at the same time. Personally my favourite is the lost village but anyway back to the review 
 =p. The sound of your weapon cutting through enemies is also beautifully done and the sound effects 
 that come with each soul also feel nice to listen to.
  
  Value: This game has unlimited value first of all you have normal mode where you just play through 
 the game which also has 3 different endings might I add. Then you can unlock Julius mode where 
 you play a more arcade type version of the game using other characters and after that there is 
 Hard mode. Not to mention the way that the gamer will feel the need to get every soul and get 100% 
 clear. There is also a multiplayer mode which slightly lets the game down and Boss rush mode which 
 is very exciting. So you can see this game has very high replay value and a massive lifespan
  
  All in all DoS is an amazing game that now gamer should miss out on, so what are you waiting 
 for? go get it... now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GunmanSpike
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2005 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Konami strikes gold again with Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, a sequel to the last Castlevania game 
 to be released on the GBA handheld, Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow.
  
  First off, if you are new to the Sorrow series, have no fear. For even though they throw you striaght 
 into the jaws of danger right from the beginning, you at least get a feel for the controls right 
 off and can see if they fit your needs or not. 
  
  Also, don't think that you can bull your way through the first time with lv. 35 or 40, this is 
 not a simple game. The enemies in this game are huge, hard, and badassed. if you don't prepare 
 yourself for big battles, you will fall on your face. And that's almost what I like best about 
 this game.
  
  One of the brand new things you'll experience right after getting thrown into the pit is the Seal 
 System. Throughout the castle, you find seals that unlock certain boss doors. Once you defeat a 
 boss, that seal will appear and you'll have to trace it using the stylus. If you fail, the boss 
 gets a few hits back and you'll have to try over again. Granted, this can be difficult since I've 
 found that you just can't 'trace' the seal, you also have to get good with being fast tracing the 
 seal, which gets annoying when you know you've beaten the boss, you fail, and you have to try again 
 with minimal HP left over.
  
  Another thing that you acquire is the Doppleganger soul, which allows you to switch between two 
 sets of Soul and Equipment configurations. This is very helpful when you are hunting for souls, 
 you can have a Luck setup, then when you go to face a boss, you can switch over to Boss mode and 
 have a setup already ready for strength.
  
  Souls get a decent overhaul in this game when you have the ability to level up the souls by gaining 
 more. Example - first five bomber souls, simple bomb... next three, poison bomb.... last one, giant 
 bomb that explodes on impact. This new system is very interesting yet can get annoying when you 
 are hunting certain souls and you have to beat an enemy 30-40 times before you get one.
  
  The castle in this game is huge, largest one since Symphony of the Night. which can be accessed 
 on the top screen with the select key.
  
  The storyline suffers a little bit in this game. Aria of sorrow had thrown such a 180 turn when 
 you find out certain things of the storyline. Yet there is nothing really earthshaking that makes 
 you go "whoa, never really expected that"
  
  The music, stays true to Castlevania style, with tunes like "Dracula's Tears" (Wizardry Lab) and 
 "Into the Dark Night" (boss battle theme) that makes you wish you didn't have to earn the sound 
 test.
  
  When you beat the game for the first time, you get Julius mode and that's where most fans of the 
 castlevania series will get their shock. I won't spoil it for you, but it is an awesome addition 
 that konami threw in for Symphony of the Night Fans.
  (maybe that did get it away... oh well...)
  
  Overall, Konami did a phenominal job continuing 
 with a series that you will want to play over and over again!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeyHawk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 12, 2005 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the best game in the series. Period. The game takes all of the elements 
 you loved about the GBA Castlevania games, and combines it with some cool DS goodies, and added 
 depth.
  First of all, you're collecting souls this time. It works like this: Every enemy carries a soul, 
 and a fraction of the time, after beating that monster, you'll capture it's soul. The excitement 
 of getting a new soul and trying it out is sometimes ruined by the fact that you'll have to walk 
 into a room and beat a monster 100-150 times. If you're lucky, you might even get it on the first 
 try. If you're lucky.
  The souls are split up into three categories: bullet souls, guardian souls, and enchant souls. 
 The only difference is that bullet souls and guardian souls are triggered by different button presses, 
 and the guardian souls are just stat effects.
  In addition to the soul collecting, you will also collect weapons and armor to beef up your stats. 
 Later in the game, you will find a soul that lets you switch between two sets of weapons, armor, 
 and souls, which is VERY helpful.
  Now, I know what you're thinking. BOSS FIGHTS! Castlevania boss fights are great in this game too, 
 they are not a let down. But you may find that the bosses are a tad easy. It took me one try most 
 of the time, even when I've used up the majority of my items, and have minimal health and magic. 
 All boss battles are finished with what I'd call a minigame. A "magic seal" appears on the screen 
 when you've dealed enough damage to the boss, and you must trace the seal to finish them off forever. 
 If you fail, though, the boss will regain a bit of health and give you another try until you kill 
 him. Or he kills you.
  This game has great controls, story, graphics, and I am just addicted to it.
  I am glad they 
 took advantage of DS innovations, but made them just an addition and not a major gameplay change.
 
  Overall, Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow is the best DS game I have played so far. BUY IT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarlinkX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 12, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of "Symphony of the Night", that is my favorite game and I considered it the best 
 in the series until this one came along. If you wanted a Castlevania game to compare with the classic 
 that is "Symphony" then "Dawn of Sorrow" is your answer. I went out to buy a DS just for this game 
 and it was well worth it. The gameplay is fantastic; it has everything you would expect from the 
 series. The music is very well done and will have you huming your favorite toons. The only draw 
 back is ( as with many of this series ) that it is to short, but thats no reason not to buy this 
 game. If you don't own a DS yet, I sugest you go buy one now. This is a great game and a must buy 
 for any Castlevania fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SomaCruzGDC
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  First.- The game have a lot of enemies, that is so fantastic, more souls, more fun.^^
  
  Second.- The sound (the melodies) are beautiful, a good song for each moment in the game, if are 
 a dificult moment have hard music, and if are a good moment have pascific music . :)
  
  Third.- The controls are great, and the touch screen make to Castlevania Dawn Of Sorrow one game 
 for the BIG COLLECTION!!!
  
  I can leave my game... I have a terrible adiction XD
  
  I have already a lot of souls, arms, spells, and i want more!!!
  
  This game have more fun... yes, 
 for me, this game is now my favourite game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supa_Man1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2005 7:22 am PT
Review:  get this game right E way the best this game totally reeks of awsomeness its fun its cool its sweet 
 the music is awsome its flipin awsome than the fun part is getting or should i say try getting 
 all the souls in the game them you have the other modes in the game SWEET! i'm not the hughest 
 castlevania fan but i am a fan and this game blew my mind away the visual effect are great and 
 it plays like the old school gameplay which is WAY better than the crapy new school game. word 
 of advise upgrade the claymore to the final weapon its the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Prince
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:46 am PT
Review:  Castlevania Dawn of Sorrow is the long awaited sequel to Aria of Sorrow. Not only this but it's 
 the first Castlvania game for the Nintendo DS. The game features upgraded visuals, dual screen 
 and touch screen features, which were not apparent in previous games.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  The gameplay is very similar to previous games; it' s a sidescroller with jumping and attacking 
 with various weapons. Soma also has the ability to fly around and use enemy attacks. You have the 
 ability to use different souls from different enemies in order to progress the game, each boss 
 you defeat will acquire you a technique to get past a certain area. One negative thing I could 
 say about this is that the Touch screen features which require you to draw certain symbols on screen 
 and break blocks to clear path. can seem more of an obstacle rather then something which is needed 
 in the game. Let's hope Konami doesnt implement this in the next game and try to think of something 
 more useful.
  
  Graphics- 10/10
  
  Simply beautiful, best 2d graphics you'll ever see. Although the gameplay maybe similar to the 
 other games the graphics and visuals of the game really stand out. Whether it's splashing onto 
 the water or beating huge bosses it looks great.... the model's of enemies, characters and background 
 surroundings are done superbly well. You couldn't do a better Castlevania game visually.
  
  Sound/Music - 10/10
  
  Again, one thing that makes Castlevania games stand out against others 
 is the well-produced music. Each set of tune is re mastered from the old one's and they just sound 
 brilliant. It's clever as well how each area blends in with the type of music that is playing. 
 It's just wonderful to hear.
  
  Overall Rating - 9/10
  
  In all I think this game is superb. It's the first DS game Ive actually managed to enjoy. It's 
 got loads of replay value and a Multiplayer mode. You can also be different characters after you 
 complete the game. There are also loads of hidden secrets within the game. If you're a fan of 2d 
 Sidescrollers or just have a DS and want a non-virtual pet game.. then this is a must buy. As for 
 Castlevania fans, they should really save up a DS for this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixlr8evo8
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 4:32 am PT
Review:  For those who don't know, or are unfamiliar with the Castlevania series, this is the sequel to 
 the much raved and highly reviewed Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow. This takes place a year after Aria 
 of Sorrow has freatures a lot of the same characters, most apparent of which, our lead protagonist, 
 Soma Cruz. Initially assuming his powers he received from the castle in Aria of Sorrow were lost 
 over time, he finds out that he is able to use them when he is in danger. Supposed to be the next 
 Dracula, he refuses the position, and there are people trying to kill him to get their chance at 
 becoming the next Dracula. 
  
  This is the first Castlevania on the DS, and it is excecuted very nicely in 2D form. The top screen 
 can be switched from map to character status via select button, and the menus are organized very 
 nicely. There are a lot of nice touches in this game, and I'll get into that later in the review. 
 
  
  *THIS REVIEW DOES NOT CONTAIN SPOILERS OF ANY KIND* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King9999
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 10, 2005 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Konamis long-running Castlevania series has hardly missed a step. From its humble beginnings as 
 a simple side-scroller, to a nonlinear action game with light RPG elements, and even some 3D incarnations 
 here and there, Castlevania has a kind of status thats attained only through years of successful 
 releases. Dawn of Sorrow proves a number of things: 1) Konamis still got it; 2) 2D games are 
 still viable; 3) 2D games work well on the DS, just like they have on the GBA. Dont forget that 
 Sony once disallowed 2D games on their PlayStation, but they thankfully backed off; there was a 
 demand for 2D games then, and there is one now. The only thing that has changed is the platform 
 on which new 2D games are hosted.
  
  Dawn of Sorrow (DoS hereafter) takes place one year after the events of Aria of Sorrow. Soma Cruz 
 is living a normal life until hes attacked by a cult who wants to revive the dark lord Dracula 
 because hes a necessary evil (no pun intended) . Black has its white, yin has yang, the Jedi stand 
 opposite to the Siththe cults goal is to basically restore balance to the world. It doesnt take 
 long for Soma to get into the thick of things, and soon enough youre in a huge castle, laying 
 waste to every creature in existence. Its all familiar territory, especially if youve played 
 Aria of Sorrow prior. The Mega Man-like soul system returns, but it has been refined so that you 
 can power up souls by collecting the same soul multiple times. You can also use souls to upgrade 
 weapons, which cuts down on hunting for items, but at the same time increases the need for souls. 
 The weapon system from Symphony of the Night is back; all weapons have a secondary ability which 
 is easily accessed with the A button, as opposed to entering random d-pad commands. The secondary 
 attack consumes magic, though, and is not worth using until youve leveled up quite a bit.
  
  The graphics are excellent, and are the best of any 2D Castlevania game to date. Soma and his 
 friends are now taller and animate better than before. Enemies are also animated well, and they 
 still come in various sizes. The music is pretty good, though no Castlevania soundtrack after Symphony 
 of the Night has been exceptional. The sound effects are what you would expect; theyre nice and 
 clear, and there are bits of voice clips from both friends and foes (the way some characters say 
 Soma! is funny) .
  
  For extra modes, you get the usual stuff, like boss rush and sound mode, but right from the start 
 you get an enemy set mode, where you challenge your friends to run through your custom-made gauntlet 
 of enemies. Future games could enhance enemy set mode to change the room types, or even allow the 
 player to make their own rooms (one step shy of a create-a-castle mode) . Best of all, though, 
 is the Julius mode. This time, Konami actually put some thought into this mode type, and included 
 a story, multiple playable characters with different skills, and the ability to level up. You even 
 get a different final boss, which makes this mode worth the time to play through.
  
  Youve probably seen the complaint in other DoS reviews, but it bears repeating because it needs 
 to be addressed: hunting for rare souls/items needs to be done in a way so that you dont spend 
 what could potentially be hours killing the same enemy over and over again. Heres one possible 
 solution: an item that makes the last enemy killed drop its soul when that enemys death results 
 in raising your level. Another problem, though minor, is the use of the touch screen and the second 
 screen. Having a map onscreen at all times is great, but you still have to pause to access the 
 menu for other things. As it is now, all you can do is draw seals (a gimmick at best) , break crystals 
 (few rooms have them) , and target enemies for your familiars (pointless) . If Konami had switched 
 the screens around, the touch screen could have been used exclusively for managing the menu and 
 switching between different screens. Needless to say, DoS is not the best example of showcasing 
 the DS touch screen capabilities, but ultimately its not a big deal, so dont give it too much 
 thought.
  
  DoS stands as the best Metroid-style Castlevania to date. Its combination of great visuals and 
 sound, refined gameplay, and nice extras make DoS another must-have for the DS. DoS is further 
 proof that 2D is alive and well.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
