-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/castlevaniaorderofecclesia/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Streamlined level design virtually eliminates backtracking.
 Hideous creatures that are satisfying to kill.
 Environments and musical score combine to create a foreboding mood.
 Varied boss battles.
 Combat system is versatile and rewarding.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The boss fights can be far too punishing.
 Some enemy and environment art is recycled.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 738 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ecclesia steps outside the castle walls and summons one of the greatest Castlevania titles in years. 
 

  As brilliant as Castlevania: Symphony of the Night was when it was released 11 years ago, Konami 
 has done little to keep things fresh with the five subsequent releases. With Order of Ecclesia, 
 they have successfully revamped a formula that was creeping dangerously close to stale territory. 
 By breaking free from the predictable confines of a dusty castle, they have injected much-needed 
 variety to the level design, almost eliminating the exhausting backtracking that has plagued the 
 series. Ecclesia is an eminently enjoyable romp through the decaying ruins of a dying world. Some 
 brutal boss encounters will derail neophytes unaccustomed to Castlevania's punishing difficulty, 
 but that is the only serious flaw in this package. Order of Ecclesia is one of the finest entries 
 ever in this venerable franchise.  

           Even the horses in Order of Ecclesia are freaky looking.      

  Dracula never seems 
 to stay dead. Ecclesia has you once again hunting down the dapper count, but the story is largely 
 irrelevant. Do you really need a reason to kill a bloodsucking vampire? The only thing you need 
 to know about the story is that, as Shanoa, you are not part of the Belmont clan. This means you 
 won't have access to that legendary whip that has been paramount to Dracula's defeat so many times 
 in the past. Instead, you steal magic from the bodies of vanquished foes in the form of glyphs. 
 These glyphs take the form of traditional melee weapons such as lances and swords, along with powerful 
 spells that let you control elements, pass through walls, and even imbue yourself with batlike 
 abilities. The glyph system is similar to Dawn of Sorrows' soul-stealing technique, but this is 
 much more versatile. Because you can equip a glyph in each hand, you'll have to experiment to find 
 the most destructive combinations. Also, enemies have resistance to certain weapons, so you can't 
 just rely on one superpowerful glyph to tear down everything in your path. The ultraprecise controls 
 bring this complex system together. Seamlessly swapping weapons on the fly while you slide under 
 the searching tongue of a foul cave troll is so satisfying, especially when you proceed to turn 
 him into a lifeless husk with your superior rapier.  

  As engaging as the tweaked combat mechanics are, the revamped level design is what separates this 
 from the glut of other Castlevania titles. For the first time in what seems like forever, your 
 journey is actually broken up into levels. No longer must you endlessly scour the castle looking 
 for the one path that will take you to a new area; backtracking has been made optional this time. 
 You can plow through levels with little deviation if you choose, or you can revisit stages to collect 
 new glyphs and find every secret buried within. When you do decide to explore, it will be with 
 a purpose, as rescued villagers will give you optional side-quests that reward you with new items 
 or equipment in the general store. Freed from forced backtracking, the pace moves continually forward, 
 ensuring you are always exploring previously unseen sections and encountering grotesque new creatures. 

  The most memorable enemy confrontations come in the form of brutal boss challenges. While the first 
 one is a pushover, allowing you to feel like a powerful slayer as you plunge your dagger through 
 the brittle shell of a hideous lobster/baby monstrosity, the difficulty quickly ramps up. Bosses 
 each have specific patterns that can be learned after dying one or two times at their hands, but 
 their inflated health points make some fights drag on far too long. It's hard enough to avoid screen-filling 
 blows from a giant enemy, but it can get extremely tedious when you are asked to perform the same 
 dodge technique for 10 consecutive minutes. The later bosses are much fairer, though they still 
 serve as formidable roadblocks along the way, halting your progress before you master their attack 
 patterns. The cleverest bosses force you to dispatch them in creative ways that will make you use 
 your mind more than your chosen glyphs.  

           That is one repulsive lobstrosity.      

  The art design has never been stronger in 
 the Castlevania series. The enemies are positively creepy, ranging from floating heads with prehensile 
 tongues to a twisted take on the classic butterfly. The bosses are large and imposing, bellowing 
 nerve-wrenching screams while they spew out gastric juices and make you thankful they don't exist 
 in real life. The environments create an air of foreboding doom. The fog engulfing some areas adds 
 a layer of tension without obscuring your view, while the underwater sections are fertile ground 
 for the unchecked breeding of some truly vile creatures. Though it reuses some sprites from older 
 Castlevania titles -- a distraction for series veterans -- the sheer variety of new graphics seen in 
 both the lands you'll traverse and the enemies you'll face off against more than make up for some 
 recycled content.  

  Order of Ecclesia oozes personality and will urge players to explore all that it has to offer. 
 The streamlined level design and versatile combat system make this the most engaging Castlevania 
 game in years. In both technical prowess and artistic valor, this is one of the most accomplished 
 games in the series. The unholy visual design, jarring sound effects, and wonderfully composed 
 score create a mood unmatched in the portable realm. If you can get past the overly difficult boss 
 battles, you'll be treated to an extremely rewarding adventure. Games like this make you thankful 
 that Dracula has a penchant for resurrection.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (54 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zinoalex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Order of Ecclesia may just be THE Castlevania game to get if you only own one! It is that good. The 
 balance of game play is excellent as is the music to it. (All Castlevania games have great music)
 
  In this game the player never actually equips a weapon -- rather "Glyphs" are collected and used 
 for a wide variety of uses. There are standand glyphs and also more advanced versions of the same 
 glyph can be found later in the game. Three of these can be equiped at one time for a diverse combinations.
 
  The Order of Ecclesia itself is something of an enigma. More is learned about as the game progresses. The 
 storyline is not the best of the Castlevania series but it does hold its own. After a rather abrupt 
 beginning the main character, a woman who has very little memory, goes off in search of the 3 pieces 
 of "Dominus". All 3 pieces must be found and brought back ti the Order.
  The game play itself is great and new areas can be found by completing previous ones. Some areas 
 have more than one exits so they will have to be explored a number of times. They are plenty of 
 bonus items to be found (rings, armor, food....) thus enhancing the fflow of the game. There are also 
 numerous warp and save points in the game. Be sure to find them all!
  The character movement is smooth and fluid as are the enemies. Multiple endings are also in the 
 game.
  If you own a DS and are looking for a well rounded game, Order of Ecclesia, (or even its' predicessor 
 "Portrait of Ruin") is it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brodigity
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 12, 2009 5:07 pm PT
Review:  if you have kept up with the seris for the past 5 years or so, you wont miss much if you miss out 
 on this one, dont get me wrong its a great game but for me at least i felt it was missing something, 
 the gameplay changes are subtle but not all that great. the glyph system is a good but its really 
 no diffrent fom collecting souls like in DoS, the only diffrence is there are much less and the 
 fact that the glyphs are your inventory of weapons kinda makes me sad (sword, axe, magic, repeat) 
 i like choices when i play castlevania the huge equipment lists, the speical abilities of certain 
 weapons but this was just dissapointing. on the other hand the battle system is much faster than 
 any castlevania game and the glyph unions are a nicely added touch, still when it comes down to 
 it you really end up with about 10 diffrent types of weapon and later on its mainly magic attacks 
 that make me a little sad. the graphics are pretty much the same as you would expect on most castlevania 
 games of this timewhich is all good, and as for the sound and music "if it aint broke dont fix 
 it" same ol' organ music over the sound of you foes spurting blood all over. all and all not a 
 bad game you wont be disappointed unless your like me and enjoy the thrill of the hunt for weapons 
 and such. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stAmbrosius
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  It's another portable Castlevania.
  Like Portrait of Ruin and many other Castlevania's the player's statistics improve during the game 
 as you make you way through nicely animated 2d environments looking for the lord of all demons, 
 that being Dracula.
  During your quest you find new weapons and magical powers which you can combine. You also find 
 or purchase equipment such as rings and clothing which also improves your stats a bit lke a role 
 playing game. The main gameplay is traditional 2d platforming action.
  At one point in the game i was moving through the Bowels of Dracula's castle and the colours and 
 traps reminded me a lot of Super Castlevania 4. I think this was done intentionally. Then i realised 
 i liked the old Castlevania 4 better then Ecclesia. All these level-statistics and special items, 
 who needs 'em? I just want to move from a to b defeating monsters and levelbosses, killing Dracula 
 once more and see his castle destroyed.
  Still i found this game to be dangerously adicive, the hours flew by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kcdragon8116
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Having played the 2 other DS games, I came into Order of Ecclesia familiar with the play style. 
 I was unsure whether the new attack system would be a worthy addition to the franchise, but I am 
 glad that it was added. It allows for more strategy while playing, and ends the weapon buying from 
 the previous games. You now have to search for new glyphs in order to add to your arsenal of attacks, 
 and finding glyphs is a nice way to spend time with the game. 
  
  The new map style works great. Instead of the paintings from Portrait of Ruin, you now travel around 
 a small map, choosing which area to explore. The levels are unlocked as you clear the previous 
 one, and provide for nice, short levels that are easy to backtrack to once you have unlocked new 
 glyphs and abilities to access new areas. It is a welcoming addition to the franchise. 
  
  The boss battles provide a satisfying challenge, as they are very difficult. They force you to 
 experiment with different tactics before finally determining a winning strategy to defeat them. 
 
  
  All in all, this game is an amazing addition to the DS library, and I recommend that all fans of 
 the 2-d genre to pick up this game and give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag_04
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 3, 2009 4:24 am PT
Review:  When I read the magazine reviews saying that this game was a mix between the classic style and 
 the SOTN like games I thought I should try it, after completely skipping Portrait of Ruin.
  
  But the truth is that this game is no different from SOTN like series and it has NOTHING to 
 do with classic Castlevania's. Yeah it has locations, but that's all. There is a minimap for each. 
 There is also a town, which you bring rescued citizens and do quests for them, which could seem 
 innovative and entertaining. Unfortunately it is not, as the quests often require that you kill 
 a monster 100.000 times until it drops the item you need, which is frustrating.
  
  About the game itself and the gameplay, I guess it's fine. It has nothing special. Just you don't 
 use weapons, you equip glyphs to fulfill that task. Two slots for 3 combinations possible. While 
 it could be unique, you will have to access the menu multiple times to realocate glyphs as each 
 one is useless against some type of monsters. The third glyph is either a self-buff, a useless 
 summon or a field ability that lets you get to some places. Again, it is annoying to suddenly having 
 to switch to the "magnetic" glyph because if not you don't make progress. I know that you needed 
 to change "souls" in Aria / Dawn of Sorrow at certain times but it was rare. To be forced to access 
 the menu so often is annoying. In SOTN you are able to do ALL your special attacks and magic, transformations 
 etc without accessing the menu. You only have to access to change your minion or change gear. THAT 
 is called "swift" gameplay.
  
  The graphics are good but nothing special I tell you. Music is okay I guess.
  
  About its famous 
 difficulty, it is true. You will die a lot, at least in your first playthrough, almost on every 
 boss, as they are able to one-shot you if you are not prepared with the right glyphs / gear or 
 simply kill you because you have no idea which is the strategy. I admit i liked the bosses, as 
 you need to learn the strategy, but some of them are irritating. Anyway you can access the menu 
 and drink potions to survive.
  
  As for the story and the main character... I rofl when I read reviews saying that the game has 
 a great story and a charismatic protagonist. None of that is true. The story is no better than 
 Castlevania 1 NES, as all roads get you to Dracula. You are nothing but a sorceress tasked to gather 
 Dominus force from a frustrated thief of your organization. Then there is a twist and Dracula resurrects... 
 OMG Original !!!!!!!!!111 and then you have to go to Dracula castle to kill him. 
  
  As for Dracula Castle... I was disapointed it was really short and easy to make progress on it, 
 as you have almost all your abilities when you get to it. Only a few bosses on it... 
  
  So, to sum up, the game is challenging because of its difficulty. But it is NOT innovative and 
 definitely not the best Castlevania ever made as some people claim. It is completely overrated. 
 I don't understand why. I think you won't miss anything for not playing it, really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FF_fan2004
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 11:26 pm PT
Review:  The latest line of Castlevania games once again takes up its usual route of having good graphics, 
 amazing soundtrack and a story that guaratees to have a twist to it half way through.
  It started off what seemed like a cakewalk then turns into something that was the stuff of nightmares. 
 The gameplay is good however you would find that, like in all veterans to the game, that the difficulty 
 can range from being to easy to almost impossible altogether.
  Some of the boss fights can be easy in some stages and to being so difficult the next, you wonder 
 what went wrong.
  The environments in the game are superb and the music that follows up at each stage gives the kind 
 of mood best suited as you explore, fight and move on. 
  However the Glyphs system isn't as good as some of its predecessors and gives little help in terms 
 of bonuses. The quests aren't bad. It still carries on the same burden as previous games to have 
 item collection.
  But enough of the game's little foibles, all in all, it is a very good game that is highly addictive 
 and despite its difficulty, it is worth playing. And true to handheld Castlevania fashion, it give 
 you the after game bonuses which makes you want to unlock it even if you have to put up with numerous 
 Game Overs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 11:22 am PT
Review:  We won't deny that Castlevania: Order Of Ecclesia is a hard game, because it is. Given the amount 
 of cursing that occurred as we played through it and were slaughtered by axe-wielding robots, giant 
 skeletons, knights with trained owls and other such monstrosities, our mouths should probably have 
 parental advisory warnings slapped across them by now. But then, that doesn't make it a bad game. 
 Quite the opposite, actually.
  
  Yes, Order Of Ecclesia is tough, especially in the opening stages where you've got a limited range 
 of weapons at your disposal and a health bar that'd empty if someone even blinked in your general 
 direction. But is it too hard? Not really, no. In fact, we'd say that Konami has done a fine job 
 of creating an adventure that's perfectly pitched for the Castlevania fans and for that, it deserves 
 a massive pat on the back.
  
  An Acquired Taste
  Of course, that distinction in itself could be considered a criticism. Despite looking spookily 
 similar to the previous handheld Castlevania titles, Order Of Ecclesia really isn't friendly to 
 the average DS gamer. Gone is the ability to hack, slash and then hack some more at any enemies 
 in your way, with physical weaponry replaced with magical ones whose uses are tempered by your 
 magic meter. Gone is the endless supply of hearts for use with your sub-weapons, with the new Union 
 glyph attacks draining your heart count faster than ever. Gone even are the easily-accessible save 
 points, made more elusive by the decision to have many unique stages instead of one giant map covered 
 in warp points. 
  
  On top of that, you've got the increased difficulty that will see many players wanting to give 
 up long before they've even dealt massive damage to the giant enemy crab living in Dracula's lighthouse 
 (only about an hour in, by our count) . Yup, if ever there was a Castlevania game designed for people 
 who like and, more specifically, are good at Castlevania games, it's Order Of Ecclesia.
  
  As we said before though, we don't have a problem with that in the slightest. True, we were a tad 
 concerned that some of the tweaks present would do irreparable harm to the proven Symphony Of The 
 Night formula. Reverting back to smaller levels, for instance, could have shortened the game's 
 life dramatically and reduced the opportunities for exploration, while dropping physical weaponry 
 altogether potentially removes the replay value provided by trying to collect all the rare items. 
 
  
  
  Despite moving the goalposts quite considerably though, Order Of Ecclesia manages to be not just 
 the best Castlevania experience on DS yet, but perhaps even since Super Castlevania IV on the SNES.
 
  
  For We Are Many
  How that's come about is less about one element and more about a combination of things. The added 
 strategy that comes from timing attacks to avoid being hit while striking effectively so as not 
 to leave your magic meter empty is extremely satisfying, especially during the boss fights which 
 require some serious concentration to survive. 
  
  The large number of shorter levels, while initially jarring, actually works in Ecclesia's favour. 
 Not only does taking the action out of the castle allow for greater variety in environments, but 
 the discovery of the game's final big surprise only makes what's come before even better. And even 
 though it's clearly tougher in places than a whole bag of old boots, ultimately it's just so damn 
 playable.
  
  From working out the best combinations of glyph spells and figuring out the weaknesses of particularly 
 nasty monsters, to discovering secret areas and earning medals for beating bosses without being 
 hit once, there's very little to fault Order Of Ecclesia.
  
  Of course, we don't doubt that plenty of people will disagree. They'll moan about the music not 
 being haunting enough, the fact that the hero is a lady or, more likely, that it's just too hard 
 for them. But we'll say this: ignore those fools and just go experience Order Of Ecclesia for yourself. 
 You'll thank us for it in the end, we guarantee it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 6:34 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia is the third game in series on Nintendo DS and it's very similar 
 when compared to the previous titles. Unfortunately this time around the brutal boss battles can 
 be a bit too much.
  
  Story takes place after classical Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, which is to say sometime 
 in the mid 19th century. Since the Belmont Clan has been vanished people have created other organizations 
 to research countermeasures against Dracula. One of these is Order of Ecclesia, which has created 
 a magical triad of glyphs based on dracula's power (called Dominus) . Glyphs are stolen by Albus, 
 a member of the Order, and after him goes the game's female protagonist Shanoa. Soon she arrives 
 to a deserted Wygol Village and it's her job to rescue its inhabitants and in the process stop 
 Albus from doing his evil deeds. There's a lot of text to be read, but still the story just passable.
 
  
  Graphics are that same colorful, detailed and beautiful style and quality as always so once again 
 Konami shows that it knows how to do deliver its vampire hunter franchise. Great touch is that 
 most of the character models and animations are new instead of recycling those same ones that the 
 series has done for years now and generic anime style has been changed to a more realistic approach. 
 Sound design is again just as good as you've come to expect. Music is just brilliant to listen, 
 but some of the sound effects can get repetitive. A new feature is that this time there's quite 
 a lot of real voice acting involved. At times it can get a little cheesy, but still that's OK. 
 All in all the audio visual presentation of Order of Ecclesia lives up to the series standards 
 quite well.
  
  Gameplay is very similar, if you've ever played a Castlevania game on DS. Upper screen shows the 
 map and the lower screen shows the actual action. Touch screen features are not that common, but 
 you don't really need them anyway. 2D sidescrolling is just as fun as ever, but this time you don't 
 fight in just one castle. In the course of your adventure you get to see lots of different places 
 and after that teleport freely between them. This takes away all that tedious backtracking you 
 needed to do in older games of this franchise. 
  
  RPG elements are also familiar in that you gain levels by defeating enemies and collecting "glyphs", 
 not weapons and spells, but the overall effect is the same. It works just fine, but this time upgrading 
 them is a lot slower. As enemies drop glyphs you need to absorb a certain number of them in order 
 to make them better and this can take a long time. A real downside is that for some reason the 
 developers needed to give all the glyphs cool and mystical names. This means that when selecting 
 them you need to browse through and specifically read the subtitle of that particular glyph, for 
 example "an axe glyph". This takes way too much time than it should.
  
  Difficulty level is surprisingly high: even if you consider yourself to be a Castlevania veteran 
 this game still provides you all the challenge you can handle. Boss fights are big and many, but 
 they are also the worst part of the package: they are just way too strong and take a lot of your 
 health. Often you need to 1) grind your level up several steps, 2) collect enough gold to buy energy 
 potions and 3) do multiple attempts before you learn all the patterns that the boss uses. This 
 takes too much time, when you just want to progress the story. It takes around 12 hours to play 
 through the game.
  
  Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia is another quality game in Castlevania franchise, but unfortunately 
 the boss fights can get a little too frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SG_Jedi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  Story: 8/10
  If you have been a devout player and follower of the Castlevania chronology and story (or a semi-devout 
 player like me!) , this would mark the first time in Castlevania history that neither Alucard nor 
 any member of the Belmont family have been directly involved in the unfolding of events within 
 the game.
  
  Controlled by the hands of fate, you are Shanoa, the last hope of humanity and saviour of the world, 
 called out to stop Dracula (yet again!) . Your superior sends you out to various location to aid 
 you in your quest to rid world of Dracula. Along the way, you come upon a deserted village, save 
 the town elder, who pleads for you to rescue kidnapped villagers, only to realize that a web of 
 deceit have been spun during your absence.
  
  An interesting story, although I would say certain parts of the plot was pretty much to be expected. 
 All in all, I still feel that the story arc of Sorrow series is still the strongest amongst all 
 the hand-held console versions of Castlevania.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  You guys can't possibly imagine how happy I am that a platformer Castlevania has finally been released 
 with a much needed face-lift. Don't get me wrong, I have nothing against anime, but the art style 
 developed for Castlevania: Symphony of the Night has absolutely captured the very essence and atmosphere 
 of Castlevania and I am indeed very very VERY pleased that they have reverted back to this form. 
 
  
  Graphics-wise for the sprites, Shanoa is very well animated and fluid, don't be surprised if you 
 end up holding the up button on the D-pad for more than the required seconds just to see the motion 
 of Shanoa's hair swirl as she absorbs gylphs. 
  
  Boss sprites are simply excellent. Not only are they huge and imposing, but they are very detailed 
 to begin with. The same can't be said for enemy sprites, unfortunately. You will definitely see 
 new enemies, mark my words, but some sprites have been reused from previous Castlevania titles, 
 which slightly bugs me, but hey, if it ain't broken, don't fix it.
  
  Game-play: 8/10
  Some advice before playing this game: Save often, and be prepared to die... A LOT. Castlevania 
 has been known for their rather formidable boss fights and areas, but trust me on this, you'll 
 be dying a lot... partly because of a new fighting system.
  
  The whole fighting system is more or less revamped, although whether for good or for worse, I can't 
 quite say. You now have 3 gauges instead of 2 - an HP bar, an MP bar and a Heart gauge.
  Unlike previous hand-held Castlevania, special attacks now use up Hearts instead of MP and normal 
 attacks now use MP. The upside is that your MP regenerates very quickly if you're resting, but 
 the downside is that heart no longer replenish your MP, but rather replenish your Heart gauge (duh) .
 
  
  To be honest, I'm a little mixed with the whole new glyph system. On one hand, I like the fact 
 that you can use 2 different glyphs to perform various combination of attacks, but on the other 
 hand, there aren't terribly a lot of different combination. The portion that possibly bugs me the 
 most is that the glyph system complete takes over the weapon system implemented in previous games. 
 Fighting is skill awesome, but it breaks momentum when every swipe or stab or swing you make take 
 up MP, and it's downright dangerous in boss fights (heck, it's even dangerous in a crowded room) !
 
  
  Somehow, I feel that the developers' choice to combine the aspect of traditional weapon hunting 
 and Sorrow's Soul system into one wasn't very well thought out. I know some people would disagree 
 with me here, but when you start playing the game, you would just feel that using glyphs for weapon 
 system just doesn't feel the same as using the Vampire Hunter.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  I'm very surprised they actually allowed you to choose either English or Japanese as the spoken 
 dialogue for the game. The voice-acting for both versions are very well done, but if you're a purist 
 at heart, you'll probably go for the Japanese dialogue (some spoken dialogue just sounds better 
 in Jap) .
  
  The music for majority of the areas are also very fitting of the atmosphere, especially the main 
 entrance music in Dracula's Castle. Sad to say though, the music isn't all that memorable. They're 
 great, but rather forgettable.
  
  Overall: 8.5/10
  A Castlevania that does justice to the series, do get this, whether you be a hardcore Castlevania 
 devotee or just a casual gamer. This is pretty much a game that you shouldn't be missing out on.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mibukin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 1:48 am PT
Review:  How many Castlevania games stared a female lead as a lone character. Charlotte shaired the role 
 in the previous CV but she wasn't the only one. The storyline is really good.
  OoE stars Shanoa as the lead character. she's not your typical anime cute girl either. Shes more 
 of a gothic witch, which is not neccessarily a bad thing. The game also doesn't completely take 
 place in castlevania. You start off chasing the bad guy untill .... no spoilers here.
  The story of this game is pretty good but not as good as DoS. It also didn't have an extra game 
 that was as unique or fun as DoS or PoR. 
  The main game is pretty good if you don't mind a challenge. Unlike the previous DS CV games, this 
 one is hard. You'll die a lot and have to figure out boss patterns. Your weapons are basically 
 formed with magic so you use up your magic bar everytime you attack. It's not usually a big problem 
 since, your magic heals quickly by itself when you do nothing, and it improves as you level up.
 
  
  If you like previous CV this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuckeye08
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:06 am PT
Review:  This was the first Castlevania game with a female character as who you play as, besides in (portrait 
 of ruin your both) . The 1 thing i loved was your just not in the castle your all around it., but 
 i did like being in a village doing jobs, and that was a fun thing to do, just a place to relax.
 
  
  There were some new, and some old enemies you had to face, but the back ground, and the colors 
 were amazing.
  
  The boss fights were great (like always) . and well the story is also great, and the voice acting 
 well is also great.
  
  And well I guess this is a great game, a must have, for any castlevania fan and even for any ds 
 owner.
  
  If you have never played a castlevania game before i suggest trying this but this may be very difficult 
 for you, if your the other way around its a challenging game but you should beable to get through 
 this one after 3 to for days, but theres still lots to do, beat it on hard, then still something 
 harder than hard, havn't made it that far im only half way through hard lever 1.
  
  THIS IS A GREAT GAME, A NEW INSTALMENT TO THE CASTLEVANIA SERIES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnnoob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  Wow , I am impressed with the game, one of the greatest since Symphony of the night and dawn of 
 sorrow. When i got this game, i thought i would kinda clean house, though its very challenging.
 
  You will die... alot and that's because it can get hard at times.
  New system of attacking much like Dawn of sorrow in a way , and its a good long adventure.
  
 
  You begin to travel place to place until the end to Dracula. Story
  is alright as it takes place after symphony. In this game you use a female, is which a plus , if 
 you catch my drift . I believe this game is for the hardcore , as its very challenging. If your 
 a fan of
  the Castlevania series, these games have never failed as a 2d Platformer. Its worth getting if 
 anyone doubts it.
  
  Overall the music is good , and no Belmonts this time. 
  This game also has wifi , which lets you race, sell items and 
  purchase from other players. 
 Somehow it should be better for the 
  next game. But it works out and its optional if you want to use it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aahammel
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 2:02 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia brings the series back to the DS for the third time. Once again 
 this Castlevania game delivers an excellent platformer.
  
  In the beginning, the first thing you notice, after you notice that your character for this game 
 is a girl, Shanoa, is the new attack system. Many of the Castlevania games have altered the system 
 for attacking, and Castlevania OoE is no different. In this game ALL attacking and modifiers are 
 used by way of a "Glyph." The Glyphs range from your swords and magic, to your familiars and enhancements. 
 All Glyphs consume MP, but don't worry, there are plenty of ways to consume wisely.
  
  The story is wonderful. Not to hard to follow and it fits the Castlevania mold, without being stale. 
 There are a few new enemies, as well as the return of some of your favorites.
  
  The mechanics work well in the game allowing you to try out various configurations, between Glyphs 
 and armor and accessories. However, it is the sounds and music that really round out this game.
 
  
  After beating the game on normal there is still grinding, if you wish, as well as Hard Mode and 
 other game modes to try. If you really want to see how powerful you can get this is where the replay 
 value comes in.
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyZagaro
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2009 10:07 am PT
Review:  The third in the series of DS Castlevanias, Ecclesia is a good game in it's own right with some 
 intresting ideas, but loses a lot of points on these ideas for poor execution.
  
  Graphics:
  7/10
  
  Well, the sprites haven't change much, at all. The real thing here is 
 the art style, going back to the days of the GBA games. It's an interesting style, and manages 
 to give it a different feel than the other two DS entries, but you're REALLY telling me you can't 
 make the sprites any more detailed than a game that's what, five years old? Despite obvious laziness, 
 this isn't bad enough to disqualify the game's art style.
  
  Sound:
  9/10
  
  Castlevania games have a rep for good music, and this one is no different. All of the sound from 
 the original Castlevania is present, which I thought was a cool addition. The intro song, which 
 is remixed later in the game, is especially well done.
  
  Story:
  6/10
  
  The main character, Shanoa, is part of a clan called Ecclesia, which has the intent to prevent 
 Dracula's revival. During a ritual to give Shanoa some special power, Albus, a jealous disciple 
 of Barlowe, the clan leader, apparently causes the ritual to go wrong and Shanoa ends up losing 
 her memory. From there there's some interesting twists and turns, but it's still nothing epic, 
 but it gains points from being different enough than "Hey, let's kill Dracula!"
  
  Gameplay:
  6.5/10
  
  This is where things start to fall apart. Remember how much slower PoR 
 was than DoS? Well, you're going to be dissapointed, because I believe OoE runs even slower than 
 DoS. But fret not. Now, here comes the best and worst part of the game at the same time: The Gylph 
 system. Overall, the gylphs are pretty cool because you can now sling around magic with just regular 
 attacks, and the fact you can now combo your gylphs kinda makes up for the speed loss. Now, what's 
 the problem with this? The gylph system defeats it's own purpose, a rather stupid move. The existence 
 of enemy weaknesses clearly intends you to change your gylphs on occasion, but the problem is, 
 you can change your gylphs in a heartbeat before the enemy can even react, making it no harder 
 to defeat enemies but MUCH more annoying. The existence of weaknesses does nothing but bog down 
 the game for this very reason. Now, if enemies could attack us while we were fooling around in 
 the menu, this would be a very different story, but nope, just change your gylphs and that skeleton 
 you couldn't damage before is now an easy kill. It was supposed to make combat more strategic.... but 
 it doesn't. 
  
  Now, another thing people praise about this game is the difficulty. This is a rather exaggerated 
 claim. Apart from the beginning of the game, where your character is rather weak, Ecclesia is rather 
 easy even for the amateur gamer, take it from an amateur himself. There's a learning curve for 
 the second boss, but once you bypass that, you're golden. 
  
  One thing OoE DOES benefit from is a much better quest structure than PoR. It's various people 
 giving out different quests instead of just the same person, and you also have to FIND these people, 
 a rather interesting part of the game IMO. What's more, while not not much, they DO vary from "Get 
 me this item" or "Go kill this many of that monster". Some quests will have you using a camera 
 to take pictures of monsters, playing hide and seek in the dark, even going through a rather irritating 
 secret area [Training arena] . When you mash it all together, OoE has it's ups and downs, but is 
 a decent game in the end.
  
  Controls: 
  10/10
  
  Very few games have control issues, and luckily, OoE is not one of them.
  
  Replay:
  4/10
 
  
  Eh, you might want to try a fresh Hard run, or do a new game + once or twice, but other than that, 
 OoE offers very little in the way of replay value.
  
  Overall: 
  7/10
  
  It's quite a ways off from epic, but OoE is still a good game in it's own right. Also, being a 
 handheld and all, it's cheaper, so you can't really say you didn't get what you paid for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enoslives7
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the hardest of the 3 Castlevania DS games. The graphics are similar to the previous 
 two, and I would say this game is graphically superior to all Casltevania games (even SoTN) . The 
 sound and music are on par with previous attempts. 
  
  The game-play is going to be very familiar to Castlevania fans, with the addition of using glyphs 
 instead of a physical weapon. There are a-lot of familiar enemies and some truly wonderful bosses, 
 including Dracula (ofcoarse) . 
  
  My big complaint is that the side missions you get from the villagers really feel like chores. 
 Whether it be finding a mouse, taking picture, or finding ink for a pen, you really have to wonder 
 if the missions could be any sillier. The rewards for the side missions are pretty weak also. Perhaps 
 if every side mission rewarded the player with some type of weapon or armor, it would'nt seem so 
 tedious.
  
  All in all, Caslevania and Metroid fans will be absolutely delighted with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lond69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I was never much of a Castlevania fan before owning a DS. I have played the Super Castlevania for 
 SNES, but even though it's fun, I couldn't make myself to play other just like that over and over.
 
  
  However, when I played Down of Sorrow, with the whole powers thing, it got my attention.
  
 
  Now, some time after I played it, I have played Order of Ecclesia, and it makes a very good job 
 in being a successor.
  
  The story is good, and the whole glyph thing is very good also. I usually don't like collecting 
 100% of games, but in this case I will make an exception, since in my first play I already had 
 something close to 99%.
  
  The game difficult is just right, you will die a couple of times, but not every second. And of 
 course, you will have some trouble to get the more rare items, but there are other items to compensate 
 for that.
  
  It has one bug or two concerning money, after you get a couple of items, the task of getting money 
 gets ridiculous, and you can be rich very easily.
  
  The music is good, and gets very good if you use a pair of good ear buds instead of the DS speakers.
 
  
  The voice act is good.
  
  Overall, you will have a good time playing this, but be warned, you might get addicted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RuinPainting
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia is the third installment in the DS series of video games. From a 
 glance, it's obvious the developers did all they could to break the mold of traditional Castlevania 
 (as we've seen it with the past DS games) . The
  biggest change, perhaps, is the inclusion of a female lead character, a rarity in CV.
  
  In 
 Order of Ecclesia, the main character, Shanoa, is a disciple under an organization formed to combat 
 Dracula. Through a strange magic, known as Glyphs, they are able to channel weapons and magic. 
 This sets the basis for the battle system in OoE. Weapons cannot be bought in this game. Rather, 
 Glyphs must be harnessed from defeated enemies. Unlike Dawn of Sorrow, the first DS installment, 
 every enemy you find does not surrender a Glyph, nor does collected more than one identical Glyph 
 boost the corresponding Glyph's power. Instead, you have several physical Glyphs (rapier, sword, 
 lance, hammer, bow, axe, knive) which come in three various levels of strengh and several magical 
 Glyphs (fire, ice, lightning, dark, holy, curse, stone) . Aside from those, there are support Glyphs 
 which can increase you attributes or grant special abilities. On each arm, you can equip one Glyph 
 and one on your back. In addition, you can use a Glyph Union, which combines your arm Glyphs to 
 create a new,
  more powerful attack.
  
  Unlike other Castlevania games, the player doesn't travel around one large castle. On the contrary, 
 you have a world map dotted with locations that appear as you progress further in the game. The 
 last location remains true to Castlevania. Some players harbor distaste for this new system, but 
 it is a fresh addition made to "break the mold" as I said before.
  
  As expected from a Castlevania game, the musical score is incredible, most often matching the theme 
 of the area. More spectacular, however, are the exceptional sound effects. Several enemies have 
 certain phrases when they appear or are killed and the sound of attacking an organic enemy with 
 a blade adds a most authentic feel to the game. After beating the game, players will be allowed 
 to listen to the musical score via the Music Box, a feature available in all three DS games.
  
  Unfortunately, Ecclesia's excellent gameplay is thrown off by it's weak story. Initially, first-time 
 players will be confused concerning the story, as Albus has stripped Shanoa of her memories and 
 stolen the only Glyph powerful enough to destroy Dracula. Even as the game progresses, you come 
 no closer to understanding Albus's motives. The epiphany comes at you all at once, allowing no 
 gradual progression of story, but a hard-hitting drastic change of place. Having been stripped 
 of her memories, Shanoa seems bland and tiresome at times, but through saving villagers captured 
 by Albus, you can interact with them, and maybe find the more human side of Shanoa, a side of her 
 critisized for not being present in the game.
  
  From different standpoints, this game can be said to be both hard and easy. From where I stand, 
 this game is not difficult at
  all. The initial game can be completed in under fifteen hours at a normal pace. Shanoa levels up 
 quickly, so there is never any need to backtrack (you can play the game from beginning to end without 
 having to revisit a single area, unless demanded by the game) to level up because you can't beat 
 that next boss. In fact, any of the bosses can easily be dispatched at level one and without taking 
 a hit. Flawlessly defeating a boss enemy presents a medal to commemorate the event. OoE doesn't 
 allow users to rely on brute force, but rather strategy. Using the right combination of Glyphs 
 and surrounding objects, bosses are easily defeated. At times, common enemies tend to deal more 
 damage than the actual bosses. But after a few times dying, players should realize the weaknesses 
 of the enemies and how to properly exploit them. Basically, the game gets easier as you go along. 
 Luckily, there are two bonus dungeons for those bored with the generally easy main gameplay.
  
  Following the trend of the past two titles, Wi-Fi connectivity is present. Following more closely 
 in the fashion of Portrait of Ruin, OoE lets you challenge a friend to a race through pre-designed 
 courses and a shop mode, where players call sell their items with other players. Making vast improvements, 
 up to four players can travel around a plaza, each with their own store set up. You can buy items 
 either from yourself or other players at half the retail price. They ear whatever money they make 
 from the sales.
  
  Graphically, Order of Ecclesia is the most visually stunning of the three DS games. Blood effects 
 are, of course, an integral part of the game, but now enemies are mroe animated, their movements 
 seeming more natural that other games. Background designs seem bland, but the boss enemies sport 
 an increased attention to detail that might distract players from the ongoing battle.
  
  Overall, Order of Ecclesia is a solid game. Extra game modes don't help the replay value and easy 
 difficulty, unfortunately, allow veteran players to continue a tradition of powering their way 
 through the game, whether in or out of the castle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kkiirraa99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Okay Order of Ecclesia in my opinion is the best game in the series. Ther is many good things about 
 this game. but unfortunately it's not perfect.
  
  So I like to start off with the good and then state the bad so i'll keep to that formula. 
  
 
  So some good things about this game is the music. I think that the music is good because it sets 
 the right mood for the action taking place. The music was also just good.
  
  Another thing that's really good is the Glyph system I love how there is such a large array of 
 glyphs. I also like the idea of having three different combinations of glyphs, Which can easily 
 be swapped in combat. one last great thing about the glyph system is the ability to have both magical 
 attacks and melee attacks, I just think it's kind of fun. 
  
  Another great thing about this game is the fact that you can go to other places besides dracula's 
 castle. In the game you are able to visit many different locations than one, such as a village, 
 a forest, and a monestary. I think it's nice to have a change of scenery for once, don't u think?
 
  
  
  On to the bad things, I don't really have much to say in this section.
  
  Unfortuinately ther was some bad things were the boss battle. The difficulty on the boss battles 
 were a little hard they were manageable but they are almost on the verge of being to hard.
  
  so thats about it If you're wondering whether to get the game I would recommend it for castlevania 
 fans and also new players. However I wouldn't recommend it for people that don't like fast moving 
 battle. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  In this Castlevania game you can be two characters you can be a girl named Shanoa or the guy named 
 Albus. They have different stories. Shanoa has the real story and Albus has the other story. Both 
 stories are hard and cruel. Both characters have weapons. Shanoa has a sword and spells. Albus 
 has a gun and he kicks. The game is a 2-D game. You go from one place to another defeating hard 
 and cruel bosses that will take you alittle while to defeat. The story is all about defeating the 
 darkness. The game is alittle confusing but the controls are great. Some places are just going 
 left to right one way or the other but in some other places you have to go left, right, up, or 
 down. The game is really fun to play but a really great challenge for people and if it is your 
 first ever Castlevania game then you shouldn't play it because it might be alittle to hard.
  
  The good of the game is that there are hideous creatures that is easy to kill. There are varied 
 boss battles. The combat system is versatile and rewarding.
  
  The bad of the game is that the boss battle can be far to punishing. Some enimies and enviromental 
 are is recycled.
  
  Overall this is a great game for people who like castlevania games. I rate this game 8.5 outta 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The one thing I wish was different with this game is it would have been cool to have a really powerful 
 glyph that you get from each boss, to kinda make you feel like you really accomplished something. 
 
  It bears some similarities to previous Castlevania games such as aria and dawn of sorrow. At first 
 it seemed odd to have swords and other weapons take your magic, but it worked out and the bar refills 
 so fast. I doubt you'll ever have to use a tonic to replenish it. The combat worked out pretty 
 well. There was a lot of a glyph selection to choose from which was cool.
  There were a lot of exciting and innovative items and equipment to choose from.
  The game is 
 a little hard, especially at a few bosses, but after awhile, once you get a good footing you should 
 be fine. In the beginning I was so frustrated I wanted to sell it the first day, but once you put 
 in a few hours then the difficulty goes down immensely.
  All in all a pretty good DS game and a pretty good Castlevania game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  
  [Castlevania : Order of Ecclesia] : The latest attempt at a modern day Symphony.
  
  Story : [Castlevania : Order of Ecclesia] is based around a young woman named [Shanoa] who was 
 chosen to bear some kind of almighty power capable of bringing down [Dracula] , only for fellow 
 cult-mate [Albus] to steal the power for himself, forcing [Shanoa] to go after him. There's a good 
 twist or two here and there but the overall story in [Castlevania : Order of Ecclesia] is by and 
 large predictable. You know you're just going to wind up fighting [Dracula] in the end anyways. 
 It's like the series is sometimes held down from evolving due to its own tradition, yet even I'll 
 admit that I'd be disappointed if a [Castlevania] game didn't end in a bout with [Dracula] .
  
  [Castlevania : Order of Ecclesia] isn't so much distinct for its most heavily advertised features 
 so much as it is for more of its' subtle changes. The only reason I appreciate [Shanoa] as the 
 game's protagonist is because she distinctly looks female, which is a change of pace from the usual 
 androgynous main character that stars in these [Castlevania : Symphony of the Night] knockoffs, 
 otherwise she's not a particularly likable individual. The addition of a [village] with [civilians] 
 that need rescuing isn't too big of a deal, as they merely provide [fetch quests] for the player 
 to
  
  Oh, and if you'd like to know why I'm talking with [brackets] around words, it's because the game 
 likes using them too, with the upmost demand it seems. I've seen numerous games do a similar thing, 
 using underlines or colours to highlight names or quest related items. Order of Ecclesia is fond 
 of the bracket, to highlight seemingly every noun in for the player. A villager may ask you to 
 collect 3 [iron ore] (no plural form here) or another character will have a major speech proclaiming 
 that [Dracula] is the embodiment of all evil. I can't help but find that this sucks out a good 
 deal of impact or immersion out of the storyline. I don't quite understand why; trust me when I 
 say that the target audience of this game is not stupid enough to need important parts of the sentence 
 to be highlights so abruptly.
  
  I say that because this game is not meant to be played by anyone but the most determined of platform 
 gamers. Bosses are all tough, with large chunks of health to chip off and difficult, random attack 
 patterns to figure out. You're going to die repeatedly in the process of trying to beat one. Even 
 many casual enemies will tear you apart if given the chance. Save points are infrequent, so you'll 
 find yourself using the magical escape item to retreat to the village oftenor die a lot. The game 
 only keeps track of the hours you've spent playing and not dying so while my game save says I've 
 put in a mere 5 hours into the game, the real number is embarrassingly much, much higher.
  
  In part, that's due to how infrequent stat-boosting armour appears in the game, as in order 
 to improve your meager defense rating, you'll find yourself having to do a fetch quest or two from 
 certain villagers in order to make available armour you can't afford at the store. There's another 
 issue of difficulty; money is scarce, and you'll rarely find yourself equipped with necessary potions, 
 meaning that you're going to really EARN the right to progress.
  
  Another aspect that only the diehards are going to mind is the game's slap in the face false-ending. 
 Once you do beat Albus, the game sets you up and basically says "you can't go to the real last 
 level and fight Dracula unless you rescue EVERY villager." Well this certainly ticked me off, especially 
 considering the number of lives I needed to beat Albus in the first place. It's even more frustrating 
 how you're going to need some kind of internet strategy guide to find some of the villagers, since 
 some of them are hidden behind walls that are supposed to be broken down but otherwise untraceable 
 without either some kind of internet assistance or trying to hit every wall in the game until something 
 breaks, like you're some kind of game tester. This may be fine for the Gamefaqs. com crowd of gamers, 
 but not the average Joe.
  
  In perhaps a sign that the series is going full-circle, there's no giant overworld in this game, 
 but rather a series of smaller stages, connected by a basic world map. This cuts on the backtracking, 
 and at the same time, each area is interesting enough to make you want to explore, though there's 
 perhaps one "straight line filled with enemies" type of level too many in the game.
  
  Another small change that I wound up appreciating is the glyph system, where Shanoa takes advantage 
 of her scantily-clad powers and absorbs certain magical artifacts into her bare back. Absorbed 
 glyphs can then be assigned to certain buttons, and end up manifesting themselves into weapons 
 attacks or certain abilities. For the most part, this comes off as a repackaged version of the 
 weapons and spells equipment system, but there are some unique twists. A select few enemy attacks 
 can be sucked out from right under their noses to unlock new abilities. Magic attacks can lead 
 into changing your character's super attack, and there's a great variety of spells once you approach 
 the tail end of the game. It's a small gameplay tweak that you wind up appreciating after you make 
 yourself stick with it long enough.
  
  And that really is the key to enjoying Order of Ecclesia; gutting it out. Truth be told, this is 
 the most fun I've had out of a Castlevania game since Symphony of the Night, and likewise, it's 
 also the most frustration I've gotten since the very early NES games. It's a great purchase for 
 long-time fans and in particular, the ones that like to search far and wide to collect every power-up 
 and compete for the best time in the obligatory "Boss Rush" mode. But if you've never played any 
 of these games before, be warned. Go start with Symphony or even one of the other DS Castlevania 
 games. Build up your tolerance for beating giant monsters with sexually-questionable characters.
 
  
  Pros : Great-as-always art style, without leaving the impression that the game is trying to be 
 more stylish than it really is (i. e. the other Symphony clones) . Will greatly amplify your tolerance 
 for Castlevania : Judgement on the Wii (review coming soon) Plenty of post-game extras.
  
  Cons : A few too many enemies were ripped out of Symphony of the Night.
  
  4 stars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidChampion
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. This game is good. This game is HARD!!! Well, not quite, depending on your 
 view. This happens to be the last Castlevania EVAH!!! Sadly... this must be the last of the franchise. 
 The object is to defeat stuff. And that stuff are the bosses. Blackmore's origin comes from games, 
 like Arthroverta's is from Super Contra. Blackmore is based on Kingdom Hearts antagonist Ansem, 
 due to Blackmore's human host looking like him and the monstrous shadow looking like Ansem's Heartless 
 Guardian creature. OK, back to review. Gorgon heads sprouted from either Euryale or Fury because 
 I know Medusa heads sprouted from Medusa. A gashida is based on the Mesopotamian bull creature, 
 Lamassu. Nominon and Polkir are the only Castlevania monsters based on modern games because they 
 are based on the jellyfish Pokemon Tentacool. This review is long so I am going to end it now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Eleven years ago, Konami released Castlevania: Symphony of the Night for the PlayStation. The game 
 was the first Castlevania to break away from the linear stage-based gameplay, instead presenting 
 players with a giant, open world to be explored and discovered at leisure. Subsequent entries in 
 the series have used this formula, though as fans like me will tell you, none have been quite up 
 to Symphony standards. I've been waiting more than a decade for a Castlevania which feels as fresh 
 as Symphony of the Night did. With Order of Ecclesia, we may finally have it. 
  
  Unsurprisingly, Dracula has risen again. The disappearance of the Belmont clan, however, makes 
 defeating him a bit more problematic. Organizations have formed to develop a way to defeat him, 
 and one of these groups is your own Ecclesia. Ecclesia is responsible for the invention of 'glyphs' 
 based on Dracula's own power. The premise isn't any different than what we're used to from the 
 Castlevania titles, but it does help to explain the lack of a traditional weapon system. 
  
  The magical glyphs make up your entire arsenal, which has all the Castlevania constants such 
 as axes and throwing knives with a couple of surprises like transformations and summons thrown 
 in for good measure. You can equip two weapon/spell glyphs at a time, which allows for sweet combos 
 the other games couldn't manage. Experimenting is encouraged, as certain enemies will only fall 
 to specific glyphs. Powerful 'glyph union' attacks can be performed as well, and mixing different 
 glyphs can result in some very cool spells. 
  
  The tradeoff is this - as glyphs are magic, they'll drain your MP. Though the MP regenerates automatically, 
 you'll need to put a bit of thought into which glyphs you bring into battle. Spamming your most 
 powerful spells, for example, will leave your MP depleted early on, and you'll be a sitting duck 
 for one of the game's many bloodthirsty enemies. It's a new, strategic element we haven't seen 
 in Castlevania's combat yet, and it definitely helps make it feel refreshing.
  
  But Ecclesia's combat system isn't the only thing that's been tweaked -- the level design is now 
 shorter, more stage-based. The better part of the game takes place outside Dracula's Castle, meaning 
 areas are much smaller than before. The largest area clocks in at just about thirty rooms. This 
 greatly lessens the tedious backtracking of previous games, and allows for a more streamlined, 
 action-focused experience. If you want, you can charge through areas in a matter of minutes, but 
 you can return later for new glyphs and equipment. These revisits always have purpose - you're 
 not going to be wandering through hallways for fifteen minutes just to get to the next place you're 
 needed. 
  
  The new design is definitely for the better, but if you're a Castlevania purist fear not. The game 
 climaxes at the dark lord's doorstep, and it's one of the best designed maps in the series history. 
 It's got the same huge scope of Dracula's previous castles, and the inevitable bits of backtracking 
 that come with it. The exploration the series is known for is definitely still intact, just presented 
 in a much smarter way than before to ease newcomers into the experience.
  
  Though Ecclesia boasts some great innovations, its biggest selling point is purely traditional 
 - the bosses. The game boasts more than twenty varied boss encounters, all which feel straight 
 out of the 16-bit era. In order to best the beasts, you must learn the intricate attack powers 
 of each, and figure out how to best dodge and counter-attack. The bosses have more HP than necessary, 
 which makes the fights overlong, but all in all the battles are blasts. It's a great feeling to 
 figure out a boss's pattern and beat it after being trounced multiple times. And you will die - 
 a lot. Ecclesia is the hardest Castlevania since the series' switch to the action/adventure genre. 
 The good thing is, the game never feels cheap or unfair. I never found that I could blame dying 
 on anything but my own poor reflexes - the controls are that great. It's a very old-school design, 
 and definitely one that's appreciated by this very old-school gamer.
  
  Despite streamlined level design, Ecclesia offers up all the content you'd expect from a Castlevania 
 title. The main game should last you ten hours or so, but to find all the hidden glyphs and complete 
 all the quests could take upwards of thirty. There are 100 glyphs to collect, and since they're 
 so fun to experiment with, I continued looking for them after I completed my first play-through. 
 While the quests seldom amount to more than fetch-quests, they're still worthwhile as they'll add 
 new equipment and items to the general store. There are also Race and Boss Rush modes which are 
 fun distractions, and the option to play through the game as supporting character Albus. Albus 
 uses firearms to attack, which are long-range but have longer reload times, mixing up the combat 
 a bit.
  
  Castlevania games have traditionally been strong in the audio/visual department, and Ecclesia is 
 certainly no exception. The art has definitely benefited from the move outside the castle, and 
 the new locales all look very fresh. Featuring snow-topped peaks, monster-infested swamps, and 
 of course huge Gothic buildings, Ecclesia looks better than any past Castlevania title. It's a 
 shame to see levels which are just clones of others, but with a different colour palette. However, 
 suitably grotesque enemies, amazing boss designs and impressive animations make that seem like 
 a teensy nitpick. The sound is also astounding; with what are easily some of the best, most infectious 
 tunes in series history. While the English vocal track tends to grate, there's always the option 
 to change to Japanese, which is definitely appreciated.
  
  In this reviewer's humble opinion Order of Ecclesia is the best Castlevania title yet. As much 
 as I still love Symphony of the night, it's not as beautiful, as well-designed, nor as -fun- as 
 Ecclesia is. The design caters to fans of the old-school, action-based titles, while still offering 
 up what new series fans want. To put it very simply - If you have a DS, this game belongs in your 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Order Of Ecclesia is a great game. A hard game but a great game. The only downside 
 to this game is the punishing difficulty by which you must play with. Especially in the beginning, 
 once you proceed far enough in the game the difficulty is not as hard as before and you are able 
 to develop strategies that defeat the harder bosses quite quickly. A major upside to the game is 
 that it brought back the two handed weapon system known as glyphs. This really works for the game 
 play and makes everything feel fluid. The farther you progress in the game the more powerful glyphs 
 you obtain which is a great plus for the harder bosses. The gameplay is pretty much the same as 
 any basic platformer except this game as usual for the series does it very well and exceptional. 
 The story for the game was quite good as well. While not on the level of an rpg it was good enough 
 to keep me coming back and wanting to finish the game to know the conclusion. It was full of conspiracies, 
 family, betrayal and love. This game uses the Nintendo wi-fi connection in many different ways although 
 they are not all that useful. The most useful is the shop mode where you are able to sell your 
 items with others from all over the world as well as buy them. Other modes consist of races and 
 a mode where you compete to defeat the bosses as quickly as possible back to back. These features 
 are not really useful but cant subtract from the score because they are basically a bonus. All 
 in all a great challenging game that rewards you with a great experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoh_hitodama
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Well i've played this game one week after i beat the Portrait of Ruins.
  and my impression is: it's a brand new castlevania. New gameplay new system, and this game remember 
 the best castlevania (SotN) in many ways.
  my only argument is, the boss are so hard, and i don't understand one thing.: with many hard boss 
 why are so easy to kill Dracula doing a perfect!!!!!!!!!!!
  o please Konami be honest.
  or make a really hard game or not!!!!
  by the way order of ecclesia it's a great game to play 
 for a mid time. not like an rpg, but it deserve my respect!
  To conclude my review i really recomend this game to every player who like the serie of castlevania. 
 go on and play, but be attent or you will say a lot of bad lenguage. 
  And now i'm looking for a good challenge like this for psp
  if someone know's one please tell 
 me!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norgavue
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  This is the third of the Castlevania games released for the DS and for my opinion is the best of 
 them. Continuing in the tradition set by symphony of the night of the playstation this game differs 
 from the old school in leveling up and item collecting. It also has a bit of the old schools level 
 design. As opposed to just one castle or two sort of similar castles to roam about in we are given 
 several stages in which to adventure in. From dark forests to prison isles and mansions we are 
 given a treatment we haven't gotten much of in a while. Variety. The glyph system gives a level 
 of customization that Dawn of Sorrow and Portrait of Ruin had but being able to combine for different 
 effects puts this game by itself. The boss fights are difficult and at first very annoying. You 
 have to figure out the patterns and be sure to heal yourself and apply some hurt to them. Visually 
 it looks great. Everything looks as if it belongs there and the areas look like they are what the 
 are supposed to be. The story and character design is great. The best part is that not 80 percent 
 of the other characters are evil in this game. The side quests for other items give you a reason 
 to backtrack and get a hold of these powerful items. I won't give any of the story away but it 
 is very well done. If you beat this game the right way there are some unlockables to get you back 
 into the game afterwords. Get this if you love Castlevania or good DS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dgbleach
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  The great Castlevania series have been selling good.
  Since the first Castlevania, from now, the typical "go kill Dracula lol" motto has never been so 
 hard and fun!
  
  Gameplay: 9
  When Symphony of the Night came for the Play Station, the Castlevania games got more and more better.
 
  
  The use of equipment to improve your stats, such as Intelligence, or Attack, will be forced to 
 change as you move along in the game. For example, the first bosses are very hard, since you got 
 no equipment or strong weapons.
  But as you progress you will find excellent armor and accessories that will provide enough defense 
 to resist those crushing attacks.
  
  In the past Castlevanias for DS (Dawn of Sorrow, Portrait of Ruin) you had to use weapons to fight 
 the monsters that were hiding in their lair.
  Now, you use "Glyphs". These, are drawings that cointain magical energy. The main character, Shanoa, 
 haves a unic power to absorb these, making her weaponry vary from daggers to flames to LAZORS. 
 With the new "Combo" system, you can press two buttons quick to perform various attacks until you 
 reach the limit of it (Swords can be used in combos as long as you want, but spells have a limit) . 
 Of course, you will need your Magic Points to use these, but don't worry, it regenerates so quickly 
 that you will only run out of it a few times on all your gameplay.
  
  Sound: 10
  Very good! The music belonged to each place! From those "soft" songs in the forest to strong music 
 when fighting bosses! These fights have very good music indeed.
  
  Most of these are easy to remember, so if you like the game a lot, you will see yourself singing 
 the songs in your mind (like me LOL) .
  
  Story: 9
  Well, it wasn't very good, but what gives it a nice score is the fresh juice out of it. In the 
 first Castlevanias, it was like "You are a vampire killer and you go fo dracula, sucka!".
  
  The Main Character, Shanoa, was raised, with his friend, or "Brother" (Since they were raised 
 toghether) Albus with a man named Barlowe. When the Belmont clan dissappeared, more organizations 
 that wanted to protect people from darkness came, but a lot failed to do so, until Barlowe found 
 a way to fight Dracula, the Lord of Darkness back.
  If i keep saying more i'll sure spoil it for you. Don't worry, these words are told even before 
 you play the game :P
  
  Replayability: 9
  Man! This is what is more important of the game!
  On your first playthrough, you will find neat 
 stuff, and good items. On your second playthrough, you will sure find awesome items. Then when 
 you get everything, you will surely try "Hard Mode". It's very fun; yet some times fustrating. 
 In normal mode, Skeletons will throw you a few bones. In hard mode, they would throw themselves 
 completely (literally) .
  
  Okay, so you went through Hard Mode? Then go for the next challenge! Hard Mode with Level 1 Cap. 
 Yep. That means, you will not increase your stats. Making the game more harder. But, you may say 
 "Whats the point of playing this?" well then, it's fun to kill those uber monsters, and when you 
 finally defeat that boss that was giving you trouble for a week along, you feel good inside. For 
 example, a boss which was killing me everytime i tried was gonna make me throw my DS to the wall; 
 iuntil i said "Wait, and if i try other way to do this?". I equipped another weapons and armor, 
 and while trying to defeat it, i saw i was lasting more, each second falling into panic, until 
 i was shaking and sweating, AND BAM! I did it! I felt so good inside!
  
  Also, finishing these modes will... Give you a INSANE reward...
  
  
  After all... This game 
 is very worth of what you will pay for...
  Absolutely get it. No rent or borrowing; GET IT!
  
  Review Score: 9.5
  By Dgbleach 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmpdesign
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: OoE is one of the few games that came out on the DS this year that I actually like. 
 Unlike most DS owners, I really dont get excited about gimmicky garbage games that take 1 day to 
 produce and play on some cheesey usage of the touch screen to provide marketability. Thankfully 
 Order of Ecclesia has no gimmicks.
  
  The game is a solid continuation of the classic design we have come to expect from the side-scrolling 
 genre, incorporating many monsters, items, friends that are new and old into the adventure. 
  
  Unlike Dawn of Sorrow and to a lesser extent, Portrait of Ruin, OoE takes on a new style gameplay 
 in that your areas of exploration are more spread out than just a simple castle with different 
 levels. I am a fan of the castle setup, but this works also. In reality they are not much different 
 as most of the time you visit the different areas multiple times anyways to complete quests and 
 get all the drops etc.
  
  The story of the game is moot, at least at the point I am in the game. It is the usual scenario, 
 that someone wants to revive dracula and only you have the power to stop it. Like any other game 
 of the series, this title introduces some new twist on how you gain weapons and abilities, but 
 it all boils down to the same basic principle. Many may find that bland, but for me, I love the 
 game and am happy they haven't deviated a lot from the Symphony of the Night recipe.
  
  If you like the other games, you should buy this one. It has a decent amount of play time, some 
 replay value, and a great collection of items/abilities to amass before you finish up. The game 
 can be difficult at times, especially if you are trying to get the medals that drop from beating 
 a boss flawlessly, but other than that, the game progresses well enough, and the rewards are plenty 
 as you go through the game.
  
  Add to the fun factor some good 2d graphics on the DS and an excellent sound track, and the game 
 should be worthy of a 9/10 rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toadster17
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  My somewhat tarnished image of the Castlevania series as a whole has been faltering for some time. 
 If you want to speak figuratively this game is the final nail in the coffin. I've stood by and 
 watched the series through its ups and downs but it's clear now that the creators of the current 
 generation of games are only interested in profits. Recycled enemies make their appearance in this 
 poorly scripted and even more poorly designed tale of... what's this game about? Not that it is 
 actually of any importance. The boss fights, if you can call them that, will grate on your patience 
 and don't get me started on those check points that are few and far between. Playing through the 
 initial stages of the game reminded me of Contra. Sure, I love a good game of Contra. Not that 
 we've seen one of those as of recent but they always did the trick when I needed to be beat down 
 or humbled. Not the sort of thing that I would expect from a Castlevania game. The whole idea of 
 being cornered by enemy attacks in every single room of every single dungeon simply doesn't do 
 the series justice.
  
  Castlevania used to mean something. It stood as a symbol of quality branded upon every package 
 so that you knew that what you were buying would be a quality experience hand picked from only 
 the greatest of game ideas. Now it's just a sad reminder of the good times. A brand or label used 
 to sell a shoddy product to a public whose none the wiser. Do yourself a favor and make this a 
 rental. You won't need to pay full price for this experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_W4rrior
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:29 am PT
Review:  Amazing, Simply Amazing... (may have spoilers)
  
  This is a really big review so take the time to read it:) and i hope you agree with it 
  
  
 
  
  This is by far the best Castlevania game ever made, Konami really deserves to be complimented.
 
  
  I have been a Castlevania Fan since , well, i played castlevania adventure as a kid ,and stopped 
 playing castlevanias or at least forgot they existed till 2000 when i saw Circle of the moon and 
 said (i must get it)
  i cleared the game and i loved it , so i bought evry single one up to date, including previous 
 ones like SOTN, and some older ones as roms (had no other way to play them)
  so untill now i cleared Castlevania 1, Castlevania 3, Castlevania IV (played it on the Wii) , Castlevania 
 SoTN, Castlevania Rondo Of Blood (original and the new one) , Castlevania The Adventure, Castlevania 
 Belmonts Revenge, Castlevania Lament of Innocence, Circle of the moon, Harmony of Dissonance, Aria 
 of Sorrow, Dawn of sorrow, Portrait of Ruin, and now, Castlevania Order Of Ecclesia
  
  Well ill get back to what i wanted to say on this Review:
  
  Order Of Ecclasia:
  From the 
 moment i started Playing this game i noticed that it would be an instant classic, the graphics , 
 the sound, the gameplay , everything was really good looking, so i went ahead and played almost 
 4 hours on my first day getting 49% of the game.
  I can really say that it is in fact the best castlevania game ever made
  The songs are Epic, 
 the gameplay is really great, making good combos ,trying diffrent spells, having 3 diffrent sets 
 to customise, and the graphics are better than ever.
  
  The boss battles are simply amazing (yes they are hard thats what makes them amazing)
  
  the 
 only thing i never liked in castlevania games was the difficulty it was allways to easy, i could 
 finish the games easly (except for Castlevania 1 and 3 wich were really hard)
  
  so when i fought the first boss, killing it at my first attempt i said, ok thats harder than the 
 previous castlevanias i cant wait to see the second boss, so when i fought the second boss i was 
 amazed at the variety of things to do, from using thoat magnet thing to slingshot around while 
 trying to avoid a skeleton 5 times your size was simply amazing)
  
  so at the third boss i was stuck, and i finnaly killed him on my 4th attempet.
  at the moment 
 i was really enjoying the game but the only thing concerning me was that i was afraid that the 
 game was to small, then i got to albus, killed him and used the 3 glyphs (yes i didnt know) and 
 i got a game over screen wich i was already predicting that it was the bad ending so i went to 
 look for the 3 missing villagers and fought albus (his battle song is simply amazing) and saw that 
 a new location appeared , Draculas Castle, so i saw that i had alot more to explore and that made 
 me even happier with the game.
  
  Gamespot says : The bad : recicled Enemies and Punishing Difficulty.
  
  so what? evry castlevania 
 fan Loves a hard castlevania aswell as seeing some old school enemies like those baloons , or that 
 flying horse head.
  
  for Castlevania fans this is the ultimate castlevania, it has the hard difficulty ,stunning gameplay, an 
 amazing soundtrack ,great variety of weapons equippment, combos, quests.
  so what would we want more?
  a second Order Of Ecclasia as the next game!
  
  MY FINAL OPPINION
 
  (1-100)
  Graphics - 96-100
  Sound - 98-100
  Gameplay- 97-100
  Tilt- 92-100
  
  Final Score - 96/100 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocarina_jedi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania is one of the oldest running video game series, and one of the most beloved. It needs 
 no real introduction other than to assure you that things are just as creepy in the old castle.
 
  
  Here is the plot in a nutshell, briefly without spoiling much: Set in the 1800s, no Belmonts are 
 around to battle Dracula these days. So certain organizations have arisen to find their own methods 
 of vampire-slaying. Chief among those is Ecclesia, headed by a scholar named Barlowe. Barlowe has 
 created a mystical form of runes called glyphs which harness the power of certain weapons. These 
 weapons are crafted onto the arms and back of his protege, Shanoa, allowing her to use them. But 
 when Barlowe's other protege, Albus, steals the most powerful glyphs capable of defeating Dracula, 
 Shanoa must chase down her former colleague.
  
  The glyph system is essentially the same as the soul system found in Dawn of Sorrow and Aria of 
 Sorrow. Enemies drop glyphs when you kill them, and others can be found in certain areas. The are 
 offensive glyphs and "support" glyphs. The offensive glyphs are on the X and Y buttons while the 
 support glyph is toggled by the R button. Beyond that, the controls are fairly standard. 
  
  Right away you'll notice the impressive graphics in this game. The sprites are clear and detailed, 
 and the lighting varies appropriately from area to area. Additionally, you'll notice the change 
 in art style from previous games. Gone is the anime style of Dawn of Sorrow and Portrait of Ruin, 
 replaced by a more gothic look that has been absent from the series since Aria of Sorrow. Much 
 appreciated, and much more appropriate. Accordingly, the music will make you feel right at home 
 (if you live in a haunted castle anyway) , with properly spooky sound effects as well.
  
  One big move for this game is that a great portion of it takes place outside of the castle. As 
 Shanoa, you'll first have to chase Albus all across the Transylvania countryside before Dracula's 
 Castle even appears on your map. Once you do get inside, you'll find it to be still of pretty good 
 size. You'll probably still finish the game in under 20 hours, but it's a very satisfying game.
 
  
  While Order of Ecclesia doesn't really change much in the series, it is still a great title in 
 the series. No matter how many times you go through it, it's just what you want from Castlevania. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Since Castlevania: Symphony of the Night, the series has taken a dramatic turn towards exploration; 
 a far cry from the linearity of past entries before it. Order of Ecclesia continues that tradition 
 for its third incantation on the Nintendo DS while introducing some neat new elements and characters.
 
  
  Rather than limit your explorations within a large castle, the game is divided up into several 
 areas on a world map. You'll explore thick forests, foreboding caverns, abandoned monasteries, 
 mountain ranges -- even a stormy ocean. Lots of monsters new and familiar will stand in your way, 
 but it's nothing you can't handle. There are some challenging boss fights to overcome, but these 
 battles are never boring and will keep you on your toes. 
  
  You'll assume the role of Shanoa, a woman with the power to absorb Glyphs. And this is where another 
 interesting system comes into effect. Throughout your journey, you'll come across Glyphs which 
 grant you powerful attack abilities, spells and weapons. Holding up on the control pad will absorb 
 a Glyph on screen, and you can customize and arrange different Glyph combinations for some destructive 
 and insane special attacks. Some Glyphs are there for the immediate taking (or absorbing) , some 
 are left behind by defeated enemies, and a rare few will require that you're quick about absorbing 
 it before it disappears. 
  
  Shanoa will also be able to take part in quests for villagers in the game's only stationary town. 
 But before you can help them with their errands, you've got to help them out of a sticky situation 
 first. Albus, the game's protagonist, has trapped them in crystallization all throughout the world 
 and it's your job to release them from their binding prisons. Once you do, they'll head home to 
 the village where you can return and see what it is they want from you. It goes without saying 
 that giving a helping hand to those in need reaps great benefit, and the townsfolk will reward 
 you, of course, with items, money and even old songs from Castlevania's history. It was a system 
 used more or less in Portrait of Ruin with Wind asking you to perform various duties throughout 
 the Castle, but to much more varied effect here in Order of Ecclesia.
  
  The story is an interesting one with a surprising plot twist near the end which I won't give away 
 here. How you wish to interpret and enjoy it is entirely up to you. But once you beat the main 
 mode, you'll unlock a bevy of surprises that are worth all the effort you put in defeating the 
 game.
  
  Overall, I enjoyed Order of Ecclesia very much. It keeps the familiar, time-honored Castlevania 
 formula very much intact while peppering it with some new features that prevent it from becoming 
 too formulaic. And you can even link it to the upcoming Castlevania Judgement to find even more 
 surprises. It really is a fun and entertaining entry in the franchise and one I heartily recommend.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamsteel
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game had some big shoes to fill after the last two amazing Castlevania games on the DS. We 
 have a great looking main character and NPC character designs, a great opening cutscene, decent 
 weapons system, but the game just doesn't have that spark that makes it a good game. Gamespot and 
 Gametrailers both gave this game much more praise than it deserves, making it sound as if it is 
 a big improvement over DoS and PoR which it is most definitely NOT. 
  
  The game starts off with a weak story which does little or nothing to connect us with the main 
 character. Gone is the familiar Castle hub of past games. Instead we are given various "levels" 
 which are nothing more than disconnected locations spread haphazardly over a "map." There is no 
 feeling of connection between these locations and they offer little feeling of exploration. I understand 
 the desire to "break free from the predictable confines of a dusty castle" (as the Gamespot reviewer 
 put it) but that "dusty castle" was the heart and soul of Castlevania! PoR did a great job of maintaining 
 the castle while giving us levels outside the castle to explore. DoS did a good job dividing up 
 the areas of the castle to give each are a distinct look and feel. 
  
  To me, OoE is unnecessarily hard, taking away from the enjoyment of the game. In my experience, 
 it seems to be harder to level-up in this game, a feature that helped counterbalance any difficulty 
 in previous games. The weapons system (glyphs) isn't as great as it sounds and involves switching 
 weapons often as various enemies have different extreme resistances to certain weapons and not 
 others. I find myself feeling like it is a chore to finish this game. With such a weak story and 
 emotionless character I have no other motivation to keep going. 
  
  To it's credit, OoE has some great looking enemies with great animations. The bosses have looked 
 great and are animated very well. I still feel that PoR had much more detailed environs utilizing 
 parallax scrolling on buildings and such to create a real sense of depth. To me, DoS and PoR were 
 both much better games and OoE just feels like a half finished product that had so much potential. 
 The only thing keeping me from trading it in is that I want to have the complete Castlevania collection 
 for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huskerfied
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  This game is hard. Thats it. Period. The bosses are brutal, there is a bit of grinding you are 
 going to have to do to collect the right "Glyphs", get leveled up, you are going to save a lot 
 and use many of the transport cards.
  
  Thats the bad.
  
  Here's the Good.
  
  The graphics are clean, and make good use of 2D-3D combinations. The Music is Good and is up to 
 par with the Castlevania legacy of good music in all its games. The Glyph system works relatively 
 well (if not somewhat recycled from previous iterations) , the story is somewhat interesting, you 
 will at least want to see how it ends. The controls are pretty well tuned, as usual, however the 
 way they triple the 'doppleganger' notion is minorly irritating.
  
  Overall, i would recommend this game. It has a good overall feel, it is fun to play. There are 
 minor problems, but no game is perfect. I would not recommend this game to people who are prone 
 to anger problems or kids; it would irritate them too much. The game is good though, and is a minor 
 step for the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuicuneX
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of Castlevania for a long time, so naturally I was ecstatic when I heard a 
 new DS game was coming out. Wtih a new heroine, new environments, and a new glyph system, this 
 was bound to be the best CV game yet!
  
  Boy, was I wrong.
  
  WARNING: SPOILERS AHEAD!
  
  Story: All of the Belmonts have mysteriously disappeard somehow, 
 but Dracula hasn't, unforunatley. So a slew of new organizations determined to destroy Dracula 
 sprang up, most notably Ecclesia. Barlowe, the founder of Ecclesia, had discovered a way to ifuse 
 symbols with magical powers. These symbols became to be known as Glyphs. Unfortunately, a girl 
 named Shanoa is the only one able to absorb these Glyphs. One day, she is chosen by Barlowe to 
 absorb the only Glyph powerful enough to destroy Dracula: Dominus. Unfortunately, her adoptive 
 brother Albus isn't too happy with that, and he steals Dominus, and seemingly steals Shanoa's memory 
 and emotions. After crossing paths with Albus a couple times, she finds out that Dominus is actually 
 the power of Dracula. Albus tries to absorb Domiuns, and becomes possesed by Dracula's power. Shanoa 
 is forced to destroy him. It turns out Albus' spirit survived somehow, and she explains to Shanoa 
 that using the power of Dominus comes at a price: your life. That's why he didn't want Shanoa to 
 use it. She returns to Ecclesia, where Barlowe reveals that Ecclesia is actually dedicated to ressurecting 
 Dracula. Shanoa defeats him, but not before he revives Dracula. After venturing through Castlevania, 
 she encounters Dracula. She battles him, but realizes her power isn't enough, and uses Dominus 
 to destroy him. She is on the brink of death, when Albus appears, and takes her place as a sacrifice 
 to Dominus. His last wish to her before he died: "I want to see you smile."
  
  Well, how's that for a plot? I thought it was pretty laaaaame.
  
  Graphics: This is where the 
 game truly flourishes. Every environment is INCREDIBLY detailed and realsitic. Unfortunatley, they 
 use the same environments a couple times with different color schemes. The character and enemy 
 sprites are incredibly lifelike, and move smoothly. Again, some of them are reused a couple times.
 
  
  Sound: This is where I was deeply disappointed. Every Castlevania game has an amazing gothic/rock/orchestral 
 soundtrack.... except this one. None of the tunes are very memorable, except one or two. Most of 
 them don't even seem to fit the level that they are played on. they give you an option to buy "records" 
 that each have an NES Castlevania song on them, and you can listen to them on any level you choose. 
 Really, though, if the 8-bit music is more pleasant to listen to than the DS music, that's pretty 
 pathetic.
  
  Control: The control is extremely precise, although switiching between Glyph sets can be kind of 
 annoying. There is no touch screen functionality, except for the map screen. (Well, actually, there 
 is in Albus mode, but I won't spoil anything.) 
  
  Glyph System: Again, an epic failure. It's virtually the same as the Soul system in Dawn of Sorrow 
 or Aria of Sorrow. This time, though, only a few enemies have Glyphs, as opposed to all of tehm. 
 The Glyphs you get aren't very exciting, and many of them seem to repeat. Granted, you get to "absorb" 
 Glyphs, but really, all you do is hold "up" on the control pad.
  
  Overall, this game could have been SO much better, but it kind of seems like the programmers got 
 bored halfway through the development phase. Let's just hope Castlevania: Judgment will be better.... 
 right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SymphonyOfAshes
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty interesting to start. First off, it's about groups of people fighting Dracula 
 when the Belmont clan disappeared. It's interesting because I never knew that they had disappeared 
 for a time, and I'm a Castlevania nerd.
  
  Anyways, one really good thing that I must say about this game is that the artwork is back. FINALLY. 
 I fell in love with Castlevania partially due to the artwork, and of course the theme overall. 
 But yes, the crappy anime-styled artwork is gone, and back to the gothic type awesomeness. :D
 
  
  And of course, with the artwork and such, music is an important part. The music in this game is 
 2x better than that in PoR, but that said, PoR's music sucked terribly.
  
  This game is quite odd, to be honest. The game has an overworld map, which is basically 'levels,' 
 though it makes things less annoying (backtracking, etc) , it also makes things much easier. Instead 
 of being a huge castle in a single map, you get numerous mini maps, and even an HQ type map, where 
 you can just go back to whenever you want. It has a save point, heart healer, shops, etc.
  
  Oh, and since I brought it up, the heart systems are brought back. There's a heart count, MP 
 meter, and HP meter. The latter is quite self-explanatory. The others, not so much.
  The heart meter is for the "special" attacks, (Up+Attack) , which is just a super attack with each 
 separate weapon (the A button in Dawn of Sorrow is the best analogy [or was it X? {whatever} ] ) . 
 And that may seem a bit odd, since it was gone since Harmony of Dissonance, which is quite old, 
 might I add.
  That's not the only eccentric part of this game, there are two normal attack buttons. Both X and 
 Y attack, which you can press back and forth, to make faster attacks, or "combos." Every attack 
 takes MP out of your meter, which I believed to be pretty annoying at the start. But you realize 
 that your MP bar regains really fast, and you really don't start to mind it, since you won't ever 
 need to combo so much to kill anything.
  
  That said, the characters are pretty cool too, along with the storyline, if you're into that stuff.
 
  
  Albus Mode is awesome, too. :D
  
  Oh, and the bosses are very hard. It'll take you many deaths before you realize how to beat them. 
 But it's alright, I'd prefer a challenge here and there, unlike most Castlevanias.
  
  Buy it, rent it, you won't be displeased. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conver
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia brings a lot of old elements to the table in a new fashion. There 
 is still exploring, and finding hidden valuables. The town system of Simon's Quest returns as well, 
 and zones spread out over a world map lessen the daunting task of going from point A in dracula's 
 castle to point B.
  
  Order of Ecclesia has a wonderful soundtrack, polished graphics for a DS title, and the action 
 on the screen can get a bit more intense than previous Castlevania titles.
  
  Something else that is different compared to the previous DS Castlevania, other than the art style, 
 is the difficulty. While not impossible, it is definitely much more challenging. Save Points are 
 abundant however, so do not be afraid to use them as often as necessary, or you may find yourself 
 repeating content.
  
  All in all, Order of Ecclesia is a solid title, and definitely something a Nintendo DS owner should 
 add to their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NX75
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia faithfully follows the existing 2D Castlevania formula of fighting 
 through and exploring Dracula's titular abode, but with a slight twist. This time around, you, 
 as series newcomer Shanoa, are tasked with traversing through many diverse locations throughout 
 the game's world in a bid to recover a stolen power that, in the mysterious absence of the vampire-hunting 
 Belmont clan, may be the only means at keeping Dracula's resurrection at bay.
  
  That's the first thing series regulars will notice; instead of one, large castle to run around 
 in, most of the game's diverse environments are segmented from one another, and are accessed through 
 the world map, from which you can choose not only which area you'd like to immediately jump to, 
 but through any entrance you've discovered in that area. On the one hand, this may seem like a 
 big change; that it could reduce the amount of backtracking this series is known for, but it doesn't 
 boil down to being much different aside from a lack of interconnectivity and perhaps more manageable 
 map screens. It does give the feeling that you're traveling through and exploring the game's actual 
 world, though.
  
  However, while the total explorable area of the game amounts to among the largest a Castlevania 
 game has ever offered, a lot of these areas are pretty small, and a few are just uninteresting. 
 One of the game's first areas is a forest that is simply one straight, flat path from one end to 
 the other. The level design in a few of these areas is pretty bland, but thankfully, the game's 
 other areas hold up well enough, even if, compared to previous entries in the series, there seem 
 to be relatively few secrets hidden in them, and more notably, very few reasons to return to them.
 
  
  One of the areas that you will be returning to the most is the town, where, after you rescue them 
 from other parts of the world, the townspeople will offer you quests. There's a good number of 
 quests to do in the town, and they're fun enough that they can keep you busy even after you beat 
 the game. Some are pretty interesting, like taking quality photos of rarely-seen enemies and playing 
 a game of hide-and-seek while blindfolded, while some are of the cliche variety, such as to fetch 
 a specific item, and to kill a number of a certain monster type.
  
  Which brings up the combat. Shanoa's method of attack is the glyph system. Glyphs are basically 
 just magic spells that Shanoa can absorb and then equip. The most interesting part of this is that 
 all the attacks you can use in the game, even large-scale spells of impressive destruction, are 
 meant to be used as your basic attacks, and, save for a quickly-recharging mana bar that just keeps 
 you from spamming an attack for too long, are unlimited. This does make you feel pretty tough when 
 you can send a dozen arcs of chain lightning out without needing to worry about rationing your 
 mana for an upcoming battle, for example.
  
  Yet, those upcoming battles will try your skills and test your patience at times. This game hearkens 
 back to the days of Castlevania's origin and provides some of the most difficult challenges in 
 recent Castlevania history. Be prepared to retry many of the boss encounters several times over 
 until you can get it right or get lucky enough to survive. It will do you well to reevaluate your 
 equipment and glyphs to maximize your effectiveness against not only those bosses, but regular 
 enemies as well, as the game will throw many enemies at you, each with different, extreme resistances 
 that can give you a hard time, but also makes it all pretty rewarding.
  
  One of the criticisms of the series has been how many of the game's enemies have been recycled 
 from previous entries, and Ecclesia goes a long way toward eliminating that criticism; while you're 
 still going to recognize a fair amount of monsters, a surprising number of them are new, and look 
 great. It's also surprising how much voice work the game contains. Each of the villagers and a 
 ton of enemies in the game possess their own unique, well-acted voices, and you'll hear quite a 
 lot as you go along. The game's soundtrack is a little more upbeat than usual, but retains the 
 superb quality Castlevania is known for.
  
  In the end, Ecclesia is a fantastic entry in the series. There's a little in there to dislike, 
 but it's not enough to make the experience anything other than totally worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAIW
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  The Castlevania franchise has seen little in terms of new ideas in the past ten years; and while 
 that's just fine for fans of the formula, it also has raised the question of whether we will see 
 another title as groundbreaking as Symphony of the Night. Order of Ecclesia may not oust Symphony 
 of the Night as the top Castlevania of all time, but it comes close thanks to brilliant new ideas 
 that new and old fans of the series will appreciate.
  
  The Order of Ecclesia is an organization with the intent of stopping Dracula from destroying the 
 world. Barlowe, an aged priest, intends to give Shanoa special 'Dominus' powers in order to give 
 her the power to eliminate Dracula; these powers are actually those of Dracula himself. The third 
 member of the group, Albus, is consumed wih jealousy and feels betrayed. He interferes with the 
 ritual and receives the powers instead of Shanoa. Shanoa loses her memories and identity, but is 
 sent off by Barlowe to stop Albus from whatever evil he is doing. As expected in a Castlevania 
 game, there are multiple endings here, the first of which meant to displease, while the final one 
 is good. The story here is no masterpiece, but it sets the stage for wicked enemies, intense boss 
 fights and goth-esque large environments. The change of personality is also a very good turn from 
 previous DS titles; for example, Shanoa is the exact opposite of Portrait of Ruin's Johnathon -- 
 attractive, serious and cold, befitting the series more than Johnathon's light-hearted, typical 
 anime personality. The script is the strongest in the series, with some interesting characters 
 and voice acting, and strays outside of the all-too-familiar Belmont comfort zone; having a female 
 protagonist is the most interesting change to the writing here, and it works. Enemy taunts can 
 at times be specifically aimed at Shanoa's gender, which can be funny at times and sets the overall 
 mood to the game very well.
  
  That said, the real experience is in the action. The new Glyph system is outstanding; as opposed 
 to collecting weapons, Shanoa collects Glyphs. Every attack costs a small amount of mana, which 
 replenishes itself very quickly when Shanoa isn't in action. These Glyphs are immensely superior 
 to collecting weapons; it gives Iga and his team more creativity with how weapons look (wolves 
 and golem fists could only be done here) and special weapons can be pretty cool (metamorphosing 
 and summoning work much better than in previous games) . Two Glyphs can be equipped at the same 
 time; rapidly switching from one to the other creates a rapid attack that could not have been done 
 with previous Castlevania control schemes. Hearts are now their own bar; using a Super Move, which 
 can be used by combining two Glyphs that work together, uses up a certain amount of hearts. Everything 
 in the game is perfectly balanced and its a ton of fun to develop techniques and strategies against 
 enemies; as with any Castlevania, Order of Ecclesia's battle system is a well oiled machine that 
 can hold its own against any other 2D platformer out there.
  
  Another aspect of Order of Ecclesia that distinguishes it from other Castlevanias is its fetch 
 quests; once you save villagers that Albus kidnapped, they give you requests to retrieve items 
 or take pictures of areas. The rewards are solid enough to motivate the player to keep coming back 
 and completing them. This system also makes the shop larger with more variety, but the player has 
 to work to achieve this status; for example, healing items are extremely scarce until the player 
 completes the Chef's requests.
  
  A more convenient level system has effectively eliminated backtracking; players select what level 
 to go to from a world map now. No longer are the days of aimlessly wandering around the castle 
 looking for what to do. But if this sounds too good to be true, it isn't; amidst these accomplishments, 
 Order of Ecclesia fails in repeated level design. In more than one case does a level have the same 
 design as another, which is just disappointing and inexcusable for a game on a system full of great 
 2D platformers. Another disappointment may be the extremely linear design, which is an unfortunate 
 turn for the series, but perhaps an unavoidable one given that it destroys backtracking.
  
  Order of Eclessia boasts some very impressive boss fights that are the pinnacle of the series; 
 but this part of the game is also what may be a deal breaker for casual gamers. Many of these boss 
 fights are extremely tough and memorizing patterns may take a couple of deaths before the player 
 gets the hang of it. But what these fights lose in harsh difficulty, they gain in brutality and 
 intensity; not only are a few of the death sequences very memorable, these battles are as fast-paced 
 as, say, Contra 4, if not as tough.
  
  The title does not disappoint in its Presentation, either; the 2D work here is simply incredible 
 and surpasses The World Ends With You and previous Castlevanias, making in the best looking 2D 
 game on the platform. The art style has returned to a grim and dark look; enemy designs are appropriately 
 morbid and visceral, and environments show off the art style like no other Castlevania before. 
 The soundtrack is some of the best in the series and on DS, and a headphones option is available. 
 Sound effects and enemy taunts sound great; combine all of this and you will find Order of Ecclesia 
 has a personality completely different from its DS predecessors.
  
  While Order of Ecclesia disappoints in extreme linear-ness and occasional cut and paste level design, 
 the final product is far too great to be deemed anything less than one of the best tites on DS 
 and easily in the ring of top 3 platformers for the system. It does things differently than many 
 other Castlevanias and other things the same; the final product is a title worthy to be included 
 in any hardcore DS owners' library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric721
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia is a great game. Unlike most Castlevania games, the game is actually 
 pretty hard and has some length to it.
  
  In Order of Ecclesia there's a whole new fighting system. Instead of absorbing souls or getting 
 spell books you obtain glyphs from certain enemies or from statues and bosses. You have 3 slots 
 for assigning glyphs. Two are for standard attacks or spells and the other is for conjuring enemies 
 to fight with you or to boost statuses for a period of time. There are a lot of fast Glyphs in 
 this game and they can be really fun to use. Since you have two glyph slots you can do a barrage 
 of fast attacks by alternating the buttons, instead of having to wait to attack again with a slow 
 recovery time. Glyphs can be spells or sword attacks, but they both take up your MP. MP regenerates 
 very fast in this game unlike the other ones. MP isn't really at all what it used to be. But they 
 do have something that replaces it. There is a new gauge at the top of the screen that measures 
 how many union glyph attacks you have left to use. Union Glyph attacks are used by pressing Y and 
 Up. You will get different Union Glyph attacks depending on what two glyphs you have assigned. 
 These are basically your boss killer moves. The only way to recharge your union glyph gage is to 
 pick up hearts. In the old games hearts used to fill your MP, but not anymore.
  
  Also in Order of Ecclesia you don't just stay in Dracula's Castle the whole time. In the first 
 half of the game you go to small areas from the world map. These areas are fun, but personally 
 I like the second half of the game better which is all in Dracula's Castle.
  
  So anyways, Order of Ecclesia is a really good game. It should also satisfy players that were getting 
 bored of the repetitiveness of Castlevania. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shirokani
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Before getting into the real review of the game, I'm going to point out something that just doesn't 
 make sense to me.
  
  The review for Order of Ecclesia states that it is "one of the best Castlevania games in years", 
 yet it scores .4 less than Dawn of Sorrow, which had players roaming around in the same old castle. 
 Again. Is it possible that the overall score was knocked down due to the game having a female lead? 
 If so, this is a sad day for Gamespot my friends...
  
  The main reason Ecclesia's score is lower than it should be is simply due to the fact the difficulty 
 of most boss fights have been increased drastically. In my opinion, the game should have recieved 
 a "Great Boss Fights" emblem for this. Why? Because most of all boss fights in previous Castlevania 
 games have been easier to kill than a disabled man with an IQ of negative 27. (Of course I know 
 this doesn't exist. It's called a hyperbole.) Therefore, boss fights were challenging and actually 
 required a degree of strategy instead of simply mashing the Y button 2 million times whilst standing 
 in place. In fact, you are awarded with a medal if you are able to defeat a boss without taking 
 any hits. This nice little "S" rank can be rather satisfying.
  
  Tougher boss fights is not the only improvement in the series. The musical soundtrack is amazing, 
 and fits every region perfectly. I'm even tempted to get my hands on a soundtrack. Along with a 
 great soundtrack, the graphics have definitely been improved in both variety and quality. Detailed 
 environments and menacing foes are sometimes mesmerizing enough to make you forget about that Nominion 
 eating away at your life before dropping your corpse into the deep.
  
  There is also the fact that the lead character, Shanoa, is a woman instead of a man. Being a man 
 myself, some of you might be amazed that this pleases me (and some of you may think I'm just a 
 pervert, if this applies to you, shut up and don't make false assumptions) . Nearly every Castlevania 
 game has had a male lead in the past (Charlotte does not count, as she is unfortunately still a 
 supporting character in comparison to Jonathan. There was even a typo in her name on the equipment 
 screen. XD) . Poor little Sonia Belmont was all alone until the dark Shanoa came along. I'm glad 
 to see a female lead as it adds character variety as well.
  
  My only qualm with this game is that even from early on, glyphs seem to be rather scarce, and only 
 appear in a few enemies. This may turn off fans who loved Dawn of Sorrow. However, players may 
 forget about this small problem once they have accumulated a number of glyphs and have figured 
 out a few effective combos.
  
  Castlevania: Order of Ecclesia is now my favorite of the series, with Portrait of Ruin and Symphony 
 of the Night following close behind (Sorry SotN, the ride was just too short and easy to be #1) . 
 With a female lead, improved graphics, more challenging and fun boss fights, an interesting glyph 
 system, and a creepy atmosphere, a score of 8.5 almost seems like an insult to Konami, me, and 
 the game itself; so try not to be too surprised if you notice Shanoa weeping on the front box cover 
 next time you see one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireEmblem_Man
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be tied up or even surpass Dawn of Sorrow for the DS Castlevania series. With 
 a new Glyph system and a new Protagonist named Shanoa who was destined to wield the Dominus Glyph 
 but was taken away from her friend and rival named Albus, who was jeolous that was not chosen to 
 wield Dominus.
  
  With Dominus taken away, Shanoa loses all her memories and her emotions and had to re-trained what 
 she must do, to retrieve the Dominus glyph and use it to slay Dracula.
  
  Graphics- 9, sure there are some enemy sprites used from past Castlevania games, but there are 
 a ton of new enemies and some old ones have a new make over. The backgrounds look beautiful with 
 a classic Castlevania style to it.
  
  Gameplay- 9, a change from what Symphony of the Night (Nocturne for you europeans) , the glyph system 
 works well. This time you can use combos to kill your enemies quicker. The difficulty of this game 
 is insanely hard so make sure you stock up on a lot of potions and meat if you want to survive 
 to get to Dracula. To get to Dracula, you have to go through forest, abandonded prison, and through 
 dark caves. What makes this game different than the rest of the DS Castlevania games is its linear 
 yet you can explore all over transylvania other than going through Dracula's castle. To be honest 
 this gives it more of a Simon's Quest Vibe to it.
  
  Sound- 9, what can I say? Original and fantastic. Castlevania music has always been top notch. 
 If you somehow want a retro feel, then you can find some records hidden in the game to play some 
 classic Castlevania tunes like Vampire Killer from the NES title.
  
  Replayability- You can play this game online with a friend, practice and beat your time score, 
 and if you beat it once, try it again in an even harder difficulty if you are that much of Castlevania 
 fan.
  
  If you're a hardcore Castlevania fan, this game is for you to enjoy. To be honest, I don't think 
 it is something for new players to try due to its difficulty, but if you want some great 2D games 
 or want a challenge on your DS , then this game is for you. 
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joao_ps3
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This is the best castlevania so far, no doubt about it. I think Konami has improve the things that 
 were not so good in previous castlevanias, for example in castlevana down of sorrow the part of 
 collecting souls was just dificult and boring, is this game that part is way easy, also the combo 
 mod is realy brilliant in my opinion, the posibility of using to different weapons and spells, and 
 a 3 option. The story looks cool to, so why 8,5?? gamespot is really boring at judging all the games, not 
 only this one, cmon this is way better than 8,5, open your eyes gamespot. This is why i see the reviews 
 of games that im interested in other web sites, because gamespot is not fair enought. As for this 
 game is realy good, its the last for nintendo ds so i think konami made a relay effort to put this 
 so good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juan756
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Im one of those people that cannot by any means, not buy each and every single castlevania that 
 comes out for the DS. That being said, ive played and won all of them since the GBA ones. I even 
 remember playing the old NES ones from my childhood.
  
  I applaud the fact that this one was made out of the castle, but at the same time it feels like 
 something is missing. While i like the fact that it feels like the old castlevanias i think this 
 hybrid doesnt hold too well on its own. 
  
  I still think this game is better that POR, a game which for some reason didnt amaze me too much. 
 in case you are wondering, my fav one for the DS was dawn of sorrow, not so much for the demon 
 locking thing, but for how the story was told in the game and the bosses. 
  
  The graphics on this one are the best yet. I dont know why the reviewrs talk so positive with regards 
 to the music. I actually found the music not as epic as other castlevanias.
  
  The difficulty is definetly a lot higher than the previous games, but it is a welcomed thing since 
 i makes you work a bit more, and hence the better sense of accomplishment.
  
  In the end, if you are a castlevania fan, you need this game. Even with the minor set backs, this 
 is still the castlevania i've been enjoying over the last 6-8 years on the portables. 
  I hope someone finally decides to do a console 2D castlevania to finally topple the holy grail 
 of SOTN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessiwb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  I was kind of addicted by this game for one or two days. I finished all the bosses and the main 
 quest in about 3 hours of play. And that, plus some another details are the reasons why I wouldn 
 give a 10 to this one.
  
  The battle system is fine, the monster are fine. But what really gets my attention, was something 
 that gamespot didn't like. The bosses, in my opinion, are just great. You just need to study the 
 bosses, know his moviments, the best weapon to use. Something that many parts of the Castlevania 
 Sorrow doesn't have. 
  
  Something that just didn't matter for me, was the online mode. Just useless. Racing in castlevania? 
 When I first saw that, I imagined something like a battle, I don't know, but racing is something 
 that you can discard.
  
  I don't think that is anything else to say. It is a castlevania. If you like castlevania series, 
 this become a must-have. If you are not a fan, I would give a try before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cytheh
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  When you see them saying boss fight too punishing, that just mean they didn't even give an effort 
 to dodge the boss attacks. the previous castlevania games are like: the boss can't damage you too 
 much if you have incredible armors. But you almost can't take them down without taking damage. 
 In this game, you can. This is the only action game that I actually can kill a boss without take 
 damage because their attack can be dodged if you give some effort...
  
  I suggest you to rend the game if you don't trust what I said and try for yourself to see if the 
 boss fights are harder than the previous Castlevania games in DS or Easier. Also, if you take the 
 effort to read some dialogs in the game, you'll find out that all enemies have strong and weakness. 
 That's probably why with some weapon, you can't deal a lot of damage to one of the boss... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: semianonymous
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:43 pm PT
Review:  So, February came, and the Portrait of Ruin board was how it always was: Full of arguments and 
 speculation. Then, along came a fateful little thread about naming an enemy boss. In that thread 
 was a person claiming to be a Translater for Konami asked for help naming a giant enemy crab. When 
 proof was demanded, along came three leaked screenshots of the title screen, the crab and a conversation. 
 
  The Title screen looked rather iffy, with the moon being more of a searchlight (and later, an amusing 
 photoshop arrived, with the bat symbol added appropriately) , background tiles were reused, and 
 the character looked strangely similar to Charlotte of PoR. Being the good Samaritan that I am, 
 I emailed Konami about the screen shots. Not 20 minutes later, the user was banned, the shots withdrawn, 
 and I happily took credit for the firing of the person who leaked to us what I consider the Castlevania 
 to beat the legendary Symphony of the Night. 
  
  The original trailers showed off rather flat, boring locations, but I'm happy to say they were 
 the bare minimum of the game. Filled with lush, vibrant detail, the games locations alone look 
 better than ever before in the series. Although the game does indeed suffer from Copy/Paste (yes, 
 again) , the size of the levels are smaller than usual, creating a feel of almost like your continuing 
 from the first of the area. Because of the size, backgrounds do not get boring as easily, level 
 design is improved because dev's were able to concentrate better, and each stage really does have 
 a unique feel to it.
  
  Shanoa, of course, is the main character, and what would a Metroivania be with out a smooth, easy 
 to control character? Shanoa delivers on all accounts, being smooth, easy to play as, and one of 
 the most fluid and gorgeous characters I've ever seen. She animates gorgeously, her attacks are 
 smooth and fluid, and I found myself double jumping needlessly, just to watch her excellent animation. 
 
  
  This game modifies the series weapon system standard, instead of enemies dropping the weapons themselves, 
 they drop Glyphs, magical runes that transform into glyphs. Although you can collect as many of 
 any Glyph you desire, you can only have one of each listed. There are two kinds of Glyphs: Arm 
 (red) , which can be equipped to both your right and left arm and be used for combos and Glyph Unions, 
 a sort of Item crush that is fairly creative, as glyphs of the same kind and different kinds can 
 create different sorts of unions. Unions cost hearts (while regular attacks use MP) , and unfortunatly, 
 there are limited types of attacks, and you will discover quite a bit of lost potential when two 
 entirely different glyphs just cause the default super duper punch attack. 
  The other form is Back (blue) , which are similar to the Guardian souls of the Sorrow subseries. 
 From the Magnes grappling glyph, to transformations, to power boosters, this glyph set will prove 
 to be most useful in battle. And trust me, you'll be relying on it, because this game is wonderfully 
 hard. Ever since SotN, it seems to have been OK to be easy in the series, but then OoE comes along 
 and shakes that up, for a very refreshing change. You will die in this game, and bosses really 
 do take strategy to beat, especially since you can just spam weapons non stop. Its a very nice, 
 refreshing change for the series, and one that I want to see repeated.
  
  When it comes to music, Michiru Yamane and her new friend Yasuhiro Ichihashi (of Lunar Knights 
 and DXC fame) haven't slacked at all. A total of nearly 50 songs, with several fanservice remixes 
 and dozens of new compositions, its an excellent soundtrack. Some of the tracks are highly inappropriate, 
 however, and you'll notice some of the late boss music is, well... not fitting in the slightest. 
 Futhermore, though I enjoy it, the track labeled "Dusks Holy Mark" (the title theme, if you don't 
 recognize the name. The OST has amazing names) has been remixed far too many times. Although it 
 is more or less Shanoa's theme, it simply... gets tiresome. However, on the bright side, the cutscene 
 tracks for the story are excellent and atmospheric.
  
  Speaking of story, lets devote a paragraph to that, shall we? Order of Ecclesia has, frankly, the 
 best story of any of the DS 'vanias, and possible one of the best overall. Although I won't spoil 
 it, it had a tear-jerker ending, and a very nicely done not-so-surprising-surprise mid way. It 
 lost the happy happy joy joy style of the last two games, and its for the better. Castlevania is 
 not a bright, happy series, nor should it be. Hopefully, this is a sign of changes to come.
  
  Order of Ecclesia is a beautiful, polished game. It does indeed show signs of slight rushing 
 and missed potential in the Glyph and Level design department, however that said, the amount of 
 Rush and missed potential is far, far less than that of the last two games. With a powerful soundtrack, 
 strong story and a flat out beautiful game, this is simply one game no DS gamer should pass up 
 with out an excellent excuse. Something along the lines of childhood trauma or missing limbs should 
 work.
  
  Gameplay: Smooth, polished and fun, but lacking in some small areas. 9/10
  Story: Strong but anything but creative. 8/10
  Music: Excellent, but inappropriate in many areas. 
 8/10
  Graphics: Simply put, best 2D I've seen on the DS. 10/10
  Repeatability: A fun extra mode, hard modes and wifi, plus the sheer fun of the game should make 
 it very easy to just pick up and play at any time. 9/10
  
  Total: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brotherscampos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  If you are ha Castlevania series fan or Castlevania player this game is for you, if not rent it 
 and enjoy this new adventure.
  
  The posibility of mix attacks with diferent buttons basi X and Y, is a new experience on Castlevania 
 on the DS serie, the glyphs that you will got from the monsters make that you pursuit them, and 
 is simply and fresh.
  
  I only play the first hour but I can tell "this game is excellent I enjoy the others Castlevania 
 and Beat it on every mode I will pass this for know all the secrets soon".
  
  on few words this is other Castlevania, diferent power and diferent story from the others if you 
 dont like Castlevania is same of always.
  
  You try to kill Dracula and his empire of monsters, with secrets endings and powers; and when you 
 beat it you will have new modes Vs boses and with others characters.
  
  For that reason if you dont like the saga, all that is boring but for the fans like me is exciting.
 
  
  
  Enjoy it and 
  Bendiciones que Dios este en sus corazones siempre
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkogamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I never touched a Castlevania game since Circle of the Moon and since then I've played every single 
 CV for GBA, DS, and the one for the PSP. None have ceased to amaze me regardless of their difficulty. 
 This game is no different. I'd prefer to spare myself the difficulty of going into the redonculously 
 long description of the gameplay, other than the fact that it is innovative to the side-scroller 
 CV games. I'd rather just provide the VERY little nitpicking I had. One thing is I had a few moments 
 where I actually got some slow down (wasn't a problem for more than a couple seconds) . I also have 
 actually had the game freeze twice on me, however in both of these occasions my DS had been in 
 sleep mode for over an hour. The only other thing I have to say is that reviewers seem to think 
 that the bosses are rediculously hard. The bosses ARE hard but not so hard that you will spend 
 hours trying to defeat them. A word of advice, for more difficult boss battles, allow yourself 
 to die once while trying to figure out how to dodge the bosses attacks. If you do that, it is a 
 sure-fire way to win. The most I ever died on one boss is 3 times. 
  
  It doesn't matter if you aren't into Castlevania games, if you own a DS go buy this RIGHT NOW!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  The former Castlevania games on the most popular current-gen handheld in the world were a little 
 subpar to what we would expect in this series. One which prides itself on its beauty of presentation, 
 sound, and gameplay, which Order of Ecclesia corresponds to that magnificently.
  
  Graphics: I have yet to see a game that can push out as vivid and enhanced 2D graphics as OoE. 
 Simply stunning presentation that really identifies itself with the Wow factor, you won't get any 
 boredom here. Overall beautiful art style.
  
  Graphics Score: A well deserved 10/10.
  
  Sound: Simply spot-on. All songs are related to their environment, which is nice. Coudln't wish 
 for better ones. Very inspired.
  
  Sound Score: 10/10
  
  Gameplay: Here is where I'll go a little in-depth. 
  
  The game features a feminine heroine 
 which, in some cases, can be considered surprising since women have few protagonist roles in any 
 type of game. Anyways, Shanoa is the 'Chosen One' to free the world of Dracula's wrath and restore 
 it to its former splendor. 
  
  Don't think this is an easy game, for it's far from that. Contra 4 hardness? No, not as insane 
 as that, but it will keep you on your toes for the entire length of the game (especially the beginning, 
 due to the weak weapons you bestow) , and the bosses will break you. Don't be frustrated if you 
 can't even beat the first one, as it's a sign for much more to come and its actually one of the 
 easiest (just so you understand just how high the difficulty bar is here) .
  
  The first part of the game will have as your main objective finding and equipping better Glyphs. 
 It starts out by explaining the variety of Glyphs that exist, but if you're hoping to wield a pwnful 
 weapon early on, then prepare to get disappointed. It is not for many hours (or until you complete 
 the first section of the game) that you get the opportunity to possess a barrage of cool and finally 
 above-average abilities. However, don't diss the first part, as it makes for quite an interesting 
 part of the story. Just... think of it as a prologue to the second half.
  
  The gameplay is pretty linear. I mean, it's Castlevania, and the formula has nearly been untouched. 
 I'd say more perfected, since this game really plays like a very mulled version of something that 
 has taken years of experience to reach this level of finesse.
  
  Enemy-wise, there are lots of old, familiar foes around, but you'll also see a handful of new and 
 unaccustomed ones, which makes for a nice detail.
  
  Gameplay Score: 8.5/10
  
  Replay Value:
  
  Order of Ecclesia makes sure that its fans won't get bored with the inclusion 
 of the Nintendo Wi-Fi connection, for what I believe is a sort of race against the time mode. 
 
  
  Simply put, you race with a friend to complete a level as fast as you can. The game also makes 
 use of DS-to-Wii connectivity with Castlevania Judgment, which unlocks content in both games.
 
  
  Hard Mode is there for all the die hard fans of Castlevania, which really makes it near the easy 
 mode of Contra 4.
  
  Replay Score: 8/10
  
  Overall, Order of Ecclesia can be considered the best Castlevania game on the DS, hands-down. It's 
 beautiful artwork, amazing soundtrack, immersive gameplay and good replay value just all fit together. 
 It's not the best in the entire series, but it shines compared to previous DS installments.
  
  It sure is a gem, and a must-have game for any fan of the series. Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  This game is as good as i heard. The thing that captivates me most is the graphics are stunning, music 
 is great and the gameplay is very deep. The glyph system works well and the magic meter recovers 
 fairly fast when you aren't attacking. However there are a couple things i don't like, one would 
 be the hard boss battles, but veteran Castlevania players will like the increased challenge. The 
 other is the stupid chores you have to do for the villagers which you are forced to look everywhere 
 until you find what they want. Besides that it's a great game. The online works well, but lack of 
 modes for it are kinda disappointing. Some of the levels are rip offs from others, but that doesn't 
 really bother me. I'm new to Castlevania myself (The first one i played was Portrait of Ruin) and 
 since then I'm been a Castlevania fan. This is definitely worth buying and a must have for any Castlevania 
 fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meiaman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is very cool and good, the gameplay has new things that will develop more depth to fighting, 
 the level design is a bit simple but its good, the songs... probably the best castlevania on the 
 DS.
  
  
  
  One important thing to note is the gliph system (you wont be spending money on weapons anymore) , 
 and with that enemies now have weaknesses and resistances, that opens more possibilities as players 
 have to try diferent weapons/abilities to take care of enemies, and even using enemy weaknesses, 
 you need to know the best weapon to fight them, for example, slow moving close combat enemies... 
 the best way is to fight them with a bow so you wont get a beat up going too close to them. The 
 gliph system nows opens more possibilities than just hit and run tactics, physicals attacks now 
 uses mp, through its not much a problem because mp regenerates very fast, and makes a bit more 
 of sense, since no alive person can keep swinging a sword around non-stop.
  
  
  The songs are well placed and will fell like the surrouding ambient.
  
  
  Castlevania eclesia 
 dont have much of a grim look, its weird but the "not so grim look" of this game fits its well, 
 actually its a bit more entertaining this way (odd, taking in account what castlevania games are) .
 
  
  
  The enemies as well are pretty unique, even through you have the standard skeletons, most of enemies 
 have strange abilities, like teleporting, or dissapearing and reappering (those weird nightmares) , 
 and even a surprise attack that might get you off-guard, so sometmes you need to stop see how enemies 
 moves and attacks.
  
  
  The story is also good, its the basic "omg, dracula is gonna live, lets pwn him" but with a few 
 twists and diferences that is very interesting.
  
  
  In overall, castlevania: ooe is a very good game, if you like castlevania games make sure you dont 
 skip this one;
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: desperado2503
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  To begin with this review well... the game is tremendously awesome, the animations are basically 
 on par with Castlevania: PoR & the sound/music quality as well, The Glyph System is not completely 
 complex.. on the contrary it's quite simple though. It has some challenge, you have to be constantly 
 leveling up & getting creative on the maneuvers when fighting some bosses. The story is quite intriguing, 
 & yeah it is cannon to the other series.. the belmont clan has passed away & the vampire slayer 
 whip has been vanished... now it's Ecclesia's turn to shine.
  
  The only thing i did surely missed here was the "usual" features, you know like playing as other 
 character, etc, that would add the game more replaying value than usual... although in the upcoming 
 castlevania fighting game you can unlock Shanoa & Aeon in the game when you connect via Wi Fi a 
 DS with the Wii Console.
  
  Also not to add something obvious in hand held titles... THIS GAME IS ADDICTIVE!!! you take a 10 
 - 15 minute break only to turn on the DS & play again where you last saved the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JCDenton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  It is true, I have not yet beaten the game. I'm 5 hours into it and I am absolutely loving it. 
 Sure, the difficulty is higher than normal, but that is to me what is partially so satisfying about 
 it. 
  
  The enemies react so much more to you than in most games in which enemies are mostly automated. 
 
  
  Also, soon after the beginning of the game, you will notice that enemies may not take hardly any 
 damage from certain weapons; this is where the genius takes place. Enemies are often paired up 
 so that you cannot just clear a room with one weapon. In most of the old Castlevanias (and other 
 games in general) you would just equip your best weapon and proceed through the game until you 
 got a more powerful weapon. In OE (Order of Ecclesia) this is not so. You must switch weapons to 
 defeat enemies. So, you may be fighting one enemy and hurting him a lot while dodging another enemy 
 for whom you need a different weapon. It creates so much more strategy and requires a lot more 
 skill. You have 3 sets of Two weapons. You can switch between these 3 sets on the fly. Also, each 
 set can have a different subweapon (this is dependant upon which two weapons you have equipped) .
 
  
  These to me are the most important aspects because the gameplay is so drastically different from 
 most other action games. The animations, music, and everything else is on par or better than anything 
 else in the Castlevania series.
  
  If you don't mind a little challenge, pick this game up. This is possibly the best action/platformer 
 game on the DS, and one of the best i've EVER played. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
