-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Chibi-Robo: Park Patrol
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/chibirobo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Innovative use of the touch screen.
 Plenty of minigames to keep you busy.
 Fun and entertaining cast of characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is often very slowly paced.
 Complete lack of multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.6, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 151 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Skip Ltd.
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Oct 2, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This fun, delightful adventure takes "going green" to an entirely new level and is full of unique 
 characters and entertaining minigames. 

  The world is a grim place: All across the planet, parks are being transformed into barren wastelands 
 by pollution, and flowers have been driven nearly extinct. Only you stand in the way of a complete 
 global catastrophe, as the happiness of the entire planet is in your hands. Or something. Though 
 this may sound like a bad episode of  Captain Planet and the Planeteers , it's actually the plot 
 behind Chibi-Robo: Park Patrol. Once again, you step into the diminutive shoes of the four-inch-tall 
 Chibi-Robo as you fend off the forces of the sinister Miasmo and his sidekick Sergeant Smogglor, 
 all while trying to restore a desolate park and solve the problems of a group of toys. This delightful, 
 bizarre adventure simplifies and builds on the gameplay of the GameCube original while making innovative 
 use of the touch screen and presenting an often-hilarious story rife with colorful, insane characters. 

  The fictional company Citrusoft Robotics (finally, a benevolent corporation) , creator of the original 
 Chibi-Robo, has built a new and improved model of their tiny robot to combat the rampant pollution 
 in the world. Dubbed the Blooming Chibi-Robo, you have been donated by your creators to a small, 
 abandoned park to undo the damage pollution has done and attract new visitors, all with the ultimate 
 goal of generating happiness. You initially find yourself inside the Chibi-House, your base of 
 operations, where you meet Chet, the colorful and tragically housebound (due to a design flaw) 
 robot that assists you. He explains your mission -- to find what few flower buds remain and coax 
 them into growing and producing seeds -- and will offer questionably helpful hints all throughout 
 the game, often apologizing profusely at the drop of a hat. He also has the useful ability to convert 
 the happy points that you earn -- a numerical indication of the amount of happiness you've generated -- into 
 electricity, the most vitally important resource you will require throughout your journey.  

           Park structures like the swing become touch-screen-driven minigames.      

  You 
 see, Chibi is a battery-powered robot, and as such, you must constantly keep an eye on his power 
 level and return him to the Chibi-House when he's in need of a recharge. But because the Chibi-House 
 is a fully self-contained system, there's only so much power available in reserve, so you must 
 work hard to earn happy points in a number of ways, the most common of which is the growing of 
 flowers. Buds that are planted in fertile soil can be watered with your infinitely full squirt 
 gun until maturity, after which a little bit of song and dance, provided with the assistance of 
 your boom box, is enough to get them to reproduce; this creates joy, which you convert to watts 
 in order to power yourself. Watts also serve as the currency used to purchase new Chibi-Gear such 
 as larger batteries, faster modes of transportation, and cartridges that let you construct new 
 games and more in the park. Be warned, though: Flowers are fickle and will grow only on fertile 
 soil, something in short supply considering that most of the park has withered to sand. So what's 
 a Chibi-Robo to do? Call on the help of his friends, of course!  

  Throughout the course of the game, you will encounter a cast of strange and eccentric living toys 
 who fall prey to the mysterious Sergeant Smogglor and his Zapow attack. Drained of their power, 
 the toys are counting on you to help them out by plugging into them for a quick charge, after which 
 they offer their services to help you with park projects like tilling sand and converting it to 
 soil, building games or park utilities, or repairing broken items. Each of the diverse characters, 
 from the French-accented marionette Francois to the snowboarding penguin duo Pop and Fizz, has 
 its own backstory and motivations that are revealed to you as you work with them and ultimately 
 resolve their problems. The villains themselves are humorous and fleshed out as well, and the unique 
 interactions you have with them and the others are among the most well-done bits of the entire 
 game.  

  When not exploring or trying to grow flowers, you'll never have a shortage of things to do for 
 happy points. Every one of the games you can construct can be played; trash can be found and thrown 
 away; simple fetch quests can be performed for your friends; and flowers can be gathered and donated 
 to the local florist. On top of that, new dances can be learned from Kid Kombo, the simian mascot 
 of Monkey Burger, and park add-on cartridges can be found hidden in cardboard boxes around town. 
 Don't let your guard down too much, though, as Miasmo's minions are ever vigilant in their quest 
 to undo your good deeds and ruin your flower gardens -- but all in all they're nothing that a little 
 bit of water and elbow grease can't handle.  

  Chibi-Robo: Park Patrol also shines as one of those DS games that make effective use of the touch 
 screen. Designed to be equally accessible to lefties and righties alike, Chibi is controlled with 
 the directional pad or the A, B, X, and Y buttons while the stylus handles everything else, from 
 inventory maintenance to item control. The steering of the buggy, pumping of the squirt gun, and 
 spinning of the bicycle pedals are all actions performed with the stylus, as is the use of the 
 boom box -- each of the songs you learn has a slightly different rhythm that you must spin a turntable 
 to, and your performance determines how effective it is at coaxing seeds out of flowers. Unfortunately, 
 due to the somewhat precarious way in which you must hold your DS to gain access to the face and 
 trigger buttons while still being able to use the stylus, prolonged exposure to the game can cause 
 significant wrist cramping.  

  Visually speaking, Chibi-Robo fits in perfectly on the DS. The colorful and adorable graphics style 
 that seemed so dated on the GameCube is back and much more conducive to a handheld, and the sheer 
 sense of scale of the world that you're in as the result of being four inches tall in an outdoor 
 environment is incredibly well realized. Every object is detailed, from the smiley faces that appear 
 on mature flowers to the dark armor of Sergeant Smogglor. Perhaps most impressive, however, are 
 the animations given to each character, which go a long way toward breathing life into them. Chibi 
 is particularly vibrant in the way he quizzically turns to face you when asked a question, shakes 
 his metal booty to the rhythm of his boom box, and manipulates objects. For the most part, the 
 camera is where it needs to be and facing in the proper direction, but there are times -- especially 
 when driving at high speed -- that it likes to point the wrong way. There is a camera reset button 
 onscreen, but it's not an instant solution and is often too slow to efficiently help in time.  
 

  The sound design in Chibi-Robo is particularly well done. Each action you perform has its own sound 
 effect, usually a musical tone or scale rather than a dull noise. Walking, for example, has a different 
 scale associated with it depending on the surface walked upon. Each of these effects is entertaining 
 and cheerful, and they all complement the diverse soundtrack, which is for the most part upbeat 
 and jovial, but always well suited to the actions being performed and situation at hand. While 
 the characters themselves do not have voiced dialogue per se, each one does have a unique voice 
 that spouts off one or two words of gibberish in tandem with their lines, further reinforcing their 
 personalities and helping bring them to life.  

           That's right Chibi, shake your groove thang!      

  For all its charm, however, the 
 game does suffer from some issues beyond camera troubles and potentially Carpal Tunnel Syndrome-inducing 
 controls. The pacing of the gameplay is at times excruciatingly slow, and the switch from day to 
 night will interrupt whatever it is you're doing with no recourse -- often you'll be in the middle 
 of an important task only to be recalled to the Chibi-House by Chet, despite the fact that you're 
 a robot and you shouldn't require rest. Furthermore, as entertaining as the dialogue can be, once 
 you hear the same lines and jokes more than twice they begin to fall flat, yet they remain entirely 
 unskippable. Finally, the lack of any multiplayer functionality at all is a disappointment, as 
 showing off your park to other Chibi-Robos across the world and interacting with them through minigames 
 could have been a fantastic addition.  

  In the end, Chibi-Robo: Park Patrol is an amusing and entertaining adventure that, despite pacing 
 problems, a sometimes-bad camera, and a complete lack of multiplayer, manages to simplify and expand 
 upon the gameplay originally introduced in Chibi-Robo for the better. Few games on the DS put the 
 touch screen to such interesting use, and the large number of minigames and activities available 
 will keep you entertained for hours as you work to tweak your park at your own pace. This game 
 is available for purchase exclusively at Wal-Mart, but that shouldn't stop you from dropping by 
 to pick up a copy.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 10, 2009 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Citrusoft is sending Chibi-robos to parks all across the country..... this is where you come in. 
 You play as a little Chibi-robo, restoring a ruined, broken down park to it's former glory.
  
  You have to water flowers so that they grow, dance for white flowers to make new buds, and 
 keep smoglings from turning your flowers black. So basically, your progress is measured by how 
 many flowers you have grown. At first this seems like the only thing that you do in the game (and 
 the game can be difficult to get into at first because of constantly keeping up with your battery 
 which runs low often) , but there is much more to it. There is a town to visit, where you can make 
 and recruit friends to build things for your park. This adds more to the game, because you can 
 build structures which are actually mini-games. They are good to break up the tedium of constantly 
 tending to your flowers. 
  
  Your currency is watts, which you get from Happy Points. Watts can be used to buy useful things, 
 like battery upgrades and park structures. You can get Happy points by finding a friend a favorite 
 treat, doing well in a mini-game, selling flowers to the flower shop, and such. 
  
  The graphics are almost blindingly bright, but they suit such a cheerful game very well. The sound 
 is nice too, because there is music that goes to pretty much whatever you're doing (like riding 
 a bike, walking, or watering flowers) .
  
  All in all, the game is difficult to get into at first, but if you have patience and a tolerance 
 for slow-paced games, then do yourself a favor and try this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evtar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  This game is fun but makes you do the smae task over and over again. plant those stupid flowers. But 
 you can use you juke box to ''clone'' the flowers. You also get some vehicles for transportation 
 and cartridges to improve your park. But this game does not have has many items and no costums for 
 chibi. The story is you are a little robot who has been sent to make a park more attractive. In this 
 game ther are also bad guys who try to turn your flowers into black flowers wich dissapear at nitgh 
 and do not come back. This games story is not that good and they should have put more gameplay. This 
 game is pretty good for a wal mart only game and is a good game just to pick up and play. The game 
 is fun whene you unlock items like batteries to make your health meter go up. It is very easy but 
 annoying to kill the bad guys called smoglings. you get little cutscenes whene you meet a certain 
 amount of flowers. I recomend this game to any one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  The Original Chibi Robo was praised as being innovative and very well done, and after thoroughly 
 playing its DS counterpart i can say that the DS version is just as good, and deserves the praise 
 the original got.
  
  The 3d graphics are gorgeous and the sound holds its own, 
  and along with your various tools, the game makes good use of the touch screen.
  
  The game 
 is about Chibi Robo a tiny little robot roughly 4 inches high, and yet despite his size is able 
 to take care of a whole house. Although in this Chibi Robo a new version of the little guy has 
 been created, one who is able to water and grow plants. Of course how ever sissy and girly this 
 may sound it is still very enjoyable.
  
  The company that makes the robo's distributes a single robo to the worlds parks, so that they can 
 be cleaned up, and made green again, there fore you must fill the whole place with flowers. You 
 can also, use your happy points which you earn buy planting flowers, and getting visitors to the 
 park, to buy things like benchs and bins, and also to change the look of a part of the park.
  Of course to do those things you need to have a helper, but i wont give anything away about them
 
  
  Of course what is a game with out its villian, i wont give anything away but he's pretty ugly. 
 And can summon things to destroy your flower :o
  
  There are many other knick knacks in this game that i haven't mentioned and its a great game, and 
 a pity that such a small amount of GS users have it. So i think you should give it a try and buy 
 it, and most people shouldnt regret. Park Patrol is a very good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Chibi-Robo Park patrol is a game that I had very low expectations for. I hadn't heard too much 
 about the Gamecube game, and the fact that it was a Wal-Mart exclusive made me wonder if it was 
 a bad egg from the house of Mario. 
  
  In park patrol, you play as Chibi-Robo, a world famous 4-inch tall piece of machinery that is designed 
 to revive parks into the former green gardens they used to be. You'll have many tools and friends 
 at your disposal, but you must also defend the flowers you bloom from Smoglings, Smogglobs, as 
 well as Genreral Smogglor and Miasmo. 
  
  Aside from the primary game, there are many touch sensitive mini-games and side-quests to complete, 
 adding great legs to the game. I was able to play the mains tory for 34 in-game days, so in my 
 mind, it's easily possible to stretch your game out. 
  
  Even once your finished with the storyline, the game insists that you continue your green quest 
 to renew the park. 
  
  Combine this with a family-friendly sense of humor, simple controls, and gameplay you didn't know 
 could be addictive, I'm left wondering how Chibi didn't get more fan fare when he first landed 
 on the Gamecube. 
  
  Admittedly, the game isn't perfect, few are, but in my mind the biggest missed opportunity is not 
 making some of the mini-games multiplayer over Ad-Hoc. Some games like bowling would be so much 
 more fun with another Robo there.
  
  Also, graphically the game is above average, and looks as if the development team wasn't wanting 
 to risk any dips in frame rate, and handicapped themselves doing so. 
  
  Otherwise, all in all, this is one of my hidden gems of 2007 and should be a nice departure for 
 gamers looking for something with a lightness to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jukilum
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Chibi-Robo: Park Patrol is a great sequel to the first game, despite being a Walmart exclusive.
 
  
  This game may seem environmentalist, (well, ok, it is) but the game manages to play out like a 
 good video game that is just corny. The goal in the game is to rebuild the park from scratch into 
 a park fit for a resident. This job mainly consists of planting flowers using an infinite supply 
 of water in your syringe, and playing music at just the right speed making the flower dance and 
 if successful, spit out seeds allowing more flowers to be grown. You can also go to the town and 
 interact with toys there who will help you with your park by building park facilities, tilling 
 soil, making rivers and many more objects. There is of course a villain, who tries to destroy your 
 park by sending out smoglings which are creatures that turn your flowers into black flowers that 
 die at the end of the day. this creates a fairly smooth balance to the game.
  
  The game is mainly controlled by the stylus which was well thought out making for amazingly smooth 
 control.
  
  There isn't a very wide variety of music in the game, but it isn't the kind of game that makes 
 you want to turn the sound off. if you did, though, you would have a very difficult time reproducing 
 flowers as seen above. The sound effects are great, following in the footsteps of the first game 
 with different musical sounds for walking on different surfaces, etc.
  
  Overall, this game isn't quite as good as the first Chibi-Robo game, but it is among the best of 
 the DS games. I highly recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Pollution is spreading, and the local park has been turned into a wasteland. It's up to Chibi-Robo 
 to restore it back to what it once was, by planting flowers, defending them from Smoglings and 
 customizing the park to attract more visitors. 
  
  Chibi's initial tools are a squirter to water flower buds, and a boom box to help them grow. The 
 game is entirely played with the stylus via the touch screen, with few exceptions. For example, 
 to water a bud, you must pump the squirter by sliding the stylus up and down. To make a flower 
 grow and bloom, you pick a song from the boom box, spin the record manually and do a little dance. 
 Depending on how well you do, the flower will grow and produce more or less seeds.
  
  Chibi runs on watts, which is not only his power source but the currency of the game. You don't 
 gain them directly though, instead, any Happy Points you receive are converted into watts at your 
 little headquarters. Planting flowers, building park equipment, playing mini-games in the park 
 and doing mini-quests in town rewards you with Happy Points.
  
  Chibi's power is also needed in some occasions to power up any toys he finds. Once you power them 
 up, you might have to do a little favor for them so they will join your staff and help around the 
 park. You can't build or modify the park unless you have helpers, and you can have up to three 
 at the same time. 
  
  These characters are all very wacky, in their own way. Talking to them will sometimes give you 
 extra Happy Points, depending on your replies. There is a pair of penguins who are the spokespersons 
 for PopFizz Soda, a girl-car that has a crush on Tampa, the soldier who wants a more peaceful life, 
 a French marionette, a dancing monkey and several others.
  
  You can exchange your Happy Points by watts when you plug Chibi in to recharge. Then you can spend 
 them on park upgrades, upgrades for Chibi, stickers and cartridges.
  
  In the middle of all the work, you also have to defend the park from those pesky Smoglings. The 
 computer will alert you when they are coming, so you must go out before they do too much damage 
 and turn your beautiful flowers black. To get rid of the Smoglings, you chase them with your squirter. 
 The more they get soaked, the more the swell. When they explode, new flowers will sprout and sometimes 
 an X will appear where you can dig for treasure.
  
  This eco-friendly game is one for the whole family, simple enough for the children, light-hearted, 
 although it is a little repetitive and the young ones might get tired of it soon. As for the not 
 so young, I think there should be an option to speed up the text or skip certain scenes entirely. 
 It became a bit cumbersome to read "lets turn those happy points into watts", "lets get your fully 
 recharged" and "do you want to save now?" coming from the little helper all the time. 
  
  But that aside, Park Patrol is pretty entertaining and somehow addictive. Plus, Chibi-Robo is one 
 of the cutest things I've ever seen. I want one to help with my garden too!
  
  
  
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text, video and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=chibiroboparkpatrol 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NukkinPhuts
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 10:44 am PT
Review:  Chibi Robo is a great game, quirky, colourful with some good music. You are a in control of a robot 
 who runs on a battery and charges himself up by plugging into a socket! Bizarre though it sounds 
 he is a lovable piece of metal.
  The idea of the game is to turn a drab, flowerless park into a thriving one filled with flowers, 
 benches and other attractions. As your park gets brighter you attract visitors that in turn convert 
 into happy points. Happy points are the currency of the game, you use these to buy utilities, do 
 repairs or improvements to your park, recharge your battery etc. There are enemies at regular intervals, 
 which if left unchallenged will turn your beautiful flowers black, meaning they will wither and 
 die
  It is a very simple game but highly addictive, the only downside is that in order to save your 
 game you have to go back to your home, talk to another robot like character then save, which is 
 not very practical when you are in a hurry. Also some of the dialog with the other characters that 
 do various jobs in your park for you, gets repetitive after a while. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
