-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Children of Mana
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/childrenofmana/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Colorful, detailed visuals.
 Good music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Shallow, repetitive combat.
 way too much tedious dungeon crawling.
 relatively short quest with a poorly developed story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 6.7, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 965 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Next Entertainment
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Nov 1, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The shallow, repetitive gameplay of Children of Mana negates any nostalgic charm that the game might 
 have attempted to capture. 

  The Mana series of role-playing games from Square Enix is known for charming character design and 
 action-focused dungeon exploration. While it worked in the beginning with the classic Secret of 
 Mana, the formula has grown stale over time. The latest game in the series, Children of Mana, is 
 about as fresh as a week-old tuna sandwich. The game gets by for a short while on an appealing 
 art style, easy-to-grasp gameplay, and almost too-cute characters, but it never goes any deeper. 
 Children of Mana just puts you in one random, generic dungeon after the next, where it's your job 
 to clear each floor of enemies until you reach the boss at the end. If you die, you have to start 
 over at the beginning of the dungeon and repeat the process all over again. The overall design 
 of the game just feels lazy, and the mindless busywork that comprises the bulk of the game simply 
 isn't fun. Children of Mana looks good, with some solid though underdeveloped concepts at play, 
 but it is much too shallow to provide anything more than fleeting enjoyment.  

          It can be fun to beat up on cute little creatures... for about 10 minutes.     

  Children 
 of Mana is a sequel to Sword of Mana, which appeared on the Game Boy Advance. Just as people are 
 starting to piece their lives back together after the massive cataclysm, a new evil emerges. Of 
 course it's up to you to wield the holy sword and put an end to the evil uprising to save the world 
 of Illusia once again. When you start a game, you can choose one of four different characters. 
 Each character represents a typical role-playing archetype. There's the fighter, who has high defensive 
 capabilities and can dish out heavy damage in melee situations; the frail magic user, who is effective 
 from a distance with magic attacks; a female dancer, who is a strong magic user; and a young male 
 hero, who is a good all-around fighter with good magic and physical attack capabilities. Because 
 you're stuck with a single character for the entire game, you'll want to choose carefully, although 
 the characters don't  really  play much differently anyway.  

  All of the evil in the world of Illusia is conveniently contained within a handful of elementally 
 themed dungeons. It's your job to go to each dungeon and work your way through one floor or "zone" 
 after the other, vanquishing the boss at the end. In each zone, you have to find a gleamdrop and 
 a gleamwell, which are the key and door, respectively, to the next zone. You can leave a dungeon 
 any time to warp back to the one town in the game and change your equipment, as well as purchase 
 and sell items. However, if you leave the dungeon or die, you'll have to start over from the very 
 first zone, and all of the enemies will be revived. This is extremely frustrating because each 
 zone usually has dozens of enemies that have to be killed before you can move on, which means it 
 can take a long time to work your way through each zone. When you die on the ninth zone of a dungeon 
 and have to repeat those first several zones again, the game becomes very tiresome. Most of the 
 dungeons have fewer than a dozen zones to get through, but even a dozen zones feels like too many 
 because you have to go through all of the zones in one try.  

  Because there's nothing else to do in the game, there's also no break from the monotony of dungeon 
 clearing. There are a number of side quests that you can pursue, but they all involve trudging 
 through the same (though randomized) dungeons. Every few zones, you'll hit a checkpoint where you 
 can save your game or change your equipment; two things that you can't do while in a dungeon. At 
 the end of the dungeon, you're graded on your performance. Based on your grade, you'll be given 
 a choice of rewards such as items, weapons and armor.  

  The combat in Children of Mana is interesting for a few minutes, but it quickly settles into a 
 rut. There are four types of weapons to choose from: swords, flails, hammers, and bows. Each weapon 
 has a different attack pattern and a unique secondary function. The sword is good for slashing 
 combos but can also be used to block and deflect incoming attacks; the hammer is slow but will 
 send enemies flying around the map, causing them to take damage as they hit other creatures and 
 items in the environment; the flail has a circular attack motion that's great for clearing out 
 enemies and can also be used like a grappling hook to retrieve far-away items; the bow is a basic 
 ranged weapon, but you can also pluck the string to make music that will charm nearby enemies. 
 You can equip two weapons at a time, so if you want to dual wield a flail and hammer, or a bow 
 and sword, you can. One weapon is assigned to the A button, while the other is assigned to the 
 X button. This makes it easy to switch from using one weapon to another, without having to pause 
 the game and bring up a menu. Even so, the combat comes down to just pressing A or X over and over 
 again until all of the enemies are dead.  

          The hammer will send enemies bouncing all over the room, just try to stay out of the way. 
     

  You're also equipped with magic, but the magic system is very limited because you can only have 
 one mana creature with you at a time. This means you only get access to a couple of spells. Each 
 mana creature has different properties, as well as an attack spell and a support spell. There's 
 the fire mana, the holy mana, the earth mana, and more. When you summon your mana creature in battle, 
 it will automatically attack nearby enemies. Or you can summon the creature and then make contact 
 with it to activate its support ability, such as healing, invisibility, negating status ailments, 
 and so on. The fact that there are so few spells in the game makes the magic system feel completely 
 underdeveloped and almost pointless. It can be useful for healing yourself when you run out of 
 items, but for the most part you'll never need -- or want -- to use magic.  

  There's also a special attack gauge called the "fury gauge." As you fight, the gauge will fill 
 up. When it's full, you can activate fury mode by pressing the Select button. This makes you move 
 and attack faster, and you can also hold the attack buttons for special attacks. Unfortunately, 
 just like the rest of the combat, it feels completely unsatisfying. Instead of hacking and slashing, 
 you can hack and slash a little bit faster, but it's not worth getting excited about.  

  The final twist on combat comes in the form of special gems that you can equip to your character 
 to get bonuses, such as increased attack power or added defense. There are about 180 different 
 gems to collect, and you can also combine them to create new gems. Each gem has a specific size 
 and shape, and you have limited space to equip them. So even if you have a ton of gems, you won't 
 be invincible by any means.  

  Even with the gems, magic, and fury gauge, the combat (and thus the entire game because there is 
 nothing else) in Children of Mana is extremely repetitive and dull. Between dungeons, you go back 
 to town and talk to people to take on quests that will send you back to the very same dungeons 
 you've been through already. After you've cleared the main story quest, the layouts are randomized 
 each time you go through but theyre not any more fun to slog through all over again. Depending 
 on how many times you die and have to start each dungeon over again, you can easily finish the 
 game in less than 12 hours, which is comparatively short for a role-playing game. You can play 
 through the game again as each of the four different characters and try to complete every single 
 side quest, but once you've trudged through these dungeons, you'll probably never want to go back. 

  One way to make the game slightly more enjoyable is to play multiplayer with up to three of your 
 friends. Using the local wireless connection of the Nintendo DS, you can connect with friends to 
 form a party and then play through the game cooperatively. If co-op isn't your thing, you can also 
 play competitively and try to run through dungeons to grab as much loot as possible before your 
 friends. However, each player needs a copy of the game to play. Even with friends, the flaws in 
 the game's design are readily apparent and will limit the amount of fun you can have with this 
 game.  

          The main quests have you battling through dungeons, and the side quests have you battling 
 through... those same dungeons.     

  The saving grace of Children of Mana is the appealing visual style of the game. Right from the 
 start, you can tell this is a Mana game. From the cartoonish and cute enemies, such as the classic 
 rabites, to the colorfully detailed backgrounds and crazy-haired heroes, the game has a very charming 
 look to it. The bosses are especially imposing as they dwarf your character and stretch beyond 
 the screen. There are also some brief but impressive fully animated sequences that are interspersed 
 throughout the story, which provide a nice visual treat. The music fits the tone of the game very 
 well, with catchy and soft melodic loops that play in the background without getting annoying. 

  Children of Mana feels like a relic of game design. The simplistic dungeon crawling feels almost 
 primitive by today's standards. When playing this game, it's difficult to shake the feeling that 
 you're traveling a short path to nowhere. The gem system, magic, and multiple unique weapons are 
 solid ideas that unfortunately go to waste. The story isn't substantial enough to excuse the tedious 
 gameplay in Children of Mana, and the result is a mediocre action adventure that fails to generate 
 any excitement. Unless you're content with the most basic of dungeon crawlers, you'll be disappointed 
 by this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (83 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Amber_Blaze1717
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Children of Mana, despite the critical (which is the best word I can use without swearing) review 
 that gamespot gave it, is actually a really fun game. The storyline was a bit... thin, to be brutally 
 honest, but the gameplay was pretty good. The storyline was pretty much the only thing that needed 
 a bit of improvement.
  
  There are 4 different characters to choose from, each with 4 different colored outfits, and although 
 the drawings are in the original color that they designed, that's not much of a big deal. It's 
 not that easy of a game, so if you try to go along with the storyline without stopping to train 
 in between, you're gonna get pummeled. In the beginning, you can choose from, I think 8 different 
 elemental spirits that have different offensive and defensive abilities to aid you in battle. You 
 can customize your character by adding gems to them to improve their stats and add more in-game 
 abilities. When you level up, you have the ability to use certain weapons and armor designed for 
 that level, and when you continue to level up, you can sell the old stuff and equip better stuff 
 that you find in dungeons or shops.
  
  So yeah, good game, buy it if you like RPG, but try to stay away from it if you have bad hand-eye 
 coordination due to the fact that hitting the wrong button could make you scream. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melaniebrian
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. Its insulting that GS would score it so low. The fighting is basic hack 
 and slash, nothing inovative here, but the story, graphics, and over all charm this game has should 
 make up for any of its flaws. This game is ALOT of fun to play and is very addicting. Its story 
 hooked me right away. If you liked Lunar Nights, this game is very similar. It may not redefine 
 the genre, but what it does, it does very well. High production values from Square Enix certianly 
 help, absolutely beautiful art direction, and simple but elequent story telling make this an absolute 
 delight to play. This is a great game despite its few flaws and the lack of other quality rpg's 
 on the handhelds make this easy to recommend to most anyone. 
  This game will however fall into the LOVE IT! or HATED IT! category. Either you will appreciate 
 its art design and story telling and look past its lack of a deep combat system or you will simply 
 hate it. Also, it certianly has a distinct japanese cuteness too it that may turn some American 
 gamers off. Otaku and fans of the mana series however will certianly enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I played this game about little less than 2 years ago, and it was the first Mana game that I played. 
 I enjoyed it, but is a tad repetitive. The repetitivness of this game is the dungeon crawling. 
 After you clear a dungeon, you are back in the town. The process is the same over, and over, and 
 over again. Ahhhh. I did enjoy this game however. Even though Children of Mana has a forgettable 
 story, the music, artwork, and characters make up for it. The music in this game is awesome! I 
 enjoyed every track of it. The artwork is amazing. I really liked the designs, and the characters 
 are well drawn. The scenery is amazing too :) . You create your own character. Customize your character 
 with hundreds of weapons, armor, and accessories. You have to be at a certain level to equip these 
 weapons, armor, and accessories. Overall, solid game, a bit repetitive though, amazing artwork, 
 awesome music, great characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_smoove
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  The Good: great soundtrack; dual-wielding weapons adds some variety; nice 2D visuals
  
  The Bad: even with dual-wielding and gem customization, the game has very little depth; enemies 
 like to overwhelm you;
  
  Children of Mana is a relatively shallow experience, no matter how hard it tries not to be. There 
 are 4 playable characters, each one with unique stats. There are also 4 weapon types, of which 
 you can equip 2 at a time. By equipping the right pair of weapons, you can set up combos and get 
 out of tough situations. At any moment in the game, you can switch your weapon combination to solve 
 puzzles or just add some variation. Unfortunately, no matter which weapons you have, the game is 
 little more than alternating between the A and X buttons. "Puzzles" are little more than charging 
 up the A or X buttons in the right places.
  
  One unique aspect of CoM's battle system (really, the only unique part) , is that enemies and certain 
 environmental features bounce around when hit. Basically, this allows you to hit one enemy into 
 another (which damages both monsters to some extent) , or hit a barrel at a row of monsters. The 
 same status effects that hurt you can also hurt enemies as well. If you knock monsters into a certain 
 type of plant, they will become poisoned, and will take the same amount of damage as you normally 
 would. Unfortunately, the rebounding effect is somewhat unpredictable, and applies to the player 
 as well. Sometimes, the knock-back applied to you is completely exaggerated compared to what you 
 can do to the monsters. Ultimately, this feature isn't really noticed after the first few dungeons.
 
  
  Children of Mana tries to remain a similar experience to old-school hack 'n' slash games, so there 
 are a few limitations that seem unnecessary. For example, you can save anywhere outside of dungeons 
 (which is basically a single, small town) , but when you're inside of said dungeons, you can only 
 access the basic menu at checkpoints throughout the area. This can be annoying, since you'll level 
 up quite often between checkpoints, but can't upgrade to higher weapons until you reach a midpoint. 
 
  
  Breakdown:
  
  Presentation: There are a few extremely short animated sequences, but they feel unnecessary. And 
 there's apparently some sort of plot, but nobody will be interested in it. 5/10
  
  Graphics: It may be 2D, but it's nice 2D. Animations are a little basic, but overall, not bad. 
 7/10
  
  Sound: Epic, and occasionally beautiful. Only a few are actually memorable, though. No VO at all. 
 8/10
  
  Gameplay: Typical dungeon-crawling. Like pressing the A and X buttons repeatedly? Gems and dual-wielding 
 add some variety, but not enough. 6/10
  
  Lasting Value: The quest will take around 10 hours without side-quests. There are lots of side 
 quests, but they all take place in previous dungeons, and add no variety. If you really like dungeon-crawling, 
 the side-quests will last a few extra hours. There's also a multiplayer mode, but each member needs 
 their own copy of the game. 7/10.
  
  Verdict: If you're into dungeon-crawlers and desperately need a game that will last a decent length, 
 Children of Mana is not a bad choice. There are better dungeon-crawlers out there, such as Summon 
 Night: Twin Age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBrownie
Rating: 8
Date: May 30, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The game is highly addictive, and the story is just plain great. If you love Final Fantasy or any 
 other fantasy-adventure-RPG, then this game is a must buy.
  
  The soundtrack is just plain awsome, and is pretty good for a DS title. The graphics are great, 
 for a DS title that is. You arn't going to find better graphics on any other DS RPG besides Final 
 Fantasy, and the world is like a child coloring book- happy and filled with color. The character 
 designs are like something out of a myth, and the 4 playable characters there are add to an even 
 more excitement to the game.
  
  The only downfall is the games gameplay, which gets repetitive and boring after the first couple 
 minutes in the level. Hack, slash, hack, slash, repeat... Next floor, after next floor, after next... 
 You finger starts to feel the burn after pushing the attack button hundreds of times, and you start 
 to get a little bit fed up with repeating the same thing for hours. Bosses are epic though, and 
 add excitement to look forward to when entering the endless levels.
  
  It's an overall great game, with great visuals and music, and brought all togrther by amazing mythical 
 fantasy-like story telling. The repetitive gameplay gets on the nerves after a while, and levels 
 become boring after the first few floors. It's a decent on-the-go game to pass the time, but that's 
 about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amnesiac23
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 2:05 pm PT
Review:  The Mana series really was great at one point in time, but lately due to titles like this, it's 
 really gone downhill. 
  
  The story basically starts off in a very predictable way. Everyone is living peacefully with the 
 Tree of Mana, until one day something goes horribly wrong. A villian appears, etc. etc. We've heard 
 this all before. All this stereotyped RPG crap would be bearable if the rest of the game wasn't 
 so boring. 
  
  The gameplay was fun the first time I went into battle, and maybe an hour afterwards. Even though 
 it was only pressing one button and hitting about 10-15 monsters at a time, there was still some 
 satisfaction there. But after hours of this in every dungeon it started to get boring very quickly. 
 And the worst thing is the game doesn't hardly try to switch things up to make it more interesting. 
 It's very simple stuff, although I will admit that some of the boss battles were a little interesting 
 and were a nice change of pace from the regular battle system. 
  Another problem I have with the gameplay (it's a minor problem but it still irks me) is that the 
 game makes little to no use of the stylus. They really could have helped the gameplay and made 
 it much more innovative if they would have made use of the DS and it's stylus. 
  
  As for graphics and sound, the Children of Mana world is beautiful but sadly it doesn't fit on 
 the DS screens the right way. Everything is far too small to see well and for someone who is far 
 sighted, it was a nightmare. It most likely would have been more suited to the PSP to tell the 
 truth. 
  And now the sound. The music is nice to listen to I'll admit, but like many things in the game, 
 it could have been better. 
  
  The bottom line is, this game (like so many other games out there) is not bad, but also isn't good. 
 And what really get's on my nerves about this game in particular is that with minor changes to 
 gameplay and the graphics this really could have been a good game. Which is sad because this series 
 really needs a game to make it good again. 
  So if you don't mind hack and slash your way mindlessly through a game, feel free to check this 
 title out. But if you don't want to waste your gaming time, it's best to just skip this title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareEnix994
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  The mana serie was on a halt since Legend of mana on the playstation 1. but in 2006 Square Enix 
 lauched the "World of Mana" compilation witch children of mana took part...
  
  At first everyone will love the cute caracters. The game let you choose from four caracter (each 
 hold different attribute to follow the kind of play you use) . alot of the old mana theme is used 
 in this game... the spirits are here and most of the enemy creatures uses all the classics from 
 previous mana game. 
  
  Children of mana (CoM) is a dungeon crawling game witch sometimes gets a little repetitive. After 
 each dungeon you are brought back to the village, where you can change your fellow spirit or buy 
 sell items and even do alot of side quest.
  
  The multipayer is awsome in CoM. each player can bring their own pre-made caracter (witch can be 
 use both online and offline) . the first player that will log in will invite other friends and so 
 they will be following the quest of the first player... So using this feature means that if you 
 are stuck you can invite a high level friend to help you. Or you can be invited in a high level 
 dungeon so you can level up quickly.
  
  graphic- comparable to the Super Nintendo alot of bright colors and a charming environment.
  
 
  Sound-Pretty repetitive but most theme song will get in your head
  
  gameplay- comparable to the gameplay in sword of mana and in secret of mana... for people who never 
 played any Mana games, it is comparable to zelda on the Snes.
  
  -Conclusion-
  Ithink Com is a great buy for any mana fan and definatly a rent for whom who never played any Mana 
 games. The only con is that the dungeon crawling can repetitive, except that if you can go thru 
 with it you can expect a great finaly ( the last 4hours or so reveals alot about all the World of 
 Mana
  
  For referenses: 
  A list of every mana game (Seiken Densetsu in japan)
  
  Main serie:
  Final Fantasy Adventure (in Jp released as Seiken Densetsu)
  Secret of Mana (in 
 Jp released as Seiken Densetsu 2)
  Seiken Densetsu 3 (Never released in North-America)
  Dawn of Mana (in Jp released as Seiken Densetsu 4)
  
  Remake:
  Sword of Mana* (in jp released 
 as Shinyaku Seiken Densetsu)
  
  Other:
  Legend of Mana (in jp released as Seiken Densetsu: Legend of Mana)
  Children of Mana (in jp released 
 as Seiken Densetsu: Children of Mana)
  Heroes of Mana (in jp released as Seiken Densetsu: Heroes of Mana)
  
  
  *Sword of mana is 
 a remake of final fantasy adventure (Seiken Densetsu) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cardinal35
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves more than a 5.8. Sorry, GameSpot, I have to disagree with you on this one. 
 
  
  Children of Mana is an RPG that is pretty solid. Not the best game ever, but decent. The gameplay 
 is fun and enjoyable. You get a sword, bow and arrow, and other various weapons. I must admit that 
 is it quite relaxing to slash the enemies with the sword. 
  
  The music is pleasant. The graphics, though, are where this game shines. The game looks like a 
 watercolor painting. The vibrant colors of the game bring the characters to life. The plot is okay, 
 I've played games with a much deeper plot, but also played games with a much worse plot.
  
  Overall, Children of Mana is worth a shot. Some will probably find it too easy, but I thought it 
 was just about right for what I want in a game. You can find it out there for cheaper now, definitely 
 less than the original price of $34.99. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livefantasy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game, I think it's way better then Sword of Mana because the battle system in Sword 
 of Mana wasn't too great like the battle system in Children of Mana. Okay where do I start oh ya 
 the item selection is great because it's so simple. The weapons are a sword, flail, hammer and 
 a bow and arrow. They are a great selection of items. If you get bored with the main quest you 
 can go to the Dud Services and they will give you side quests, it's awesome. And you can call Flammie 
 to set out of the village, there's alot to do in this game. The battle system is good ,it kinda 
 gets repetitive after a while but it's fun though. The bosses are way too easy like the last two 
 bosses. I didn't like that , but it's still a great game. Here is the plot in a nutshell. A mystery 
 man came down and tried to release all of the mana in the world and now ferrick (the main character) 
 is trying to stop the mystery man and if he doesn't EVERYBODY will die!. So thats the plot. I like 
 that when you start in a new game you can pick between Ferrick, Tamber, Wanderer and Poppen and 
 that's pretty cool!!
  
  
  Thanks for reading my review.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheVGM
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  For the most part, I've had high hopes. I've played alot of the Mana games and had fun in nearly 
 all of them. A few of course don't deliver. Children of Mana is no exception.
  
  First off, the gameplay is boring. Movement is locked and grid-like and you'll find yourself hacking, 
 slashing, and throwing objects clumsily at your enemies while spells act as faulty grenades and 
 pickups. The spells of which, you can only chose one of. Not only that, but every character plays 
 somewhat the same, given there a few ups and downs in stats. The entire game fells more like a 
 dungeon delving arcade game, seeing as you must select a destination in the world map screen. Multiplayer 
 is just about as shallow with everyone running around the map like robots.
  
  Children of Mana's cutscenes feature somewhat nifty anime animations, Using both screens. Although, 
 I think that hardly makes up for anything really. The storyline features the 4 heroes, Ferrik, 
 Poppen, Wanderer, and Tamber. Each having different traits. After character selection, you may 
 choose one of 4 different color pallets for the character. Aaaaaand thats about it for the features 
 of noteworthiness.
  
  The story features the Sword of Mana going renegade against the Mana Tree. Already this sounds 
 strange, unusual, and probably loaded with awesome... I was wrong. For the most part, things are 
 a bit predictable. Normal day in village, then bad omen, then bad thing happen and someone gets 
 kidnapped, then hero goes to save the day and acquires unusual power and blah blah blah.
  
  In the end, I was disappointed. The faulty gameplay just kills the game overall. If the gameplay 
 was good, however, the latter cruddy features could've been brushed off. I'd say this game is not 
 worth buying, however, if you're a fan, I'd say rent it, but that would probably be going a bit 
 far in itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livefnalfantasy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awesome RPG/dungeon crawler.
  The lovely art draws you in, and after that you are quickly refreshed with a wonderful button smashing 
 battle system.
  The battle system gets quite repetitive until you are met with different difficulties, and various 
 types of formats and enemies.
  The game has quite a confusing plot so much that I am not able to explane it in written form.
 
  Yet it is simple to understand if you pay close attention.
  The Item selection is beautifuly done.
  One sad fact is that the text is a bit sloppy and immature, 
 but what else can you get out of a Mana game?
  You can also choose between four characters... Tamber, Poppen, Wanderer, and as the main character 
 Ferrick, each character will have a different background to they're lives, but your story will 
 still follow along the main plotline.
  Wow... the music??? Some types it can be quite techno, yet some are inviting!
  Well. That's all 
 I got. You need to go out and Get it, Play it, Beat it, and Rate it! Enjoyee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolflink001
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 10, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  
  On November 1st of 2006 a Mana title was released on the Ds called Children Of Mana. Believed to 
 be ether a sequel or prequel to the Sword Of Mana title on Ds, this game to me was a little off. 
 In fact, it felt like another thrown together spin-off that Final Fantasy is suppose to be known 
 for. I don't have much to say about the storyline in this Mana title because it was so short, thoughtless, 
 and pathetic.... But here goes.... SAVE THE MANA TREE FROM ITSELF!!! What the hell? How do I save 
 a tree from itself??? The storyline of Children Mana just threw me off. It was so thrown together 
 that even the summary on the back of the case seemed to be falling apart! You start off in a town 
 at the edge of the Mana Tree on an Island called Iillusia. By the way, that's the only town in 
 WHOLE GAME! Everything else is just dungeons. I mean I love dungeons but only one town? Get real! 
 Pleeeeeeeeeeeeeease! But the storyline pretty much tells you a tale of how the Sword Of Mana defied 
 the Mana god. Or something like that.....!
  
  
  Gameplay: Hack slash, Hack slash, Hack slash, and that is it. Sure the spirits are involved but 
 really its hacks slash...
  
  
  Graphics: Not nearly good enough to be even on the Ds. To tell you the truth, Sword Of Mana on 
 the GBA had better graphics, a better prepared storyline, and not a sucky cast of characters! There's 
 a freaking bunny guy in Children Of Mana! What the hell? Only thing to me that was cool about this 
 game was the opening trailer and the ending. That was nice.
  
  
  Music: I give Children Of Mana its props. It has cool music. The Mana Tower music I thought was 
 nice. But that's it really...!
  
  
  Value: Well.... This Mana title was a dozy. Not only short but uninspired. This title lacks that 
 essence of creativity that I love about Mana. If you decide to get it, it will be the worst Mana 
 title in your collection! The Mana Lord I thought was the most bad ass villain next to Julius ever 
 thought of in the series of Mana until he turns into a damn pansy, GIVES THE SWORD OF MANA BACK 
 TO YOU, and then throws himself into pit for a little stupid baby that does not know who the hell 
 it is or about the immense power that it possess! WTF!
  
  
  Tilt: Well overall really... Would I recommend this game to you? Well.... I recommend you find 
 it USED!!!!! It's not a horrible game it just lacks the stuff that could have made it a better 
 game. I have played worst games on the Ds and this game isn't THAT bad. Yoshi's Island Ds I believe 
 is the WORST title on the Ds! Children Of Mana has wireless multiplayer but that pretty much the 
 fun right there. Playing one player will bore you and then piss you off in the end!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doinkdoink
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 1, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  I liked this game but it was entirely to easy. i liked that there was plenty of monsters to kill 
 but I just got tired of it to fast. all it seem to be was you clicked one button repeatedly and 
 that made it no fun for me. there wasn't that many places to go to either. that is what bored me 
 the most. I'm the kind of person that doesn't like to spend three hours looking at the same places 
 over and over. all in all I would say this game is mediocre. my opinion about this game is dont 
 waste your time to even buy it because you will probably just end up getting bored with this game. my 
 advice would be to get a game like "Zelda and the Phantom Hourglass." but hey, it is up to you 
 on what you want to play. I'm just here to give some friendly advice. zelda is a lot longer and 
 it is a lot more fun. you would definitley like this game if you got it. thank you for reading my 
 review and if you are still reading this please give your feedback on what you think of my review 
 on "Chlidren of Mana." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  OK, let's get one thing out of the way. Screw the SoM loyalists who have trolled negative, poorly 
 edited reviews for every Mana game released in the States after Secret of Mana.
  
  Yes, this is not the same type of game as SoM, but anyone without a stick in their anus will sure 
 as shoot be able to enjoy this game if they are fans of the dungeon crawler type of RPG.
  
  I will list some positive and negative things about this game.
  
  The Bad
  -Bizarre physics 
 system can be frustrating and chaotic (especially when you use the hammer, but it was definitely 
 designed that way for a reason) *
  -The Sword of Mana magic system has been carried over (The best magic system was in SoM or LoM, 
 but LoM's couldn't work in this type of game) , making the Mage character, Poppen, relatively worthless 
 as he can only have 1 attack spell and 1 support spell equipped at a time. In my opinion, the magic 
 system brings the game down more than anything else.
  -Since it is a dungeon crawler, you can only play it for so long before the hacking and slashing 
 loses its charm for a while.
  -Fury gauge fills up too slow. If it filled up faster, it would've been an awesome feature, but 
 you need to make use of the gem-frame to make it any use at all.
  -There's a somewhat sad absence of story-telling that has been strong in almost every other game 
 in the series.
  
  The following are items that others have complained about that I myself either don't mind or just 
 never have a problem with.
  Common Complaints:
  -Monster grinding gets tedious... It's basically one button over and over: True, but if you feel 
 like using the magic in the game, you're certainly welcome to, and it does help. You can also take 
 advantage of the game's extra special attacks if you use the gem-frame wisely and use various weapon 
 types for added variation.
  -It's too easy to run into your elemental summon and set off a support spell instead of the attack 
 spell you wanted... IMHO, this only happens to idiots. Never once has it happened to me, so don't 
 listen to this deep-digging BS.
  -Gamespot's bias toward the classic Mana games of yesteryear seeps through in their hate-filled 
 unfair review of this gem... For example, they say it seems like "Children of Mana feels like a 
 relic of game design. The simplistic dungeon crawling feels almost primitive by today's standards" 
 but I disagree entirely. Children of Mana does something quite unique; it takes an old Dungeon 
 Crawler RPG like Diablo and mixes it with a console RPG, and the result is something rather genuinely 
 new. It in no way feels dated or primitive to anyone with a half-open mind.
  
  The Good
  -Tons of customization from picking one of four characters, one of four character colors, naming 
 (duh) , and the spectacular gem-frame system allows you to develop which moves and strengths you 
 choose based on your fighting style.
  -Multiplayer is fantastic (yet sometimes chaotic if you're not careful)
  -The game never claims 
 to be anything but a dungeon crawler in its presentation, and it does this extremely well
  -The musical score is excellent
  -I read a review that said CoM's graphics were basically "ported 
 to the DS" from Sword of Mana, but clearly, they've never played either game if they can say that. 
 The graphics quality is virtually the same calibur as LoM, and thus, gorgeous.
  -Dozens of familiar characters and monsters (Niccolo is one of the four player characters to choose 
 from, under the guise "Wanderer")
  -The story, while a little weak, is coherent and much easier for a literate person to follow than 
 most of these reviews would have you believe.
  -Easy to comprehend controls provide a small learning curve that can make anyone an adept inside 
 an hour.
  -Tons of side-quests and "Dud Bear Service" jobs to do that will keep you busy for hours at a time, 
 if you let it.
  -Dual-wielding makes for a very convenient gaming experience... The ring menu also returns very 
 nicely in this game to better organize item and weapon use (but you may also use the touch screen)
 
  -I believe there are seven different dungeon systems, all looking completely different and featuring 
 different enemies and hazards. NOTE: While the entire game is go to town, go to dungeon, rinse, 
 lather, repeat... the same can be said of any game in the dungeon crawler genre, and some of these 
 were masisve hits (Diablo II anyone?)
  -The bosses are giant mana beasts very much in the spirit of all the other mana games. This is 
 one area where CoM regains its classic SoM feel.
  
  If there is a need, I'll add things to the above categories as I realize or remember something, 
 but I think this is a relatively complete list.
  
  The reality is this: CoM, standing on its own, is a great dungeon crawler. Is it SoM? No. Every 
 Mana game since SoM has pushed the genre barrier in a new way, and it has always met with mixed 
 reviews. Well my review is not mixed. I submit that this game is a resounding success in its own 
 right. It's a great game that shouldn't be overlooked by fans of the Mana games, or just general 
 good plain fun. If you're looking for depth of character development and customization, its got 
 that. Lots and LOTS of side quests, sub quests, main quests, item collecting, etc. to be done... 
 Tons of monsters are ready to try to overwhelm you, but if you keep leveling up on schedule, you 
 should be fine! No worries.
  
  All in all, the game is great and I rate it superbly. Pick up a copy. Have your friend grab one 
 too, because everyone agrees, the multiplayer kicks ass. Thanks for reading, I hope I was able 
 to help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragons06
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Children of Mana was entertaining for a while but the repetitive, simplistic, single button combat 
 will eventually wear down even the most stalwart fans. 
  
  The story in Children of Mana breaks no new ground, serving only to set the backdrop for the different 
 environment in the game. It revolves around a psychopathic demi-god hellbent on flooding the world 
 with Mana, destroying/purifying the world in the process. Your character, one of 3 choices in the 
 beginning of the game, sets out to stop him (obviously) .
  
  Your quest takes you to a variety of locations such as an Ice temple, a Desert, a Dark Cave, and 
 even a few traditional dungeons. Each location is remarkably similar to the original Diablo, just 
 without the fun. Each 'stage' consists of numerous 'levels' in which the objective varies occasionally 
 from killing all the enemies to finding the key that opens the potal to the next level, where you 
 do it over and over until the end of the stage. Every 4 levels you are given the option to Save, 
 change equipment, or return to town. It is important to note that choosing the "return to town" 
 option in order to stock up on potions or gear means you lose all progress in the dungeon and have 
 to begin again at the beginning when you return (with all the enemies respawned) . In this manner 
 the game quickly gets repetitive since the stages quickly increase in size, numbering up to 20 
 levels per stage, culminating in a simple boss battle.
  
  Combat, as alluded to previously, is incredibly simplistic, involving merely facing your opponent 
 and hitting the attack button over, and over, and over to string together rudimentary combos. While 
 you begin the quest with only a sword, over the first few stages your character acquires a few 
 new weapons which, unfortunately, do little to improve gameplay. They are mostly used to solve 
 simple puzzles in the level. Almost all of these are optional and simply involve using the hammer 
 to smash the big rock blocking the room with the treasure chest.
  
  Another one of Children of Mana's numerous problems is the uneven difficulty. Children of Mana 
 is a short game, which is made even longer because of the constant, level grinding required to 
 advance. Early on, stages are short and easy (4-6 levels) , but after a little while the monsters 
 on almost every new stage make ridiculous level jumps that force you to repeat old stages to gain 
 a few levels in order to advance. However, once you reach the point where enemies can no longer 
 kill you with one attack, the difficulty drops off a cliff again. If the first 2-3 levels out of 
 15 in a stage are impossible, then you could watch TV while mashing the attack button and still 
 make it through the rest. Boss fights are always over in a couple of hits if you are of high enough 
 level, which is guaranteed if you managed to make it through the hordes of fodder in its respective 
 stage.
  
  The game is not totally bad though. One idea that showed some promise was the use of gem collecting. 
 In the game the hero finds many small magical gems that can be fitted into a "gemframe" that he 
 carries. This can bestow many useful properties such as greater attack power, additional attacks, 
 or more powerful magic depending on the type of gem used.
  
  In the end the game solidly nails the mechanics of an action-RPG, however it suffers from a huge 
 lack of depth and variety. The only difference between each stage is its appearance. All levels 
 in all stages use similar map layouts that aren't especially large and take minimal time and effort 
 to navigate. Furthermore, for a game on the DS, it implements NO touchscreen features except menu 
 navigation which may be a disappointment to many fans.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cradleofbodom
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  I remember playing the snes versions of mana, they were some of the best games out there in my 
 opinion. So I thought this would be similar. It's a little bit the same, but its lacking some important 
 features and the magic behind it all. This one seemed like a cheap remake of the game that was 
 out there to pull in a few bucks instead of staying to the magic that made the game fun and entertaining. 
 If you have to get a handheld RPG that's kinda like the original mana games, try Golden Sun: the 
 lost age for GBA, that game is my all time fave for the gameboy advance and probably my 3rd fave 
 game in the world. I hope they make the 3rd golden sun for NDS if they do decide on making it. 
 Anyways, if you like cheesy rpg games, then this is a game for you, if you played the originals, 
 don't bother with this one, it will only make you sad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeppelin_64
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  
  This game kept me occupied for quite a while. But as I progressed it got boring, and it felt like 
 a chore to finish it.
  
  7/10 GAMEPLAY
  
  This was satisfactory. It was very repetitive. Go finish a dungeon, come back to town, do it over. 
 There was only I think one time in this game where I got stuck, but I still did not need to consult 
 a FAQ. Also, it was mostly just button mashing. There was almost no strategy involved to beat this 
 game. This was much too easy.
  
  8.5/10 GRAPHICS/SOUND
  
  The reason I gave this what it got is because of the music. I absolutely loved the music. It was 
 my favorite part of the game. All of it completely fit the scenario it was put into. It blew me 
 away. The graphics on the other hand, were not so good. It just bothered me how it looked so pixelized.
 
  
  6.5/10 PLAYTIME/REPLAYABILITY
  
  It took me about 25 hours to finish this game, and I took my sweet time. I've played it for about 
 34 hours now, but the extra 9 hours put into side quests and stuff like that was just a waste of 
 time. There's really no reason to replay this game unless you absolutely loved it the first time 
 through.
  
  FINAL RECOMMENDATION
  
  I advise you not to buy this game unless you are a hardcore Mana fan, which I'm not really, seeing 
 how this was my first Mana game. I don't think it's worth what you pay for it, unless it's under 
 $20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagaron_x
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  For us who is old enough remebers the old Secret Of Mana, A game so fantastic and beautiful, it 
 had it all, A wonderful Story, A all to love gameplay,
  And the graphics was stunning.
  
  But as always they have to almost milk the game untill there's nothing left.
  
  
  I was afraid 
 that Children of mana would be just nothing, At first i thought i was right, Because the game doesn't 
 look much to the world at the beginning.
  But as i come further into the game the more it starts too shine, i start too see those things 
 that made the Secret Of Man Games so beautiful,
  The graphics arent so bad and the gameplay is just as it should be and then we have the most important 
 thing ... the story....
  
  The Story is beautiful but still a bit lame...
  You see everything is there (all the parts that should be in a Mana game)
  The Mana tree (Obviously) , 
 And we have the Sword Of Mana.
  But somthing isn't right, Somewhere between the Mana Tree and Sword Of Mana the story loses it's 
 self, But the story findes it's way back, And when it does you just forget that hour with no story.
 
  
  The story takes place in the world of mana,
  Ten years after a cataclysmic-war between the godess of mana (and all good living things) and the 
 forces of evil.... (the godess wins) you start out in the town of Mana as a young Hero ,
  everything seems fine.... Untill..... People and spirits start to talk about how the world have 
 started to act crazy, and one of the town priestess (Tess) say that she fellt disturbing feelings 
 from the Mana tree. And there the game starts ( i aint gonna say one more word from the story i 
 dont want to spoil) ....
  
  The Graphics are just as it should be in a Mana game...
  it looks just like a candymaker's wet dream, Its super cute with like sugar colours or should i 
 refer to pastel colours?,
  but the graphics does it 's job, and i like the little Anime videos that they play sometimes (very 
 neat) ...
  
  For the characters i dont realy know what to say (i have only played as one of the four playable 
 characters)
  But what i can say about them is how nicely they are done,
  They are very beautiful and very cute.
  
  (character list)
  
  Ferrik : A youth who lost 
 his family in the cataclysm. Stout-hearted and generally dependable, but with a bransh and reckless 
 side...
  
  Tamber : An experienced dancer and acrobat, Tamber lost her family in the cataclysm. She has not 
 lost her strong sense of duty, Though.
  
  Wanderer : A restless nomad, The Wanderer has taken a special liking to illusia. (island of the 
 Mana tree) Poppen : Fearless despite having to grow up on his own, Poppen regards Ferrik and Tamber 
 as his true brother and sister.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  As Closeup words i say.... if you liked the old Secret Of Mana... you would probably like this 
 game, just give it a fair chance. Because it got a lot to give and all it wants its just a bit 
 of your time, and it's worth it, every single minute, it's just a misunderstood love....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougphisig
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  Well this will be my first review i've done on GameSpot, but i think this game deserves a chance. 
 I haven't played of of the series only playing Secret of Mana and Sword of Mana. But based off 
 those games i would rate this between them rating secret as my favorite and sword as my least of 
 those 3 and this in between. When this came out i had been looking for something decent to play 
 and remember how much i loved The Secret of Mana growing up i figured I would give it a chance. 
 Personally I enjoyed the story and enjoyed playing through another Square game they tend to make 
 the best. If your looking for something to pick up for the DS RPG wise this is definately one for 
 those that enjoyed the previous games. The only things i didn't like were the magic system which 
 i preferred the system they used in Secret of Mana compared to this and Sword of Mana, and i also 
 still liked the weapon upgrade system better from Secret. I hate to compare it so that's the only 
 things that i compare. If you got the time it's definately something worth picking up to mess around 
 with if you enjoyed other games from this series I think it would be worth giving a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnnoyMe
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 7, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  I purchased the game used and paid $7 less than the new price so i'm not complaining their. However, 
 after about 60 minutes of gameplay I got rather tired of the repetativeness. The game has good 
 qualities. The story is ok. The graphics aren't the best but they could be worse. You would think 
 by now that DS game makers would utilize the full potential of the DS system. Very few have done 
 so to date. This is the first Mana series game I've played. I'm impressed by the manufacturer, 
 but they have in my opinion done far better with the Final Fantasy line. To each his own. This 
 is only my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phubbadaman
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 19, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect with this game. What I didn't get was a Secret of Mana type game. 
 You have a hometown, get a quest/sidequest from there, and then choose your destination and you 
 are magically there. Then you fight within a dungeon, finish your quest, and you go back to your 
 hometown. The game could have been better with a worldmap to allow for wandering. The magic system 
 was lame as well. You can only use one out of eight magic classes and if you level up your magic, 
 your physical attacks will suffer greatly. I only played the game through with one character, and 
 you are given the option of 4, I can only assume each is slightly different and it wouldn't change 
 the game much. Despite all its problems, it took me a decent amount of time to beat and was fun 
 enough that I didn't put it down. If you are looking for a great game, this isn't it, but its fun 
 enough to play if you are a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ulfern
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 16, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Although, you have to enjoy dungeon crawling and repetive hack and slash, ah..... the story is 
 a bit boring, because it really never surprises you, although I found the presentation of the story 
 amazing for a ds. (that surprised me and gave me these little lovely chills) I mean, there are 
 actually itty bitty small, but no doubt beatiful anime-cutscenes scattered around in the game, 
 which really wanted me to see more.
  
  The music and atmosphere is great, which really is what makes me love the game.
  Still I can't 
 really tell you if you like it or not, because it really depend on what person you are, truly..... 
 you have to test if for yourself, and you have to know what kind of game it is before you buy it, 
 because if you buy expecting something it appears not to be... then, well.... you are going to 
 probably hate the game forever so......... think of the game as a hack and slash game, with some 
 rpg elements.
  and don't compare it to the other mana games, that is where the game's shine weakens......
  OH! 
 and I forgot to mention that visuals in the game are absolutely wonderful and so stylish that I 
 want to kill a bird and eat him!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noebunaga_7
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 2:19 am PT
Review:  OOOk here we go!
  
  Well, I'll describe the story, but I might include some accidental spoilers. The world of mana 
 is in danger once again due to darkness engulfing the mana tree. The mana Lord is the one to blame, 
 but he claims that he is only Fufilling the Mana godesse's wishes . Weird, eh? You play the role 
 of one of the four characters, and there's co-op, so that adds to fun.... I think. (I've never 
 played co-op) This is a dungeon hack'n slash RPG, so you level up, buy new weapons, and there's 
 a new little twist; You use gems on a gem grid for upgraded stats. You can also combine gems for 
 better affect.
  
  Bad news guys, this game is repetetive! VERY. You mash the a button the whole time. You can use 
 bows, flails, and hammers to cut your way through. There's a thing called questing you can do for 
 the Dunabears (uhhh) for additional exp., weapons, money, and stuff like that. But all that is 
 is more hack'n and slash'n. Also, there are sweet summons you can use, like Gnome, Shadow, and 
 other stuff. (There's 8 total summons) The graphics are pretty nice, colorful and detailed. Nice 
 job, Square. The character designs are goofy and cool, also nice and detailed. The sound is very 
 catchy, but gets old. There's no voice-work here, just text. But that would be werid. The replay 
 value is kind low, considering that it's one ofthe most repetetive games I've played. This is my 
 first Mana game, and it's left a good impression on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spikee_cowz16
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  This game has good graphics. The game play needs a little work cause it's just too simple and too 
 boring. If Square Enix brought in some awesome Final Fantasy Style summons or spells and gave us 
 more eye candy, then maybe I'd play it all the way through. It takes too long to level up my character 
 before moving onwards in the game. I keep going back to the same ol' dungeons to make my character 
 strronger and to collect more money. I hate the fact that the character has to be a certain level 
 in order to equip certain armor or weapons. I guess I'm gonna return this game to my cousin a. s. a. p. 
 Shoot, I don't want it any more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hobbez_13
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Children of Mana IS a repetitive game, then again a lot of hack and slashes are. While the story 
 holds true to its predecessors in where one wakes up finding themselves in a town and land being 
 over run by monsters and it is up to you to save the day, the game play just isnt the same. Hacking 
 your way though dungeon after dungeon, leveling up, buying gear, ect is similar, but only having 
 one character with you is quite disappointing (talking about Secret of Mana from the SNES) . Magic 
 in Children of Mana is pretty much a joke. Using any player you can pretty much go though the game 
 with out the usage of magic. It may come in handy if you take on a tougher castle with very little 
 leveling, but it is still hard to hit the enemy unless they are bundled together. Where is the 
 magic users targeting and knight protecting them taking the blunt of the attacks? The multi player 
 addition is a nice touch, but really doesnt add much to the game. Sure its fun getting in a group 
 and beating up some guys, but there is still very little difference in character usage. Most players 
 pick the same character, and even those that pick the Magic user do not use magic much. Even 
 the items that can only be found in multi player are useless, unless someone just starting out 
 is there to pick them up and get help leveling up. The most annoying thing is going though dungeons. 
 Each stage you have to go though 6+ floors and there are only two different floors for each. You 
 continually see the same floor plan over and over and over again till you wonder why you are even 
 here. It isnt until the last few levels that the floor plan actually changes for each floor even 
 though it is only small changes. At least in those you cant just walk though it blind folded. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hypochondria9
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game is no way a classic but if you can pick it up for cheap it is worth the purchase, if 
 you like dungeon crawlers. It was not as good as it could have been because it didnt follow the 
 original formula that Secret of Mana had, but it is still a fun game. You can pick between 4 characters 
 each one a bit different than the others in look and strength in both magic and physical. When 
 you complete a dungeon you fight a boss that requires a certain strategy to beat and you are given 
 a rank at the end of each main dungeon and you pick an item, depending on how good you did is how 
 good the item is. The magic system lets you pick between a bunch of different spirits, you can 
 carry one at a time and each one has two different powers. I thought the magic system was lacking 
 and playing through the game I found it much easier to hack and slash my way through bad guys then 
 letting the spirit loose to kill them. There is 4 different weapons you get: a sword, flail, bow 
 and hammer. You can hold two different weapons at once and use the X and A button to use them, 
 it is easy to switch between them and you can do it in the middle of combat if you like. The main 
 reason I like the game is the gems, gems do a variety of things: they increase attributes, level 
 up your spirits, provide protection from poison, paralysis, etc, increase your experience gained, 
 power up your weapons, and more. You find gems and can buy them, you can also fuse your gems to 
 make more powerful ones. I found the gems that power up your weaponry the best, lets take the bow 
 when you get it it shoots one arrow that hits one person, with a certain gem your bow now shoots 
 3 arrows at once in a shotgun manner and each arrow pierces enemies so you can hit a ton in one 
 shot. The enemies are stupid they will walk on spikes to get to you and seem not to notice they 
 are hurting themselves so for the most part the game is quite easy, the only time you may die is 
 when you walk into the middle of like 6 enemies spawning. There is one thing I hate sometimes about 
 the game is the bouncing, you hit one bad guy who goes flying into another and pretty soon they 
 are all flying around and all taking damage, well I thought it was nice at first until they start 
 doing it to you and you may find yourself being smacked around for a while, it gets a bit ridiculous 
 sometimes and can be annoying. Overall the game is fun if you like dungeon crawlers it has lots 
 of side quests the story is good but nothing special, it is very linear there is the one town and 
 the rest is dungeons that all you do is click on to go into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mason95
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I had some high hopes for this game. I was really thinking that this was going to be as good and 
 fun as Secret of Mana, but I was wrong again. I really don't know if it's me, but I would have 
 been satisfied with a DS release of SoM or even Seiken Densetsu 3. Another complaint is the multiple 
 charecters. Other than attributes, looks and different scripts it's all the same and very little 
 replay value IMO. I mean every dungeon is find the gleamdrop and gleamwell go to the next zone. 
 Their is no point in buying any weapons or armor cause you will just find it all when you get to 
 the stronger dungeons. It's just a disappointment, if you like the Mana series check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROK3RO
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  When I watched videos and pics of this game I thought this game would be very fun to play. But 
 when I tried it out, it wasn't as good as I expected.
  
  You start off in a village, which is the only town in the whole game. Then you beat your way through 
 dungeons, which you have to hack and slash ALOT, and find a gleamdrop and drop it in the gleamwell 
 over and over again.
  
  The graphics are not a good fit for the DS. It would be very good if it was for the GBA, but not 
 the DS. The music is a nice-try, but mostly fails to reach what it was goaling for. The effects 
 are okay, but you wouldn't take it too seriously in this game.
  
  It takes a while to finish the game, so you can't give a review real fast. What I can say about 
 this game is that this game is a nice-try fantasy . The storyline is what helps the fantasy stay 
 alive.
  
  Yet, the people who would most likely look through the game's faults and deal with its repetitive 
 gameplay would surely have a hard time putting the DS down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  GOOD- Easy combat; 180 magical gems; colourfull graphics; BAD- Rubbish customization; boring story; 
 repetative gameplay; no touch screen involved; rubbish boss battles
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Thinking that its from Square-Enix i'd thought Children Of Mana for the DS would be a great game, 
 but i was disapointed that it fails to impress me like they do with there fantastic Final Fantasy 
 Series. The main probblem with the game play is that its very repetative and boring, all you do 
 is press one button to attack so its like a Hack N Slash game. but to brack the hack n slash theres 
 another weapon for an other button so it is a eeerm.... Hack, Slash N Other Slash.... yeh.... anyways 
 moving on, the Customization, there is'nt alot for the customs apart from you can find lots of 
 Magic gems throughout the game which had potensial but never made it, these gems slot into a container 
 fearther on your container will get bigger and bigger and more gems you can put it, these gems 
 increase your Attack, Defence, speed or even the power of your own Mana.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics are very colourfull and greatly artistic but the repetative dungeons you come across 
 which are pretty bland lowers the score.
  The framrate holds up fine with no bugs or glitches or no gimmiks. The level deisgns are huge but 
 there pretty much the same all the way through, i dont mean all dungeons are alike, i mean like 
 the 1st dungeon is all the same on each floor.
  
  SOUND:
  Sound is pretty good with some nice melody but nothing special.
  
  OVERALL:
  Overall. Children 
 Of Mana is not a brillaint game, its very repetative and will bore you within hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManaNick
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Well... I don't want to bash on this installment of the Mana series, but I think I will have to. 
 A big disappointment, especially when you play the other Mana games.
  
  Gameplay: Since a lot of the gameplay comes from button mashing, and the occasional spell casting 
 (although you don't really use your spells) , the random dungeons become a chore to get through, 
 especially when you have to clear 20 zones. Gem system is cool, but not too deep in terms of cool 
 stones, quests for the stones etc. However, the Dudbears are always a kick when it comes to requesting 
 jobs :D
  
  Graphics: Good use of the graphics although there's nothing out of this world about them. Not much 
 to say, except that it's not an eyesore to look at (nice attention to detail) .
  
  Sound: The music is very catchy, although if you are in the 19th zone of a continent and you just 
 want it to end it can get a little annoying. Still, good music!
  
  Value: Since there are multiple characters you can choose from, although they all follow the same 
 story line more or less, not much is different with each play through. Multiplayer is not as fun 
 as it would seem.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I might go back and play the game if I feel like I need to refresh my mind about 
 the game/storyline but other than that, I don't play it a lot because of the monotony of the zones.
 
  
  Overall not a *bad* game, but it could have been a lot better, I am sorry to say not a very good 
 game by Mana series standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starrstrkk
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  This game is underrated, but it depends on the type of games you like. If you like Dungeon Crawlers, 
 this game is a must have. It is very similar to the Pokemon Dungeon Mystery: Blue Rescue Team. 
 The graphics and sound are really good. In fact, the graphics are some of the best for the DS so 
 far. The game play gets repetitive, but what dungeon crawler doesn't. It is great for playing in 
 short bursts because you can save often. I think that the reason it has gotten such low ratings 
 is because it carries the Mana Name, but not Mana gameplay. This is not a typical role playing 
 game - It is a DUNGEON CRAWLER. There are several side quests to complete that make this game last 
 a while. The main quest only gives about 10 hours of game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aal9922
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:25 pm PT
Review:  this game is a little bit like maplestory but the only difference is that the game is not a online 
 game. this game is a very good game to play for those who like final fantasy. everyday i sit on my 
 bed and play this game. gs should've made a better score than this for this game because this game 
 is pretty good and someone can easily get addicted to it. if you like final fantasy, then you should 
 get this game. here are the goods and bads for this game.
  
  good: theres lots of information in each part of the game which makes the game seem like it makes 
 sense, cool battling system, gameplay is pretty good, and you go back to the city when you die.
  
  bads: gumdrops are stupid, graphics could've been better, weapons could look better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indra_agustia
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  We will have the option to select 1 from 4 heroes before starting the adventure. We will be able 
 to have multiplayer games for up to 4 players. The game play is quite repetitive, but it is fun.
 
  The story is good, a lot of side quest to be done.
  The graphic and sound is okay.
  
  Overall, I think it is a good value compare to some other boring expensive games. This game is 
 really under-appreciated, the player review is much better to follow. It is best to find this in 
 the discounted bin instead of buying it full price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: its_liljesse
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  alright so i was a little dissipointed when i started to play this game. only because the game 
 gets old and old fast. the graphics where alright story line was boring and the all around hack 
 slash game play didnt offer much. this game was deffinatly a dungeuon crawler and kinda boring 
 and verrrry repetivitve. i have never played a mana game in my life and well this might be the 
 last. i advice those people who want to try it out to just rent it first before buying it trust 
 me it isnt all that great.
  
  goods
  *fun in the beggining
  * graphics are alright
  
  bad
  *sound is repetivite
  *nothing but hack and slash boring gameplay
  *story line sucks
 
  *gets old FAST!!
  
  turst me just rent it before you decided wether you want to buy itor not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 5.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I expected alot from Children of Mana. Though this was my first Mana game, I'd heard 
 great things about the series. However, in the end, Children of Mana was nothing more than a subpar, 
 button-mashing dungeon crawler. The game basically involves you going to different multi-levelled 
 dungeons, hacking and slashing your way through hordes of monsters with no real variety, until 
 you find the key to the next floor and the place to put that key. The game features possibly the 
 worst magic system that I've ever seen in a game, where basically you hold B and then release to 
 summon your chosen summon spirit, and then if you leave it alone it will do an area of effect spell 
 to those around it, or if you run into it then you will receive a support spell (e. g. giving your 
 weapon a fire attribute) . The fighting has absolutely no depth or complexity to it what-so-ever, 
 and the whole set-up of the game is just plain repetitive. Still, to give the game credit, I did 
 find it to be enjoyable at times, so it wasn't a complete waste. But overall, it just gets too 
 repetitive if you're playing over long periods of time, and it can get frustrating at times (especially 
 when you go from half health to 0 in one shot because a pumpkin exploded, causing you to have to 
 redo 20 minutes worth of stuff...) .
  
  The storyline was also pretty bad. To be honest, I didn't really understand it. It starts going 
 on about benevodons and malevodons and things like that, and to be honest, my knowledge of what 
 a benevodon is matches your knowledge of what one is (assuming you haven't played the game) , yet 
 this was supposedly one of the things that the story revolved around... I don't know if you need 
 knowledge of past Mana games or what, but quite frankly, I was lost. Other than that, the story 
 for the most part was just not a very good one. The characters weren't very likeable, and the plot 
 just didn't keep you engaged or wondering what's going to happen next. However, one thing that 
 I will point out that was excellently done was the ending. Very nicely done, even though I didn't 
 understand much of the story as a whole, the ending was still pretty great, and did definitely 
 leave me on a positive note at the conclusion. Still, other than the game's outstanding ending, 
 there really wasn't much else during the beginning bulk of the game.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: On the technical side, Children of Mana is legendary. These 2D visuals are 
 top-knotch, surpassing pretty much everything that I've seen on the GBA and most of what I've seen 
 on the DS so far. The gameplay visuals are astounding. Plus, the game actually features anime cut-scenes, 
 which I found to be a nice little surprise. It really is amazing to see anime cut-scenes put into 
 a DS game, and though alot of them weren't very long, it still opens up great potential for future 
 DS games. In terms of the music, Children of Mana is the type of game where the songs will just 
 randomly get stuck in your head. The music is really great, and matches each situation very nicely. 
 Overall, the graphics and sound in Children of Mana are top-knotch.
  
  Value: Children of Mana isn't a very long game, especially for an RPG. The game took me approximately 
 12 hours to beat, and there really isn't alot of things to do after you beat it. While the game 
 does let you continue on the same file and save after you've finished, the side-quests just aren't 
 very tempting. The side-quests basically just involve you returning to dungeons that you've already 
 explored, which isn't very great or rewarding. There's 4 characters to play through the game with 
 as well, which could have added some replay value except for the fact that the game isn't very 
 great to begin with, so why you would want to replay it is beyond me. In the end, Children of Mana 
 isn't going to keep you entertained for very long.
  
  Tilt: I was really dissappointed with Children of Mana. I really wanted to like the game. I really 
 did. Even after seeing negative review after negative review, I still remained as positive as I 
 could about the game. Unfortunately, the game just wasn't very good. It's repetitive, it's short, 
 and the storyline isn't anything remarkable (except for that ending... amazing) . While the technical 
 aspects of the game are outstanding, they cannot save it from its negative qualities. I do not 
 recommend Children of Mana, even for rental, simply because it just wasn't a very well-made game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radik782
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  Children of mana, a bad game. If your still unsure whether you want to buy this game after that 
 spot on review there, read on... Ill start talking about what everyone notices first when they 
 see this game, the graphics. Definitely a nice looking game with nice effects, nice looking characters, 
 enemies and backgrounds. They are very... nice. Nice being the best word i can come up with at the 
 moment... there isnt really any moment they are going to make you go wow that looked awsome or 
 anything... but giving credit where deserved, this game has nice graphics. The sound isnt very 
 impresive in this game, which was a big disappointment for me personally. Usually after playing 
 a game ill have a tune in my head, something memorable. Sadly this game lacks any kind of musical 
 touch and after turning of your DS you are likely to have forgotton what you was listening to, 
 its not great music. It does tend to create a happy... atmosphere while playing. The sound effects 
 are ok, could easily be improved but keeping with the style of the game... average. But common, 
 when looking to buy a game, i doubt the sound is going to be a make or break criteria for you.
 
  
  
  
  The gameplay is well the decieder whether you will love or hate this game. Firstly i would strongly 
 advise buying this from a store so that you can return it afte 30 mins, no exageration. Within 
 30 minutes you will know if you like this game, do not do as i did and continue to play it to see 
 if it gets better or changes. It does not. It is extremily repetitive. The concept is walk around 
 town (the single, hub town of the game) find out about next dungeon, clear every floor of monsters 
 and kill the boss. Then repeat... My first gripe with this formula is that the town never changes... 
 the people are always standing in the same spot and while they do say different things nothing 
 is useful or intresting. No new people ever leave or join the town its very static and you get 
 bored of this very small village very quickly. So, there goes exploration out of the window, a 
 single static town. Dont expect to have any exploration out of town, there is no world to explore, 
 you fly to each dungeon entrace from town, there is no world to explore. So you may be looking 
 to the dungeons for variation, sadly this isnt the case. While each dungeon does look visually 
 different the conecpt is the same, an randomly generated area to hack and slash in. Besides hitting 
 some pots and boxes you cannot interact with the levels, you will spend your time mashing the attack 
 button over and over, the combat is simplistic and very easy. After mindlessly pressing one button 
 over and over ad reaching the end of the dungeon you may be looking foward to the boss battle. 
 Ouch.. i said the may word.. yea you know why i said that...
  
  The boss battles are bad, if not my greatest disappointment. ITs extremily depressing to kill a 
 boss in 10 seconds by running up to it and mashing the attack button. Sadly thats what happens 
 (unless your grossly underleved, then you will have to dodge his attack that might do 5% damage 
 to you, then finish him off then..) To easy, to short, not fun. In conclusion, if your looking 
 for a good, maybe mildly challenging RPG, a game you will enjoy throughout. No, you wont enjoy 
 this game because it isnt that. Its repetative, boring, not fun at all and i enjoy hack and slash 
 games, but this game... its not good. Although on closing, my younger 9 year old brother loves 
 this game, it is one of his favourite DS games... hes just looking for some mindless hack and slash, 
 he doesnt care for story or difficulty so for younger audieces like him, this games ok. Just remember, 
 30 mins, dont like it, take it back, dont waste your time. It does not get better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crushgoil
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Yes it's a dungeon crawler.. don't expect a wide variety of activity but it is rather fun (I say 
 this because I enjoy mana games in general) . As in most games leveling up and earning money gets 
 very tedious. The storyline is descent and the gem system makes the character customizable to a 
 certain extent.. but after a few quests per area to earn enough money for the expensive gems it 
 does get tiring. It would have been a much better game if there were more areas to explore rather 
 than having the additional quests almost identical to the original storyline play-through.. Not 
 only are the levels tedious but often you will find yourself needing to restart a level because 
 you chose the wrong type of magic to bring with you. Unlike in sword of mana you cannot switch 
 your equipment or magic at a whim, you need to plan ahead and bring the right things into each 
 level. If you find yourself facing a wall of ice and have not brought a fire spell tough luck for 
 you because you will need to go back to town to switch up. Each monster also has a weakness and 
 if you haven't set yourself up correctly you will find that it's impossible to fight. Value:
  I definately cannot see any replay value with this game because by the time you have finished all 
 of the dungeons once I doubt you have any desire to play them again. There are multiple main characters 
 though, so if you do find yourself enjoying the gameplay there is opportunity for you to hear slightly 
 different stories.
  Sound:
  A few of the levels have annoying tracks accompanying them, at which point I generally play without 
 sound.. I think the music should enhance the experience rather than being just as annoying and 
 repetitive as the levels themselves.
  Graphics:
  Although this game is on the DS it is virtually indestinguishable from Sword of Mana on GBA. There 
 are a few small cutscenes, but nothing too impressive. Overall, I'd have to suggest playing Sword 
 of Mana or Legend of Mana because they have more interesting gameplay elements, and do not feel 
 as tedious. I had descent expectations because I enjoyed those two games so much, but for me playing 
 this game was a letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karstux
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  This is a perfect game for a trip on a train or before work/school.
  It is great because it is seperated into short areas which are fun to be replayed. It has brilliant 
 graphics great sound and is made by Square Enix the makers of final fantasy. Brilliant in short 
 bursts and lets you limit you game playing time and let you do other things. It is very easy to 
 get to grips with has strategic elements and a great co-op. I was worried it would be bad but I 
 was pleasentely suprised. The actual time put into the game makes it worth buying and maybe I should 
 whisper it has parts funner that world of warcraft if that is even possible. It has 4 characters 
 to choose from and branching stories. Buy this and you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmokeyrtu
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Like most of you, (i Hope) , you have played at least one of the mana series. I certinanly have 
 and was thrilled when i heard 'Children of Mana' was coming out. The DS despretly needed and rpg 
 set in this style (lost maic was good but could have been so much better if a bit more effort was 
 put in) .
  I ridiciously got this game last year from america (which means i can't trade it in or return it) , 
 beleiving it was just what i wanted. How wrong i was.
  
  When i first turned it, i couldn't put it down. I choose the wanderer (the fat-cat for those without 
 the game, he is good in combat and defence but the worst in magic) , as my main character and went 
 ahead.
  The other characters are:
  Farik
  The boy hero, fairly strong and quite good at magic but thats about it.
  
  Poppen
  (who looks 
 like a boy in a turben but is actually a girl)
  very good at magic and quick.
  
  Tamber
  The older girl of the group. Quite good at magic, nimble and ok at close combat.
  
 
  Wanderer
  The fat-cat. close combet, defence good, slow bad at magic.
  
  Turning it on and after completing the first section (the tower of mana) u sort of notice that 
 it seems fairly simple what you need to do, and you hope it might have a bit more in depth gameplay 
 other than attacking by button mashing X and healing with Y. Also the gems, in my point of view, 
 seem to be at least one good thing with the game.
  But, alas, it was not to be. Next section pretty much the same but new weapons. So in you go moving 
 forward attacking with TWO different weapons and healing with gum drops (the most common healing 
 item) .
  And the next area is the same, except you can use another weapon, and the next one, where you get 
 the final weapon.
  
  This whole game consists of you just walking and button mashing whilst being horrendisly outnumbered 
 half of the time.
  so trust me and don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  I finished Children of Mana recently and I can honestly say I was expecting a bit better. The game 
 lacks complexity and is almost scarily linear. You are given one town and go on several dungeon 
 crawlers to finish the game. The only side quests are also dungeon crawlers in the same dungeons. 
 Maybe I would've found this more satisfying if the gameplay had been more long-lived. But the A 
 hammering gets tiring after 10 minutes.
  
  Gameplay: 5/10
  It gets tiring very quickly. You fight through floor after floor of dungeons, which, frusteratingly 
 enough, get 3 floors longer each time you finish another dungeon. This might've been a bit more 
 exciting had the plot not been so.... cliched.. I don't think I've ever seen such a cliched plot. 
 I can't explain it completely but it takes the most typical plot elements possible and uses them.. 
 And it doesn't work at all. So basically, the plot was horrible, which didn't support the one element 
 of gameplay very well.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  I liked the graphics. They were very nice and had some excellent cut scenes in there which had 
 that sort of This is on a DS?! effect on you (such as the intro) . Theres not alot to be said about 
 the graphics. They were the main thing that kept me entertained throughout the game.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  I didn't like the sound very much. Sound effects were recycled frequently and got 
 tiring after the 5th dungeon. Not to mention they didn't really sound up to scratch given the graphics 
 quality.
  
  Overall: 6/10
  Agonizingly repeatative gameplay, horribly cliched plot, mediocre sound and good graphics. Its 
 very much a linear dungeon crawler that gets tiring very quickly. I'd suggest you borrow it since 
 you could probably finish it in 10 hours anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strangeseraph
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  I just love this game. I wish Gamespot had given this a better review. All I can say is this game 
 glows.
  
  Don't mistake this for an adventure/RPG. It is pure hack and slash fun. The dungeons are colorful 
 and there is a nice map for you to explore. If you only play the main story line and don't attempt 
 any of the mini missions your game will be over quick, which is the only fault of this game. You 
 can choose different mana sprites representing various elements to come with you to give you magical 
 attacks. You also can equip various weapons and upgrade in various ways. Lots of great armor and 
 other stat changing equipment.
  
  The plot is also interesting; something horrible is happening to the Mana Tree and you must solve 
 the mystery and save the world! You get to choose from one of four character types to play as. 
 I played as the main male hero character, but there is also a girl character, a child/kid type 
 and a rabbit. Choose a name and weapons and off you go!
  
  Colorful and bright, a great game, it holds a permanent and important place in my DS game library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anime_Crusade
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  The Good: Good music; good character design.
  The Bad: Less not-much exploring, more dungeon crawling; monster battles are often too stressful; 
 combat isn't all that tight; lack of use for the touch screen; pointless missions that are nothing 
 but a waste of time.
  
  Mana games are one of the so-interesting game series created by Squaresoft (which is now called 
 Square Enix) . The game series starts from Secret of Mana for the SNES, then Legend of Mana for 
 the PSOne, and then finally Sword of Mana for the GBA. Those games attempt to capture the attention 
 of Role-Playing Gaming fans with sucess, until Square Enix announced the plans of releasing more 
 Mana games, which under the name of World of Mana compilation, starting with Children of Mana for 
 the DS.
  
  Children of Mana is the newest installment of the Mana series only exclusively for the Nintendo 
 DS, and by the look of what players played, it's rather both a disapointment and a waste of time 
 and money playing it for your DS. This is a first that the Mana series kinda went downhill when 
 the first of the World of Mana compilation was released, and we would predict that the Mana series 
 isn't going to be as smooth as the older games. In the game, you'll take role of one of the four 
 playable characters, such as Ferrik, Tamber, Poppen, and Wanderer. Each has their own story which 
 leds them all at the same path of all the dungeon crawling thoughtout the game. Speaking of that, 
 the game is entirely about mostly going through dungeons or areas, reaching twords the goal of 
 defeating a certin boss and moving on to another dungeon. Of course, if you get killed in the middle 
 of battling rampaging monsters, you'll be forced to return to Mana Village and start the dungeon 
 all over again. You won't find anything interesting about this game besides being challenged by 
 the game itself, not even the side-quests could keep you playing the game for long hours.
  
  The combat was as repetitive, but shallow, as either getting through the dungeon or starting 
 it all over again. It's only interesting to beat up little critters, which they'll only come after 
 you and try to prevent you from reaching the goal, only for 10 or fewer minutes. What's so frustrating 
 about it is that when you hit an enemy with a hammer or flail, chances are that you'll get smucked 
 back (think of it as a game of Pool just to clearify your mind) . Also, there are sometimes too 
 many enemies to defeat to handle unless you're a professional at the flail, otherwise you'll get 
 attacked by an enemy without even know it. Finally, the aiming of the magic of your spritual parter 
 is either good or bad (depending on how you handle the targeting syestem) . For instance, if you 
 summon your sprit while running away from a mob of monsters, it's magic targets at the wrong direction, 
 so keep in mind that the targeting system is where you're facing. But sometimes, though, you don't 
 use your spirit usually when focused about the combat. In conclusion for the combat system, it's 
 not as tight as in the old Mana series.
  
  What I think of Children of Mana after playing it is that it's not as good as the older Mana series 
 and not worth being in the Mana series at all. It's like playing a game that is more different 
 than the usual, so this ISN'T Mana at all. If you bought this game without reading the reviews 
 here at Gamespot. com, you'll be as disapointed as I am when playing this game. In fact, for a new 
 Mana game, it doesn't really grasp the charm like the old games use to do, and it's a beginning 
 for another series to fall downhill like some old game series that we know of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redhawk360
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 13, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  childern of mana has THE best grapics for the DS its just a shame that it has to be ruined by the 
 music which from what ive herd is all similar but luckily the music dosent taske away too much 
 from the expiriance. The graphical style is great i love the depth that the cutscreens and the 
 bosses.
  The errands are exactly like pokemon mystery dungeon, and i mean that in the best possible way. 
 the weapons are nicly varied and so is the armour (my personal faveorut is the armour made out 
 of hemp) . not one of the best DS games and only reccomend it if you are patiant and dont mind having 
 to start a 16 floor dungeon all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS:4 characters to choose from {ferrik, tamber, poppen and wanderer, each character have 
 his good and points {FERRIK: is medium, TAMBER: is quick but not so strong, POPPEN: strong in magic weak 
 in HP, WANADERER: strong in attack and HP but weak in magic,4 diffirent kind of weapons to get {sword, flail, bow 
 and hammer} , all BOSSES and ENEMY''S are THOUSAND TIMES HARDER than in the gba mana game: SWORD 
 OF MANA, you can co-op play with your friends, the classic spirits are back  
 and shade, challenging dungeons, new handy DUEL WEAPONS mode, many quests to do, amazing cutscenes
 
  THE BAD POINTS: not so reely deep story { but still fun} . [CONCLUSION] CHILDEREN OF MANA is a good 
 up follower of its brother on the gba: SWORD OF MANA. i gave this mana game a highter score because 
 SWORD OF MANA is sooooooooooo!!! easy. and this game is exiting and challenging. and i hope that 
 HEROES OF MANA is equal hard as CHILDEREN OF MANA and a intresting story like SWORD OF MANA.
  P. S: i have played this game out and GAMESPOT gave it a 5.8, a way to low score for this ACION-ROLE 
 PLAYING GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellSin69
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  I actually really enjoyed this game. In the first dungeon, that is. After you get past the first 
 dungeon its like, Sigh... This is what to come after all my adventures? This is old. Please help 
 me This game doesent deserve a full review in-fact. Lets make this review a pro/con. Just in-case 
 you still want to get this lack-luster game.
  
  Pros:
  - Decent graphics keep it entertaining for a while.
  - A gem system that is pretty nice for awile 
 untill you get tired of them.
  - Zelda-like gameplay, but no zelda = [
  - Fun for a 8 year-old
  - 4 main weapons
  - You can choose a spirit to accompany you.
  
 
  Cons:
  - Repatitive....
  - Bosses are really easy.
  - Not enough to keep you playing
  - Boring.
  
  Sorry if this review sucked I didn't even feel like spell-checking it. I dont 
 care anything about this game anymore. I might be to hard on it but. A port would of been better. 
 Sorry CoM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndulationInc
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 7:52 am PT
Review:  How can Mana go this wrong? We haven't received a new Mana game in almost 10 years (Sword of Mana 
 is a remake) and this is what we get for our patience?
  A lackluster hack and slash with a repetitive dungeon crawling additive?
  For shame Square... 
 for shame...
  
  GAMEPLAY ~
  CoM, as mentioned is primarily a hack and slash game presented in a random floor generating dungeon 
 you crawl yourself through.
  All the elements for the original Mana games are present. From display rings circulated using the 
 R for weapons and L for items, several different weapons to equip each with special power released 
 when you hold down the B button (strike) and magic is performed when you press (or hold) the A 
 button. Two weapons are equipable at once X and B which is variable and the Y button is your item.
 
  Weapons are equipable when received but the more powerful weapons are, the more you need to level 
 up to equip them. An leveling isnt easy.
  CoM does offer one new aspect to its arsenal, Gem Equipment. Gems are power boosters that can be 
 equipped to your gem holster thing. There are varying colors each representing a different stat 
 it boots. Some colors don't increase stats instead some give your chosen weapons an ability boost 
 or makes your fury (a mode in game in which gives you a boost of power for a short amount of time) 
 level last longer. Whatever it is, it's unique an works well.
  The game gives you a choice of 4 characters to choose from, A Sprite, Human (x2) and a Rabbitman, 
 each one having a different battle approach, from magic (Female Human and Sprite) to physical (Rabbitman) 
 to the roundabout (Male Human) it's al pretty generic and easy to figure out.
  It's hack and slash so there isn't much depth to what is variable, you do the same thing over and 
 over again in the same dungeon, an even if the game does host a random floor generator, it's the 
 same circle or square area you've traversed the floor before. Each floor has a different objective 
 for completion, be it finding the egg (which is used in the transporter) or eliminate all enemies. 
 Simple...
  An that is the problem, the game is very simple and ends up being very repetitive, and youll do 
 the same exact objective a million times with a different objective for almost every character 
 in Manaville. Yeah, there are different locations, but once cleared you can than be assigned jobs 
 to explore the same floors and the same areas over and over again.
  The game also host almost no touch screen usage except for the opening menu and some touching available 
 when you enter the start menu to choose what items or weapons should be set to what button, which 
 is also settable from the weapon / item rings... so whats the point of having the touch screen 
 option?
  CoM isn't fun Square; I cant imagine actually completing this game...
  
  STORY ~
  Something to do with the Holy Sword rebelling against the Mana Tree... it's a hack and 
 slash title... don't expect miracles...
  
  GRAPHICS ~
  The in game graphics look great with 2D sprite design and a cast of characters reminiscent of past 
 Mana games. It looks fantastic... for a GBA game. This is the DS people, and I let the DS get away 
 with alot of downgrading of their graphics to add in more of a nostalgic feeling and allow more 
 use of the touch screen.
  But CoM host almost no touch screen and what it does offer is pointless. The game is placed on 
 the top screen and the bottom screen is left completely blank except for maybe a pretty pattern...
 
  CoM lets you choose from four different colorizations for your characters, there is the default 
 base color and three other colors. This gave you a nice customization feeling, but if you choose 
 to use of one the non-default colors for your hero (or heroine) expect the character portrait (mainly 
 seen during conversations) to retain the original default style, which means choosing a new color 
 will only confuse you in the long run... so lame!
  The dungeons are repetitive and each dungeon gives you around 5+ floors initially to explore, each 
 floors feeling more Claustrophobic than the last. The enemies presented are all the official beast 
 from the Mana series from Rabbite's to those purple Tiny Devils, it's all hear and it's all nostalgic. 
 But the game offers no variety in enemy design so you'll be facing around 10 Tiny Devils in one 
 tiny room to progress. Add in some floor spikes and too many clay jars and you have the confining 
 space of basement studio apartment in Manhattan...
  Sad really, I was expecting more from a DS Mana game...
  
  SOUND ~
  CoM host a nice array 
 of songs repeated for each and every level over and over again, at least it has a nice bass line 
 which keeps the energy of combat up, but will drill into your head so slowly and without warning. 
 The SFX are normal portable fanfare and aren't too impressive to really note anything.
  
  REPLAYABILITY ~
  CoM offers NO suspend (quick save) option and if you want to save, you need 
 to either get to the prep. floor (which seems random) or return back to the village. If you choose 
 to return back to the village all items and experience earned in the dungeon will not be taken 
 with you, so to progress in the game, you need to do the same thing over... and over... and over 
 again.
  An besides the No suspend option, the repetitive nature of CoM alone will make you stop playing. 
 The game offers you missions to undertake in game to raise levels and get some extra gold, but 
 again, these missions are in the same dungeon with the same layout you've just done completed before, 
 making CoM drag on longer than it truly needs to.
  
  OVERVIEW ~
  CoM offers nothing to die-hard fans of the Mana franchise and even less to those just looking to 
 pick up an RPG for their DS. It's repetitive and down right boring! Not worth your time no matter 
 how much you like Square Enix brand of titles. If it isnt FF or DQ it doesnt seem to be done 
 right anymore...
  Sad really, because Children of Mana was the game I was waiting to play all year long...
  I can't 
 believe I am going to say this... but if you want to play a good Mana game, try Sword of Mana, 
 it's the nearest you'll come to an offical Mana game in some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinCamp24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Children of Mana, the next Mana game in the series after Sword of Mana, follows the same type story 
 and gameplay as any other game in that series. The story now revolves around sudden outbreaks of 
 Mana, and a person who sets off to stop it. Children of Mana now gives you a wider variety of people 
 to choose from, and different clothing styles for each of the four. This opportunity in the game 
 seems to give a feeling of freedom. This also comes into matter because one of the most attracting 
 features of this game is the co-op play.
  
  In this game you get to choose from a variety of weapons from each type, a Sword, Flail, Bow and 
 a Hammer. They dont have any look differences, so you would usually put on your strongest one. 
 You will need to change weapons quite a bit for some things, but thats not a problem with the new 
 multiple weapons system, with one assigned for the A and X buttons.
  
  The fighting can seem kind of repetitive with the new addition of enemies ( and you ) bouncing 
 of the walls. But it does still keep the rest of the series basics. The touch screen is only used 
 to select menu things.
  
  No more little caves and towers, now the game has too much dungeon-crawling. To get to higher floors 
 you must find a Gleamdrop, and put it in the Gleamwell, which in most levels you do not have to 
 find because it is already showed for you.
  
  Children of Mana will keep you satisfied if you like to train and want lots of play time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cocololap
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game brings a whole new definition to mana..... a crappier version. This game has no similarities 
 with all the other Mana games. The graphics in this game were very similiar to that of the SNES, 
 and its a DS come on, u could have at least put more effort into the graphics than that, make look 
 more Legend of Mana graphics. Another problem with the graphics, is the small glitch when you walk 
 towards the wall diagnolly on some walls, your head goes through it. Lets move back, the opening 
 graphics were absolutely AMAZING!!! some of the best for the DS so far, well Anime graphics, so 
 far none close to that of Final Fantasy 3 DS. I found it really disappointing not being able to 
 see better graphics after pulling something as good as that in the beginning.
  
  The music in this game was rather boring. I would rather listen to my dog bark over the sound of 
 this game, this music put me to sleep the first time a played it. Though the intro song was great, 
 but thats because its the intro.
  
  This has to be the WORST story i have every seen in my life.... except Legend of Mana which didnt 
 exactly have a story but w/e. Ok wow the Mana tree is dying wat else is new, but im not sure if 
 it because im tired of that same story, or if its because they didn't really put much into the 
 story. One day your training, then next day your the legendary hero. There was one interesting 
 feature I liked about this game though, and that was when u hit the enemy, and they would go flying 
 and would make contact and hurt the other enemy. The only bad thing about this feature is how the 
 chain reaction would take forever to stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keyboard_
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Unlike other mana games i've played , a total disappointed i'd say.
  But it does has some decent graphics , nice music etc.
  Yet , the gameplay , ugh.
  It starts 
 off kinda great , but it gets boring.
  Just plain hack and slashing for hours , hours.
  Theres not much to customize , besides combining gems ( Which is.. sorta fun for me.) A few characters 
 to choose with , plus , You'll have a spirit with you , the bosses are fun , but too easy.
  
  Takes around 1 day for me to complete it , but it's more like a 15 min game, as in , play it 
 on short-bursts.
  
  Rental if possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Although I am new to the Mana series, this being my first title played, I was happy to find out 
 that I didn't need previous knowledge of the series to enjoy the story. Kouichi Ishii (Senior Vice 
 President of Square Enix) had stated during a phone conference that the Mana games, despite having 
 similarities should be treated as individual efforts entirely . So away I went, adventuring into 
 Illusia for the first time.
  
  In the center of the world, there is a Mana Tree, growing and protecting all those who inhabit 
 it with its magic. But this power is now corrupting the spirits. Strange pillars of Mana energy 
 appear everywhere, populating Illusia with monsters and the world is on the verge of a dark age.
 
  
  It's up to a young adventurer and the Sword of Mana to restore the Mana Tree and save the world.
 
  
  What first hit me was how the story was introduced. It's kinda just thrown at you, with little 
 said, and off you go. And during further dialogs, it just doesn't seem all that interesting either. 
 It's in the actual gameplay that things get interesting.
  
  Children of Mana is basically a dungeon-crawler hack'n'slash. As you set out to the different parts 
 of the land, you are taken through a series of levels until you eventually reach a boss fight and 
 clear the area. Enemies are abundant in the battlefields, and while you can see some of them, others 
 will only appear when you reach certain key spots. Many times you will find yourself surrounded 
 by adorable creatures that are so cute that sometimes you feel bad for killing them.
  
  For each dungeon you must find the Gleamdrop and take it to the Gleamwell to be transported to 
 the next level. On the bottom screen you can get hints of where they are located (clear all enemies 
 to find the Gleamdrop, Gleamwell is hidden by a block of ice, etc.) . It does get repetitive (especially 
 if you decide to go on side quests) , and that's the game's major flaw.
  
  For the most part, our hero attacks with a series of sword combos, but there is strategy involved 
 when you start getting other weapons. The flail allows you to attack in circular motions and pull 
 monsters or objects towards you. It's great for when you're surrounded and need a way out. The 
 bow allows for ranged attacks and for charming monsters by using it as a harp. A heavy hammer is 
 used to break certain obstacles and press switches, as well as making enemies slide and bounce 
 off of walls, spiked floors and even each other, causing extra damage.
  
  The ability to dual-weild isn't exactly what I had in mind when I first learned about it. Of all 
 the weapons you receive, you get to have two active weapons at any given time, but you can't use 
 both at once. You alternate between whichever is needed at the time. Progressing through the levels 
 will require the use of all these weapons in specific occasions.
  
  Elemental spirits are also available to help you on your journey. Although there are eight of them, 
 you can only bring one with you at any given time. Spirits have both a defense and an attack spell, 
 and can prove very useful.
  
  Combat is pretty fast-paced, and killing enemies will gradually fill up your Fury meter, which 
 you can then unleash in a series of quicker and more powerful attacks while it slowly depletes. 
 What I found redundant was filling up the meter throughout the levels so I could use it at a boss 
 fight, but when I entered the next level it would be empty again. So you might as well just use 
 it as soon as it fills up.
  
  A unique aspect of the game is the gem system that gives you boosters. Enemies and chests may drop 
 gems that you can equip toy our gem frame to increase your attributes. In town, you can also find 
 a gem store that offers a fusion service. Depending on what gems you have, you can mix and match 
 to create more powerful ones. Some of the fusions are really quite expensive.
  
  Hacking and slashing is actually quite fun, no matter how repetitive it may sound. The different 
 areas of the world have specific obstacles and monsters, and when it comes to trying to kill things 
 on a slippery icy surface or sand traps, the challenge increases considerably.
  
  What was really frustrating was finding all those great weapons and armor during a level and not 
 be able to equip anything until I reached the end of the stage. You have to wait until you've been 
 through a series of levels to get into the Results screen, where you are given a score (and sometimes 
 a prize) according to how well you did in the area and have the chance to change your equipment, 
 revise your items and save your game. If you happen to quit or die before you reach one of these 
 interludes , you have to start that dungeon all over again. I shouldn't have to wait for a specific 
 moment to equip something I just found and that's just right for my level.
  
  Graphically speaking, Children of Mana is nicely animated, sharp and colorful, a delight to look 
 at, especially in the cut-scenes. The music and sound effects are not too shabby either, but there 
 is no voice acting, and I bet that is something that would have helped a lot with the presentation 
 of the story.
  
  Although the game is fairly short, there is an added multiplayer feature for up to four players 
 to adventure in randomly generated dungeons which greatly adds to replay value and longevity. But 
 that all depends on how much hacking and slashing you want to go through.
  
  Overall, Children of Mana is not a bad game. It's still quite fun and challenging in its dungeon-crawlyness 
 with the different weapons concept and frenzied combat. But for those who are familiar with the 
 series, it may not be what you were expecting.
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=childrenofmana 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick0091
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  First of I would like to mention I never played the old mana games when I picked this one up and 
 I did enjoy this one. So I decided to get a hold of the old mana games as well just to see what 
 all the fuss was about.
  
  Though children of mana does have a lot of similarities between the old mana games it is defiantly 
 a different type of game. This game is all about fighting in randomly generated dungeons and killing 
 enemy upon enemy. However as game spot said it does get boring rather quickly. Well at least if 
 you don't have any friends. However if you convince a friend to buy this its a lot of fun. You 
 decided who is the leader and play of there story. You can do random quests with them or actually 
 progress in the storyline. However the only down side is that the only is the only one who gets 
 the reward at the end of the quests. Don't worry you still get all the things and exp you obtained.
 
  
  Children of mana is much simpler then its counter parts. I think this is why most mana fans would 
 be disappointed. Even though it is fairly easy it still can be fun.
  
  Game play:
  7/10
  
  Hack and slash can only go so far. This game does it well but its not the greatest. 
 You basically only have 3 attacks per weapon (4 weapons types in total) plus you can summon a spirit 
 which is pretty much useless for the most part. Though the old mana games were hack and slash as 
 well. This one seems much more repetitive and also there is no exploring in this game. It is constant 
 fighting, so it does lose appeal fairly quickly.
  
  Of course if you have a friend or two to play with it seems like a much better game.
  
  Graphics: 
 9/10
  
  Though the game is 2d it is all very clear and nicely done. as well the animated cut scenes are 
 spectacular.
  
  Sound: 7/10
  
  Sound is good, but there isn't much variety.
  
  Value: 6/10
  
  Though value may range based on how you plan on playing this game.
  
  I 
 give it a 4/10 for solo and a 8/10 with friends.
  
  It is repetitive and it is a dungeon crawler. But you can still have a good time with it,
  
 
  Tilt: 8/10
  
  I personally did enjoy this game and you might too. However I do warn you, if you have no friends 
 to play with this might not be the one for you.
  
  I have also played contact and have yet to play Final fantasy III.
  
  But if you really want 
 a new rpg for you Ds for Christmas this is my list.
  
  For single player experience and depth: I would think final fantasy would be the best for you.
 
  
  Multiplayer: children of mana, but remember you both need to own the game.
  
  Innovative and originality: Contact, it has a lot of similarities to earthbound, but doesn't come 
 close in game play.
  
  Hope this review was some what helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enjoisk8er9986
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 27, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  It was a very nice try to take a Classic RPG and put a nice twist on it but came up half an inch 
 short. If you love sword of mana and played many of the titles the you might enjoy this game. I 
 did untill i beat it. I am a fan of overly long rpgs and this isnt one of them. i beat the game 
 in 25 hours and 7 minutes. some might same its long for a handheld game but the gba rpg games last 
 twice as long ad aren't as repetitive. the game is dungeon based and there is only one central 
 city where you can talk to people. The story is a little lackluster because of the fact the game 
 is so short. the combat system is classic sword of mana to the tee but they did add something called 
 a gem system where you add gems to your character to give him/her added skills and bonuses. very 
 clever idea but you feel as if you wanted more out of it. to keep the game play longer the add 
 a mission mode where you get a mission, go to a certain play a clear a certain amount of stages 
 in that dungeon to get a certain prize. The muti-player is pretty fun being that you can join someone 
 and help them clear some dungeons and boss fights. that about all its good for those, you can't 
 trade items or anything. overall the game is fun is you want a short experience and want to play 
 with some friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corezero
Rating: 5.1
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  i'm not a fan of the series. in fact this is the first game i've played in the series. of course 
 i'm not expecting much from this game but i did hope it's a great rpg i can spend some good time 
 on, and it's not doing a good job at it.
  
  the game disappoints me in one area: it's overall system. whether it's the battle system or the 
 menu/talking system, it just doesn't feel right. let's start with the battle system. as quite a 
 few reviews have said, once you get into dungeons, you are not allowed to equip new weapons/armors 
 until what i call a check point . the only weapon you can change during battle is the type of weapons, 
 which are sword, flail, bow, and hammer, and these have to be decided by you BEFORE you go into 
 the dungeon. normal hack and slash-ing is fine, but when you hit something, it bounces on the wall 
 and bounces back onto you. when did things get so bouncy all of the sudden? it's not a big thing 
 once you get used to it, but it doesn't seem right.
  the menu/talking system isn't intuitive at all (at least to my experience, it isn't) . usually menus 
 are sorta stacked on top of each other, so that when you press b you'll return to the previous 
 menu. in children of mana, however, you return straight to the game, which doesn't make sense. 
 more over, the touch screen functionality is just added just for the sake of using it. touch screen 
 is used rarely in the game, and only sometimes in menus.
  On with the talking system. again, it is not intuitive to have to press a to speed up the dialogue, 
 especially when you have something to choose right after the dialogue.
  
  the game isn't bad in other aspects though (except laggy multiplayer) . graphics is nice for a ds 
 game (although 2d sprites) , sound isn't too bad (although sometimes it may seem as if you were 
 playing some online game ) .
  
  despite graphical and sound appeal, the game is disappointing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goober_billions
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Children of Mana Could have been great, should have been good, but it really wasnt. First off, 
 Magic sucks. I tried it out and it really didnt seem like you were using magic, just kinda calling 
 for help. There is only one 'spell' for every spirit, and that aint much. The Storyline was ok, 
 but I expected more from the mana series. All in all, it is a fun game, and playing multi-player 
 is fun too, but this game doesnt have much to offer for someone who is new to the series or hardcore 
 fans. Oh, and the boss battles are WAY to easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhaygood
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 23, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  I love the Seiken Densetsu/Mana series. I've loved it ever since I played Final Fantasy Adventure 
 as a kid on the original Gameboy. I remember being jittery and antsy at Christmas when I got my 
 hands on Secret of Mana, and I recall sitting in front of my TV with my little brothers and cousins 
 fighting over which three of us got to play to beat a certain boss or dungeon. I have enjoyed every 
 Mana game since -- even Sword of Mana for the GBA. So it was with baited breath that I went to 
 pick up my reserved copy of Children of Mana from the store, and upon playing it, I discovered 
 that I still love the franchise, even if this game does have noticeable flaws.
  
  The Good: The best thing about this game is the way it looks on the DS -- nice graphics, good use 
 of both screen, and some fun FMV. Other high points for me included the challenging hack 'n slash 
 adventure, the constant influx of new items and weapons, and the ability to mix 'n match gems to 
 create different kinds of strengths depending on where I was going. I confess that I was hoping 
 to find more of the classic Seiken Densetsu play, and not a hack 'n slash adventure game. However, 
 it's fun sometimes to do a dungeon crawl. RPG fans can always pick up Magical Starsign or Final 
 Fantasy III if they'd rather have an RPG, but for a few short minutes of thrilling, kill 'em all 
 fun, I'd recommend Children of Mana.
  
  The Bad: The most annoying feature of any game ever is the ability not to equip new weapons when 
 you get them, or when you finally level up high enough to use them. One of the great features of 
 good RPGs is that when you're in a dungeon, about to die, and you need a break, you level up and 
 get a new weapon or armor that protects you and keeps you alive. Not so in Children of Mana. Albeit, 
 every four levels you get a chance to power up, that's not enough to offset how annoying it is 
 when an enemy drops a powerful new sword and you're stuck using your POS blade until you pass the 
 next multiple of four.
  
  Another feature I'm not terribly pleased with is there being no overworld travel. This seems pointless 
 and it hurts one of the best features of the series, which was the detailed, fun world to explore. 
 The Result: I like the game. It's fun. I play it when I need a break from Final Fantasy III (or 
 XII) . It's got good graphics and an engaging enough story line, even if some of the elements feel 
 a little shallow. The music, while repetitive, is charming enough, and the 2D artwork looks great. 
 It's definitely worth picking up if you're a series fan, or a fan of dungeon crawls. RPG purists 
 need not apply.
  
  NOTE: On multiplayer games, I've only played a few, so I don't feel really qualified to comment, 
 but it seems fun enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: losdog47
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  In all honest i was very unhappy with the game. I loved the magic aspect in secret of mana, leveling 
 it up, the magic graphic changing as levels increased etc..... b/c of this i selected the wizard 
 character which was a waste of time. Magic really has no point in this version. He ended up being 
 a flail swinging, hammer dropping button masher lol. The melee combat was fun the fury mode gave 
 that charge old feeling back but its still not the same. I remember just leveling up magic just 
 to see how it would end up when finally maxed out In Secret of Mana. I remember salamaders dragon 
 flying around the screen :) Anyways this game is also very short if you don't go around doing the 
 optional quests and running some dudbear quests you'll find yourself annoyed that you spent 30 
 bucks on this game. The Gem frame feature was different and since you could fuse gems this actually 
 added some depth. Theres alot of different gems to use and make. Theres Really no point in having 
 the 4 different class of characters in my opinion. Magic class is pointless, i used luna mostly 
 for her healing spell every once in a while. All i did was use the flail to attack and the hammer 
 to break obstacles. I fused some gems to allow theft on the flail, faster swing and 3 consecutive 
 swings, also had some dual leech gems i was pretty much unstoppable even with a magic character 
 with low life. I can't imagine playing with the all out warrior character since his attack hp and 
 defense are pretty high. You'll most likely blaze through with him. The combat zones ( Dungeons 
 ) were ok at first they had 4 levels at start but as you progress they get longer. Some of my DudBear 
 quests require 14 and i didn't do too many lol. Thats gets very annoying b/c the stages are all 
 the same layouts it just seems that the game randomizes the order you play them in. Very bad for 
 replay value. I really have no interest in playing thru the game again. I am interested tho in 
 seeing what other kind of gems i can create tho. At max you can hold 16 gems of a 1x1 size. Gems 
 come in different sizes depending on the bonuses you get from them. You get gems from chests , 
 enemy drops or thefts. I have only been able to fuse the main gems that are sold in town. You can't 
 refuse gems you have created already or the dark gems usually dropped by monsters. The game wasn't 
 terrible but not at all what i was hoping for... I haven't tried the mulitplayer yet, but i can't 
 imagine that being so great that it would make me wanna play thru the game again. Overall graphics 
 looked as great as they did before in the mana series and frame rates didn't go crazy with lots 
 of guys on the screen. The melee gameplay aspect was fun, magic needs ALOT of reworking, Sounds 
 were fine no problems. As for value... i was upset that i spent 30 bucks on this game when it first 
 came out. Apart from finding more fused gem combos i think theres no point in playing the title 
 over again.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Children of Mana
  Developed/ Published by: SquareEnix/ Nintendo
  1 player
  1-2 players Multi-card Download Play
  
  Pros:
  +Beautiful opening animation cutscene (there 
 are also animated cutscenes scattered through the game)
  +Excellent Music
  +Starts off with making your very own personalized character which consists of 4 different character 
 types (Think of Crystal Chronicles but with fewer options)
  +Instruction manual is fully colored and detailed
  +Game utilizes 2-D sprites and backgrounds 
 but are incredibly rich in color and look excellent.
  +Even though you start out with just one weapon you will eventually acquire all 4 weapons and be 
 able to switch out whenever necessary
  +Weapons are destinct and have the advantages/ disadvantages
  +Wide-variety of enemies keeps 
 the game interesting as well some enjoyable boss battles
  +Upgradeable weapons, a gem system that adds extra attributes to character, and gem fusion allow 
 for additional custimization.
  +Character can attack in all 8 directions, enemies bounce off of each other making for all kinds 
 of chaos from time to time
  +Mulit-card download play for up to four people (I haven't played this game in multiplayer so I 
 can't offer any information on that aspect of the game)
  +Roughly 9 unique dungeons to explore. Each level is semi-randomly generated and battling is all 
 in real-time (think of Zelda A link to the past or Minish Cap)
  
  Cons:
  -Only 1 town in the game which is central to the entire game and is located in the middle of the 
 world map.
  -Plot-wise the game may be too simple or predictable for some but at the same time that's what 
 makes it so cute
  -The game feels like it was inspired more so by FF Crystal Chronicles in the way it was designed 
 than on past Mana games (grant it I have only played Sword of Mana so it is difficulty for me to 
 say what a Mana game is supposed to be)
  -Multi-card download play sounds great but for me is impossible to ever experience because there 
 are not a lot of local gamers who live near me. WiFi would have been great for this game.
  
  Other Comments:
  I can see where maybe those who had some high expectations for this game 
 may be a bit dissappointed but overall it's a fairly good game if you take it for what it is. Some 
 reviewer's like to put the word repetitive in there reviews when they find a game they don't like. 
 Well, technically, the essence of all gaming revolves around repetition so that hardly tells anyone 
 looking for some real info what the game is about. If you want a fast-paced beat'em up game with 
 some RPG elements thrown in for variety this is a perfectly fine game that can run you from 20-30 
 hours depending how much you get into it. If you want a deeper RPG with turn-based battle I would 
 recommend Final Fantasy III that just came out for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LooneyLupeGirL
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 22, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about CoM I was really excited... I waited months and months for it to finally 
 hit the stores and bought it the day it did... I must say I was rather disapointed after playing 
 it thought as it is nothing like the rest of the series.. There is only 1 main town and this game 
 is mostly just a D crawler. (as in you walk 2 feet and fight, walk 2 feet and fight again over and 
 over and over again) .it is very repetitive... although you have the option to play as a few different 
 chars, I still say it really wasn't worth the money if you are a true fan of the series.. I mean 
 you can buy it if you want to but just don't be expecting a great game... It does have it's pros 
 though as the graphics are awesome and replay value is good... I just wish the story line would 
 have been better.. I think when they made this one they got lazy and only focused on the graphics... but 
 whatever it's part of the Mana series so I wasn't gonna pass it up..
  
  and sorry if anything is misspelled as I am the worlds worst speller and typo demons seem to live 
 in my pockets... ,and the spell check option doesn't seem to be working at the moment.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Codasco09
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  this game is deffinitely not as good as the original, but you couldn't really get any better, this 
 is a great game for the DS and it even has 50+ hours of gameplay, come on gamespot, im dissapointed, 
 and they only gave twilight princess an 8.8, it deserves at least a 9.4, www. ign. com is so much 
 better, this game is for any person that likes rpg's, but none of that gay menu scrolling crap, 
 it's all fast paced real time battles and you can return to town when ever, it's basically final 
 fantasy tactics advanced but in real time and with a deeper plot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FISHSLAP5
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a big fan of this series. My brother and I got it two days ago and aren't quite 
 sure...
  
  The game itself is very excellent but if you have played the other Mana Games then you should be 
 prepared for a letdown. If the Combat was a bit more of an attention keeper. I wish that The game 
 was a bit longer too. The bosses cant be hit from behind sometimes. It's still pretty good though.
 
  
  Good: -Interesting Storyline
  -Excellent Graphics
  -Nice Sound (especially when set to headphones and you do use headphones)
  -It IS fun
  
  
 Bad:
  -Fighting Gets Old Fast
  -Bosses cant be hit from certain angles
  -The Flail is Overpowered
  -No Class Specific Weapons but there are Class specific armors. which 
 is dumb
  -No Partying Without wireless communication 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklink951
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is a ok in a sense but the gameplay kind of just imatates a bad zelda game. I mean its 
 good to play for awhile then it just gets boring. So for people who like to play games for a long 
 time at once get a friend to do it with u since multiplayer is really the best thing about it. 
 They try to make a interesting plot and all but who really cares about that ( but thats just me) . 
 I in my opinion was really just trying to have fun with this game but sometimes it fails to do 
 so. But the side quest can give u something to do if u think ur too low of a lvl to do the main 
 quest lvls. u are mostly limited to afew plces and some of the zones in each lvl aree the same 
 as they were before. I gues they just weren't creative enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playswithpotos
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 7:50 pm PT
Review:  The Mana/Seiken Densetsu series is was of the most enduring and worshiped set of rpgs ever made. 
 With a rich track record of gorgeous graphics and streamlined real time battle sequences, it ranks 
 high in many gamers' lists.
  
  The Good:
  
  Graphics. Fans will not be disappointed here. Everything is colorful and crisp, and due to many 
 of the sprites being virtually identical to those of previous games, very nostalgic.
  
  Character Customization.
  Players have a choice of four main characters, each with different 
 base statistics, and stat growth rates. You can chose the initial appearance in terms of color, 
 but later changes to equipment make little visual distinction. Weapon choices are limited to a 
 sword, flail, bow and hammer. Unlike some previous games in the series, it's possible, although 
 sometimes frustrating, to use one or two weapons exclusively for much of the game. This leads us 
 to the gem system.
  The gem system allows for further customization in the form a grid that one fills with gems. The 
 grid can be upgraded three times throughout the storyline, and hundreds of different gems of varying 
 sized can be placed into it. These gems can boost individual stats, upgrade the effects of your 
 spells, or even completely change the way a certain weapon behaves.
  With all this in mind, the player is free to play the part of a sword wielding hero, a swift footed 
 archer, or for a challenge, a somewhat awkward mage.
  
  Story.
  This is standard Mana series stuff. The Mana tree is in danger, go save it. I won't spoil the light 
 deviations from the norm, but if you're familiar with the series, there are few surprises.
  
  The Bad:
  
  Sound. The sound is passable, but it pales in comparison to say Secret of Mana, 
 or Seiken Densetsu 3.
  
  Magic.
  The magic system leaves much to be desired. The familiar elemental spirits (wisp, undine, shade, 
 ect...) are all present, and as usual you must make a decision on which to equip. Each spirit offers 
 only one support and one attack spell, and targeting these spells is a bit of a challenge. In both 
 cases you can set them off in place. With the attack spells, you have the option of throwing them. 
 This is difficult to use because the spell will simply fly until it hits an obstruction, usually 
 missing the enemies entirely. You can switch at anytime in town, but most players scoff at the 
 magic system altogether, preferring to just hack and slash their way through the game.
  
  Game Structure and Length.
  This is really a mixed bag, as the game strays from the tradition 
 series formula of journeying from town to town on a quest to save the mana tree from some impending 
 doom. It is a dungeon crawler, through and through. There is only one town, and game play consists 
 of visiting this town to stock up on equipment and supplies, grabbing the next quest, and heading 
 back to one of only eight dungeons for another grueling session of monster stomping. You move from 
 level to level using a thinly veiled &amp;#8220; door and key&amp;#8221; system until reaching the 
 final level and perhaps fighting a very easy boss.
  The main game is very short. As mentioned before, it consists of only eight dungeons. The possibility 
 are expanded somewhat by the endless supply of side quests. These are your typical &amp;#8220; go 
 fetch&amp;#8221; quests, but they are vital if you just have to have that gem that lets you fire 
 three arrows at once, or what have you.
  
  Overall:
  Don't let the numbers fool you. This is an enjoyable little game. It has its share of problems 
 and limitations, but it's a truly welcome addition to the series, and welcome addition to anyone's 
 DS collection. That is, so long as you can handle the dungeon grind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  Hack, slash, collect money weapons and armor to sell and buy better stuff.... that's about all this 
 one is about, although it executes somewhat better than Brotherhood of the Blade, though not as 
 well as Baldur's Gate. You choose your character off the top (don' pick magic user... as is the 
 case in most dungeoncrawlers, the mages are hopelessly disadvantaged, in that you need an extra 
 beat to cast the spell of destruction or whatever, and if you are surrounded by baddies, which 
 is WHEN you want that spell, they continually hack away at you, never allowing the opportunity 
 to get the words out. So, the only alternative is fighter (who still can cast spells, just not 
 as powerful) .
  
  Two types of 'job' are always available: gun-for-hire jobs, where you sign up to do something for 
 money or items, and story-advancing jobs, which move the dialogue along. Taking plenty of gun-for-hire 
 jobs will, in addition to giving you money and items, help you level up sufficiently so that you 
 can take on the bosses in the storyline jobs. Fun at first, but get old and boring fast.
  
  The gem system allows you to create and equip stats-boosting gems, which work regardless of what 
 you are holding or wearing. Again, it seems cool at first (sort of like Diablo's gem system) , but 
 again, it gets stale quickly.
  
  Overall, the graphics and sound are good, the game runs smoothly, and it is a decent way to spend 
 about 25 hours, but you gotta really like this style of game to begin with..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClaudeLv250
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Ah... Children of Mana. I've been a fan of the Mana (Seiken Densetsu) series since Secret of Mana 
 on the SNES, and have stuck closely by its side ever since. If there's one thing I've learned since 
 then, its that each Mana game manages to deliver its own unique experience, creating a fanbase 
 that either loves or hates the game (thats right SD3 fanboys, there are people out there that don't 
 like the game) . Children of Mana is no different, and is heading up Square Enix's World of Mana 
 compilation as gaiden to the series.
  
  Children of Mana's story takes place 10 years after the upcoming Dawn of Mana for the PS2. During 
 the hellish events of Dawn of Mana, many lives were lost, including the families of Ferrick, Tamber, 
 Poppen, and the Wanderer. Of course, it's said that children are resilient, and they continue to 
 live out their lives in the Mana Village on Illusia Ilse. Naturally, this life of peace can't last 
 too long, and the village's maiden of the Mana Tree, Tess, is trapped inside of the Mana Tower 
 when a mysterious earthquake occurs. Your character goes off to save her but encounters a flaming 
 firebird monster at the top of the tower. Things really heat out when the holy sword of Mana falls 
 out of the sky and right at your character's feet. Once the monster is defeated, a mysterious man 
 (later calling himself the Mana Lord ) demands for the sword. Though he doesn't get it, he immediately 
 starts causing a ruckus in the world by creating mana columns that trap people in their towns and 
 could cause a series problem to the existence of the world. Hopping on Flammie's back and possessing 
 the Sword of Mana, your chaarcter goes off to different parts of the world in order to make things 
 right again.
  
  The story of CoM starts off pretty basic and almost similar to Secret of Mana. You're living a 
 simple life in a simple village when suddenly the weight of the world and the sword of mana are 
 dropped on your shoulders. But this is only a farce. CoM's story quickly picks up about halfway 
 through the adventure, and begins to give some important insight on the Mana universe as a whole, 
 including the nature of the Sword of Mana, how the sanctuary of mana ended up the way that it is 
 in other Mana games, and just who exactly the Mana Lord is. I'm not going to spoil any of it, but 
 if you're a fan of the series, this should be pretty interesting considering that Children of Mana 
 is the first game in the series that seriously attempts to connect the games in one single universe.
 
  
  Now, to the most important part of the game: gameplay. Anyone familair with the Mana series knows 
 that you usually assemble a band of warriors and massacre monsters throughout the world in realtime. 
 The same is pretty much true for Children of Mana, with a few notable differences. First of all, 
 you pick one of the four characters at the start of the game. They only alter in appearance and 
 stats. For example, Ferrick is the all around fighter. Tamber is tailored more towards speed. Poppen 
 is the mage while Wander is the brute. You act alone without AI partners, though other characters 
 can join in through multiplayer. You no longer wander the world in search of your next destination. 
 Children of Mana is a dungeon crawler, so the Mana Village acts as the hub where all the important 
 characters are, where you buy items, equipment, gems, change spirits, and even get advice on where 
 to go next. Once you set out from the village, you can pick a destination on the world map to fly 
 to with Flammie, and you'll immediately enter the multi-tiered dungeon. The lack of exploration 
 cuts time from the game, but unless you're an anal purist, this shouldn't bother you too much. 
 Its still about killing, like every other game in the series. As you'd expect, your main form of 
 killing is beating enemies to death with one of four weapons: Sword, Flail, Bow, and Hammer. That 
 may not sound like a lot, but some weapons have double purposes, such as the flail which acts as 
 a combination of the flail and sickle from FFA/Sword of Mana. And Nex Entertainment, who Square 
 Enix outsourced the game to, drew inspiration from Secret of Mana and the original Seiken Densetsu, 
 so your weapons tend to double as tools. You break down pots and plants with the sword, pull things 
 over to you or pull yourself over obstacles with the flail, and pound objects and switches into 
 oblivion with the hammer. You also have access to magic, and can take any one of the 8 elemental 
 spirits with you from the mana village. Holding B and releasing it summons the spirit, which will 
 unleash a magic attack if left alone. If touched, they will give you some type of temporary benefit. 
 For example, Wisp (Light) heals you, Undine (Water) lets you freeze enemies with each hit, and 
 Shade (Dark) will make you invisible. This, along with the traps that vary from dungeon to dungeon, 
 mean that you're doing just a bit more than bashing things to death all the time. It adds spice, 
 as do the sidequests.
  
  The sidequests aren't necessary. You can breeze through the 8 dungeons if you want, but you're 
 missing half of the game if you do. The dudbear in the village runs a quest service, where you 
 can take up quests in return for a reward, such as money or gems. While you have different objectives 
 with each quest, what you do is still the same: you enter a dungeon you've been to before, make 
 your way to the last floor, solve the problem, through a cutscene, and return to the mana village 
 to collect your reward. Of course, the dungeons are rearranged with randomly generated floors that 
 hold new tricks, traps, and stronger enemies to give you an entirely new experience re-entering 
 what you thought was familiar territory. There is also a second category of quests, which you are 
 assigned by talking specifically to certain villagers or spirits at certain points in the game. 
 These quests are usually harder, but get you rare items or bonues you couldn't get anywhere else.
 
  
  Character customization has been featured in every game in the series to date, and Children of 
 Mana is no different. You don't class change or determine the stats that raise this time around. 
 The customization comes in the form of Gems, which come in several different color categorizations. 
 For example, Red gems pertain to weapons and attack, blue gems to magic, etc. There are also black, 
 unstable gems which give you special bonuses but usually in return for a negative effect, like 
 lowered stats or vulnerability to ailments. Gems can determien what kind of character you have. 
 Tehre are gems that improve weapon abilities, like adding a shock wave to the end of the sword 
 combo, or stealing items from enemies when hooking them wit hthe flail. There are gems that raise 
 spirit levels and make their magic more effect. Heck, there's even a gem that raises EXP aquisition 
 by 50%. Of course, the game doesn't just let you make yourself a powerhouse. You have to set these 
 gems into a gem frame, with a limited amount of space. You'll often find yourself picking a choosing, 
 especially since the more effective gems are larger, taking up more space in the gem frame. Thankfully, 
 there are ways to expand the gem frame's size.
  
  The Graphics are amazing, bright, and beautiful. Some of the enemy sprite and animations were carried 
 over from Sword of Mana, while some tiles were reused from Seiken Densetsu 3. Regardless, the game 
 is still a visual treat, and the animated intro and cutscenes are some of the best I've seen on 
 the DS. The characters, while not as animated as they could have been, have that distinctive mana 
 style, and each dungeon has beautiful artwork renderings before you enter the actual level.
  
  Now, for the music. I felt Children of Mana unfortunately had the weakest soundtrack in the 
 series to date. Series veteran Kenji Ito is back, and is assisted this time by Masaharu Iwata and 
 Takayuki Aihira. The soundtrack is really half and half for me. I like half of the songs, but the 
 other half are either rarely played or forgettable. I tend to like Ito's soundtracks, so I theorize 
 that Aihira and Iwata filled in for most (if not all) of the soundtrack while Ito pooled all of 
 his work and inspiration into Dawn of Mana's soundtrack. Ito has a distinctive style, and it's 
 rarely heard here.
  
  If there's one thing people harp on the game for, then it would be for simplicity and contrast. 
 Why people think the game needs to be complicated is beyond me. It's a handhled game where you 
 go into dungeons and beat monsters to death. Why should that be complicated? Contrast is the more 
 controversial issue. Like Legend of Mana, Children of Mana is often shunned for not being exactly 
 liek the first few titles in the Seiken Densetsu series. While CoM pretty much has all the fundamentals 
 of a Mana game, the lack of an overworld, AI party members, and its dungeon crawler aspects is 
 enough reason not to give it a chance for the most anal of fanboys that think they know what a 
 true mana game is.
  
  Overall, Children of Mana is a game that looks good, feels good, and sounds okay. If you're looking 
 for a fun time on the DS that's easy to pick up and doesn't need much commitment for an Action 
 RPG, then there should be nothing stopping you from trying it out. If you're looking for something 
 to play with friends, then the 4 player multiplayer should be all the reason you could need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Faithe_
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying that I am a huge fan of the Mana series. I have played almost every game 
 in the Mana series (save for Sword of Mana) , and I have always loved the gameplay, story, and graphics. 
 When I first bought this game, however, I played it with no hopes or expectations. I was just looking 
 for a good RPG.
  
  I was extremely disappointed with CoM. It lacks many elements that the other games reflected so 
 well. And that's why I say it looks promising, but that is about all you're going to get.
  
  The story is normally one of the strong points in all of the Mana series. The plot behind CoM 
 seemed lacking, and it didn't intrigue me or make me want to know more. Too simplistic for my tastes, 
 the story could have saved this game. Sadly, it didn't help at all. The sidequests do make the 
 game seem longer, but crawling through the same dungeons is very laborious.
  
  The battle system, though slightly unique, is not as entertaining as it might be when you first 
 begin fighting. The style is a hack-and-slash type of system, but the best feature is that you 
 can now use dual weapons. This is a feature that future Mana games should incorporate. However, 
 your weapon choices are limited to only four: sword, flail, bow, and hammer. So even though you 
 can equip two weapons at one time, the limited types of weapons hold the battle system back from 
 being enjoyable. Magic is usable, as the Spirits will aid you while you crawl the zones. The downfall 
 is that you can only take one Spirit at a time, and that Spirit is limited to only two attacks: 
 one offensive and one defensive. Using magic does not seem to be profitable, just something else 
 you can use.
  
  I will admit that the music was fantastic, and without the music I probably wouldn't have gotten 
 through the game. Not to mention the graphics are amazing, but a game has to be more than just 
 something pretty to look at.
  
  AND THE VERDICT IS...
  
  Save your money. Even if you're a fan of the series, you may be disappointed. There aren't enough 
 good features to outweigh the bad ones. Rent it first if you have to, but you're not missing out 
 on a lot with CoM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PixyMisao
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  History: The Mana series once held such promise. The first game (released in the US as Final Fantasy 
 Adventure on the original Gameboy) gave a nice and deeper alternative to the the Zelda formula. 
 Excellent storytelling, solid graphics, and fungameplay with a few flaws that were tolerable. It's 
 sequel for the Super NIntendo (Secret of Mana) , proved to be a reawakening of the highly underappreciated 
 action/rpg genre. And it gave the series it's own unique look and feel through it's detailed but 
 cute artwork and melodic but inventive musical score. While I'm told that the game was a sleeper 
 hit of sorts, either Square or Nintendo or both decided to skip out on it's excellent Japan-only 
 sequel Seiken Densetsu 3 for the United States (aka Legend of the Holy Sword 3, the name of the 
 series in it's homeland) . The consulation prize was an interesting, but not quite as engaging American 
 romp called Secret of Evermore. When the series finally returned to the US on the Sony Playstation 
 it was barely reconizable as Legend of Mana (a sort of side-story) was released. While it's world 
 creation, enemy sidekick and weapon and golem creation ideas were new and interesting... the whole 
 package felt like a different game. Some might even suggest that the saving grace of the porject 
 was the beautiful and orchestral score of Yoko Shimomura (see also Kingdom Hearts) was the game's 
 saving grace. A few years later it seemed the series was returning to it's roots with Sword of 
 Mana, a retelling of the original game given development back to much of the team responsible for 
 the SNES games. And while it featured the quirky art, fast and user friendly action and the remixed 
 soundtrack of the original fan favorite, opinion is starkly divided on the results. Enter Children 
 of Mana...
  
  Since that time the Mana series (or rather The World of Mana as it is now known) has been handed 
 off once again to another development team. And as soon as I'd heard the game's announcement I 
 mulled over the available screenshots, (as any series fanboy does) in anticipation for more from 
 one of my favorite video game series. Unfortunately the excellent looking screenshots were a wolf 
 in sheep's clothing, and nothing could have prepared me for this... Children of Mana. Which at 
 best seems to a love letter to fans of the last two games who wanted less story and more mindnumbing 
 dungeon crawling with minimal rewards.
  
  Gameplay: While very reminicent of the previous game Sword of Mana, the execution is immediately 
 flawed by the fact that the much of the incentive for playing the Mana games has been forcably 
 and inexplicably removed. No longer do you travel the country-side of Mana to discover interesting 
 new towns, new characters and new scenerios. No longer do you spend time fighting enemies with 
 various weapons and magic spells in efforts to learn new attacks and power-up your skills. And 
 no longer are you treated to interesting and well designed dungeons to explore and solve puzzles 
 in to advance further in your quest. No, when you're not out wondering what you're fighting for, 
 you are forced to remain in one town, (with apparently no more than 16 other people living in the 
 entire world most also trapped in the town) almost never meeting anyone new, and never encountering 
 anything out of the ordinary in this World of Mana (which for all I can venture seems to take place 
 somewhere in the Legend of Mana side story) . Your weapons while comfortably familiar never develop 
 new skills, even when you upgrade to new ones. And not only does your magic never become any stronger, 
 but now you are only allowed to carry one Mana spirit at a time. And while it's nice to see them 
 again, their healing powers are minimal and their attacks take about 30 seconds to cast and fully 
 implement and still and all do very little damge to anyone but the weakest enemies. The dungeon 
 exploration has been nullified the the mindless kill the baddies, find the item, move on to the 
 next floor routine... every time. Forget about changing your weapons when finding a new one, you 
 have to be at a specific level to upgrade to the more powerful weapons, and even then you can only 
 equip them when in town, or after four floors of a dungeon. In fact much of the game seems to exist 
 only to level up your character to stand a chance against the next batch of bad guys. But again 
 unlike previous games in the series, your only reward for leveling up is a minor number's boost. 
 Once again taking away from one of the customizations of leveling up certain catagories of your 
 status that the series was beloved for. And while you do run into a boss character or two, they 
 are either way overpowered for you or go down in a few lucky well placed hits.
  
  The only thing to replace all these omissions is dual weapon wielding, (which is about as basic 
 as it sounds) and gem stat customization feature. The premise is finding or creating gems and placing 
 them on a chart to increase your stats and/or add special effects to your attacks. However the 
 idea is heavily flawed by the fact that initially you can only add 4 gems to your chart no matter 
 how many you find. And even though the chart grows larger as you play, there doesn't seem to be 
 much motivation for experimenting with this idea other than not dying in the dungeons. True you 
 can create new gems, but the actual cost of doing so seems more trouble than it's worth. Especially 
 if the gem you create covers up most of the chart.
  
  Graphics: One of the things done correctly for this game are the visuals which mostly are on par 
 with the previously mentioned Legend of Mana for PS1. Occasionally you'll also run into some very 
 beautiful and fluid anime sequences in the game, however they are few and far between and never 
 add much depth to the proceedings. Also regarding the character sprites and the backgrounds in 
 the dungeons, it seems as though the graphics were downgraded to accomodate the multi-player aspects 
 and numerous enemies and special effects of the game. Yet since their is no longer a party or helper 
 character in the single player mode, this reigning in on the system's power reflects more as a 
 lack of effort.
  
  Sound: While often the Nintendo DS seems to limit it's technology regarding sound output, Children 
 of Mana does manage to squeeze out some nice memorable music melodies, 9although the twon music 
 is about as generic as it gets) . And while they certainly are not on par with either the exotic 
 themes of the SNES games nor the gorgeous landscaping done with Legend of Mana, Children's music 
 only adds to the delight of the experience... what little there is to be had. It's even kind of 
 nice to hear characters sometimes yell and grunt when they attack, although it's very low in the 
 mix and often goes unheard at all.
  
  Control: Like many DS games, the touch screen functionality is used only as a means to an end. 
 For Children of Mana, it isn't even necessary. At it's most interesting it will get things done 
 a little faster if you even bother to pick up your stylus. Still the menus don't seem very user 
 friendly, for instance when training to learn new weapons it's easy to get confused on how to advance 
 the menu without attacking or vice versa. However it's hard to complain about the control scheme, 
 because it is in this area that the game excells. In fact if you consider that all other Mana games 
 only allowed attack in four directions, (except for Legend of Mana, which was strangely limited 
 to merely two) you are now permitted attacking in all eight directions of the D-pad. This is of 
 little consolation however as some of the weapons, (such as the flail and the hammer) are rather 
 intentionally clumsy in execution.
  
  Summary: Whenever I turn this game on, I feel like I'm doing the Mana team a favor by trudging 
 through their wasted efforts in trying to make the premise seem at least somewhat enjoyable. Basically 
 it bores me, like few other games of series quality do. However, a Mana game which seems content 
 to writhe in it's own mediocrity is hardly a Mana game at all. And it's certainly not on par with 
 the once very high standard that Square used to hold to their franchises. But I always thought 
 Mana games to be underappreciated in the grand scheme of things, even the more questionable games 
 prior to the invention of the phrase World of Mana always had some redeeming quality that allowed 
 you to look past it's flaws very easily and enjoy the games for their intent. But for Children 
 of Mana, this is not the case. I dare suggest that even the most diehard Mana fans stay away, far 
 away. There is a reason why this game wasn't numbered in Japan, (Seiken Densetsu 1 for Gameboy, 
 2 and 3 for the Super Famicom) so at least there's no reason to complain of it's exclusion in the 
 story's canon. This is a bad Mana game and it is a bad video game Square-Enix, let it be known. 
 Now Mana fans should be wary and apprehensive of the upcoming Dawn of Mana (Seiken Densetsu 4 for 
 PS2) and Heroes of Mana (Nintendo DS action/strategy) . Be afraid... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krois
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  What a letdown. This game is so damn basic. I kept thinking this game was going to get better... 
 but no. Do not buy.
  
  What's bad about it you ask? Surley, it's a Mana game... kind of like Secret of Mana, right? Hell 
 no. This is a super basic hack and slash dungeon crawler with nothign at all to offer. Even the 
 sprites in the game are pretty weak. Storyline? Non-existant: Some crazy mana pillars are f-ing 
 up the world!... Go and hack and slash your way to the top.... over and over and over! This game 
 woudl be crappy even by cell phone game standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrettskye
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  When I picked up Children of Mana, I had flashbacks of the original Secret of Mana, with it's engaging 
 story, excellent gameplay, and just plan wickedness.
  
  Wow.
  
  Words can't begin to describe the feeling as I get home, tear off the shrink wrap and find *this* 
 inside. The developers managed to take everything I loved about Secret of Mana, rip it away, leaving 
 this big, gaping, bloody hole.
  
  The game is essentially a dungeon crawl with some of the story of the elements of the Mana series 
 tacked on, making it feel like the Mana -ness was merely an afterthought, tacked on at the last 
 minute to try and sell this sub-par dungeon crawl.
  
  Unless you are an avid fan, and want to own the collection, don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesH
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about this I was like Wow cool a Mana game for the DS! When I got it though I soon 
 realised that it wasn't what I thought it was. I was hoping for something like sword of Mana but 
 better considering it for the DS ( better graphics and such) . I was very wrong.... the combat is 
 much faster paced and the equipping of gems and finally being able to buy weapons unlike Sword 
 of Mana realy added something new and not only that the Bosses are much more challenging the one 
 in Sword of Mana. even though unlike Sword of Mana there is only one town (the other areas are 
 just dungeons) and the dungeons get very repetitive (each dungeon has a certain amount of floors 
 you have to go through to get to the boss but each floor is seems like it repeats over and over 
 again with just randomized objects) . The story is fairly good but is very hard to understand (even 
 I still don't quite get it) and the character sprites are well made and the music is quite good 
 along the anime cut scenes. I bought this game even though it had bad ratings so if you still want 
 to buy it think very hard about it. Sword of Mana is stl way better eve with it's lame bosses and 
 Lunar Knights (another dungeon crawler just like this game) are both Wayyyyyyy better than this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvermoonbeam
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting for quite some time for a new game in the mana series to come out, and was thrilled 
 to sit down with children of mana. However, with the exception of the general plot this game does 
 not resemble earlier mana games. First, it is definitely a dungeon crawler, not really an action 
 rpg. You only ever visit one town, and there is no world map to travel across. In most other rpgs 
 you would use the world map to level up, but since there isn't one in Children of Mana, you must 
 choose subquests to go on in order to level up. While this is a cool idea, all the subquests take 
 place in the dungeons you have already been through; which means you end up playing through the 
 same dungeons over and over again in between trying to advance the story line. In addition, the 
 magic system is terrible. You can only take one spirit with you at a time, so you can't choose 
 between several spells like you could in previous mana games. Furthermore, it is completely tedious 
 to actually try to use magic; there is a definite lag in casting spells, and more often than not, 
 offensive spells do not actually hit any of the enemies. This game is very easy however, with some 
 of the boss fights lasting less than a minute. Children of Mana has some good innovations though. 
 The gem system is an interesting idea, especially being able to fuse gems and the ability to use 
 two different weapons at a time is cool. The fury gage is a good gameplay dynamic as well. Overall 
 the plot is pretty good, although it is not as in depth as I would like. Children of Mana is not 
 a bad game, but it is certainly not as good as the other mana games in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oback
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- crisp and snappy with tons of color. character's are well done and entertaining
  
  Sound- Somtimes repetitive, but a good musical score makes up for the character sounds. Gameplay- 
 simple hack'n'slash with a mix of RPG. Very addicting. The spirits you get to pick from are entertaining, 
 but could have been implimented better. Combat is fast and simple.
  
  Value- Definatly worth it. Something you can pick up, play for a 20 minutes or so and have a good 
 time. If your looking for a in depth turn based rpg, this isnt the game for you.
  
  Text- could us a little more variety, possibly a little more character construction.
  
  Story- 
 your simple and basic RPG story line. Could have been better IMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Well I was debating on getting this game with all the reviews on this game being not the greatest, 
 but I wanted this game as soon as I saw coming to japan on gamespot. So now that it hit my canadian 
 shelves I went and picked it up for a price of $44.99 without tax canadian which seems a bit expensive 
 now that I played this game. The graphics are something I really liked in this game and the cut 
 scenes are just beautiful to view. You begin the game with a choice of 4 characters. Ferrik, Tamber, Poppen 
 and Wanderer.... is wanderer even his real name lmao. Anyway I played with Tamber cause she was 
 cute looking lol. Each character has there own states growths so it makes a good way for replay 
 value. 1 problem is there 4 characters but only 3 save files? lol see the problem. Anyway the story 
 basically is someone is trying to destroy the world and you got to stop that evil dude and so forth. 
 So yah the story is kinda lam but its what we got here. The music for the battles and other stuff 
 is really good and is not horrible to listen to so you can keep your sound on for this game. While 
 in battle you will get weapons 4 in total Bow, Sword, Chain, Hammer and each is a bit different. You 
 also get spirits to help you, but this time around you can only get 1 to go with you during the 
 dungeons. This may be a problem in a way but if you got wisp for healing magic isn't really needed 
 in this game, as its slow and its not that powerful for how long it takes. This game takes place 
 in 1 town only but you fly to different lands and do dungeons and fight monsters and then save 
 every 4 floors and then get to a boss fight which some can be hard at times if you don't know there 
 weak point, but as soon as you do the boss battles are more of a joke then anything. This game 
 took me around 14 hours to beat doing side quest here and there around 9 in total so thats like 
 10-12 hours to beat the story. So the game is rather short sadly but it has replay value with the 
 different characters and if you got friends coop play is probly alot more fun. Its a decent RPG 
 for the DS as it seems the DS lacks decent RPG's these days. So if you are looking for a decent 
 RPG for your DS then pick up this game, if you don't like dungeons and such then its probly best 
 to stay clear of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 7.1
Date: Nov 9, 2006 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I bought the game two days ago; put in a little over 10 hours of play; and now its up for 
 sale on Half. com. So, please take this review for what its worth. I didnt complete the game, 
 though I think I got a good ways through the bulk of it  or perhaps only about half  Im not 
 exactly sure. However, I think its enough to shed some light on the gameplay and the overall feel 
 of the title.
  
  One last thing before I rev my engines, I never played Secret of Mana; I never played Sword of 
 Mana; I never played any Mana game before this one, so I wont be making any comparisons. Sorry.
 
  
  Story: When you turn on your DS youre treated to a lovely animated video sequence, showing the 
 main characters and world of the game. After its conclusion, you are immediately asked to choose 
 from 1 of 4 characters and name that character. Theres a boy character, Ferrick; a girl named 
 Tamber; Poppin  not exactly sure what he is  but hes cute; and lastly theres Wanderer, a fat 
 orange cat in musketeer garb.
  
  Without trying to be too brief, let me sum up: Theres a great tremor. Theres an evil fellow determined 
 to release all of the worlds mana, creating total destruction. And there is, of course, a hero 
 who must save the world. The story may not be terribly original, but for a portable game it moves 
 along nicely, accompanied by clever dialogue.
  
  Gameplay: I read the reviews before buying it, and going against my instincts I bought it anyway. 
 Most complaints about the game were that the gameplay was repetitive, and I cant say that that 
 is totally untrue. But I think it comes down to a matter of taste. Personally, I thought the approach 
 was enjoyable, but the execution left plenty to be desired.
  
  Let me try and break the gameplay down for you. Its a dungeon crawler. But then, you probably 
 already knew that. However, its not simply a button masher  though there is plenty of that too. 
 Theres actually a system of variables in place that make the experience quite fun and interesting. 
 For starters, weapons  that you purchase or find  can only be used after your character reaches 
 a certain level (or sometimes cannot be used by that character at all) , so theres a healthy braking 
 system that the game maintains to ensure that gameplay doesnt become overly easy. Theres also 
 the gem system: Your character has a gem frame, and throughout the game you can place various gems 
  that you find or purchase  in it to enhance certain combat abilities or character stats. Additionally, 
 theres a vendor in the main village that will periodically expand the size of your gem frame, 
 allowing you to hold more gems; they can also fuse gems together, making new, more powerful ones.
 
  
  Eventually, your character will have four weapons: a sword, bow, flail and a hammer. You can assign 
 one weapon to the X-button, and one to the A-button. You can also make quick changes by using the 
 R-button to cycle through your equipped weapons. Its a great system that works flawlessly. Similarly, 
 you can carry healing items, which can also be chosen or changed by cycling through each using 
 the L-button.
  
  Going back to the weapons, each offers two specific functions. Each weapon has a basic attack, 
 which can be performed by tapping on its assigned button (X or A) . But each weapon also offers 
 a unique action. For the sword, you can create a defensive shield  which will deflect projectiles 
 such as arrows  by holding down the attack button; for the bow  when you hold down the attack 
 button  you create music that sooths the surrounding savage beasts; the hammer and flail too each 
 have their own unique powers.
  
  One last interesting detail Id like to point out is the spirit factor. There are 9 spirits that 
 preside in the Mana Village, and you can choose one, anytime youre in the village, to accompany 
 you into a dungeon. Each one offers two distinct functions (similar to the aforementioned weapons) : 
 you can summon the spirit and let them attack nearby monsters for you, or you can summon the spirit 
 and engage it; in which case the spirit will offer some effect to your character (healing, add 
 fire damage to your weapon, cure ailments, etc.) .
  
  There are perhaps a few other notable elements in the game that I may have overlooked, but suffice 
 it to say Children of Mana (CoM) has enough little bits &amp; pieces thrown in to keep gameplay 
 fun &amp; interesting.
  
  CoM seems to have a pretty predictable formula working:
  
  1. Talk to some people / spirits in the village.
  2. Leave the village, entering the world map. 
 From there you choose your destination.
  3. Your destination? A dungeon.
  4. Kill monsters in a particular zone (level) of the dungeon; get Gleam Drop; bring it to the 
 Gleam Well; advance to the next zone.
  5. After a certain number of zones are completed: boss battle.
  6. As the now-old saying goes, 
 rinse and repeat.
  
  Its not a bad system. I actually found it to be quite addictive. Theres a fun factor here  for 
 players, like me, who enjoy this type of game  thats undeniable. But I still want to present 
 you with as objective an opinion as I can offer, and that is to say that the game still lacks in 
 many key areas.
  
  The character sprites are yesteryear, and in my opinion dont belong on the DS. They would be nothing 
 special on the GBA, and on the DS theyre even less acceptable. But isnt that a question of graphics? 
 you might say. Yes, but it also has a very significant effect on the gameplay. How? Well, the characters 
 movements were very archaic-feeling. Like most GBA sprites, your character cannot move and attack 
 at the same time, so he / she has to be stationary  if only for a moment  while attacking. Also, 
 moving diagonally is very difficult and imprecise.
  
  Thats it? Nope, theres more. Saving: not only would this game be tedious on a home console, but 
 on a system thats meant for gaming on the go CoM does so little to accommodate players gaming 
 schedules. You can only save after every 3 or 4 completed zones. Thats about 30-45 minutes a pop 
 at least. Beside the fact that the very nature of the game can become boring after only a short 
 time, most folks dont want to be tethered to their DSes for that long a period per stint.
  
  Lastly, if you die and want to restart, say right before a boss battle (you just saved your 
 game before) , youll have to shut off your DS and restart it. See, when you die the game sends 
 you back to your village. Thats cool, but you cant load your save file except from the start 
 screen, which you can only get to byyou guessed it, turning off your DS and restarting.
  
  Graphics: As with Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow, I am forced to go against popular opinion, and say 
 that the graphics in CoM aint all that. Now there are some very beautiful aspects to the game, 
 and I intend to give them their due. The short animated movie sequences  gorgeous. The character 
 stills during conversations  beautiful and stylized. Some of the backgrounds, before entering 
 dungeons, are potential works of art. But in the areas where it counts the most, CoM falls terribly 
 flat. Going back once again to the character sprites, they have very little discernable facial 
 characteristics, and the sprites animate very sparsely overall. If you put these sprites against 
 the sprites of Tales of Phantasia  a GBA game, for those of you not familiar  Phantasia wins 
 hands down. I know many of you love your 2D, and thats fine. But pretty is pretty, and CoM isnt 
 pretty. The dungeons are very basic, and again, when compared to a GBA game  like for instance 
 Spryo: Season of Flame (which also has more attractive character sprites, in my opinion)  theres 
 not a lot there to distinguish CoM as something that belongs on the DS.
  
  Sound: Im actually going to make two separate categories for sound and musicthis game has forced 
 my hand. But I can sum up the games sound effects by simply saying if youve played a GBA RPG, 
 youve probably heard these (or similar) sounds before.
  
  Music: The crown jewel of Children of Mana is without a doubt its music. No other DS title has, 
 thus far, come close. Each and every theme is wonderfully composed and arranged. The developers 
 even had the decency to fade in and out of the various themes  something, that when missing, is 
 quite a pet peeve of mine. The choice of instrument sounds are really tasteful, and it is surprising 
 just how warm and clear the output of the music is on the DS. Kudos!
  
  Presentation: You can tell Nintendo was steering this ship by the beautiful instruction manual 
 included with the game. No one else seems to put such care into little details like that. But the 
 booklet is not just beautiful, it also contains everything you need to know to get you going on 
 your way. In-game options are equally attractive and easy to navigate. However, again, going back 
 to the save and load options, those things should have been better implemented.
  
  Who is this game for? Well, I thought it was for me. I got it to tide me over `til the release 
 of Final Fantasy III, but as fate would have it it turned out to be a bit of a letdown. To be honest, 
 I cant say I recommend getting it, but I wouldnt recommend not getting it either. If you can, 
 try it before you buy it. You might enjoy the old-school GBA feel of the game, and there are definitely 
 plenty of generally-good gaming elements present in CoM. As for me, that ship has sailed.
  
  Thanks for reading, and happy gaming!
  
  -GD
  
  The Breakdown:
  
  Presentation 
 / 6.5
  Lovely instruction booklet and in-game menu options, but those save &amp; load issues sink the 
 presentation like a heavy stone.
  
  Graphics / 6.5
  Some very impressive character stills; the animations are exciting; and some backgrounds are real 
 beauties. But where it counts the most  the character sprites and dungeons  Children of Mana 
 does not distinguish itself as a DS game.
  
  Sound / 6.5
  Was CoM originally intended as a GBA game? (Rhetorical device)
  
  Music / 10
  Truly gorgeous! 
 Its really quite baffling how this music was matched with the rest of what makes up the game. 
 Oh well The themes are beautiful and varied, and the instrumentation matches the games feel &amp; 
 concept wonderfully.
  
  Gameplay / 7.5
  Theres a lot of good stuff there. But its also a dungeon crawler, and thats not a dish everyone 
 finds delight in. So, beware.
  
  Overall / 7 (Not bad at all, but not my cup of tea.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: westermant
Rating: 4.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  When I heard this game was going to made, I couldn't have been more excited. I loved Secret of 
 Mana and the thought of having a Mana game to play on my DS couldn't excite me more. Sadly, when 
 I started playing it I was very disappointed.
  
  Gameplay: 
 
  There really wasn't aspect of the gameplay I actually liked about this game, so it's actually 
 hard to figure out where to start with this part.
  
  I suppose the first thing is the challenge, or lack of challenge. I don't mind an easy game, sometimes 
 they're even welcome, but this game was just ridiculous. I was hoping at first that the game was 
 just easy in the beginning and things would begin to ramp up. Sadly though, the game remained stupid 
 easy. The poorly designed dungeons were laughable and the boss fights were a joke.
  
  Speaking of a joke, lets talk about the magic system. Luckily I picked Tamber thinking I would 
 use fast attacks and throw some type of fire spell every now and then. Little did I know that the 
 magic system of Children of Mana was pathetic and was the most upsetting thing of the game. Trying 
 to get your spirit to kill a large group of enemies just doesn't work and the spirits enchant your 
 weapon for far too short of a time to make it worthwhile.
  
  The last thing that bothered me about the gameplay was the bouncing. I hate the bouncing. I might 
 have played this game longer if it wasn't for the bouncing. IT NEVER WORKS HOW YOU WANT IT TO. 
 It's not fun. It isn't useful. It's just annoying.
  
  All in all, this game could be entertaining for a few hours, but nothing more than that. This isn't 
 a long term game; it's barely a rental quality.
  
  Graphics 
  I loved 
 the graphics of this game. They weren't anything revolutionary, but they were clean and good looking. 
 The sprites animations looked great and the art style looked very good. If only the gameplay was 
 bearable to compliment the graphics, this game would be great.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall, this game was just absolutely unsatisfactory. I so wanted to this game to live up to Secret 
 of Mana and I wanted to believe all the hype, but sadly, this game just didn't live up to its hype. 
 I would have been happy even with a mediocre game, but this game just failed in every aspect of 
 the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iam_Joran_Betke
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This game like the ones before it were good games but this one towers over any DS game I have ever 
 played. Here are 3 ways how it is better then other games
  
  1) No crappy use of Touch Screen (Some games really suck with it making it harder to control)
 
  2) Stunning graphic cut sceans
  3) Playing with your friends make it that much better
  
  This game might possibly be as good if not better that the newe game Final Fantasy III. But it's 
 only down fult was the lack of graphics in game play. The DS is capible of good graphics and they 
 gave it a gameboy like graphics. It has also not much of a story line (you are trying to save a 
 tree) . But besides those fults it is the best game I have ever played.
  
  Please Consider- (MULTIPLAYER IS THE BEST) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sacif
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting too much when a friend of mine lent me his copy of the game so i could play 
 it and see how decent this game was. In all honesty, this game floored me, the gamepaly and innovation 
 with the story line is very well done. The graphics are the only thing I have to complain about, 
 and its not much of a complaint. They could have been better, they look more like a generation 
 1 DS game, but they are not ad enough to ruin the game by any means. I recommend this game to anyone 
 who is a fan of RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  While it may look like the Secret of Mana for the SNES (please SqEn, support the Virtual Console!) , 
 thats about where the similarities end. Children of Mana has a great exterior to it but when you 
 start getting into the gameplay, you are left looking for more.
  
  A highly customizable character selection screen is about the only interesting part of the game. 
 After this process, you just hack, and hack, and hack your way through the same few dungeons dozens 
 of times. The game forces you to level to get the better equipment and that means completing some 
 of the most mundane of quests to gain experience and any reward which accompanies the quest.
  
  A decent variety of attacks makes combat not as tedious as it could be with just a sword and 
 the physics of the game (the ricocheting) has combat outcome pretty comical when the screen gets 
 busy with enemies. I don't use the magic system (good luck if your a magic user) so I don't have 
 any details on that aspect of the game but with only one magical attack and one magical powerup 
 spell, I'm going out on a limb and saying it can't be to deep.
  
  The gem fusing system has a few redeeming qualities to share with the game. All your hard work 
 can result in some truly powerful gem combinations for your character.
  
  I have yet to try the multiplayer but then again, if I don't like the game, why would I make any 
 of my friends buy it...
  
  I'm patiently waiting my turn to play FFXII from my bud and hopefully I will be long through with 
 Children of Mana. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_Child
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  Children of Mana starts off as a promising game, initially feeling like an improvement in the Secret 
 of Mana series. The animation and overall presentation delivers a unique yet reminiscent feel of 
 the Mana series. The battle system was very well developed and the magic system was amazingly improved 
 from the original Secret of Mana game. So whats the problem? The game is amazingly repetitive. 
 The RPG aspect has been stripped away from this game. There is no open-ended traveling and there 
 is only one, thats right one town. After receiving all the weapons, which can be achieved within 
 the first two hours of the game, the game feels absolutely recycled. I recommend this game to only 
 the people who avidly enjoy dungeon crawlers. I do not, I repeat, do not recommend this game to 
 Secret of Mana fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 3, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Children of Mana is definitely a very decieving game. The art looks great, the graphics 
 look amazing, and from first sight it even looks like an adventurous game! You thought wrong! When 
 you first start in the game, it tells the story of the Mana Tree.... which to be honest is kind 
 of lackluster and dull anyway. Afterwards, you make your character and then start inside of a town. 
 Of course you see a small tutorial and such, but VERY shortly after you head over to your first 
 dungeon. The dungeons are.... how should I say this.... boring. They lack depth and challenge, 
 and the only thing you actually do is attack more and more. To make things even stranger, unlike 
 other Mana games this seems to be more of an arcade game. You go from floor to floor, and level 
 to level while your results of the dungeon are shown right before and after a boss fight. This 
 strategy in a game is good for other series, but seems out of place considering the series this 
 is. Unless you have the ability to play coop, it the gameplay just doesn't seem to cut it considering 
 this series standards. Luckily there are some sidequests to keep you busy (though they too lack 
 depth) , and character customization is pretty decent. The fact that there is no exploration at 
 all is mainly what is turning me away from this game altogether. Graphics: The gameplay may not 
 be great, but the graphics sure are pretty! The colors are bright, not a thing looks pixelated, 
 and the game runs smoothly along with the animations.... nuff said. Finally someone decided to 
 make a 2D DS game that lived up to it's graphical potential.\
  
  Sound: The tunes in this game aren't that bad either really. Some of the dungeon themes and music 
 could be a lot better, but for the most part there really isn't anything wrong with the sound. 
 It would be nice to see some voice work, but I suppose it isn't too important.
  
  Value: The game is a reasonable length, and if you have friends to play coop with this will be 
 an amazingly fun experience. However if you don't have anyone to play with in coop, I really just 
 would not recommend this game to someone looking for a handheld RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Childeater10
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  I was unsure whether or not to import this. But after seeing some video's and getting the urge 
 to play the older classic ones. I gave in and imported it.
  
  Overall the game has alot of Japanese text. It may be confusing at first but you get used to everything 
 over a short time playing.
  
  The beginning opens up very well with alot of amazing visuals. The game itself is very colorful. 
 And is refreshing. One thing that stood out to me from the SNES versions was the battle system. 
 In CoM it's alot faster, quick battles, in the older ones they had to wait a second to pull out 
 the weapons and to me it just seemed annoying going from place to place constantly pulling out 
 the weapon in each area. But in CoM You enter an area and your weapon will always be out which 
 makes for quick but very enjoyable battles.
  
  The story may be hard to understand at first but you can slowly catch on to whats going on. And 
 menus, but you catch onto the Japanese symbols as well which could help for other imports in the 
 future.
  
  If you don't want to wait for the US release then I would suggest importing CoM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_killer7
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2006 5:32 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves a perfect. Reasons, this game has amazining 2-D graphics, which is rich in color, 
 the games color is so bright and exciting. The begining is an opening CG movie! Its so awsome, 
 and it looks great. The game follows the Secret of Mana story, somewhere off there, the gameplay 
 and fighting is almost the same, except now..... THERE IS DUAL WIELDING WEAPONS! Its so awsome. 
 This game is short, but its short with alot of action in it. This game isn tlike Sword of Mana, 
 you go from one point to another, and thats it. You use the A and X buttons to fight with the dual 
 weapons. This game is in full japanese, and like all RpG's, it has lots of text, im still going 
 through the game right now, but tis really awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyedunno1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  After seeing an article on this game in Famitsu, I couldn't wait to get my hands on it. However, 
 I didn't have a DS yet at the time of release, and I wanted a DS Lite instead of the ugly standard 
 model. Getting a DS Lite proved to be more than a little difficult, but now that I have it and 
 have finished Children of Mana, I guess the time has come for me to review it for those not in 
 Japan who want info on the latest entry in the Seiken Densetsu series.
  
  Following an awesome animated intro, the game begins, and you are given a choice between four characters, 
 each with four different palette swaps: Flick, the fairly well-rounded boy character, Pop, a child 
 with strong magic skills but a weak defense, Tumble (whom I chose) , a girl who's the fastest of 
 the four, and Wanderer, a rather slow cat with a lot of attack power. Additionally, you're given 
 an opportunity to change your character's name if you'd prefer Snap, Crackle, Squirt, or Todd.
 
  
  The game starts with a rather simple premise - you live in Mana Village, alongside the familiar 
 elementals from earlier games. A strange light has appeared at the Tower of Mana, and it's up to 
 you to check on your friend, who's there praying to the Mana Goddess. Naturally there's trouble, 
 and in the course of things, your character winds up with the Mana Sword, which means it's up to 
 him or her to save the day.
  
  As you progress through the game, you'll receive four weapons: a sword (which is interestingly 
 a separate item from the Mana Sword) , a flail, a bow, and a hammer. Each character has one weapon 
 he or she is supposed to be particularly adept with, but in practice, this mainly just means that 
 that character gets only that type of weapon from certain sidequests. Two weapons may be used at 
 a time, with one weapon each assigned to both the A button and the X button. An interesting aspect 
 of the weapons in this installment of Seiken Densetsu is that each has both a regular attack (performed 
 by simply pressing that weapon's button) and a secondary effect (used by holding down then releasing 
 that weapon's button) . For example, the sword's secondary effect reflects physical projectiles, 
 and the flail can be used either to grab out-of-the-way items, or to cross over spikes and ravines 
 by attaching to fixed objects.
  
  Magic is available to all characters from the beginning of the game, but unlike previous installments, 
 a character may only carry one elemental per quest. This means that you'll have to select carefully. 
 Magic is employed in battle by holding down the B button, which calls an elemental. By walking 
 into it, you receive a status effect, such as a temporary elemental attack, rejuvenation of HP, 
 or healing of status ailments. If you stay away from the elemental for a few seconds, it will use 
 offensive magic on the monsters in the surrounding area (which is a very limited area at level 
 one) .
  
  In addition, you can collect gems, which, by equipping them on a little gem caddy called the Mana 
 Frame, endow your character with special abilities or augment existing abilities. Along with the 
 usual powerups that improve your character's stats, there are more exotic items that allow you 
 to steal HP or MP from enemies, walk on spikes unscathed, and automatically use a Cup of Wishes 
 when your character is down. Other gems affect weapons, enabling your character, for example, to 
 fire off three arrows in a spread shot, or fire an energy wave using the sword. Gems are also the 
 only means of levelling up magic (which seems to be limited to level three) , and it's a temporary 
 effect. Unequip the gem for levelling magic, and your magic returns to its former lackluster state. 
 The Mana Frame is limited to four slots at the beginning of the game, but is gradually updated 
 to 16 as you advance. However, many gems, especially the more powerful ones, use two, four, or 
 even six slots geometrically arranged into a square or rectangle, so you'll have to be fairly selective 
 about which gems you equip.
  
  This game is a dungeon crawler, so basically everything in it revolves around lengthy dungeon battles. 
 There is an overworld map, but it is traversed entirely by means of Flammie the dragon, who was 
 also found in Secret of Mana. Also, there are no towns in the game aside from the one you start 
 off in, so all of Flammie's destinations (and others later in the game that are reachable by other 
 means) are dungeons. Aside from hacking and slashing your way through huge waves of enemies, as 
 most people expect from a Seiken Densetsu game, you'll also have to find an egg-like object (the 
 Light Drop) and a pool (the Fountain of Light) in order to advance to the next floor of the dungeon. 
 This adds a certain challenge to the game, but also can be an annoyance later on when both the 
 Light Drop and the Spring of Light are well hidden. You may have to smash through innumerable ice 
 blocks or giant cacti with your hammer in order to find them. If they're not hidden, you can find 
 them, along with the location of enemies and chests, in a map on the touch screen along with various 
 other data. Something new to the battles in this installment is the fact that enemies may be launched 
 into other enemies using your weapons or occasionally using features of the landscape. The hammer 
 in particular can knock enemies a rather respectable distance and generate a domino effect of damage 
 both to other enemies and to the surrounding terrain.
  
  Unlike most RPGs and adventure games, killing enemies does not automatically give you money. Money 
 must be obtained from random drops, from treasure chests, or by selling off unnecessary gems and 
 items (which you will receive ridiculous quantities of) . So while getting money isn't exactly difficult, 
 you do have to remember to sell off everything you don't need between dungeons, which can be a 
 mild annoyance.
  
  The bosses in the game, while easy compared to those in many other games, are very cleverly implemented, 
 and many require you to make use of a certain weapon. A few of them are gigantic, taking up most 
 of the screen, but they still manage to be quite beautifully designed and reasonably well-animated.
 
  
  Even after you defeat a boss, you can fight through the same area again, including the boss fight 
 and cinema scenes. This can produce unintentionally hilarious results. If you go to the first dungeon 
 at the right time, not only can you kill a boss you've already defeated, but you can meet a character 
 who's been kidnapped and acquire a key item that's been stolen (both of which mysteriously disappear 
 again after you return to town) . This adds to the general impression that the developers either 
 ran out of time, or just didn't care enough to have a polished final product.
  
  Aside from the mandatory quests, this game also features a literally unlimited number of optional 
 sidequests. Sidequests may be purchased as jobs (providing rewards of money, gems, and items) , 
 and some of the characters in the town will also ask for favors or provide you with information 
 that will lead you on a sidequest. However, whatever the stated goal of a quest is, it can always 
 be successfully completed simply by exiting the last floor of its dungeon, which generally means 
 killing a heck of a lot of enemies. You can expect to become pretty familiar with a lot of floor 
 layouts in the dungeons, as you'll likely repeat each one dozens of times (especially if you want 
 the best stuff as early as possible) .
  
  The game's multiplayer mode also centers around plowing through dungeons, but it requires two or 
 more copies of the game, and this player hasn't yet gotten a chance to check it out.
  
  And what is there aside from the dungeons? Not much. The game's plot is very sparse for an RPG, 
 and you won't find yourself getting too engrossed in the story until the last third, if then. This 
 is no Final Fantasy or Crono Trigger. It isn't even a Lufia. There's really very little here aside 
 from a stereotypical save-the-world RPG scenario told as economically as possible. Had the developers 
 put more work into the storyline, added more towns and characters, and taken steps to make the 
 game less repetitive, this could truly have been an epic quest, and one of the best adventure games 
 on the platform. As it stands, it's merely an average game.
  
  Still, if you're a huge Mana fan or someone who can't get enough of dungeon crawlers, you'll want 
 to check this game out. The graphics are amazing, and they even went so far as to include huge 
 hand-drawn avatars of all of the characters in the game (who are generally quite likable) , as well 
 as cel-animated cutscenes you'll just have to see to fully appreciate. The music is faithful to 
 previous games in the series, and the battle mechanics are among the most well-realized of any 
 Seiken Densetsu game, even including Secret of Mana. Just don't go into this one expecting it to 
 be anywhere near perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sushibot12
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:16 am PT
Review:  After waiting a long time for Seiken Densetsu: Children to finally be released, I was glad and 
 somewhat disappointed at my purchase. I guess the toy Rabite that came with my purchase was a nice 
 little bonus. 
  (NOTE: Only for those who purchased the Import at release)
  
  Children of Mana is not your typical Mana game. It is more or less a Dungeon Crawler; which means 
 no "Journey" from one place to another. Flammie (The series signature flying dragon) will fly your 
 character from place to place. This game's story is fairly non-linear, where the player can purchase 
 random quests from the local shopkeeper.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This game is simply your typical hack and slash Zelda like game.
  
  To start, this game has 
 four characters from which you can choose from. The typical swordsman, archer, mage, and merchant. 
 Each character has 4 different color variations from which you can choose from. Each character 
 has his or her own statistics, however thats where the customization of each character stops. All 
 the characters will eventually wield the same weapons, skills, and abilities. Players however can 
 adjust their charcters stats by equiping gems that will alter the characters stats.
  
  My biggest complaints: There are no class specific items, and no job classes. There are only 4 
 weapons in this game, and you can only carry 1 spirit with you at any time. You can only save the 
 game in Town, and rarely save in certain parts of the dungeons. Not very good for the gamer on 
 the go. Lack of customization; merely adjusting the stats is not enough.
  
  This game will become repetitive. All you do is run around killing monsters, and finding "EGG's" 
 that will transport your character from room to room. There is no backtracking, no returning to 
 rooms previously visited. The bosses can be engaging at first, but most players will make short 
 work of them rather quickly. The quests are also repetitive. Most of them are either find this 
 monster and kill him, or find some trinket and bring it home.
  
  EXPECT A LOT OF REPEATING THE SAME DUNGEONS.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  The animated cut-scenes are 
 very gorgeous. The character and enemy sprites are well animated, however it gets choppy when there 
 are too many things going on in the screen at once.
  
  Sound:
  
  As expected from any Mana game, this game has a good soundtrack. Players who have played the original 
 Secret of Mana will like the new tunes.
  
  Multiplayer: 
  
  This game has Wi-Fi capability for up to 4 players in it, however, it does not have any single 
 cart multiplay or Online play.
  
  Import Friendly? 
  
  Most definitely not. This game is extremely text heavy, as expected of any RPG game.
  
  Overall: 
 
  
  I think this game is well made, however it does not have the flair like some of the other Mana 
 games. If you like games where you run around and kill monsters all day, this is your game. If 
 you are a Mana fan, this is one title that you should at least check out., I just warn you, don't 
 expect too much. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
