-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Chrono Trigger
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/chronotriggerds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A lovable cast of memorable heroes and empathetic villains.
 Epic story with 14 possible endings.
 Innovative, engaging combat system.
 Brand-new ending, dungeons, and items give veterans something to look for.
 Beautiful, haunting soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Monster arena is a lackluster addition.
 New missions are frustrating, repetitive fetch quests.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 9.2, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 9.3, 821 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: TOSE
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Nov 25, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This perennial time-travel adventure is worth falling in love with all over again. 

  It's been more than 13 years since SquareSoft first released its time-travelling epic Chrono Trigger 
 on the SNES. With an endearing cast of characters and a fantastic story that took place throughout 
 the ages, it went down in history as what many would call  one of the greatest games ever made. 
  It was later rereleased as a part of  Final Fantasy Chronicles  on the PlayStation, and though 
 it included several new features such as anime cutscenes and a detailed bestiary, it suffered from 
 long and frequent loading times. The Nintendo DS rerelease includes new areas to explore, an all-new 
 ending that better ties into its sequel,  Chrono Cross , and all of the additions of its PS1 predecessor 
 (minus loading issues) , making it the definitive edition of Chrono Trigger.  

  When the Kingdom of Guardia gathers to commemorate its millennial anniversary, the young Crono 
 celebrates by sleeping in. Roused out of bed by his mother, he rushes to the festivities to catch 
 the public demonstration of his inventor friend Lucca's latest creation, and in his haste literally 
 runs into Marle, a hyperactive girl who looks more than a little familiar and insists that he show 
 her around. With little choice in the matter, Crono brings his new companion to Lucca's show, where 
 an experimental teleportation device malfunctions, sending Marle through a rift in the space-time 
 continuum. Armed only with a wooden sword and dangerously spiky hair, Crono follows Marle into 
 the past to attempt a temporal extrication, only to begin a long and arduous journey to prevent 
 a tragic future from unfolding.  

           Enemies visibly wander the map, and battles begin immediately wherever they may be encountered. 

  Along the way, Crono and his friends encounter an exceptional cast of allies, including the heroic 
 Frog, a medieval knight sworn to defeat the sinister Fiendlord who turned him into an anthropomorphic 
 amphibian; Robo, a humanoid robot from the future with a penchant for gardening; and Ayla, the 
 hotheaded and enormously strong chieftain of a prehistoric tribe. Together, these time trotters 
 face down a memorable cast of villains, from the cold and calculating Azala, queen of a race of 
 hyperintelligent dinosaurs, to Magus, the scythe-wielding sorcerer supreme better known as the 
 Fiendlord, in their quest to defeat the evil entity known as Lavos. From beginning to ending (all 
 14 of them!) , Chrono Trigger offers a deeply satisfying combination of storytelling and character 
 development that few games have managed to top, and that even the most stone-hearted will find 
 emotionally stirring.  

  To this day, Chrono Trigger is a fairly nonstandard role-playing experience due to a number of 
 innovative design decisions, but this was especially true at the time of its release. Its combat 
 system allows for your three party members to attack separately or to combine their skills to create 
 double or triple techniques of enormous power. Given that enemies are not randomly encountered 
 and instead appear to wander the various dungeons that you explore, it's very possible to skip 
 the vast majority of your fights should you choose to. As a result, the world map, which is represented 
 by an extreme birds-eye view of your party, can be peacefully explored without fear of ambush. 
 Considering that Chrono Trigger deals with the concept of time travel, any decision you make can 
 have world-changing -- and often not immediately noticeable -- effects on the future. For example, 
 your every deed at the Millennial Fair in the very beginning of the game may potentially come back 
 to haunt you not long afterward. This cause-and-effect gameplay forces you to consider the short- 
 and long-term consequences of your actions, and is also used to great effect in completing side 
 quests.  

  In addition to all of the bonus content originally added as part of the PS1 port, the DS version 
 of Chrono Trigger includes an optional touch-screen control scheme, the Lost Sanctum quest hub, 
 the Arena of the Ages monster battleground, a series of dungeons called the Dimensional Vortices, 
 a revelatory new ending, and a polished-up retranslation. The touch-screen controls move battle 
 commands from the top screen into the bottom to free up more space, and the new translation maintains 
 the charm and gravitas of the original while reinterpreting some words and lines to give them a 
 bit more meaning. The Dimensional Vortices and new ending offer additional challenges, new items, 
 and story closure on several ambiguous issues directly relevant to Chrono Cross. The Lost Sanctum 
 is an isolated region that exists in two different eras and is ultimately forgettable thanks to 
 its unimportance to the story and the frustrating fetch-quest nature of its missions. The Arena 
 of the Ages is a new area that lets you adopt a monster and train it to battle against other monsters 
 for potentially useful items. As with the Lost Sanctum, the Arena serves no story purpose, and 
 even the ability to pit your monster against a friend's via local Wi-Fi isn't enough to make it 
 worth accessing regularly.  

           Some bosses like the Black Tyrano fill up the entire screen!      

  Visually, Chrono 
 Trigger hasn't changed one bit throughout the years, and its rich, sprite-based graphics, beautiful 
 vistas, and colorful spell effects actually look better than ever on the DS. Similarly, the epic 
 and moving soundtrack brilliantly crafted by famed composers Yasunori Mitsuda and Nobuo Uematsu 
 continues to amaze years later.  

  Chrono Trigger is a fantastic synthesis of excellent storytelling, game design, music, and gameplay 
 that has withstood the test of time and should be considered required playing for any fan of role-playing 
 games. Though its extra content is hit or miss and it's essentially a direct port of a game released 
 13 years ago, the DS version is easily the definitive edition of this masterpiece, regardless of 
 whether Chrono Trigger is one of those games you've only ever heard of before or you're a dedicated 
 fan who has played through it dozens of times.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (49 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PyreofKoL
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  I'm one of many who was privileged to have played this game in its original SNES form, so I've 
 been a long time fan. Unfortunately I didn't actually own the SNES copy that I played through so 
 long ago, and I never had a PS1 with which to play the PS1 rerelease. When I first saw the news 
 about a DS version of the game, I was elated. With Square Enix's recent track record of exceedingly 
 well done remakes for the DS, I had very high expectations for this game and was not disappointed 
 in any way. The most well known experience in old school RPGs is in pristine condition. The visuals 
 are as beautiful as you remember and may even be a little bit smoother thanks to the DS (that may 
 just be me, though) . The soundtrack still conveys the emotional tone of the game and sets up intense 
 backdrops for the battles. The unique, fast paced battle system is still so much fun to play with, 
 especially the memorable dual and triple techs. Last, but not least, the story line, as any fan 
 of the game knows, gets your head in a vice grip from the start and doesn't let go until you beat 
 the game. Next, let's take a look at the new features for this game. First is the Arena of Ages. 
 On you're first visit you'll be introduced to the Stable Master, who tells you that the Arena allows 
 you to pick a creature with an affinity for one of the four elemental types in the game. He also 
 tells you that you can train this creature and have him fight other NPC creatures or creatures 
 owned and trained by other players. This is a surprisingly entertaining little side game, but it 
 may not interest everybody. The other major special feature is an Extras mode that allows you to 
 see all the anime cut scenes, and techs you've unlocked as well as a detailed bestiary and a few 
 other things. I was actually quite happy with the Extras mode because it feeds the collectionist 
 tendencies of guys like me. This game is entirely worth picking up for the core experience alone 
 (especially for any gamers who haven't yet played this game) , but the new features sweeten the 
 deal even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintend0-BuDDy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  There weren't many games that are as well known and highly acclaimed for the SNES other that Chrono 
 Trigger. Chrono Trigger is one of the greatest RPGs, and for those who never experienced the game 
 on SNES or PSone, you don't have any excuses anymore. Try to get your hands on Chrono Trigger DS, 
 for it is one of the greatest remakes for DS, as well as one of the best DS games in general.
 
  
  The story of Chrono Trigger is very well done, and unforgettable. You play as a regular teenage 
 boy named Crono, who goes to the Millennial Fair, only to stumble apoun a blonde girl named Marlee. 
 Obviously thinking she was hot, he guided her around the fair. Crono and Marlee then checked out 
 Crono's friend Lucca's Teleporting Machine, but when Marlee stepped in, she was transported through 
 time (because of her pendant's power) and Crono went after her in order to save her (only because 
 he thought she was hot, it doesn't say it in the text, but it's common sense for guys to go after 
 hot girls... anyway...) . After going through the portal, Crono figures out that he has traveled 
 400 years in the past, and that Marlee is really the princess of his kingdom! And that's all I'll 
 say for now, it's really one of the best stories out there.
  
  One of the coolest things about Chrono Trigger is that the main objective is to travel through 
 time in order to defeat a menacing evil from ruining the world. With that said, you can get a cave 
 woman, robot, and a frog knight in your party throughout the game. Which is awesome. The battle 
 system is active time, so if you have played any of the Final Fantasy games between 4 and 10, you 
 know how things work. Also in battles, you can combine techs with other party members to unleash 
 massive damage on your foes and other things.
  
  Now with it being a remake, Chrono Trigger DS is the greatest version of the game. The graphics 
 look very crisp on the DS screens and the different modes of play (classic and dual screen) both 
 work nicely. CT DS also includes the anime cutscenes from the PSone version, and there's even an 
 option to turn them off, if you want to experience the game more like the original SNES version.
 
  
  Overall, Chrono Trigger DS is a stellar game. Even by today's standards, the story is still worth 
 playing for and the battles are still incredibly well done. This is probably one of the finest 
 remakes to come in the next few years. Chrono Trigger isn't one of the best games of all time, 
 it's an experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzimm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 5:55 am PT
Review:  Chrono Trigger takes the Japanese RPG formula and turns it on its head. Gone are the tedious turn-based 
 battles, the random encounters, the strictly linear storyline, the mind-numbing grind, the crushingly 
 difficult boss battles.
  
  Instead there is an active battle system that has vestiges of its turn-based roots but is more 
 immediate and engaging. Instead of random encounters, most enemies are clearly visible on the screen 
 and in many cases can be avoided simply by walking around them. While the story is still largely 
 linear, there are multiple paths through it leading to up to 15 different endings, and most surprising, 
 some quests feature genuine choice and consequences which is unheard in a Japanese RPG. Your character 
 progress happens naturally as you play, so you'll rarely if ever have to grind out a few levels 
 before tackling a particularly difficult quest. Finally, boss battles can be challenging but never 
 feel insurmountable for a prepared party. Another way to put it is that the game feels very fair. 
 There was never a moment when I felt like the game was cheating me.
  
  Since this is a port of an SNES game from 1995, the graphics and sound are obviously dated, but 
 they still hold up exceptionally well and don't detract from the gameplay in the least. The music 
 in particular is outstanding, perhaps the best in-game music I've ever heard, so good in fact that 
 it can stand on its own merits outside the context of the game.
  
  Of particular note are the hand-animated cutscenes that punctuate key events in the story. These 
 are so well made and just plain cool that I wish there were more and that they were longer. Thankfully, 
 they can be watched at anytime by accessing the "Extras" menu.
  
  In short, this is a must-play title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 4:53 am PT
Review:  Following in the Square-Enix tradition of porting their old games to the DS, they now feast their 
 eyes on the fan favorite Chrono Trigger. But to make fans even crazier, Square Enix put some additional 
 content, like a formal English translation, two additional dungeons, a new ending and a new Arena 
 mode (which I never really figured out) .
  
  Now for a little history. First released in the 90s to much fanfare in gamer circles, Chrono Trigger 
 was an RPG that was made by a so-called 'dream team' composed of the greatest minds from both Squaresoft 
 and Enix at the time (basically when Square Enix merger didn't happen yet) . The game also made 
 big names out of several industry figures, and it pretty much took not only the genre forward, 
 but also the industry itself in one way or another.
  
  Now you may think that just because the original SNES game was a such a classic (and that the new 
 game, err, remake adds more to the experience with new content and portability) , I'd give it a 
 ten in a heartbeat, but seriously, no. But before the fanboys out there go out and flame me, let 
 me also say that the flaws in this gem are rather minor and the core experience is unforgettable 
 and top-notch.
  
  Let's get a background on the story over here. Crono is just an ordinary teen who resides in the 
 fictional town of Truce during 1000 A. D., and this year is particularly noteworthy because it's 
 when they hold the Millenial Fair- a fair held every thousand years. Everything changes when Crono 
 bumps into exuberant Marle as she later dares to jump in Crono's inventor friend Lucca's teleportation 
 machine. Thing is, the teleporter goes wrong and a time portal opens, sending Marle into another 
 time period. This journey then suddenly becomes a bit more epic in scale as they travel from time 
 period to time period to try and rewrite history as well as the apocalyptic future for that matter 
 from the evil hand of Lavos.
  
  You'd think that the game has aged too much due to the fact that its plot revolves around the now 
 tired concept of time travel. Well, don't you go crying clich on me right now because the game 
 manages to use this foundation in a fresh, coherent way. How? Well, it's something best explained 
 through experience, although I'll tell you this: despite the shifts in time periods, the big picture 
 manages to flow oh-so smoothly in a manner that doesn't seem confusing at all. There will be times 
 when you'll have to use the time element to affect a few other minor events as well, which is really 
 cool when you get to do it.
  
  Additionally, the characters have their own distinct (if not stereotypical in a manner of viewing) 
 personalities and they come off as a really unique and unforgettable cast. The distinct style of 
 Akira Toriyama (Dragonball) makes sure of that. Hell, everything artfully made in this game is 
 beautiful, even if sometimes a few crucial paths look like walls (that just adds more opportunity 
 for Easter eggs and hidden items which I like) . The music goes hand-in-hand with the art direction, 
 and the score is haunting, riveting, beautiful... it deserves an orchestral treatment, in my opinion. 
 Instead, we're stuck to the same 16-bit era versions, although that's not to say that the quality 
 of the music deteriorates due to it- in fact, a 16-bit score may just spur much more nostalgia 
 instead to the retro gamer. Truly, the musicians worked hard to make the score sound as if it was 
 played by true instruments of which they somehow succeed in doing.
  
  Something else that's fresh is the gameplay. Yes, you may have seen the ATB battle system before 
 in some games like FF8 but Chrono Trigger pretty much invented it (correct me if I'm wrong though) . 
 What is this ATB thing, you say? Well, let's say that there's a small bar below your character's 
 stats: hit points, magic points, the usual. That small bar will constantly be filled up by a blue 
 bar, and when it's full, you get to make your move as to whether you attack, use Techs (Magic) 
 or Items. Basically you have to wait for a bar to fill up so you can take your turn. Despite the 
 seemingly boring description, I think it's much more exciting and strategic than the usual turn-based 
 battle systems used by many others. Like I said, you just have to experience it.
  
  Subtler changes like being able to move while talking to a person (or when a dialog box is displayed) , 
 a silent protagonist (at the time of its release it was a new thing) , the ability to evade fights 
 with monsters (the game displays monsters in your field of vision unlike other RPGs that rely on 
 random encounters so you only have to fight them when you make contact with them) as well as the 
 fact that fights start instantly after monster contact without any loading or scenario changes 
 contribute tons to the gameplay experience as a whole. I mean, I haven't seen many an RPG that 
 lets players walk around an area while another person is talking to them or when the game announces 
 that you made a discovery in a treasure box, nor have I experienced many an RPG that has fights 
 that just start instantly- within the snap of a finger without those flashy transitions and 3D 
 scenario changes. I mean, once you play this game, you'll be going ape and you'll be asking questions 
 like, "Why aren't modern RPGs doing THIS?!".
  
  Still, I have a few complaints to get out of the way: most of the time, the game doesn't really 
 give a clear hint as to where you have to go next. I spend much of my time exploring the world 
 and finding out if something will happen in one place or another. It can be excruciating sometimes, 
 but that's what walkthroughs are for. Additionally, a few of the new elements added in by Square 
 Enix for the DS don't really matter much. The new content is composed of fetch quests which go 
 stale, and I can't freakin understand the Arena mode which is basically Pokemon-esque. How can 
 I get my own friggin beast to actually be able to use this mode?! Can anyone in-game tell me?!
 
  
  Seriously, I think Square Enix should've only added the new ending and put the game out because 
 with the now 13 endings to unlock and watch, the addition makes for loads of replay value alone.
 
  
  The game is really good as it holds quite a place in my heart (look at me, I'm using understatements!) , 
 and the DS version may just be the definitive one since it also adds the anime cutscenes from the 
 PS1 remake minus the load times. If you haven't played Chrono Trigger, then you just might be missing 
 half your (gamer) life. A must-buy for DS owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swoosie
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  RPG fans with a Nintendo DS have had a great 2008/2009 -- personally, I haven't been able to keep 
 up!
  World Ends With You
  Final Fantasy IV
  Dragon Quest IV
  Dragon Quest V
  Izuna 2
  Avalon Code
  Fire Emblem 
  Rhapsody
  Blue Dragon Plus
  Luminous Arc 2
  Etrian 
 Odyssey 2
  Sonic Chronicles Dark Brotherhood 
  ...
  So along comes Chrono Trigger, another remake, but a very loving one, essentially feeling familiar 
 and brand-new at the same time.
  
  I won't go on and on about the game's details -- the short:
  Graphics: Very traditional looking, 
 but colorful, small, and detailed sprites. The animations are pretty limited, but work just fine.
 
  
  Sound: There are a small number of nicely done full motion cutscenes, bits of spoken dialog, and 
 some really terrific music throughout. 
  
  Storyline: This is absolutely one of the game's strengths, avoiding so many of the linear cliched 
 stories in other JRPGs. The game bounces through time, and actions/choices done in one era can 
 have a direct impact on another. It's subtle, and works really well. The time shifts provide ample 
 changes in scenery, enemies, allies, music, etc. keeping the game fresh. Character dialog is pretty 
 well done, and generally they do a nice job of giving all of the characters their own personality 
 and motivations. 
  
  Combat: Combat is done in "phased real time", which basically means it's a hybrid of turn based 
 and real time. Time passes, but each character is only allowed to attack when their attack gauge 
 is full, meaning everyone generally attacks one at a time depending on their stats. Creatures are 
 visible on the game screens before combat, so they can, aside from ambushes, be avoided, though 
 you'll need to "grind" a bit to ensure you're leveling up well enough.
  
  RPG elements: Your characters level up on their own as you accomplish tasks and beat critters. 
 You collect loot as you go, finding/buying/selling items to improve your skills. You gain magical 
 abilities, "buffs" and other helper items, etc. There's a decent variety of equipment and spells.
 
  
  If you're not expecting cutting-edge visuals, and love deeper JRPGs, then Chrono Trigger might 
 be one of your best choices on the DS. I liked it considerably more than Dragon Quest IV or the 
 newer Final Fantasy DS ports. The newest game elements add very little more than repetitive new 
 elements (that can be avoided) , but nothing that you loved about the originals has been taken away. 
 Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  Chrono Trigger is another rpg released by Squaresoft (now SquareEnix) and is a brother of the Final 
 Fantasy series. Originally it was released for the SNES and then a port was made for the PS1 but 
 this version had some flaws, anyways Square wanted to make a remake for the DS and after you play 
 this game, you wont be dissapointed to see that Chrono Trigger is still one of the best rpg out 
 there.
  
  One of the best things of Chrono is that you can travel through time, you will go to the prehistory, 
 to a ruined future, medieval ages and an age controlled by people who use magic and of course the 
 age of the protagonists. Like all other rpgs you will have to level the characters, and a new gameplay 
 mechanism that was new at the time that Chrono was released is that you can use dual techniques, 
 in other words two or even three characters of the party can combine their attacks for deliver 
 a more powerful one. For the DS you can use the lower screen for make the attacks more faster or 
 move your characters in the minimap, plus you can open different menus.
  
  The story starts as the millenium festival is beginning, Crono the protagonist will be woken up 
 by his mother and then he will go to the festival, there he will meet a girl named Marle and after 
 a while they will be where Lucca, a friend of Crono, and her father are showing a machine they 
 created, Marle enter one of them and then she dissappears starting the time travel plot. There 
 are also more characters that will be at your party like a guy who was transformed into a frog, 
 a robot from the future and more.
  
  Also what made this game famous is that important japanese people helped the game, one of them 
 is Akira Toriyama who created Dragon Ball, he was in charge of the character design (for that reason 
 many characters like Crono has some traits of some dragon ball characters)
  
  The graphics are almost the same as the SNES version but they still seem good, being for a handheld 
 console, the music is great and the replay value of this game is great, there are like nine endings 
 in this game so if you want to get them all then you must do the game over and over again, with 
 a new+.
  
  Overall this game is great and one of the best rpgs out there like I said and despite Square added 
 some new content like monster arenas, they dont seem great but at least are optional so the new 
 content dont affect the game. This game is a must for every DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bokan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  A fabulous game back on the super nintendo, I wondered if this game was true to the original. Let's 
 find out.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are a 100% perfect match for the DS. The game looks identical in every way 
 and it just feels right. Dragon Ball Z art style lends to the game quite naturally and everything 
 seems to look and feel absolutely perfect.
  
  Sound: The score in this game is absolutely superb down to the last song. I believe there is at 
 least 1 song playing through on the DS that I never heard before, and it too was quite a heartfelt 
 one.
  
  Controls: Here's where it gets tricky, the DS version of CT contains two different control styles, 
 d-pad and stylus. The stylus I found somewhat unneeded for movement and at times hindersome, however, 
 the added menu options on the touch screen made everything much easier. Everything in general worked 
 the way it should if you used the D-pad for movement.
  
  Gameplay: An absolute blast. Still the funnest straight RPG ever. It's fighting mechanics work 
 extremely well and animate quite smoothly. The traveling and exploring never seemed to get tiresome 
 and in general this game was a plain joy to play. 
  
  Changes/Additions: Because this is a remake it has some differences and upgrades to it. Firstly, 
 the new translation for the game does not hinder the story or feeling of the game in any way, however 
 nostalgia did have me missing Frog's manner of speech. However it did provide a plot hole so Square 
 was right in fixing his translation. The controls due to the menu's were a plus, and during battles 
 some of the information being displayed on the bottom was also helpful, altho i found the info 
 on the main screen should have been smaller while on the other screen larger. That way more of 
 the battle and enemies would be seen. The map add in on the second screen while travelling is a 
 helpful bonus too.
  
  The addition of the 'Arena of the Ages' (where players train monsters to fight other monsters Pokemon 
 style) was painfully unneeded and felt only added in to market Chrono Trigger as a multiplayer 
 game.
  
  The PS1 cinematics are also added into this version of CT and they do a decent job in giving a 
 visually pleasing experience, even though they are few and far between. The introductory, final 
 and Crono/Lavos cutscenes are really the only 3 worth noting as they consist of more than character 
 introductions.
  
  The extra's section in the main menu of the game really adds to the game as it gives the player 
 a way to review the game's great music, cinematics, enemies, level design, art, and even it's multiple 
 endings. Also, by providing the %'s they gave players more incentive to complete the games, giving 
 fuel to completionists.
  
  The new Lost Sanctum side quest did more to actually hinder the game than help it, as it added 
 to the storyline in no way and only fared in being a way to slow down the pace of the game and 
 really bring in a boring back and forth quest (due to the rat you fight 50-100 times that you can't 
 avoid) . However the dimensional vortex's i found to be both a great challenge, fun, and giving 
 more clarity on plotlines.
  
  Finally, the new ending seems to really clear up the main confusion between Chrono Trigger and 
 Chrono Cross's storylines and gives meaning to completing the vortex's.
  
  The game overall would have scored a 10 however an optional boring Lost Sanctum sidequest, Arena 
 of the Ages multiplayer ad-plug hurt the score. However, perfection is hard to attain, especially 
 for a remake, so a 9.5 is by far the best score i would have given any DS game thus far created. 
 
  
  Go buy this game, no matter what you do all year I can guarantee you will enjoy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:45 am PT
Review:  One of my greatest regrets as a gamer was that I had an SNES but didn't have a ton of games for 
 it. I wasted my money on crap like "Bubsy" and "Mario is Missing" and at the time was not into 
 RPGs that much so I missed out on this one as well as so many other great RPGs on the system.
 
  
  Also I've never been happy with Square Enix and the fact they'd rather make fans pay $30-$40 for 
 a DS or GBA port instead of having a nice little inexpensive $8 Virtual Console download. At least 
 FFIII and FFIV polished the graphics but the fact I had to pay $40 for a game that should've been 
 an $8 VC download still rubs me the wrong way, even if they added in another ending, a monster 
 battler and another dungeon.
  
  Still this was my first time playing Chrono Trigger and I don't know where to start because the 
 game is amazing, even today.
  
  So the story goes, you're Chrono a young swordsman who lives with his mom. He goes to the Millenial 
 fair to see his friend Lucca (you know, she lives on the second floor? *bonus points to anyone 
 who gets that joke*) who has built a teleporter. On the way he meets a pretty, young girl named 
 Marle. When Marle tries out Lucca's time machine, she mysteriously disappears and soon, Chrono 
 and his friends find themselves on a journey that spans across time itself. The story is so engaging, 
 I can't get over it. There's a cast of delightful characters including a kind robot, a medieval 
 Frog swordsman and a cave girl. It's one of those stories where you never know what's going to 
 happen next and keeps you guessing and the story has 13 different endings which defnintely encourages 
 multiple playthroughs.
  
  From what I've been told this is actually a port of the PS1 version so you get some nicely done, 
 but not overbearing, animated cutscenes and with this being on a disc, you get them without the 
 long load screens. However if you're an old school RPG fan, you can change the settings on the 
 DS so it plays like it did on the SNES without using the well-implemented touch screen controls 
 as well as skipping past cutscenes.
  
  Gameplay is excellent as well. I like RPGs that let you see foes running around on the ground instead 
 of random encounters. Unlike most JRGPs, when you encounter a foe, instead of cutting to a separate 
 arena, the character reposition themselves for the battle as well as the battles are extremely 
 fast paced and characters can pair up for powerful team based attacks. Though I'll admit that I'm 
 not the most adept RPG player out there and some battles felt insanely hard. The implementation 
 of the DS touch interface for battles is done well and helps keep up with the fast paced action, 
 however it doesn't work so well on the overworld. Trying to control Chrono with the stylus isn't 
 as smooth as it was with games like Sonic Chronicles or Zelda: Phantom Hourglass and you're better 
 off to just use the D-pad.
  
  The monster battling is a nice little touch, but didn't impress me that much. It felt like the 
 game was just trying to cash in on the populairity of the whole Pokemon craze. It's a decent distraction 
 at best.
  
  For an SNES era game, the graphics still hold up well and the cutscenes are nicely done, this game 
 has one of the best scores of any game I've played that even holds up in this day and age of fully 
 orchestrated soundtracks.
  
  Despite my complaint of having to shell out $40 for a game that should've been an $8 VC download, 
 Chrono Trigger is really really good and if you missed it the first time around, then you really 
 should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkMaster20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Having never played this before, Chrono Trigger was a new and awesome experience for me. The story 
 is amazing and kept me interested until the end unlike some other RPG's I've played. The time traveling 
 concept is what makes the story and the game in general. Seeing the world in so many different 
 time periods gives the game excellent variety. The different levels were creative and fun. Going 
 from battling super-intelligent dinosaurs in pre-history to homicidal robots in the future is an 
 experience like no other. The battle system was nice, I really enjoyed the active / turn-based 
 style. Multiple endings and New Game + give it good replay value as well. My only problem was that 
 some of the extra material at the end (lost sanctum, vortexes) seemed tacked on and didn't really 
 flow with the rest of the game. Other than that, perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poopinhammer
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:11 am PT
Review:  Chrono Trigger, to me, will always be one of the best RPG's of all time. When i heard that it was 
 coming out with extra content, i was as excited as a High-school girl on prom night.
  
  Then i actually PLAYED the extra content. I was hoping for more information on the plot, since 
 you never actually find out what happens with Magus. Yes, after you beat the Dream Devourer he 
 loses his memory and goes off. But you never find out what happens. About the only cool or interesting 
 part of the game was when you meet Dalton again, beat him ,and then he says he is going to build 
 an army to destroy Guardia.
  
  The monster arena i never really got into since, it didn't seem all that important to me and you 
 have almost no control or what is actually going on. Wasn't really a fan.
  
  The extra content aside, its a straight port from the SNES. If you liked the SNES version, its 
 the same. If you never played it before, you are in for a treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenbasilisk
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Well let me start off by saying I love the 2 FF games I own (FF3 and FF4) This game plays exactly 
 the same, except the graphics are horrible!!! and there's too much talking and walking! I finishing 
 the game because I paid 40 bucks for it!! .. and it's all I have to play right now. I have to admit 
 though, now that I am nearly at the end of the game 30+ hrs. I at a stage called; The Faded Hour 
 only now did the game's pace pick up and it got interesting.
  Finally at the end of the game there's more quests and bosses to fight and I have a lot of cool 
 firepower. The first 20 hours of the game were just dreadful.. muddy graphics, pixel-ed characters.. 
 long long walks, and just boring game. Lots and lots of talking. Honestly I would skip this game 
 and pick up Final Fantasy 3, and 4. Both of these games are easily 10 times better! The game , 
 to me, is really over-rated. Square must've threw some money around for these ratings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k-hearts987
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  As you might have read my review on the SNES version of the game, I played this game when it first 
 came out back in 1995. ever since then, it's been the best game of all time in my opinion. The 
 only thing that could match it was the sequel, Chrono Cross. Even though these games didn't ever 
 have the largest budget in the world, Gamespot puts it right and says "They definately have the 
 biggest heart". 
  You play as Crono, a middle aged boy; you begin the game going to the fair in honor of your countrie's 
 thousand years of peace, but it soon becomes a recipe for disaster. you run into a girl who insists 
 on following you around by the name of Marle, and likes having fun, Crono, and of course, long 
 looks at cotton candy. While looking at your friend, Lucca's, new teleportation invention, Marle 
 gets sucked through a portal and Crono takes it on his shoulders to bring her back. The portal 
 turns out to be the key to time travel, and you have to fight your way through many monsters and 
 battles to find the girl. The plot thickens and grows magically and flowing without hesitation 
 or notice, until the weight of the world and time rests on your shoulders and with a cast of memorable 
 characters, you set off to fight what is infecting the Earth and destroying your future.
  If you have a Nintendo DS I insist on picking this one up, but the true magic is the original the 
 Super Nintendo had to offer. If nothing else, you can pick up the port to the Playstation under 
 the name Final Fantasy Chronicles, and you get a great port for Final Fantasy IV too. If you can 
 find it cheap, buy it because it sells for extremely high. Last time I checked, $75 a pop. To this 
 day, it's the greatest game series I ever played (also the first: I started playing it when I was 
 two years old) . so when you see this game, under any circumstances PLAY IT! 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PAJ89
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  It's always difficult to cast an objective eye over a game more than a decade old, especially one 
 as celebrated as Chrono Trigger. Nostalgia often has the effect of wearing rose-tinted glasses, 
 but I think this revival on the DS (a full fourteen years later) really does prove Chrono Trigger 
 to be an all-time classic. Ironically, it's the additional new bonus dungeons and arena mode that 
 leave the most to be desired.
  
  The story is just the way you remember if you played it back in the SNES days; Crono and friends 
 are on a time-and-space bending quest to save the future from a parasitic alien that will plunge 
 the world into disaster if left unopposed. Stories involving time-travel in any media are notorious 
 for being patchy and difficult to follow, but if that's a rule, Chrono Trigger is definitely the 
 exception. Even with an unprecedented thirteen different endings (including a brand new one that 
 establishes a link to the Playstation sequel Chrono Cross) , everything fits together neat and tidily 
 thanks to the New Game+ feature. This allows you to start again with all of your character levels, 
 techniques, and most of your items from a completed save.
  
  By the time you get to the end, you'll have swept through five different time periods spanning 
 from 65,000,000 B. C. to 2300 A. D. and have accumulated up to seven weird and wonderful characters. 
 Some, like the damsel-in-distress Marle and geeky-inventor Lucca, are a little bit clich (not 
 to mention Crono, the eternal mute) , but never to the extent that they become unbearable. You can't 
 expect the whole cast to be as creative as an honourable frog and a crazy cave-woman.
  
  But after powering through to see just about everything the game has to offer in 2008, the most 
 impressive thing is how concise and streamlined it feels. The dreaded dungeon crawls, infested 
 with random encounters and short of save points, that curse most modern RPGs are non-existent. 
 Although the level designs are a bit simple, they work and you'll rarely, if ever, find yourself 
 grimacing as you plod on through a dungeon. Considering all the places you visit, the characters 
 you collect, and the battles you fight, it's hard to believe it all fits into a twenty, twenty-five 
 hour period. This makes it ideal for the busy gamer who doesn't have time to regularly play for 
 marathon sessions; the pacing is excellent and you won't feel lost even if you do only play in 
 short bursts. And in case you're curious about the thirteen endings, you don't need to play start-to-finish 
 for all of them; when you play a New Game+ you can choose to fight the final boss at any time, 
 and it's when you decide to that determines which ending you get.
  
  Combat will be familiar to any regular RPGer as Chrono Trigger uses the time bar system that is 
 now a standard in the genre. Having two screens means there is less clutter this time around; the 
 action unfolds on the top screen and all the menus (complete with touch screen functionality) reside 
 downstairs. Alternatively, you can play it the way it was on the SNES if you're a purist.
  
  Back in the day, the battles were a great showcase for the smooth animations and varied character 
 models. You'd expect them to be the weak link now, but they're not. If you're into flashy 3D, textures, 
 and all that stuff you'll obviously be disappointed. But if you like the 2D old-skool look, you'll 
 really appreciate the preserved visuals. You could argue Square-Enix has been a little bit lazy 
 when you consider the impressive Final Fantasy III updated visuals, but that'll just depend on 
 whether you belong to the 2D or 3D camp. If there is one thing Chrono Trigger possesses that has 
 almost inarguably stood the test of time, it's the soundtrack. Yasunori Mitsuda's score is epic 
 and sweeping just like it always was; it's a shame the DS speakers are a little tinny, but they 
 won't stop you from appreciating the numerous classic tunes.
  
  It's been easy-sailing so far, but the stand out disappointment is easily the extra content. Firstly, 
 the arena mode: a few hours in and you'll gain access to the Arena of Ages, a place that exists 
 outside the confines of time and acts as a place to train and battle monsters. Sounds familiar, 
 doesn't it? But the arena is at best a super-simplified take on Pokemon. You have very little control 
 over both training and battling, and it all feels a little bit detached and pointless. The upshot 
 is that you can win some nifty items (including some equipment you'd have to wait longer for in 
 the main game) and battle your monster against a friend's in local Wi-Fi, but it still isn't anything 
 to sing and dance about.
  
  The two new quests are a bit more exciting than the arena, but still feel rushed. The Lost Sanctum 
 is essentially one very long fetch quest that results in you saving a village from destruction. 
 New equipment and a couple of challenging bosses are a nice addition, but you will be pissed off 
 after repeatedly climbing up and down a mountain where the enemies respawn. Remember what I said 
 about grimacing? This is probably the one exception. The Dimensional Vortex is a lot more fun, 
 particularly as it concludes with that brand new ending, but it still feels like wasted potential 
 to me. Only available on a New Game+, the vortex forms a gauntlet of random environments from the 
 main game, before sending you to an original area with the chance to pick up some more new equipment 
 and fight some more tough bosses. It all feels like a chore (particularly since it initially involves 
 running through environments you've already visited) , but it does at least pick up near the end 
 with that new ending and a very powerful new boss.
  
  Although the new content is a bit hit-and-miss (more miss sadly) , almost everyone is going to be 
 buying this game for the original experience. It doesn't matter whether you fancy a trip down memory 
 lane or are experiencing Chrono Trigger for the first time due to geographical inconvenience, it's 
 still a classic that's managed to keep its charm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 6:13 pm PT
Review:  A. D. 1995. It feels so long ago now, but such a year should remain in the hearts of gamers for 
 eternity. 1995 was arguably the best year of the Super Nintendo Entertainment System. Squaresoft 
 would grace the SNES with one of the best games of all time. After the success of Final Fantasy 
 VI in 1994, "The Dream Team" (Sakaguchi, Toriyama and Horii) released another brilliant RPG for 
 the SNES a year later. Chrono Trigger. A tale of time travel. A tale of fascination. A tale of 
 excellence.
  
  A. D. 1999-2001. Japan and North America would see a re-release of Chrono Trigger for Sony's PlayStation. 
 Pretty much the same game, but with little differences in the soundtrack and sadly, there is loading. 
 Because this re-release was on a disc, Chrono Trigger had loading. Many were annoyed about this 
 minor problem, and I suppose I would be too if I owned this re-release. Anyway, the re-release 
 was released on it's own in Japan in 1999, and it was bundled with the re-release of another SNES 
 masterpiece, Final Fantasy IV in North America. The bundle was named "Final Fantasy Chronicles" 
 (now I don't know where the Chronicles comes in) , and was released in 2001. The PS1 port did add 
 some pretty cool features to the already epic RPG. Anime cinematics were introduced, and because 
 Akira Toriyama did the artwork, he made these cutscenes look like the stuff from Dragon Ball Z. 
 A few new songs were added in the port too. An "Extras Mode" is also added, which was never available 
 on the SNES version. In the extras mode, you are able to view the cinematics that you've seen in 
 the file, view the bestiary, listen to songs you've encountered in your time-travels, view techs 
 your allies have learned, view a gallery of Toriyama's brilliant art, view the endings you've unlocked, 
 and view hidden treasures that you've discovered. This PlayStation port was released around the 
 same time as it's sequel, Chrono Cross, which was also on the PlayStation.
  
  A. D. 2008. It was July, and Square-Enix announced yet another port of a classic RPG. Chrono Trigger 
 was being ported to the Nintendo DS. This port was released in November in Japan and North America, 
 with an upcoming release in PAL regions in February 2009. Unfortunately, it wasn't a remake, but 
 nonetheless, it was still Chrono Trigger. The main upside to CT on the DS is of course the fact 
 that it's portable, and can be played anywhere you go now. Another upside was that Square-Enix 
 of Europe said they'd be released Chrono Trigger in PAL regions. Finally! Not many SNES games from 
 Squaresoft made it into Europe. Secret of Mana did, Secret of Evermore did, even crappy Mystic 
 Quest made it into PAL regions. CT was one of their games that never made it. Not even the PS1 
 port was released in PAL regions, whilst FFIV, V and VI were. I do not know the reason, and I don't 
 think anybody else does. But what matters is that Chrono Trigger is coming to PAL regions this 
 time around! The DS version contains everything the PlayStation port added, and also some in-game 
 updates. There is a new monster arena, where you can train a monster. There is also another added 
 side-quest called "The Lost Sanctum". I will talk about these later in the review.
  
  Now, you're probably wondering how the DS port compares to the previous versions. I haven't played 
 the PlayStation port, so I am unable to compare those two versions. In all honesty, I can; t say 
 that it feels as awesome as the original SNES version, but it is still Chrono Trigger after all. 
 My favourite game on the Super Nintendo is now my favourite game on the Nintendo DS. Chrono Trigger 
 can now be taken anywhere you go; It has a $40 US price tag, cheaper than the SNES retail (which 
 I believe was $60, and think about how much that would be worth in today's money) , and a lot cheaper 
 than how much the cart alone goes for on evilBay (i'm not even gonna think of the price range) . 
 The DS port also has the extras. If you're new to Chrono Trigger, than the DS version is the definitive 
 version to get. If you are a veteran of Chrono Trigger, and own the SNES/PS1 version already, then 
 you might want to wait until the price drops for this version. And of course if you don't own CT 
 already, then it's a no-brainer, get it!
  
  For those of you who don't know much, or anything about the story of Chrono Trigger, here's a little 
 summary. Crono is a spiky-haired teenager, and is the main protagonist of the game. Lucca is Crono's 
 best friend, and is a total geek with mechanics. These two protagonists come from 1000 A. D. The 
 game starts with Crono's mother waking up Crono, and telling him that he needs to go to the Millenial 
 Festival in Truce, because Lucca has invented a teleportation machine (such good technology for 
 the year 1000!) , and she wants Crono to check it out. While at the Millennial Festival, Crono bumps 
 into a pretty girl named Marle, another main protagonist. Little does anybody know that Marle is 
 actually the Princess Nadia in disguise, to check out the festival. Crono and Marle decide to check 
 out the festival together, and go to Lucca's awesome teleportation machine. While Marle tries out 
 the machine, it reacts with the special pendent that she's wearing, and rips open a time portal 
 that sucks her 400 years back in time. Once gone, her pendent falls to the ground. So, brave Crono 
 grabs her pendent, and goes back in time as well, to save Marle. Thus, begins the amazing story 
 of fascinating time-travel.
  
  I won't say anymore of the plot, because it is too good to be spoiled. The characters are also 
 very good. I have mentioned three of the allies already. Crono is the spiky-haired teenager, who's 
 the main character. He doesn't have much personality, he doesn't talk (a cool clich) , nor does 
 he really have much of a back story. Nevertheless, Crono is still a cool character and he gets 
 more interesting later on in the story. He uses a Katana as a weapon, and has Lightning as his 
 element. Lucca is Crono's best friend, and isn't your average female. She is a geeky inventor, 
 which runs in the family. She is very good at inventing things. Her weapons are a gun and hammer, 
 while her element is Fire. Marle is the tomboyish princess. She has a crossbow, with an element 
 of Ice. Now here are the characters I haven't mentioned yet. Frog is my favourite character in 
 CT. From 600 A. D. he was originally a human, a squire of a powerful knight, and named Glenn. Unfortunately, 
 when fighting Magus and his henchmen, he gets turned into a frog. Frog wields the Masamune, and 
 has Water for his element. When in the future, 2300 A. D. to be precise, Crono and his allies come 
 across a fascinating robot. Lucca repairs the dormant guy, and they call him Robo. Robo wields 
 his robotic arm, and has no element, but is an all-around character. Ayla is met well into the 
 past. 65,000,000 B. C. When the dinosaurs were still around. She is the chief of the Loka tribe, 
 and happens to like Crono and his friends. She relies on bare fists for fighting, and has no element 
 like Robo, but rather more physical abilities. Moving on to the villains. Magus isn't the main 
 antagonist, but he is the main bad guy for a while. Magus is the Fiendlord who waged war against 
 the Kingdom of Guardia in 600 A. D. He has the Shadow ability, and wields a scythe. The other antagonist 
 to mention is, of course, Lavos. This big badass monster destroyed most of the world in 1999 A. D. 
 This explains why the future is ruined when Crono and his allies go there. The main key objective 
 is to stop Lavos from destroying the world. Overall, these characters are brilliant, and some of 
 the best cast of characters i've ever seen in an RPG.
  
  All you folk who aren't familiar with CT are probably wondering what this RPG has to offer in gameplay. 
 Well, it's very similar to a SNES Final Fantasy. The battle system is classic turn-based combat, 
 with the levelling up and figuring out tactics for bosses and such. It's done a bit differently 
 in CT however. Battles are commenced on the same screen as when you freely move Crono, which was 
 a first for RPGs back then. Battles are not randomized either. Usually, the enemy can be seen before 
 you go into battle, so avoiding them is sometimes possible. Occasionally, enemies will surprise 
 you, and appear in certain places without you seeing them. This isn't random either. Another significant 
 feature, regarding the allies is the learning of abilities, known in this as "Techs". Along with 
 being rewarded with EXP and Gold after battles, the characters will also be awarded with "Tech 
 Points". Tech Points is a separate EXP bar, but specifically for learning these techs. Every once 
 in a while, you'll notice that one of your characters has learnt a cool tech, which may be useful 
 in future battles. Once you progress through the game, you'll learn some really awesome techs. 
 These techs sometimes relate to the element of the ally, such as Lucca learning a new fire technique. 
 Another cool thing you can execute with these techs is combining them. Combo techs can also be 
 taught to your allies, where they combine certain techniques and use them to deal massive damage. 
 Combos are usually done by two allies, such as Crono and Marle using a special "Ice Sword" tech. 
 Combos can also be done by all three allies, and you'll come across some sweet ones later on.
 
  
  Outside the battles, you'll be treated with some wonderful exploring. From beautiful forests, to 
 disgusting future dumps, to dark and spooky palaces, there's a lot to see in Chrono Trigger. It 
 feels much like a 2D Final Fantasy, but adding on the time travel. There are various times you 
 can go to as well. You begin in 1000 A. D. Crono's time. But then, you'll have access to 600 A. D., 
 2300 A. D., 65,000,000 B. C., and eventually 12,000 B. C. The End of Time is also accessible. Each 
 time period are so far apart from each other, that there are going to be a lot of differences. 
 It's the same continent, but dungeons and cultural areas are completely different. They are all 
 very awesome places to explore, and it gets more bizarre as you progress.
  
  Now, I might as well give you my opinion on the added gameplay, exclusive to the DS. The first 
 new feature is the Monster Arena. When you arrive to "The End of Time", you'll notice a new portal 
 which wasn't present in the other versions. This takes you to the monster arena. You choose the 
 element of your monster, and you can train it, and use it to fight in the arena. You can also verse 
 human opponents via wireless connection. From there, you can access the monster arena from the 
 main menu. In my opinion, this is a dumbed down version of the monster side-quest in Dragon Quest 
 VIII, and is far inferior to it. CT's monster arena needs more to it than just train, buy items 
 and fight. I also thought that the monsters needed more variety, aside the elements. Very poor. 
 The other side-quest is called "The Lost Sanctum". This side-quest cannot be started until much 
 later on in the adventure. This new dungeon wasn't that great to be honest, and doesn't really 
 add to the gameplay. Also poor.
  
  One thing that's very significant about Chrono Trigger are the different endings you can go through. 
 In the SNES original, there are 13 different possible endings. They are all accessed at different 
 points of the game. Some endings are easier to unlock while others are a bit harder. Of course, 
 there is the normal ending too, which I personally recommend you unlock first. The normal ending 
 is when you go through the main story, and beat Lavos at the end. In the DS version, there is a 
 new ending which is accessible, and I won't say any more about that. Another significance to CT 
 is the New Game Plus feature, which has been around since the SNES original. This was one of the 
 first games to ever have the feature, and is my favourite NG+ feature. New Game Plus is unlocked 
 by getting any of the original endings, which then you can carry your stats on to this file from 
 the completed file. This is the case with quite a few games these days, but was a big thing back 
 in 1995.
  
  The difficulty isn't too high, but there are still some fairly hard bosses later on in the game. 
 Level-grinding isn't really required, as you level up a lot when progressing through dungeons anyway. 
 When it comes to the length, it has a good length, especially since the New Game Plus adds on heaps 
 more hours. You may find the main story worth around 20-25 hours, but there's way more where that 
 came from.
  
  Another thing to mention is the controls. Because the DS button layout is exactly like the Super 
 Nintendo's, Chrono Trigger DS has the exact controls as the SNES version. How awesome is that!? 
 The touch screen can be used as well, but if you want to make the game look like the original, 
 you can. When in the options menu, you can change it to "Classic Mode" or "DS mode". You can even 
 turn the cinematics off for exact SNES gameplay.
  
  In my opinion, some of the best graphics in gaming history come from the Super Nintendo Entertainment 
 System. Why? A lot of the 2 Dimensional graphics look amazing, even today, in 2009. Whenever you 
 look at a Nintendo 64 game, you'll have to admit that the graphics did look brilliant back in the 
 late 1990's. But now, quite a few N64 games look a bit dated. I've never thought this when I play 
 a SNES game or a port of a SNES game, because it's hard to get sick of 2D. The DS port of Chrono 
 Trigger contains the 2D used in the original, followed with the cinematics used in the PS1 port. 
 It's a shame that Chrono Trigger hasn't upgraded to 3D yet, but who know what will happen to it 
 in the next few years? The graphics are as good as always, but if we get to see Final Fantasy III 
 and IV remade in 3D, then why can't we see CT in 3D?
  
  Chrono Trigger has a wonderful soundtrack, composed by Yasunori Mitsuda, and a few tracks from 
 Nobuo Uematsu. There are many tracks that are very memorable, and beautiful, and the soundtrack 
 contains my favourite Final Boss theme. Mitsuda did very well to fit the soundtrack onto the 16-bit 
 cartridge, with some brilliant songs. When the PS1 port came along, the songs were "modernized", 
 as discs have more room. Some of the songs in the DS version sound slightly different, and thankfully 
 not in a bad way. Which makes me sigh in relief that CT wasn't ported to Game Boy Advance, a system 
 with not so good sound. While I still prefer the SNES soundtrack over the rest, but the soundtrack 
 in the DS port is still fine, and it's still enjoyable.
  
  If you never had a chance to play Chrono Trigger originally, then this is the definitive version 
 to purchase, ASAP. If you already own a copy of Chrono Trigger for the SNES or PS1, then might 
 I suggest a cheaper price? The original game, with the added cinematics, the added tracks, the 
 added areas, the portability, the Extras Mode. All this make Chrono Trigger DS the definitive version 
 to get. There is no doubt that Chrono Trigger is one of the best RPGs of all time, if not one of 
 the best games of all time. The best SNES game is now the best DS game.
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 7:10 am PT
Review:  Quite simply, I cannot fault Chrono Trigger.
  
  If you want a great story, mixed with an interesting and inventive time traveling quest mechanic, 
 varied and well played out characters with depth, backstory and personality, aided by an enjoyable 
 combat system with characterful enemies, challenging bosses and cool single, dual combo, and tripple 
 combo abilities, then this game is for you.
  
  If not, you should probably play it anyway, because it is quite simply, that good.
  
  It is 
 the only game I have ever played (definately the only RPG/JRPG) where the characters actually play 
 together. You can unlock combo attacks by having characters fight together for extended periods 
 of time. These attacks can get incredibly powerful. Also a good mechanic, is the fact that while 
 characters not in the playable party will level up, their abilities will not advance while they 
 are not fighting.
  
  The game is backed by your standard classic JRPG style music score, which I love, and is entirely 
 sprite based (asside from a few anime film clips from time to time) which I also love.
  
  The magic system is well done. You have to see a certain character to activate each person's latent 
 magical ability, and not everybody has it. Theres 4 elements, Light, Dark, Fire and Water/Ice. 
 You eventually have 5 magic users out of your 7 party members, 1 character with each ability (1 
 with Ice and 1 with Water; though they technically are the same element, they have different spells) . 
 Magic also work into combo abilities, for example, Marle (Ice magic) or Lucca (Fire magic) empowering 
 Crono's blade with their magic for a massive elemental/physical damage hit.
  
  The characters a varied and deep, and you should be able to identify with each of them in one way 
 or another. Without spoiling anything, it also has one of the most unexpected twists that I have 
 ever experienced. Totally unexpected and when it happens your like 
 
  
  The story is simply put, awesome. No need to say any more than that on the matter.
  
  As I said at the start, I simply cannot fault Chrono Trigger. At the same time, I simply cannot 
 compliment it enough. Kudos to Square-Enix for re-releasing this old classic. Now if only they 
 would do the same for all you PS3 users and FFVII, everybody would be happy :p. 
  
  Anything less than a 10 is an insult to this game.
  
  Go out. Buy the game. You won't regret 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evolution21
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:50 am PT
Review:  Chrono Trigger is definitely a must have for the DS. The story of the game is very deep and keeps 
 you interested even after you end it. You come across 6 playble characters across several time periods, from 
 the prehistoric era to a post apocalyptic future. Certain actions in past can affect the future. Over 
 10 different endings and new game plus feature, which lets you start a new game with all your equipment 
 and character level really increases the replay value of the game. The battles are turned based 
 and allows you to do double and triple techs with different team members. The game is a little bit 
 difficult but not unbearable, It makes you think about how you approach certain areas and bosses. The 
 soundtrack is phenominal and really sets the mood for the game. Overall, The game is worth $40 price 
 tag and you get alot of bang for your buck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curtis_Bundy
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 8:33 am PT
Review:  Game Creator: Square Enix
  Genre: RPG
  Release Date: November 25, 2008 
  Platform: DS
  Past Platforms: SNES (Super Nintendo Entertainment System) and Playstation
  Gameplay: 10/10
 
  Sound: 10/10
  Controls: 10/10
  Replay Value: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  
  Just so you all know I haven't played any of the other versions of Chrono Trigger so I studied 
 them through images and videos so I can compare them. The videos I watched were in high video quality 
 so I can compare it with the DS version. I will also try to make this review with no spoilers but 
 if I do I am sorry.
  Well many people say this is the best game of all time no matter how many times you play it, port 
 it, or having no real actual sequel (yet) to it. So is it true with the ported DS version and added 
 content that this Chrono Trigger is the best game of all time. I will say yes it is and it is even 
 better then the version before it because of the added content and keeping the Anime cut scenes 
 from the Playstation version. But enough talk let's get into the review.
  
  Well to start with the review there is a feature on this game called Classic and DS mode this means 
 that if you choose DS the commands like Attack, Tech, Item, Character info (Health Status and SP) 
 will be displayed on the bottom screen and on the top screen will display your characters and enemies 
 fighting in battle. I used both features and I got to say the DS feature is good but it's more 
 for someone who uses the stylist more but the Classic feature is the best since it is used in the 
 Playstation and SNES (Super Nintendo Entertainment System) . Plus is a little easier for beginners 
 as well. 
  
  The games story is still the same. I will not be talking about the story it's so I don't ruin the 
 game for anyone reading my review. But they did change some things though in the text. Like having 
 a better translation of the words so it will make more since to us Americans.
  
  Many people looking at the sprites of this game and comparing them to the old games. They say that 
 the sprites do look better and the animation is better this time around. Which I will say they 
 do look better because I compared a picture of the SNES, Playstation, and DS sprites and the DS 
 sprites look better and they move smoother by a little unless if I am wrong.
  
  The gameplay is still the same as the other. Your spells and the element of your character is sorted 
 by an icon (Marle water a water droplet is shown and Frogs spell Water to see what type of element 
 the spell is it is shown with a water droplet) .
  
  The music is better on this version of Chrono Trigger. They have the same music used in every single 
 part of the game that was used in the other versions.
  
  Now let's talk about replay value. Well you can still do the New Game + feature in this game. Which 
 if nobody has no idea what I am talking about it is where if you beat the game you can start the 
 game over with all of your items from your completed file except for main items, weapons, and you 
 will start over with no gil. You are still able to get the other Endings in this game still so 
 doing the game through New Game + and trying to get the other endings on the same spots as the 
 other version they are still there in this version.
  
  The content that was added in this game is some new dudgeons and a new mini game where it is kind 
 of like Pokemon where you raise a creature and help it win against other creatures. If I did miss 
 any other content that was added on this game I am sorry.
  So to end this review this game is one of the best games on the DS it's really easy to play from 
 the start and the story will make you not want to put the game down even for a second.
  
  I recommend this game for anyone really and anyone who is looking for a good Square Enix game on 
 the DS. Hope you like this review and they way I do my reviews now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 11:18 am PT
Review:  You thought the wait for Super Smash Bros. Brawl was bad? Spare a thought for the RPG nuts who've 
 been gaming since the NES and SNES days. When American games magazines started making a big deal 
 of Chrono Trigger and proclaiming that Square's SNES RPG was one of the greatest games they'd ever 
 played, we started getting excited and eagerly waited for a UK release. It never came. As a result, 
 we've had to hang on for a grand total of just under 13 years for this, the DS remake, since it 
 marks the first time the game has ever been available in Britain. Was it worth the ridiculous wait? 
 Yes.
  
  hrono Trigger tells the story of Crono, a young lad in the year 1000 AD who meets a girl called 
 Merle at his town's Millennial Fair. Also at the fair is Lucca, a whiz-kid lass who's created a 
 teleportation machine. When Merle tries the machine out, her pendant causes a portal to appear 
 and she's transported back in time to the year 600. Chrono and Lucca travel back to rescue her 
 and so begins a huge adventure which goes through seven different time zones, from 65 million BC 
 to 2300 AD. 
  This isn't necessarily what makes the game special, though. What does is the way its many aspects 
 combine to create something much greater than the sum of its parts. Every individual feature of 
 the game is so well-designed and works so well that when you put it all together it makes for a 
 fantastic experience.
  Take the script, for example. So many RPGs are let down by writing that's either too basic or clichd 
 to be enjoyable, or too pretentious because the writer decided this would be their chance to write 
 flowing, lengthy speeches for characters that will make an impact on the world. The only impact 
 this makes is our thumb on the A button many times over as we try to frantically skip the rubbish 
 being spouted. Not so with Chrono Trigger. The dialogue here is genuinely likeable since it simply 
 does what's required - it tells the story and develops the characters' relationships without reeling 
 off a load of rubbish about the destiny of mankind and the futility of hope.
  Then there's the music. On its own it's pretty great stuff - some of it was even composed by famed 
 Final Fantasy composer Nobuo Uematsu - but it complements the game's events so perfectly that it's 
 hard not to get genuinely emotional at certain times, such is its power.
  Finally there's the all-important gameplay, in particular the battle mode. When the SNES version 
 of Chrono Trigger was released Square made a big deal of the game's 'Active Time Battle 2.0' system. 
 Basically, all this meant was two things. Firstly, whenever enemies attack, you fight them there 
 and then on the game map, instead of cutting to a separate battle screen. Secondly, instead of 
 taking turns to go on the offensive, your character gets to fight once their own attack meter fills 
 up (the higher their speed stat, the faster their timer runs out) . Although similar systems have 
 since been implemented over the years there's no denying it's still an effective, simple and exciting 
 way of playing. Since the action is still happening as you go through each character's list of 
 actions, you're forced to choose quickly to prevent being attacked while you decide which move 
 to make.
  
  Role-Playing Gem
  On top of all of that, numerous new elements have been added to the DS version over the SNES original. 
 For starters, there's a special DS version of the game which moves all the on-screen menus to the 
 bottom screen to let you see more of the action and lets you play the game with stylus control. 
 
  
  There are also all sorts of options allowing you to change anything from the colour of the in-game 
 menus to the ability to let your character run automatically instead of having to hold a button 
 to activate it. Then there's the ability to raise monsters from one of four different 'smidges' 
 and then train them to fight against your friend's monster in wireless multiplayer. 
  
  Finally, the game now has two brand new dungeons which, while not quite as engaging as those in 
 the original game, add to the longevity nonetheless. To be frank though, these various new additions 
 are simply cherries on an already delicious cake - a cake which, more importantly, has yet to be 
 tasted by 99.9% of the UK gaming public.
  
  If you're an RPG fan we can't recommend Chrono Trigger highly enough. It's a beautiful example 
 of the genre that will have you hooked from start to finish. Speaking of which, there's masses 
 to see here too. With a ridiculous 14 (!) different endings depending on the way you play, Chrono 
 Trigger is an RPG which will keep you busy for months.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_Alan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 6:37 am PT
Review:  Once upon a time, there was a game developer called Square Enix. After several years of inventing 
 and refining the concept of the role-playing game with their Final Fantasy series, they produced 
 the critically acclaimed and multi-million selling Chrono Trigger. Then at a board meeting one 
 day, some overpaid executive decided gamers in the UK would be much happier playing FIFA 95 on 
 the Mega Drive instead and decided not to release it here. Man, I hate that guy.
  
  Fifteen years later and Chrono Trigger has finally reached the shores of Britain in an enhanced 
 package that takes the best of the Super Nintendo original and later Playstation variant. If anyone 
 is unfamiliar with the Japanese role-playing game: you play a silent, brooding protagonist who 
 uses swords in a world with readily available firearms, you will befriend a motley crew of characters 
 including at least one animal, a femme fatale and a reformed bad guy, to defeat an ancient evil 
 that resurfaces every 1000 years or so (which, somewhat inconveniently, happens to be today) and 
 this objective is achieved by killing hordes of monsters with spells and having mammoth conversations 
 despite the alleged urgency of the task at hand.
  
  Luckily for cynics like myself, Chrono Trigger is adept at taking the conventions of the genre 
 and throwing them out of the window. The game's focus is time travel, in case you didn't guess 
 from the title, allowing for some clever writing and ingenious cause-effect relationships to surface. 
 With the ability to travel from prehistory through a post-apocalyptic future, your actions in the 
 past shape the future. 
  
  In an early highlight, you're put on trial and asked about events leading up to it. Some hilarious 
 truth bending on the part of the prosecutor ensues as you realise how little you actually remember. 
 You'll want to replay this section just to see if things can turn out differently next time. The 
 quality of writing is not limited to the main quest: lead characters have real personalities and 
 histories. Discovering these is optional, but they are compelling enough to seek out that the choice 
 is barely apparent.
  
  The somewhat stagnant battle mechanics that have become a genre staple are much improved. Rather 
 than encountering foes at random (perhaps the worst idea in game history alongside the interactive 
 movie) enemies wander the screen for you to engage, or more importantly avoid, at will. A fast-paced 
 battle system keeps the emphasis on quick decisions and progressing with the game's story, with 
 no need to spend time buffing up your characters in order to progress.
  
  Not all is well in this re-release, partly due to the limitations of the DS. The art design has 
 lost some of its charm in translation, appearing smaller and less detailed throughout. That said, 
 the use of original artwork is preferable to a modern revamp. Unfortunately, the animated cut scenes 
 of the Playstation version- directed by Akira Toriyama of Dragonball Z fame, no less- have also 
 been included. These try to fill in the aesthetic gaps where your imagination normally steps in: 
 my imagination is both better and cuter, apparently. Additional content in the form of new areas 
 and quests lacks the attention to detail that made the original game so impressive. Mercifully 
 the celebrated soundtrack has survived the conversion unaffected and is worth cracking out a decent 
 pair of headphones to savour it fully.
  
  Chrono Trigger is, if you'll forgive the pun, a game years ahead of its time that puts modern contemporaries 
 to shame. Just as fresh as it was in 1995, it is a delight to play even for those lucky enough 
 to have done so before. For the rest of us, which represents the vast majority of the DS owning 
 population, you need this game more than oxygen.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I think it was around the time I found myself climbing up levitating chains to reach an entire 
 continent magically floating in the sky, as ethereal yet trippy sitar music gorgeously strummed 
 in the background, that I had an epiphany as to just what kind of game I was playing. Chrono Trigger 
 is truly what a "timeless" game is supposed to be; it has a story that blows your mind as you play 
 the game and makes you think back and analyze it once you're done; it has a soundtrack that makes 
 you unknowingly sing along as you play the game and go back begging for more when your quest is 
 over; it has characters that are lovable and despicable, empathetic and heartless, and fully fleshed 
 out without flaw. This, like Ocarina of Time, is one of those games where you're not only hit in 
 the face by how amazing it is when you first pick it up, but find yourself being drawn back to 
 it as the years go by. This game is, flat out, a masterpiece.
  
  Story: Your adventure starts in your home village, where a festival is being held to commemorate 
 the thousand-year anniversary of your kingdom's existence. BUT THEN, a technological mishap at 
 the fair leads to your new female friend being sucked away to who knows where. It turns out that 
 she wasn't taken to a where, but a when; you follow her through the gaping hole, and find yourself 
 400 years in the past (i. e. 600 A. D.) . Now normally this would probably be enough to keep you occupied: 
 going back and forth between the past and present, doing quests in one that effects the other. 
 Sounds simple, right? OR IS IT. During one of your fun and innocent treks through time, you find 
 yourself in the desolate future of 2300 A. D., in which the entire world has been turned to ruin, 
 due to the attack of a creature named Lavos in 1999 that, to put it bluntly, destroyed the world. 
 Bummer, huh? I won't go farther into the story than that, but believe me when I say that your quest 
 to destroy Lavos and save the world is no simple matter; your quest will not only take you to the 
 Middle Ages, Present Day (1000 in the game's terms) , and the Future, but also to Prehistory (65,000,000 
 B. C., to be exact) , and the age of Antiquity, in which mankind is divided between those who can 
 use magic and those who can't, through a biting commentary on social classes. The game is in no 
 short supply of twists and turns, and will always keep you guessing what will happen next. The 
 story is filled with great characters, including, my personal favorite, a medieval talking frog 
 that wields an enormous sword. You don't get more awesome than that.
  
  Gameplay: Going in to this game, I expected to see a clone of Final Fantasy's combat system, or 
 at least the traditional turn-based engine that most people expect when they play RPGs. Well, I 
 got that, andI didn't. The game plays out in an interesting blend of real-time and turn based. 
 Basically, each time you attack, use a special technique, or use an item, a blue bar beneath your 
 health meter depletes; only once it fills back up can you make another move. In the mean time, 
 that makes you completely open to enemy attack. On the other hand, if you have high speed, that 
 makes your meter raise much faster, meaning that you could inflict numerous blows to an opponent 
 before they even half the chance to strike back. While the combat engine is innovative and unique, 
 it is rather troublesome at times. With all of these options, such as what item to use or precisely 
 what special move to use on which opponent, I don't want to have to rush my decisions, lest I do 
 something wrong; the whole purpose behind RPGs is for you to think, and for you to be able to analyze 
 each and every single move. In the very least, the game offers some grace, providing a setting 
 that stops the flow of gameplay as you sort through techniques or items. However, the same does 
 not work if you just use a plain attack; I wish that the game would be consistent, but, in the 
 game's defense, not much thought goes into hitting the attack button and selecting the target. 
 Once you get the ropes of the engine, it feels smooth and intuitive; however, there is a very steep 
 learning curve, as the game almost instantly hurls you into a sink-or-swim situation, expecting 
 you to know all the kinks of the system before even touching the damn game. Now, there are areas 
 in the beginning of the game with oodles of tutorials; the problem is that they are all out of 
 the way of where you're told to go, so you'd never think to go there unless you've already beaten 
 the game, but if you've beaten the game, then you wouldn't need the tutorials in the first place. 
 Fxcking paradoxes. Aside from the steep learning curve, gameplay in Chrono Trigger really is a 
 blast, and it's hard to find anything like it.
  
  Graphics: Of course, anybody who hasn't been living under a rock knows that this is a SNES game. 
 Therefore, it's bound to have 16-bit graphics. AndI don't know which way to stand on this. I don't 
 think they should've tried to make the graphics 3D, or "2  D", because even if they managed to 
 pull it off without making the game look horrendous, then it wouldn't be the same game. On the 
 other hand, the graphics do look somewhat outdated on the DS, after comparing it to games such 
 as Phantom Hourglass and The World Ends with You. There was always the option to release it on 
 the GBA, where the graphics would fit; then again, there weren't enough buttons on the handheld 
 to fit Chrono Trigger's demands. I guess we're just stuck with compromising. Out of those three 
 options, I guess the 16-bit graphics of the game really was the best option. However, a nice bonus 
 is the oodles of animated cutscenes that are laced throughout the game. These cutscenes were available 
 on the PS1 port of the game; however, apparently that version of the game was a steaming pile of 
 shxt, so we really did get the best package here. The game has the kind of opening cinematic that 
 instantly drags you in, letting you know that you're in for something truly epic and incredible. 
 An issue that I'm sure many will complain about, though, is that the game falls victim to Nintendo 
 Aphonia Syndrome. In other words, none of the characters talk in the cutscenes. In this case, however, 
 I think it's appropriate. You can name each of your playable characters whatever you want them 
 to, so should you have renamed the main character "COCKS", it would be kind of awkward for a girl 
 to shout out "Crono!!", and for that to not even be his name. And, if the game had somehow found 
 a way to engineer the text into her voice, making her shout out "COCKS!!", something tells me that 
 would be even more awkward. 
  
  Audio: Oh god; what can I say that hasn't already been said? This game's music is incredible. If 
 you've heard it, then you'll agree. If you haven't, then shame on you, go listen to it right now 
 you son of a bxtch. It all has this eerie feeling to it, but it also feels right at home with the 
 game's subject. Sure there are some cheerful pieces, but the best are the sorrowful piano as you 
 cross over the star-covered landscape, the chimes that ring as you realize that death is coming 
 to the world, and the mourning pan flute that floats through your ear as you bear witness to someone 
 give up their life to save your own. Not to say that the battling music isn't good (which it is; 
 some of those tunes are downright incredible and are begging for full-out orchestration; well, 
 those that haven't already been) , but where the game truly shines is how it gives this sensation 
 of mystery and wonder, which only makes the adventure itself that much more enjoyable.
  
  Length/Replay Value: The main quest will most likely take you a total of 20 hours. Unlike Disgaea, 
 this game works perfectly as far as level grinding goes; if you're smart about balancing out your 
 training, then you never have to go off and grind, as your enemies will strengthen at the same 
 rate as you. But not to say the game's easy; oh no, you'll still have trouble with boss fights, 
 but I'll get to that in a second. The game provides oodles of side quests to embark in near the 
 end of the game, all of which open up more of a character's personality and prove to be more than 
 worth the trip. An interesting note is, once you've beaten the game, you can start it over, but 
 with all of your characters retaining their high stats. Sure, you'll breeze right through, but 
 it's still fun to play the game again for the sake of playing it again.
  
  Bosses: So yeah, about the bosses; it's nice to see a game finally pull off bosses right. They're 
 monstrous, terrifying, and difficult to kill. They're not impossible, but there is no "three-hit 
 rule", either; even if you know the secret to the bosses' weaknesses, it'll still take all of your 
 strength and cunning to take down these baddies. Most of the bosses are seamlessly laced into the 
 story, but some just feel like they're "there", with no purpose other than a checkpoint to see 
 how strong you are. Sure there aren't that many of them, but the few of them are a pain in the 
 ass. I'm looking at you, Giga Gaia.
  
  Multiplayer: Wanting to add a little more to the remake, an extra function has been added in, in 
 which you can battle monsters against each other. And, it'slackluster. Not to say that they didn't 
 try; it's just not that fun. It's like the most boring aspects of Pokemon and Monster Rancher combined; 
 you just watch your monsters go at it, with little to no interaction between the player whatsoever. 
 Nice try, guys, but RPGs really do need to stay in the single-player zone.
  
  Extras: As I explained above, there are both the multiplayer function, and some extra sidequests 
 as well. One more thing they decided to add, though, is an extra ending; I won't spoil anything, 
 but fans who have played Chrono Cross may be pleased. Oh, and since this will mean nothing to anyone 
 who hasn't played Trigger, I might as well say it: it finally resolves that bullshxt with Schala. 
 Well, somewhat. It still doesn't explain how her hair magically changes to blonde.
  
  Final Statement: Idon't know what else to say. It's hard to critique a game that is already hailed 
 with such strong praise, as there's hardly anything to say. But if this was the first review you've 
 ever read of the game, then take it to heart. If you've played the game on SNES or PS1, then get 
 this version; it truly is the best one out there. If you've never played the game, but are an RPG 
 fan, then get it. Right now. Put down the mouse, go to the nearest game store, and buy this game. 
 Now. And if you're not a fan of RPGs, then fxck you; go play your precious Halo, fxggot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faithbringer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Chrono Trigger is perhaps the game which truly make an impact in it's generation, offering an deep 
 plot, amazing gameplay, and one of the greatest installements for the farewell of the 16 bits plataforms 
 in it's time. Surely leaves an mark on the SNES and makes a sucessfull adaptation throught the 
 PS with animated movie sequences and now packs up extras in DS. Let's get over with it:
  
  Graphics 8/10: I must admit that's quite a pleasure see how the old school looks keep making the 
 a good deput, even after 14 years since it's original release. The characters retain their original 
 animations wich is quite good, "in-dungeons" scenarios kept it's quality especially at details, 
 like inate objects in NPC's houses and even the floor. Enemies that you encounter throught the 
 game offer good animation as well (unlike the FF at the time, wich have motionless enemies) . But 
 one think that keeps the graphics (even at a re-release) from reaching a top, without spoiling the 
 whole adventure and gameplay, is perhaps the World Screens that could have been remade to look 
 a bit more real and less "pixeled", if perhaps the designers putted some of the work in "in-areas" 
 in the WS, could make a perfect blend in the game. The in-game animations and movies are a good 
 add (since you can call that's more like a compact of the PS version, makes that even greater actually) , 
 not making big trouble despite the (wich I ALWAYS put in my reviews) DS hardware limitation.
  
  Sound 8/10: For those who already experienced this RPG in the SNES could feel that the game's 
 soundtracks and effects have been somehow polished. Not only the music is less bland, but also 
 the game's sound effects have ben polished making no more of the old "static" in characters special 
 moves or slashes. Shows some pleasure when just stop to listen some of the beats (not only "Animated" 
 but also the "slowly sad" ones) . Pity that even on some parts a good speech could be input (like 
 in FF IV) but that's for little effect in overall.
  
  Gameplay 9/10: The new Stylus interaction implemented on the game makes a good new experience for 
 even those old school players. The action originally takes, at the choice of player, in two modalities: 
 Active (where can be described as a "real time in turns", since the enemies still act as you choose 
 your actions) or Wait (Where when ytou are inputting comands you take your time without worring 
 about being "quickly" on it) , wich can be using or the D-pad or as i said before the Stylus, but 
 believe me when i said that is so well adjusted, not only selecting targets become more efficient 
 but also more interactive, using skills require some more tactic, since some affects a especifically 
 range while others hits a single or just the whole area. Inventory managing is great, you can put 
 out even on shopping menu equipments and know what you characters are wearing, and in the same 
 ocasion unequip and sell it without the necessity of closing the shop window and with the touch 
 screen interaction it became far more acessible, wich is a good improviment over it's previous 
 incarnations. Ulike many games, moving around doesn't take the old fashioned "vertical/horizontal 
 axis", instead you take a full axis scale moving more freely throught the scenarios, making a solid 
 gameplay experience.
  
  Replay 8/10: There's a good bunch unlockable content, and since there's about 14 ending sequences 
 it's more that a great replay value. Each one requires to happen in a exact moment of the game, 
 and each ending gets more a feeling of cannon-wise that a "what if". The old CT players will found 
 there's a new way to finish the game and also a new bunch of quests and sidestory (some that could 
 explain a pack of events in Chrono Cross) . There's a new mini-game inside called Arena of Ages, 
 in this you pit a small personalized creature with another one, that could be a AI or another player 
 in multiplayer) , unfortunally this mode itself is not much linked to the game's core, as it promised 
 interaction toward players it makes after a while a shallow "pokemonlike" experience, but it's 
 a good add neverless. Unlocjing the in-game cinematics is also fun and also have been added a bestiary 
 so anytime you met a monster, the game's database save it's full review so you could study a better 
 way to deal with such.
  
  Overall 8.5/10 : All I can say about this epic is that it will please newcommers with a lot of 
 content to explore and an immersive experience if you have a good try, and a good add of content 
 for the oldschool players who's looking to revisit an epic game, with little to add, but with a 
 lot to revive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benawi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This is seriously a great game. It has a great story, characters, battle system, diversity... and 
 just about anything else you may want in an amazing RPG. It has a wonderful music score composed 
 by mainly Yasunori Mitsuda and it has a couple of pieces composed by Nobuo Uematsu. Of course then 
 there is the New Game + which you can't say isn't pretty awesome along with the over 12 possible 
 endings you can get. It was very hard getting them all myself! The battle system is also quite 
 unique placing in double and triple techs. You can get various techs that apply to all of the characters. 
 Magic is also a huge factor in this game and it is incredibly helpful at least in every part of 
 the game from you get it. Nothing is annoying in this game and I recommend buying it for DS although 
 I bought for the SNES... But really after playing this game you will not be able to say that it 
 isn't a good, if not great, game. The new content however... isn't quite up to par with the rest 
 of the game. Get it anyway though for the rest of the stuff! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  The good: A Memorable cast of characters, great combat system, graphics still look incredible, 
 brilliant soundtrack, tons of multiple endings.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Value: 10/10
  Tilt: 10/10
  
  Square Enix (Or Squaresoft as it was known in 
 the 90's) was showered with success when it released classics such as The Final Fantasy Series, 
 Secret Of Mana, Super Mario RPG, and Chrono Trigger. Those who don't have a Snes, this is your 
 lucky day to play Chrono Trigger. Chrono Trigger was hailed at the time of its release, and on 
 the DS, it's still as flawless as ever.
  
  You are Chrono, an orange haired boy who finds this girl, and you hang out with her at a fair. 
 You find another of your friends and use a time travelling teleportation device. It works, but 
 when your new girlfriend uses it, it malfunctions, and she is sent back to the past. You later 
 find out that she is a princess, and after you rescue her, it's up to you to restore order in the 
 frabic of time.
  
  As you can tell, you might have a lot of stuff to do. That's the case, and you get to fight everybody 
 in a neat combat system. Simply, if you attack, you must wait until your attack bar is completely 
 full, which takes about three to five seconds. Another character can attack in your place, and 
 you get great powerups such as the cyclone attack, in which you can attack 1 or two of your enemies 
 with high smashing violence! Well, there's no blood, but combat is fun.
  
  There are loads of powerups and characters in the game, and you'll get to play as some, such as 
 Frog, and he gets to smash enemies with a giant frog that fits up the entire screen.
  
  The graphics still hold up flawlessly, though they've brighten for the DS's sake. Chrono and his 
 friends, and the backgrounds look great, and the environments are eye candy. The Music is memorable, 
 with great tracks such as the battle music, the boss music, and, well, every kind of song in the 
 game is catchy and wonderful to the ear.
  
  Chrono Trigger is easily the best remake in years with great updated graphics, a great cast and 
 music, and its combat system is a joy. So if yoiu want the best DS game ever, this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ycheez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 8:17 am PT
Review:  chrono trigger, a truly amazing game with a more amazing storyline. it has stood tall in one form, 
 and it still shines to this day. it amazes me, the legacy of this underappreciated game. however, 
 it still has its share of flaws, there are way too many loose ends. (where is lady schala? where 
 did Lavos really come from?) and there is no boss mode, well, there is lavos, but thats only 14 
 bosses. still, it really adds up, the gameplay is extremely addictive (i was caught several times 
 playing it after midnight.) there have been several atttampts at making a sequel, there was going 
 to be a 3D version, but square enix stopped the project (jerks) chrono break was stopped due to 
 budget problems. However, there is in fact a small cameo about a sequel in chrono trigger. in the 
 3rd ending (dream project.) if you talk to the pink robo thing, it asks you "wouldnt it be nice 
 for a chrono trigger 2?" so, bottom line, this game kicks a lot of butt, i hope square enix makes 
 another sequel soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meiaman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Chrono Trigger, one of the gratest rpgs of all the times is here again, it was truly a masterpiece 
 when it was launched at the Snes at the year of 1995. Similar to Final Fantasy games in some aspects, 
 but with a lot of differences rarely seen in any other previous rpg.
  
  Let's start with the story, ah yes, the story, the backbone of every rpg, and here in Chrono Trigger 
 the story is fun, innovative and easy to follow. It's an epic save the world type story, but with 
 a lot of twists that holds you. Good thing is that the story isn't too depressing either.
  
  Since the story deals with time travel, there are a few logic mistakes/problems here and there, 
 but you hardly pay attention to those mistakes, they are not really enough to make you actually 
 care or spoil the fun.
  
  Songs, the songs of this game is simply amazing, beautiful and stunning. the songs correlates with 
 the currently place, making you quiet when the history is slowing down or speeding up when things 
 are going bad. Even the epic hero theme song-type is there to fill your chest with courage. 
  
  Graphics, Since SE was lazy enough to not upgrade the graphics to 3D, the old 2D snes type 
 graphics are still there, but yet they are top quality, probably one of the best 2D graphics for 
 the snes ever made, the characters faces are noticeably expressive and the map is well detailed.
 
  
  The battle system is a lot similar with Final Fantasy games, but there are no random battles, so 
 after you clean a room you're free to explore it at will, but the monsters will be back when you 
 leave the room.
  
  When fighting the game don't cut into a battle scene, allies and enemies position themselves around 
 the area, and this position can change the use of certain area skills/spells, some hit in a line 
 pattern, some hit in a circle pattern, and some even hit all the enemies, also a few enemies needs 
 to move up closer to you to attack, so if you find one of those type of enemies, you can predict 
 which character the enemy will attack.
  
  Elements are present here as well, and things such as immunity and absorb and weakness are crucial, 
 especially against certain bosses, one of them loses defense when hit by water attacks (but don't 
 receive damage from it) , but gains defense if hit by normal attacks, other bosses are immune against 
 physical attacks, and there goes.
  
  The added content in the remake are few things, just some side-quest type dungeons, music box, 
 art content and some other things, almost nothing new to the main-storyline, through they don't 
 really are needed at all, you can play with the monster arena or the two new dungeon, but like 
 i said, they are not needed and you can skip playing those without ruining your experience with 
 the game.
  
  Overall: a great rpg, too bad SE just milked the remake instead of working more on it, but even 
 still, a must-have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blankshore
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I had never played this game before, so when people started calling it the greatest RPG ever made, 
 or even the greatest game of all time, I got curious. However, rarely does a game live up to that 
 kind of hype. This one does. Chrono Trigger is truly the best RPG I've ever played and you'd be 
 a fool not to go out and buy it immediatly if you've never played it before. 
  
  The best thing about this game is, hands down, the story. It's simply the best writing I've ever 
 seen in a videogame, even if the story is a bit cliche- at first. A matter transporter malfunctions 
 and sends you back to mideval times. I know, not all that original. But it gets better. So much 
 better, in fact, that I don't want to ruin it for you. The writing is just so top notch, it litterally 
 blew me away. It creates some of the most compelling moments I've ever experienced in a game. 
 
  
  The combat is great as well. Very strategic. Very intense. But don't worry; I suck at RPG's and 
 I got the hang of it. If you're worried about your skill, the game does a great job of easing you 
 into the combat, teaching you as well as letting you figure some of it out on your own. The difficulty 
 ramps up considerably as the game goes on, and it will certainly test your skill. And your patience. 
 This is certainly not for the casual gamer.
  
  Bottom Line: Buy it without hesitation. This game more than lives up to the hype. It's not the 
 best game I've ever played, but it's easily the best RPG I've ever played. The story, the combat, 
 and the unforgettable characters all add up to one of the best experiences on the DS. The touch 
 controls are rubbish- stick to the regular control scheme- but other than that, absolutly no complaints. 
 (actual score 9.8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acknowledge101
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 6:36 pm PT
Review:  I don't know how Square made an RPG, out of all game genres, so addictive, but they hit it on the 
 head with Chrono Trigger for the SNES. I may be nostalgically inclined to praise this game to death, 
 but that'd be denying the fact that I've already played it to death... and into its afterlife and 
 until it was a smoldering pile of ash and debris.
  
  Yes, I'm one of those fans. Beat it 50 times. Got everyone to Lvl **. Got all the techs, items, 
 weapons, etc. Finished every side-quest, mini-quest, ending, you name it, whatever. The thing is 
 I did all this at least 50 times over in the past decade +. And surprisingly, the first 49 times 
 it still felt fresh.
  
  Now that's a lot to say for any game. Most bore me before I'm barely half-way through, but CT is 
 engaging several times through. But not forever. 
  
  As my obnoxious summary at the top implies, if you haven't played this game, it's worth trying, 
 no matter who you are. If you hate RPGs, CT might change your mind; it's that good, even today. 
 Or hell, maybe some other RPG won you over along the line and this one pales in comparison. That's 
 fine. Regardless, this may not be as life-altering to you as it was to me, but it will still be 
 a fun ride for one playthrough. I [almost] guarantee it.
  
  Okay, that's covered. Now if you're like me, well, there's another story. Squenix knew what they 
 were doing though. They added just enough new content to bring me back. And I did come back, against 
 my better wishes. There are a few added story elements that clear up what happened between CT and 
 its sequel, Chrono Cross. These kinds of things I live and die for.
  
  Even then though, they are somewhat minuscule and actually quite underwhelming. They even open 
 up new, even more annoying questions! The other added features besides those are really poorly 
 made and placed. The monster arena is so difficult, random, and tedious it's not worth any of the 
 trouble. The Lost Sanctum is an epic fetch quest. Back and forth. Barf. Back and forth. Barf. The 
 optional stylus controls aren't even very fluid! But that's fine because I don't use them anyway.
 
  
  ... And yes, the new story elements and the extras menu are pretty nice.... but not nice enough.
 
  
  So, if you loved Chrono Trigger on SNES as much as I did, I know I'm not going to stop you from 
 buying it, so I won't try. But it's not overly worth the 30+ price tag. Yes, I know you're not 
 listening.
  
  If you haven't played this game yet... I mean, why haven't you played this game yet?! Are you the 
 most deprived human being on earth?! Yeah, you might be.
  
  I kid though. My final point: Chrono Trigger is a game meant to be played; several times even. 
 Just don't overdo it and go several... thousand... times like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I've never played Chrono Trigger, but there has always been so much hype around the game, as being 
 the best RPG of all time. I'm a huge fan of Square and RPG's so I had to see what all the hype 
 was about. And I loved every minute of it. 
  
  The story starts with Chrono, his best friend Lucca, and a girl he meets named Marle. They meet 
 at this fair, where Lucca is showing off her new transportation device, when something goes wrong. 
 The device accidentally sends Chrono and friends back in time. As you progress through the game 
 you gain new allies through different times in history and in the future. You must stop the evil 
 Lavos from taking control of the future. While this sounds like a generic plot for an RPG, it has 
 a lot of heart. There are many moments where you almost want to cry, or when you feel extremely 
 happy. Its just one of the games that makes you feel good and you enjoy every minute of it. There 
 are just so many positive things that you can't help but fall in love with it. 
  
  The music is top notch. There are many memorable tunes throughout the game. Nobuo Uematsu is a 
 genius and I love all of his work. The character development is great as well. All characters have 
 something to bring to the game. There are funny moments and a lot of serious ones between the characters. 
 plus this game uses the Active Time Battle system, which is my favorite in any RPG. There also 
 aren't any random battles which is a huge plus. Random battle are very annoying to me. 
  
  Now the only things I didnt like about this game are fairly small, but they kept it from getting 
 a 10. it is kinda short for an RPG. Only about 20 hours worth of gameplay in the main story. And 
 there were times when I had absolutely no idea where to go next within the story. I mean if i didn't 
 have a FAQ i would still be lost somewhere in the game. It doesn't happen all the time, but there 
 were at least 5 times where the game didn't give you any indication where to go. 
  
  This game is truly epic and classic. For a game that was made over a decade ago it still is one 
 of the best games i've played. If you're looking for a game with an amazing story with great music, 
 and lovable characters than this game is for you. This game is easily up there with the Final Fantasy 
 games as far as how good it is. If you like RPG's than you have to play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  Here is a history lesson for you people. Chrono Trigger first came out in 1995 A. D. on the NES 
 and was one of the best RPGs ever made (better than every Final Fantasy) . In 1999 A. D. Lavos came 
 to dest- I mean Chrono Trigger was remade on the PS1 with awesome new animated cutscenes and horrible 
 load times. Then on November 25th, 2008 A. D. Chrono Trigger was released for a third time on the 
 Nintendo DS, which was the best of the 3 versions due to touch screen made the top screen less 
 cluttered, no stupid load times, new side missions, and you could play it on the go! :]
  
  So like I was saying, this is a timeless RPG that stood the test of time and is still one of the 
 best RPGs ever made. Unlike most Square Enix games, this doesn't suck (probably because it was 
 made by Square Soft =P) One thing that makes this great is the amazing story which helps make this 
 game great. It is about a boy name Crono from 1000 A. D. who travels through time between Dino Ages, 
 Mid-Evil Times, His Time Period, 1999 A. D. The Bleak Future, and the End of Time. This story mixed 
 with great gameplay makes this one of the best RPGs ever made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serjfan7
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 7:14 am PT
Review:  I'd heard great things about this game from people, but I was reluctant to buy it anyway. I got 
 it and was amazed at how fun and immersive it was. The story kept me hooked the whole time with 
 interesting characters and plot twists. Meeting someone in the past only to find our that they 
 are someone else in the future was something that I liked very much. I also didn't find it too 
 hard like a few RPG's i have played in the past. The battle system was nice and unique and the 
 cut scenes were beautiful as well as interesting. The bonus content after the game was finished 
 kept me playing the game long after I had beaten it. The arena for monsters is not terribly fun, 
 and it feels like they just added it to have a monster arena, but it is possibly worth your while 
 if you are into the whole monster training thing. Over all an incredibly fun and enjoyable game. 
 I would recommend it to my friends in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersmashgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 7:30 am PT
Review:  Where do i start, i never played Chrono Trigger until its remake came out, so this game basically. The 
 game is just awesome! The fighting is cool, combos you can do w/other characters are just sick! Story 
 is pretty good, the time traveling is real cool, from prehistoric to future. My most favorite part 
 in the game would be the fact that theres triple attackes (techs) that all 3 characters attack, thats 
 just sweet and the epic Magus fight (spoiler if you are new to this) The game is a bit easy however... and 
 the graphics are very decent... but what i saw from the SNES version of the DS one, graphics have 
 not been really updated. Some boss battles are pretty easy as well.... Other than that the game is 
 a must have 4 all RPG players. Whether you played the game before on the original or are new to 
 the game, buy it! The game is almost perfect in my opinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthbismark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  This is a great update to an incredible RPG. Dubbed as one of the greatest games ever made (and 
 that is very hard to argue) , Chrono Trigger takes you back to the golden age of gaming, before 
 voice acting and 3D graphics. It stays true to the original with the music and graphics and slightly 
 tweaked the gameplay for use with the DS touch screen. The two screens can be a little hard to 
 get used to, especially when you have played the original SNES or PS versions, but makes the gameplay 
 more convenient, especially if you use the stylus. The new map feature that is included is the 
 best part of this update and makes getting through each area a breeze and doesn't take the challenge 
 of expolration out of the picture. Any RPG player, or any gamer for that matter, who has never 
 tried Chrono Trigger is doing themselves a great disservice by not picking this one up, even if 
 Square Enix is charging $40 for an update to a game over 14 years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegandDia128
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:55 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who never got a chance to play Chrono Trigger on SNES or the PS1 Relax cause this 
 game itself is worth a DS. "Imagine back when you were in the third grade and your teach asks you 
 to write a story so you write a story, about a young boy who meats a princess, in the fair while 
 spending time together you go to visit your other freind who is building a telaportation device, 
 something goes wrong and she is sent back in time to the middle ages. You follow her only to meat 
 up with a Sword-weilding frog named Frog (Imagine that) . then after returning you are accused of 
 kidnapping the princess so do to certain events you are sent into the future where you learn that 
 your world will be destroyed by and extraterrasterial lifeform named Lavos where you must no save 
 your world from being destroyed. this would probly send you a trip to the Resource Room next to 
 the kid that eats past" ( I owe game informers magazine that introduction) . The game not only has 
 an amazing storyline but is one of the best RPG of all times yes one of the best,
  The battle system is turn-based ATB battle system that works well. While I recommend this game 
 if you own the original copy or the Playstation remake there really is no rush to go out and buy 
 it for an extra dungeon and a free poster. But for those you you who had not or are looking for 
 an RPG, Maybe you played Chrono Cross on the PS1 and never got a chance to play the original now 
 is your chance. my #1 RPG of 2008 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abercrombie929
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  The Legendary Classic Has Arrived For The Second Time
  
  What more could you ask for from Chrono Trigger?
  
  Although I haven't played the NES original 
 game, this game is without a doubt fantastic. Challenging at some points, even more challenging 
 at others, this is definitely a well-rounded RPG. If you have never played this before, you must 
 buy it. It's absolutely worth it.
  
  When you first start to play it on the DS, it feels... different. As you play on more and more, 
 it becomes easier to play and handle. I personally don't use the touch screen to navigate my way 
 around the vast world (or worlds) of Chrono Trigger. No need to hold down the B button to run; 
 it's already set. Some of the bosses are difficult (actually, a lot) , and they also creep me out, 
 but that's the fun part about the game. And with the added 13 different endings, it's a perfect 
 game.
  
  I really don't have anything bad to say about this game other than to add more save points.
  
 
  GET THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taiedman45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  i was a little skeptical to buy this one for my newly purchased ds because I've played it on the 
 snes and psx, but the fact that i could bring chrono trigger wherever i wanted just makes it all 
 so sweet. this is the game that pushed me to a ds instead of a psp and im glad i did. the touch 
 screen style of play makes it just so much more than just what it was back then, combat with the 
 ds screen makes it alot more fun making battles seem a little faster (prolly just used to to the 
 old load times of the psx version) . sound track is still to this day incredible and just as memorable 
 as it was when it first came out. game play hasn't been molested, all the same old elements are 
 still there, has all the same movies from the psx version and has the ability to turn them off, 
 music box, bestiary, endings viewer and all that fun stuff is included. you can play either ds 
 or classic mode making hardcore trigger fans even more happy. some text was changed and made me 
 a little disappointed but everything else makes up for it. i bought my copy from game stop and 
 you get a small poster with the game which is pretty sweet. loved the game when it first came out 
 and still to this day it is one that i play on a weekly bases. if you have ever played this game 
 before and you have a ds its a no brainer purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarthRingman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  In the past generation of handhelds, Square (specifically with the help of the experienced port 
 group over at TOSE) put out "improved" versions of the three SNES Final Fantasy games. I put improved 
 in quotes because most of these games, despite new content, had many drawbacks.
  
  Final Fantasy IV Advance (based off the WSC version) , like all the ports had an extra dungeon which 
 added plot elements (subtle ones, but plot elements nonetheless) , but ended up being non-canon 
 as stated by the team behind FF4ds.
  
  Where does this leave Chrono Trigger? Well, it's NOT a remake by the original team like FF4ds was. 
 Instead it's an advance-job done by TOSE. We all know how they butchered the PSX port, but how 
 good of a job did they do on DS. Well, here's my review:
  
  -Anyone who's already played Chrono Trigger knows that it's a timeless masterpiece of an RPG. In 
 fact, its under-appreciated sequel often gets similar praise as a masterpiece and flawless game. 
 Because there's no reason to try and convince someone to play Chrono Trigger (you'd be insane to 
 pass up the opportunity) I'll try to tell you which version is definitive.
  
  Starting off:
  -TOSE has done a decent job cropping and resizing the screens. There's none of 
 that ffva feel where the screen only shows half of what's going on, and the characters locations 
 are shifted so they're on screen. The entire screen is shown as it would be on SNES, but distances 
 between objects seem to be shrunk (similarly to what a lot of emulators try to achieve) . This isn't 
 that big of a deal, but sometimes you forgot that you can squeeze between things to exit rooms. 
 Let me emphasize that the screen is EXACTLY how I wanted it to be- there is no cropping and no 
 location-swapping.
  
  -Another note, graphically speaking is that the vividness of all the sprites has been reduced. 
 All the characters look less bright- strange considering this game is known for its bright Toriyama-ish 
 feel. It's nothing game breaking, but its subtly less bright.
  
  Moving on to Music:
  -The music is SPOT ON! Apparently Mitsuda helped mix the soundtrack himself to get all the echo 
 effects to sound correctly- something that was completely destroyed on the earlier psx port. Some 
 themes (specifically the Uematsu ones, oddly enough) are mixed a little differently. The bass in 
 Tyran Layer seems a lot more subtle than it was on SNES, but it still sounds as awesome as it did 
 14 years ago. Most themes are mixed slightly differently, but they all sound better (unlike the 
 Final Fantasy advance ports) . Oh, I should note that Mitsuda did a few pieces specifically for 
 this port, and Singing Mountain was finally used in a bonus dungeon.
  
  Content:
  - Simply put: everything from SNES and PSX plus more. You get the anime cut-scenes, and no loading 
 times. There's also a monster-rancher style minigame included, but it wasn't really as fleshed 
 out as I would have liked. It's a nice bonus, but only for people who want to get competitive over 
 Chrono Trigger.
  
  -The new content is hit-and-miss. The new dungeons are tedious, unfortunately, and some of the 
 new plot-scenes try way too hard to link this game to Chrono Cross (I'm STILL not buying that Dalton 
 could harm a fly without using his golems- how the hell does he raise an army in Porre?! And why 
 doesn't Chrono stop him?? He's the most pathetic character there is!) . No spoiler here though- 
 we knew Dalton destroyed Guardia from the PSX cutscene.
  
  -Also, the new ending makes some references to Magus' fate. There's also a subtle implication that 
 he is Serge- odd since we know about both their parents... Odd. I get the feeling that a lot of 
 this is non-canon like fighting Enuo was in FF5a, or Kain defeating the darkness within himself 
 was in FF4a.
  
  DS Features:
  -The touch screen is actually used rather nicely. All menu buttons are mapped to separate areas 
 on the touch screen so you can jump to whichever menu you want. The menu was revised from the original, 
 but it's more manageable now.
  
  -The health and status bars can also be mapped to the bottom screen if you so choose. I kept forgetting 
 about my characters health when it wasn't right in front of me though. It's nice to be able to 
 see the entire screen during a fight though.
  
  -The translation this time around is MUCH improved. A lot of the censoring is gone, and all shortnames 
 were fixed. This is standard of the advance ports though. I guess they couldn't add character portraits 
 to the dialogue boxes- though that would have been really cool. I am going to note that the text 
 size is oddly small... I wish it was just a tad bigger.
  
  - It annoys me that the "end of time" theme doesn't play when selecting a file. Oh well.
  
 
  
  Wrap up:
  Overall, this is probably the best version of Chrono Trigger to play. Even if just for the significantly 
 improved translation, this game is worth playing on the DS. There are some quirks here and there, 
 and the new content is probably non-canon, but it really tells the tale of Chrono's gang better 
 than any other version out there. There are none of the "advance" annoyances that the Final Fantasy 
 games had, and the game is much more playable than the butchered psx port. If you're going to play 
 Chrono Trigger, the DS is the platform to do it on- just be aware of what is new content and what 
 is canon (not that it really matters in the long run since the game involves time travel and everything 
 you see could end up never happening) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 2:00 am PT
Review:  Again Square Enix turns the wheel of remakes.
  
  Squaresoft had a properly high reputation when it comes to RPGs and action adventures on the SNES. 
 But after the merger with the permanent rival "Enix", "Square" still reigns the RPG genre though 
 SquareEnix has been producing many remakes and ports lately. Yes, Square brings many old 
 games onto the market and relies on oldschool charms, which hasnt to be a bad thing at all 
 as these titles sometimes have their permission to get a revival. 
  Chrono Trigger definetly belongs to such games.
  
  In 1995 published for the SNES, Chrono Trigger 
 unfortunately didnt make its way to european shores, although a port with animated 
 cut scenes as a bonus, had already been made for the PSOne. However, Chrono Trigger is now available 
 for DS with very few new content like some dungeons they added.
  
  The story is simply told. Crono, the protagonist one day goes to a local festival and where he 
 meets not only a strange girl, but also examines the latest invention of a good friend named Lucca 
 - a time machine. As the cliches demand, something goes wrong, so that you find yourself in the 
 world at the time of the dinosaurs. During the game you will travel to the Middle Ages or even 
 to the future and meet new friends.
  One of the best features of Chrono Trigger are especially the various Endings, which you may influence 
 as you progress within the game. Thus (nearly) everything you do has its consequences. So 
 decision could lead to a better or worse ending which gives the game a high replay value.
  
  Who knows the original version probably noticed the new translation whereas the story strands 
 are better connected and correlate more to the Japanese translation. The DS version of the game 
 makes good use of the DS features. Accordingly you might use the touchscreen to navigate 
 through the menus etc. The upper screen reveals the beautiful environments while the menus and 
 item selection is done one the lower screen. Before you start playing, but whithin the game as 
 well, you may choose two arrangements what gameplay is concerned. You can use the older 
 playstyle or select the DS playversion which uses the bottom of the screen whith 
 shortcuts for touchscreen control. So some variation is guaranteed as you have various options. 
 
  The control via the touch screen is simple. The middle of the screen is almost always the current 
 location and by moving the stylus from this position in one direction leads the hero in the appropriate 
 direction. Anyways, if arent used to this it may get a bit confusing at start. However, 
 SquareEnix worked on the engine just for the DS verion, though there is no background music in 
 the intro.
  
  Visually and technically "Chrono Trigger" hasnt improved and you cant expect a Final 
 Fantasy 4 which used contemporary standards. It is a trip to the old days and "Chrono Trigger" 
 works just like that. Moreover, it should be noted that the game is even today highly enjoyable 
 and one of the best RPGs of all time. 
  The animated movie version of the PSOne is also well preserved. 
  Chrono Trigger delivers new 
 bonus content in the form of a Pokemon-like "mini game" and new locations. However, as the game 
 was superb without it before, it is just a neat addition to an utterly amazing game. To that [SPOILER] 
 there is a new ending and a new final boss, which is great [END OF SPOILER] . 
  
  Chrono Trigger is truly a beautiful trip through time and proves that you dont need a great 
 visual design (at least for nowadays standards, its beautiful nonetheless ^^) to get an 
 amazing gaming experience that will last for years. After more than 10 years you can say that it 
 withstood the test of time without a doubt. Chrono Trigger may be old but it has much to offer, 
 even today. I highly recommend it anyone who likes RPGs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paully3433
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Chrono Trigger - Nintendo DS
  Other Platforms: SNES & PS1
  
  Publisher: Square Enix
  Developer: Square Enix
  Release Date: November 25th 2008
  Genre: RPG
  Number of Players: 
 1; 2 Online
  ERSB Rating: E10+ 
  
  Review
  
  It seems it has been quite a long time since I have played through arguably one of the best RPGs 
 to grace the SNES system and also later released on the PS1. I had a feeling when playing through 
 I was going to get hooked into the story, music, and chance to get an ending I haven't had the 
 chance to get yet, of which there are many. 
  
  Story:
  
  The game starts off as you control Chrono the red-haired little tough guy in a world that is celebrating 
 the millennium. To do this they are having a nice big fair with lots of balloons, a fun house, 
 races, robots to beat up and tons of other things. After a series of events that is kind of fun 
 to do the certain things if you know what they are, eating the guys lunch hehe, that you know will 
 get you into trouble later, something happens when you and your friend Lucca end up sending a girl 
 through her teleportation device. Oops? After something goes wrong and you go after Marle, your 
 journey takes you to many places where you meet a giant frog, a robot stud muffin and a prehistoric 
 cave girl who would whoop anyone into shape in no time at all. All together to take down the world 
 ending evens of Lavos.
  
  
  Game play:
  
  The game play has not changed a whole lot since the original release. The DS does a nice way of 
 making use of the top screen so you can see whats going on more. The battle commands are on the 
 bottom for optimal battle action. You can also switch back to the normal but it does make things 
 a little harder to see. Battles are not really random as for the most part of the game you can 
 see them coming, not all but some. Once you get to a certain point you can end the game pretty 
 much anytime you want, therefore giving you different endings depending on what you have accomplished. 
 One thing I did notice was the relative ease of game play. I am a seasoned veteran of RPGs and 
 know usually to get the next level just in case sort of thing. But with Chrono Trigger I never 
 really felt that way. I never had a player killed in battle, not even at the end or through the 
 tougher side quests. Maybe it was my good planning or just luck, I am not sure, either way, I think 
 next time I play through it, I will try to end the game sooner to challenge myself. The only other 
 complaint I had was the bonus dungeons they added weren't really the most interesting thing to 
 do. Other then those few complaints the game play is solid.
  
  Sound and Graphics:
  
  The music is simply put, fantastic. I recently dug out my soundtrack from this game from a while 
 back and nothing has changed much. The entire game music brings everything together and adds a 
 touch to any situation your in. My personal favorite is in the prehistoric time period. The graphics 
 look great for the DS and really brings the life of the original game that was for the SNES.
  
  Overall:
  
  Overall I would in fact recommend Chrono Trigger to anyone who has or hasn't 
 played it through. The DS version offers a fun, interesting story line that is great for on the 
 go or staying in on a cold evening. Veterans and new comers alike will enjoy it from start to finish. 
 Like I mentioned above the only complaints I can really show off is the extra content is a little 
 weak for my liking. Also the difficulty for me wasn't there and ended up making the final battles 
 seem less interesting once you knew what to do. As it is still an incredible game and easily earns 
 a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mickmarvel
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Yesterday I completed Chrono Trigger DS for the first time since it's release on the Super Nintendo. 
 I had so much excitement before this game was released, and the excitement has not yet left.
  Upon beating for CT, I can now start a New Game + which will allow me to see other endings to the 
 game, including a new one which is authentic to the DS. I am looking forward to many more hours 
 of game play and excitement.
  Getting to this point, however, was much quicker than anticipated. I felt that I had to rush through 
 the game so that the true Chrono Trigger experience could begin. The story is not new, so getting 
 to this point just took time. But now I can enjoy.
  I have only seen the different endings one other time. When it first came out, I took the time 
 to beat Lavos at the correct time to encounter the different story lines coming to an end. Ten 
 years removed, most of those have left my memory.
  I no longer feel rushed to play. I can go at my own pace because I have now arrived at one of the 
 greatest pieces of CT. It will forever be a legendary game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  OK first of all we all know that Chrono Trigger is the best JRPG of all time and, in fact, the 
 only one to immerse me all the way to completing everything there is to do in the whole game. And 
 there is now just a little more.
  
  Lost Sanctum
  Upon completing the game you will see little rifts open around the world in every time. These are 
 the Lost Sanctum and the Dimensional Vortexes. The Lost Sanctum (65,000,000 BC and 600 AD) is filled 
 with surviving Reptites villagers who require your assistance. Initially you save their village 
 from being overrun by monsters, and this leads them to praise you and ask for future assistance 
 should they require it. If you accept, which you should, you can go around the village and accept 
 quests from the villagers. There are several new areas to explore; a Swamp, a Mountain, a Forest, 
 and a Cave, available in both eras in which the sanctum appears, but not identical. The quests, 
 to quote Gamespot, feels largely like "Fetch" missions and get a little tedious after a while. 
 Still, you can get some good items this way and I found myself still having fun. It didn't feel 
 out of place at all, as a matter of fact, I found myself wondering at first if all of this was 
 really new content because it all felt so familiar and like something that would be in the first 
 game. Quests vary from acquiring the Golden Hammer, to building a bridge, to befriending a Nu (who 
 waits 65,000,000 years to see you again) , to defending the village from monsters, etc. All in all, 
 while this isn't a "needed" addition, it adds a little more replay value to a game which essentially 
 defines replay value.
  
  Dimensional Vortex
  The Dimensional Vortex is weird, but cool. After you defeat Lavos the first time, these tears in 
 time and space rip open and appear in 1000 AD, 12,000 BC, and 2300 AD. When you enter one you'll 
 find that you have to pass through about 6 or 7 familiar areas. This is simple and quick. Afterward 
 you find yourself in a brand new area. Once you complete this new dungeon, you return to the Nameless 
 Cave. You go through the portal beyond and, depending on which Time you're in, Crono, Marle, or 
 Lucca have to (with your help) face a doppleganger of themselves with tremendous power. Once you 
 defeat them, the character in question gets a permanent stat boost! This reconciles some of Marle's 
 weakness and slowness, and especially is nice because it brings Crono, the true hero, up to Ayla's 
 level in raw power. Not to mention throughout the new dungeons you found some amazing equipment, 
 such as the Dragon's Tear which increases Crit Rates and Magus's ultimate weapon, which has a base 
 damage of whatever your strength is, but crits for 9999 every time. A bow for Marle that does 777 
 on every enemy every time can be useful if your Marle is normally weak in the fight versus Lavos's 
 final form (the Right pod can now be hurt before it lets its armor down this way) or monsters with 
 ridiculous armor who even Crono does minimal damage to. There are new choices for weapons and armor 
 all over these dungeons for you to discover, and this is a definitely nice addition to the game.
 
  
  Arena of the Ages
  This is the most controversial addition, I think. I don't get what the fuss is. It adds much more 
 to the game than it takes away, generally. True, training your monster to fight in Tier 5 or Tier 
 6 before you get very far in the game could get you some extremely powerful weapons or accessories 
 (I won a Golden Stud before I added Ayla to my team permanently) , but you'd really have to grind 
 to get the money needed to do this. Tier 5 costs 5000 and Tier 6 costs 10000 to enter. Realistically, 
 if you're grinding enough to abuse this feature (like myself) , you deserve what you earn. Monsters 
 are relatively easy to train... You start off by picking an element of your choice, and you get 
 a Smidge, which appears to be something like a miniature Nu, with low base stats. You send him 
 out on training missions with items that enhance a certain stat, or cause him to learn certain 
 moves, switch classes, or switch elemental alignment. Different Eras do the same thing. When your 
 monsters Class changes, he is usually more powerful, though I'm told monsters can evolve backwards 
 as well and become weaker. I have not had this happen. It's not very difficult to get your monster's 
 stats maxed out. Monster raising is a short diversion and I just sent my monster out on missions 
 between quests and leveling. It definitely is fun and a little rewarding. People criticize it, 
 and that's fine I guess, but in my opinion it is a nice little inclusion. Your monster evolves 
 randomly for the most part, by the way, so you'll probably get a different look every time, which 
 makes it feel unique.
  
  New Ending
  I don't want to spoil it for you, but let me tell you the following: The new ending attempts to 
 reconcile the differences between Chrono Trigger and Chrono Cross by stating, up front, that this 
 new ending takes place in a different time continuum. I'm also told that this ending's continuum 
 is directly related to the CC universe, but I haven't finished Chrono Cross (I know, blasphemy, 
 right?) . There is a new boss, but I didn't have any trouble with it. It was a little more powerful 
 than any of Lavos's forms, but not much more challenging overall. From what I can tell, the ending 
 makes some sense from what I know about Chrono Cross. MINOR SPOILER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Magus says 
 "Here Lavos is no more. This is the future in which we've defeated him. Whether this is the future 
 of the world from which you come, I do not know. There are as many worlds as there are potentialities."
 
  Make of that what you will. Also once you see what the new boss is you'll think "Well, no **** 
 Chrono Cross."
  
  Anyway, that's it for the main additions to the game. There are a few new game options as well. 
 The use of the lower screen is extremely well done and I'm quite pleased with it. There's a map 
 displayed there as you walk around, which is genius. It's also used well in battle and virtually 
 every other situation. Additionally, you can click on a saved game from the extras menu and see 
 all the endings, bestiary, music, etc. that you've unlocked. It's pretty cool.
  
  Overall the new additions are great, and if you don't like them you don't have to do them or even 
 acknowledge them. I love them all and it makes my favorite game from childhood even more unforgettable. 
 I hope you all like it as much as I do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Chrono Trigger DS : An altered rendition of the celebrated 1995 Super Nintendo RPG.
  
  Story : An ordinary, silent joe who just happens to be a sword expert named Chrono (or whatever 
 you'd like to name him, as most text-based RPGs of the time let you name the characters after any 
 profanity you choose) gets involved in his best friend's experiment gone awry, and their mishap 
 evolves into a quest that involves traveling through time, having no regards for altering the course 
 of history and aiming to stop an evil force. It's simple and occasionally illogical, but at the 
 same time is also interesting, charming and moves at a brisk pace without under-developing characters 
 or shoving mountains of dialogue down your throat. The translation is improved here from previous 
 releases, which simply means that the game feels moreright, this time around.
  
  Normally I get upset whenever a game is altered and released at full price on another console instead 
 of just posted on a digital distribution service in all of its original glory and at a price that 
 reflects the fact that you're playing a ten-plus year old game. But Chrono Trigger gets an easy 
 pass in my books for being, well, Chrono Trigger, and for not only holding up phenomenally well 
 by modern standards, but providing steep competition for contemporary RPGs.
  
  Seriously, most RPGs of today are either vaguely interactive movies, mountains of character dialogue, 
 or exercises in extreme patience in grinding to level up your party. Here's a game that manages 
 to find just the right balance.
  
  Chrono Trigger is a game that you have to look very hard at in order to find genuine faults. There 
 are no random battles; instead every encounter is scripted in terms of appearance and enemy placement 
 and the player even has a little freedom to pick his fights. Combat is simple, you either attack, 
 cast magic or use items, but there is some depth in how certain spells will affect multiple enemies 
 based on their location, and how allies can learn an assortment of double-team attacks. Unless 
 you run away from every single enemy fight thrown at you, you'll never need to grind to level up, 
 yet major battles will still find a way to test you. It's a much more accessible RPG than the more 
 needlessly convoluted releases of recent history.
  
  So my one thought, coming into this DS re-release wasn't whether or not Chrono Trigger would be 
 worth the money, but whether or the changes Square Enix made to the game would completely screw 
 up the experience.
  
  The answer to that question is "yes, but the game equips you to handle it."
  
  The game lets 
 you go to menus and determine how you want all of the options to appear. You can choose to use 
 one screen to display the battle as it happens and the other to display all the menus or use the 
 traditional screen setup (which you'll probably want to, as to avoid constantly shifting your eyes.) 
 You can control movement and menus with either the stylus or the d-padand you'll probably prefer 
 the latter. You can choose to have the game insert the sleek but out of place anime cutscenes that 
 the Playstation re-release of Chrono Trigger included, or not.
  
  Now, some changes aren't optional, and for people who played the original to death, there's going 
 to be a slight learning curve. Many items have been renamed as a result of the translation, as 
 have several smaller enemies. The "Roly Poly" now answers to the less intimidating "Roundzilla." 
 Shop menus have been restructured to display info on both screens. These aren't game-crippling 
 flaws, just something to adjust to.
  
  Just like how someone who's never played Chrono Trigger before might have to adjust the 1995 graphics. 
 No, I'm not going to insult the graphics, as the game still looks great, thanks in part to the 
 art style contributed bywhomever was the guy that did art for Dragonball Z (which will also explain 
 why you keep swearing Chrono looks like Goku and the imps look like some green dude.) But certain 
 sequences, like the Mode 7 racing scene, which looked technologically awesome back in its heyday, 
 are going to look awful to the untrained eye. Those players are just going to have to trust me 
 when I say the game is worth adapting to.
  
  As for what else is new in this re-releasewell there's some kind of bonus sub-game where you train 
 some kind of monster and can pit it against other players, but it only supports local multiplayer 
 against other Chrono Trigger DS owners so it can bugger off. There are also a new end-game side-quest 
 that the game tries to justify by explaining that it takes place "in an alternate dimension". This 
 side quest gives you a chance to collect second copies of already rare items in the game, but all 
 the artwork for the enemies and locales are reused and the story as a whole is uninteresting.
 
  
  I wouldn't say that there's anything in Chrono Trigger DS that's worth existing fans of the series 
 to go out of their way to buy this version. I would say, however, that if you don't already own 
 Chrono Trigger, that this is the must-have RPG of 2008. Even if you have little to no previous 
 experience with the genre, this game is friendly at breaking people into the RPG realm and compelling 
 enough to keep you sucked in. Few other games have aged this gracefully.
  
  Pros : After beating the game, you unlock a bonus mode where you can start over with all of your 
 items and stats from your previous save, as well as the option to challenge the final boss at any 
 time to make available hidden endings.
  
  Cons : Sound effects are a bit crude by modern standards. The end-game sidequests are going to 
 need a strategy guide.
  
  4  stars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamon85
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  There are no random encounters in this game. It is done in such a way that in each map, enemies 
 will be in the exact same places each time you play the game. Sometimes they will be out in the 
 open, and sometimes you'll even be able to avoid them by walking around them or trying to not let 
 them see you. Once you actually encounter a monster though, the combat is turn based, but there 
 will be a counter which determines when each of your characters will be able to attack next.
  
  After you win an encounter, you will gain both experience points and "Tech" points. Tech points 
 are basically experience points that go to gaining new special attacks called "Techs" (Surprise!) . 
 There are even Double Techs and Triple Techs which you can use when different characters are paired 
 up with each other.
  
  The combat encounters are fast-paced, fun, and exciting, even though most are fairly easy, apart 
 from the boss battles which require a bit of thinking. The character's abilities are also varied, 
 and it takes a bit of strategy to match up a great team for an upcoming battle.
  
  Apart from combat, the game is also amazing. To put it simply, you go go throughout different eras 
 in time ranging from 65,000,000 B. C. to 2,300 A. D. affecting the universe itself. If you change 
 the past, you will also change the future. The concept adds quite a bit of non-linearity, and opens 
 up many possibilities for side quests, which the game has plenty of. One of the biggest sidequests 
 is one within an area called "Lost Sanctum". It's a fun little offshoot of the main game, but overall, 
 it is slightly on the repetitive side. Even so, each and every one of the sidequests are worth 
 your time and offer a bigger and better experience of the game.
  
  There is also an Arena mode where you can raise your own monster, and have it fight other monsters 
 for items. You send it off for training in different areas, where it can gain various stats, learn 
 it's own techs, or advance in rank in the form of evolving into a new monster. You'll have to wait 
 around 10 minutes in-game time before it returns. It's not very deep, and you aren't able to actually 
 control the monster in battle (besides giving it items to use) , but it is a nice little addition 
 that adds quite a bit of content, and is the only mode where you can use wireless to battle with 
 your friends.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Who doesn't love these great old school graphics? It has it's own style that stands the test of 
 time. I do not believe the graphics will ever die out, although others may not share my opinion. 
 It's not technically as "high quality" as modern games, but for me, I didn't care one bit. The 
 animations are nice, the scenes play out beautifully, and the characters and enemies (particularly 
 bosses) are very nice looking.
  
  The game also includes a few movie sequences which play out at various times during the game. It's 
 a great addition, but I personally didn't prefer them to the original in-game scenes, but luckily 
 they are optional.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The game's soundtrack is absolutely beautiful. It's epic when it needs to be, it's creepy when 
 it needs to be, and can also be heartbreaking when it needs to be. The background music fits the 
 areas, and multiple times while playing, I would purposefully take a break from the game to admire 
 it. As with the graphics, it's very old school, but again like the graphics, it stands the test 
 of time intact.
  
  The battle sounds are the same basic sounds as you would expect. Swords swinging and spells being 
 cast, it's all what you've heard before. Not amazing, but definitely not bad. But really, how much 
 can you actually improve upon the sound of a monster being stabbed?
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  The story is actually original. It involves time-traveling, death, betrayal, and payback. The story 
 will invoke many emotions throughout the game. Sometimes it will make you laugh with it's fairly 
 quirky humor, or make you mourn over a fallen character. Speaking of characters, you will have 
 a wide range of unique characters at your disposal. Each one of them have great personalities, 
 and soon you will become attached to them. I don't know about you, but I don't know many games 
 that could make you feel for a massive talking frog. Or a main character who never says a word 
 the entire game.
  
  I've heard various opinions about how the translation has been revamped. Some good, some bad. Personally, 
 I have no experience with the original and I really like the writing in this game. It has a certain 
 unique quality about it that makes it different from other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper075
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 9, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing this game for the very first time on the Nintendo SNES system back when I was 
 a kid. This was THE GAME that got me into gaming. Up until then I had played some games, had some 
 fun, but never really got into it. I could drop the controller at any time and not come back to 
 it for weeks or months or not at all. 
  
  Not this game
  
  This game really exhibits the key qualities of a great game. 
  
  The sound track is AMAZING, 
 even years afterward, even with all the advancements made in putting better quality into the sounds 
 coming out of games. 
  
  The game play is fun and at the time it came out was one of the most innovative games out there.
 
  
  The storyline is deep and compelling. This game really pulls you in and makes you care what happens 
 to your character and the best part is the main character doesn't ever SAY ANYTHING.
  
  You can play it over and over and still have fun. For god's sake, there are 14 different endings, 
 if that isn't replay value I don't know what is!
  
  It is memorable. When its been more than 13 years since it came out and people still rave about 
 it. You know it has to be good. Especially since it is a video game. With most video games a year 
 or two passes and people forget about it. You can talk to almost any gamer out there and they will 
 at least know of Chrono Trigger if they haven't played it themselves.
  
  The visuals are, of course, very dated. But considering what it is and when it first came out you 
 have to admit it is something special. I'm not even sure I would want them to update the graphics. 
 I don't think they could preserve the style and charm of it if they did that.
  
  Listen,
  Even if you don't believe a word I have said, even if you think I'm some idiot just babbling on 
 about a game that impressed me when I was a kid. Give the game a try. I really don't believe that 
 you will regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louielouiee
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  Not that it needs a review, everybody know how great this game is. One of the bests soundtracks 
 ever, characters that you feel very close and affective to them - the non-talking thing of Crono 
 makes you feel even more close to him - a beautiful grapphic, a very fun and simple battle system 
 and a lot of different ways of ending the game, with a lot of different ending scenes.
  When they remade CT to the Psx I was just as "Wohoooo!" as I am now, and with all the anime scenes 
 and stuff I was going to explode in happiness. But when I saw it... well, longlonglonglonglong 
 loadings, the cutscenes were kind of cracked, it seemed in slowmotion or whatever. In this DS remake 
 they fixed all!
  A-whooooooooooooo!
  The cut scenes are just beaaaaaaatiful! And in the new DS mode the gameplay screen remains all 
 clean in the game, the menus, the battle menus all goes in the touch screen.
  Ah! It's just great! If you've never played, now it's your chance of making your life a little 
 happier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolflink001
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  
  You may remember... It was a time long ago in the 90's when this game first graced the Super Nintendo 
 and impressed and wooed us all! The graphics, the characters, the storyline just so perfect! This 
 game became famous! And now years on November 25th, 2008 Chrono Trigger returns better than ever!!!! 
 With added features, extra dungeons, and a music box you can jam with, makes Chrono Trigger a definite 
 portable on DS that cannot missed!!! So many new features and innovations all chocked into to that 
 little chip! I am honored to have this game and do the review! Here goes....!
  
  
  Game play: Very much like the original but different in many ways. There is a new and improved 
 attack system in the Ds version that puts the original Chrono Triggers system to shame. There is 
 a new inventory system for your viewing pleasure, a bestiary, added cartoon cut scenes that were 
 seen in the squaresoft remake, and you have the option of choosing to use the touch screen or just 
 mash the buttons. Also, there is a map on the bottom screen so you can never get lost!
  
  
  Graphics: Just like the original but slightly better! They added some cool new attack make 
 over's to most of the attacks! They also added an Artwork Gallery and a Cinematic Theature for 
 your viewing pleasure. There are bright colors enhancements and beautiful visuals scattered through 
 out the game that make Chrono Trigger worthy of some great eye candy! 
  
  
  Music: Like I mentioned before, there is a MUSIC BOX for your listening pleasure! All those cool 
 tunes that you enjoyed before you can now just pop your headphones on and enjoy over and over again! 
 An Amazing added feature!
  
  
  
  Value: Does Chrono Trigger have value? HELL YES!!!!!! AND NOW IT"S PORTABLE!!!! You can now take 
 this legendary classic RPG and play it in the car, in the airport, at the store, at school, on 
 the bus, or just play it in front of people that don't have it!!! Anyhow, you can just play it 
 any god damn where now because it's a port! INCREDIBLE!
  
  
  Overall: Chrono Trigger has come a long way to this day age of high-tech video gaming! I'm glad 
 to have witnessed it come to the Ds because for awhile I was getting worried! This game is a definite 
 recommend and you won't be sorry getting it! It's defiantly worth buying! Chrono Trigger has proven 
 to still be the RPG of the ages. And as long as fans continue to admire its splendor it will always 
 be the RPG OF THE AGES!!! PORTABLE!!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shabulia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  Few games have touched the hearts of so many like Chrono Trigger. Few games have also caused such 
 frenzy in argument as Chrono Trigger. It is one of those titles that fans will defend to the ends 
 of the Earth, and rightly so. SquareEnix's first true product has arrived on the DS and is almost 
 a carbon copy of the SNES original... almost. Everything you know and love is right here as you 
 remember it. The only differences here are that the game has been improved upon while preserving 
 the classic feel perfectly. Think of it as being fine tuned and tweaked to make it better than 
 you remember and you have an idea of what to expect. Whether you are a fan from the 16-bit era 
 or if this will be your first venture into Chrono Trigger, this game belongs in your library!
 
  
  Back in 1994, most people were preparing for the upcoming Sony Playstation and Sega Saturn. The 
 3DO was already out and it was looking like the SNES' time had passed. But a little company called 
 Square still had faith in the system and decided to give it one last dance before jumping into 
 the 32-bit wars. Forming what became known as the "Dream Team," Square gathered the finest minds 
 in RPGs and Anime together to make the ultimate RPG of the time. Famed Final Fantasy team members 
 Hironobu Sakaguchi, Kazuhiko Aoki, and composer Nobuo Uematsu were teamed with members from (the 
 then rivals) Enix's Dragon Quest games. They were also joined by anime artist, Akira Toriyama who 
 is famous for the Dragon Ball anime series. Combining these great minds together for the first 
 time was the start of something big. That something resulted in what many consider the greatest 
 RPG ever made; Chrono Trigger! When released in America in 1995, no one saw it coming. But word 
 spread like wild fire. The Playstation and the Saturn would not have an RPG offering for a good 
 long while. And even at a retail price of $69.99 (yes, that was the original retail price back 
 then) , Chrono Trigger took off like a rocket and never looked back. It was the sleeper hit of the 
 year. With its lush graphics, incredible musical score, likeable characters, unique battle system, 
 and time altering story, the game was a raging success. Now it looks to repeat that success on 
 the DS handheld system.
  
  The DS version of the game combines the best of both worlds from the previous releases. It is nearly 
 identical to the SNES version which may ruffle some feathers. To others, it preserves the game 
 perfectly and maintains the feel as it was meant to be played. Why mess with something that's already 
 a gem to look at? The DS enhancements are minor but they pack a big punch. The menus are split 
 and put on the bottom touch screen; leaving the top screen open for all of the combat. Touch screen 
 controls have been integrated into the game beautifully. Navigating a save or an item is just a 
 single touch of an icon away. There is no more need to navigate through menu after menu. Just touch 
 where you want and go. However, if you are an old-schooler, you can still toggle the menus with 
 buttons just as you did with the SNES version of the game. You can also go to the options and opt 
 for the classic layout so all of the action is on one screen instead of using the bottom screen 
 at all. It's nice that this option was included, but you'll most likely never use it because the 
 touch screen menu controls are so convenient. There is also a map function on the bottom screen 
 that is similar to that of the Final Fantasy IV remake. You can use your stylus to control the 
 characters as they walk around on the top screen, but it's better to just use the default d-pad 
 and button controls here. 
  
  The excellent Playstation movie intro that was available in the re-release of 1999 (2001 for the 
 USA) is included here. This fully animated movie was done by Akira Toriyama in his amazing Dragon 
 Ball Z style. There are other cut-scenes done by Toriyama throughout the game to further enhance 
 and flesh out the story. There are no voices but it does add to the drama factor. Also, the music 
 collection and bestiary from the PS version make their way here. Every enhancement that was in 
 the PS version is here but load times are no longer a factor as this is a cartridge based game 
 and not CD. There is also a new monster training option in the game in which you go up against 
 friends on their DS through wireless or wi-fi connection over the internet. It's kind of close 
 to Pokemon minus the story. You choose your monster and bring it up through fighting other monsters 
 and giving it items to make it stronger. Then, take your trained monster in wireless battle against 
 a buddy and see who will prevail. It's a nice addition but it's not as exciting as it could be. 
 The monster training and fighting only adds to what you can do with this game. The new ending for 
 the DS exclusive levels (toward the end of the game) is great and even alludes heavily to the excellent 
 sequel to Chrono Trigger; Chrono Cross. The last enhancement is the re-translation which is also 
 excellent. For those that were worried please have no doubt; the charm and mood of the original 
 game has been well preserved. The new translation fixes grammatical errors and other problems with 
 the original script. It also enhances the story with more emotion while maintaining the flow and 
 heart that was present in the SNES classic. It's a definite improvement.
  
  The story is one of the most intriguing in RPG history. You play a silent young man named Crono 
 who gets caught up in an adventure where he meets others and must find a way to save the world. 
 It may sound typical but there is a catch. He must do so by going back and forward in time. Every 
 time he and his group go back in the past, they either must correct a mistake or must do something 
 to alter the history of things to come. Things get even better when you consider that there are 
 multiple endings in the game. The one you get depends on just how deep into the adventure of time 
 travel you want to go. The characters you meet along the way are colorful and full of personality. 
 The present time in the game is the year 1000 A. D. You will travel to the distant future, to 600 
 A. D., the prehistoric past, and even to the End of Time. The world is the same in each time period 
 but the layout and places in the world all change. It's really an ingenious story that will keep 
 you coming back for more.
  
  The combat system is something that all RPGs should take a cue from. Enemies appear on screen and 
 you approach them when you are ready. Occasionally there are surprise attacks but not too often. 
 The screen never breaks away to a different fight scene as in most RPGs. Your team of three characters 
 fights the enemies on the same map you walk around on. There is no clutter and the battle system 
 is an active time/turned based system. Each character can learn certain abilities for battle and 
 for healing through earned TP (Tech Points) . They also learn how to combine their abilities with 
 one another to do massive damage to your opponents with not just one, but two or even all three 
 team members at once. Other abilities that are similar will also include massive healing to all 
 party members at once to save you if you're losing a fight.
  
  Graphically, the game is one that stands the test of time. Everything looks lush and colorful as 
 you might remember it. It is pixel for pixel identical to the SNES game. This is not a bad thing. 
 The SNES was a graphic powerhouse for its time and while technology has improved, there was no 
 need to go back and redo the graphics as was done for Final Fantasy IV. These are not bad graphics, 
 they are just classic graphics. Many games released on the Gameboy Advance and the DS still don't 
 look as good as Chrono Trigger did back in 1995. SquareEnix did the right thing in leaving well 
 enough alone here. The same goes for the music. If you don't already know about the excellent score 
 of this game, then stop reading and just go buy the game so you can listen to the tunes from it. 
 For those that remember, the nostalgic warm fuzzies that you will experience can not be summed 
 up in words. The music is magnificent and truly adds to the emotional impact of each even as the 
 story progresses. Honestly, to mess with either the look or the sound would have been a huge mistake.
 
  
  People have argued about Chrono Trigger ever since it was first released. It was, to many, the 
 best console RPG ever created. People from the 16-bit era argued over the SNES and Genesis quality. 
 If you were a Genesis fan and never got to experience Chrono Trigger and if you're still playing 
 games today, now is your chance to see what all the fuss was about. For those SNES fans that want 
 to relive the glory, play the DS version with confidence and get ready for a thousand smiles. As 
 for the newer generation, take note: This is not just some old game. This game is legendary. It 
 is legendary for a reason. If you didn't know better you'd swear it was originally designed for 
 the DS and you'd be perfectly happy with its wonderful music and beautiful graphics.. Chrono Trigger 
 truly stands the test of time. It has aged gracefully and deserves to be played by all. Even though 
 it wasn't put into full 3D and was largely left alone, Chrono Trigger is a fantastic game that 
 was better left alone to stand on its already great attributes. Make no mistake; this is the ultimate 
 version of one of the best RPGs ever created. It is a bargain at $39.99 and you owe it to yourself 
 to take this one out for a long, long ride. Crono is back and he's better than ever!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Huskerfied
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  This is Chrono Trigger, many gamers know this game and love this game. Its a classic, as timeless 
 as mario even.
  
  Many reviewers have complained that this isn't the best one because they didn't change it, or alter 
 it enough. I think that if you alter a classic you are treading a narrow line. They can't change 
 anything, the game was as well polished and well done then as it is now. To change it would be 
 the same as changing KFC's recipe; it may make some people actually enjoy it, while at the same 
 time, alienating the pre established audience.
  
  The game is so well balanced. The characters you actually care about, the story has twists, and 
 alternate endings. The writing is strait-forward but has enough hook to draw you into the battle 
 you decide to undertake.
  
  Generally there is nothing i have to complain about the core story. The add ons with this version, 
 are next to useless, and have a tacked on feel. The sound player and fmv viewer are interesting, 
 but only to those who have played the game, and enjoy it already.
  
  If you are looking to buy one game for the ds, i recommend this to be it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: macrules_640
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Like most everyone who had an SNES I played Chrono Trigger when it first came out on the SNES back 
 in 1995 and then it was one of the first RPGs I played and even today the game is great and it 
 shows that despite age it's still one of the best RPGs on the SNES. Now the DS version is a port, 
 but I wouldn't call it that because it adds a few new features such as touch screen controls and 
 a much better translated English script which is nice and features the cut scenes from the PSX 
 version along with no loading as well and Square managed to add an extra ending and two new dungeons 
 which is also nice, but really it's all about the main game which has yet to change and that's 
 a good thing because they didn't change it to much, but I like the added features. Now the story 
 is pretty simple and goes that Chrono goes to a fair and runs into a girl named Marle who in fact 
 is the princess of Guardia and after some events that lead to her ending up in another time period. 
 After that Chrono, Marle, and Lucca end up in the future and find it a mess and after some exploring 
 they find a computer that explains how the world ended thanks to a creature called Lavos and they 
 decide to change history and make sure Lavos never ends up destroying the world. The best part 
 of Chrono Trigger has to be the battle system it's like Final Fantasy 5's, but has more details 
 to it that allows you to unleash combined attacks and techs with your teammates and even with the 
 touch screen controls it actually clears up some of the mess of the battle screen so you can see 
 the action better. The cast of characters you meet along the way are some of the best and most 
 unique characters that Square has though up of and of course there is a lot of humor and sadness 
 in the game as well. The music is some of the best music ever done and even today I get goosebumps 
 from hearing the main theme of Chrono Trigger and it shows that Yasunori Mitsuda and Nobuo Uematsu 
 know their music very well and the character designs by Akira Toriyama are some of the best he 
 has made outside of Dragon Ball Z. Now with all this praise there has to be something wrong with 
 the game right? Well to tell you the truth there is nothing really wrong with this version of Chrono 
 Trigger and it is truly a masterpiece of gaming. All in all Chrono Trigger stands the test of time 
 as one of the best games of all time and it's a game that no one should miss out on.
  
  Pros:
  + DS version is faithful to the original
  + Improved English script
  + Some of the 
 best music ever made
  + Character designs are some of the best Akira Toriyama has made
  + Touch screens controls are great and don't take away from the experience of the game
  + Two 
 new dungeons and a new ending that helps explain Chrono Cross better.
  + Cut scenes from the PSX version look great and no load times
  + Battle system is easy to learn, 
 but hard to master
  
  Cons:
  - Nothing really at all
  
  Overall I give Chrono Trigger a 9.5 for being one of the best games of all time and staying true 
 to the original version.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaCookie7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2008 4:02 am PT
Review:  Chrono Trigger was originally released on the Super Nintendo Entertainment System back in 1995. 
 It was extremely well received and has been hailed has one of the greatest RPG's (and games) of 
 all time.
  
  My first experience with Chrono Trigger was back on the SNES version. And although I thoroughly 
 enjoyed it, I never got to fully experience the game completely. However, thanks to this amazing 
 remake, I'm finally able to play the game in it's entirety - with improved menu's, cutscenes and 
 added features.
  
  The first change in the DS version you'll noticed are the additional options when starting a new 
 game. You'll be given the option between "Classic" style gameplay and new "DS" style. Neither of 
 these actually effect the game mechanics itself, but are purely cosmetic changes.
  
  The new DS style gameplay moves the menu down to the bottom touch screen. This reduces clutter 
 in the top portion of the screen and also enables the optional use of stylus to allow you to navigate 
 the menu by tapping the quite large buttons and selecting your enemy. Out of battle, the bottom 
 half of the screen reveals a map of the area you are in. As you explore dungeons, the map will 
 slowly reveal itself. You can also control you characters movements on the field by moving the 
 stylus along the screen, aswell as allocate shortcuts to certain sections of the screen that surround 
 the map to allow quicker access to the equipment screen and other areas of the menu.
  
  If you'd prefer to play the game with it's original navigation system, the classic style gameplay 
 allows for this - keeping the top half of the screen completely true to the original SNES version, 
 limiting navigation of the menu to buttons only and removing the stylus aspect completely. In battle, 
 you will still instead simply get a list of enemies you are facing on the bottom half of the screen.
 
  
  Regardless of which style you select, you can still navigate the games battle menu and control 
 characters on the field with buttons. The stylus controls are 100% optional.
  
  The game itself follows the story of Crono, who, with the help of a cast of other characters, must 
 travel through time in order to defeat Lavos and save the world from destruction.
  
  You move from map to map in similar fashion to 2D RPG's of Chrono Triggers time, however, unlike 
 RPG's of it's time you will not encounter random field battles. Instead you will seamless flow 
 into your turn based battles by encountering enemies placed around the map. Now while this is a 
 refreshing and welcome change, the location of all enemies is completely pre-determined, so travelling 
 through maps and dungeons for a 2ND or 3RD time will feel a bit redundant.
  
  The battle system in Chrono Trigger is fairly similar to most turn-based Role-playing games, but 
 introduces a new mechanic that allows you to perform powerful Duel and Triple techs with multiple 
 characters. As you win battles, you will earn TP (Tech Points) . These points will unlock new moves 
 for your character, such as Crono's Cyclone attack, in which, at the expense of MP ( Magic Points) , 
 Crono will spin around a selected target, harming all enemies within his range. However, this can 
 be combined with other characters techs, such as Lucca's Flamethrower. Combining these two techs 
 will cause a Cyclone of fire that engulfs all enemies caught within Crono's Cyclone attack.
  
  There are dozens of single, duel and triple techs to learn, all with varying outcomes. Learning 
 and experimenting with these techs is half the fun of Chrono Triggers battle system.
  
  In addition to these techs you will also have magic. Each character has an element assigned to 
 them, limiting them to spells of that element (Crono = Light, Lucca = Fire, Frog = Water, etc.) . 
 Even though these spells may seem just like additional techs, they are capable of dealing massive 
 amounts of damage to enemies that are weak to each element, or healing enemies that are strong 
 against them.
  
  The games battle system is quite fun and creative, and has some amazing bosses to supplement it. 
 From the optional Son of Sun boss which will give even some of the highest levelled characters 
 trouble, requiring you to randomly guess which target to hit, to simpler bosses such as Yakra, 
 to the games final boss, Lavos, at which you can fight at almost any point in the game resulting 
 in one of thirteen different endings. These are some of the best bosses you'll fight in any 2D 
 RPG you'll ever play.
  
  The game also features a new Monster Trainer minigame. This allows you to adopt and train a monster, 
 battle it in the arena and with friends over local wi-fi. This can be fun at first, but the enjoyment, 
 unfortunately, wears off fairly quickly.
  
  As you progress through the games story, you will encounter the occasional cutscene. Although these 
 cutscenes (only found in the Playstation and DS ports) are quite nice to watch, they pretty much 
 just summarise evens that have already happened, don't feature voice acting, and are too sparse 
 and far between. The game would have been just fine without them.
  
  Chrono Trigger is unique in that you can face the games final boss at any point in the storyline, 
 which will unlock a total of thirteen different endings (twelve from the SNES version and one new 
 ending) . Although you may have to unlock some of these endings using the New Game+ feature due 
 to the difficulty of Lavos, they will all add a new reason to replay through the game, if enjoyment 
 alone wasn't enough.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Excellent battle system, with a fantastic new menu overhaul.
  
  Graphics: 9
  The SNES graphics, 
 while not particularly up to date with current gen consoles, look good on the DS. Cutscenes are 
 also very well animated and look terrific.
  
  Sound: 8
  An excellent soundtrack, but far from perfect. Some sound effects sound quite dated and poor.
 
  
  Replay Value: 9
  Thirteen different endings, new content, multiple sidequests and a new Monster Trainer minigame 
 give more reasons to replay an already highly replayable RPG.
  
  Overall: 9
  The DS version adds some minor things to the game which Chrono Trigger veterans will be sure to 
 enjoy, aswell as allowing those who never experienced the first a change to play it. A terrific 
 game. Well worth purchasing and a welcome addition to any DS owners collection 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
