-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Clubhouse Games
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/clubhousegames/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Forty-two different games.
 most games allow local and online multiplayer modes.
 presentation emphasizes clarity over flash.
 highly accessible interface uses the touch screen exclusively.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Certain card games impose hand limits and allow negative bankrolls.
 Can't send messages to strangers in worldwide mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 930 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Agenda
Genre: Board
Date: Oct 9, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Clubhouse Games serves up 42 different parlor games that practically anyone can pick up and play -- and 
 most of them support local and online multiplayer modes. 

  Board games, card decks, and sets of dice take up a ton of physical space and are a real pain in 
 the behind to drag down out of the closet, but they sure are loads of fun to play when your buddies 
 are over. Drink some beverages, break out the pretzels, and have a grand old time into the wee 
 hours. Clubhouse Games for the Nintendo DS eliminates all of that storage space and prep-work hassle. 
 It packs 42 different parlor games into a single DS cartridge and lets you play them alone or against 
 your friends, whether they're in the same room with you or chilling out in their own homes across 
 town.  

          It's like you packed 42 different games into your pocket.     

  The diverse selection of games includes both popular and esoteric standbys. There are 18 different 
 card games, broken down into basic, intermediate, and advanced categories. Basic card games include 
 Old Maid, Spit, I Doubt It, Sevens, Memory, and Pig. Intermediate card games include Blackjack, 
 Hearts, President, Rummy, Seven Bridge, Last Card, and Last Card Plus. Advanced card games include 
 Five Card Draw Poker, Texas Hold 'Em, Nap, Spades, and Contract Bridge. Next up, there are 12 different 
 board games, which are split into basic and advanced categories. Basic board games include Checkers, 
 Chinese Checkers, Dots and Boxes, Hasami Shogi, Reversi, Connect Five, and Grid Attack. The advanced 
 lineup includes Backgammon, Chess, Shogi, Field Tactics, and Ludo. Also included are nine different 
 variety and action games, including Soda Shake, Dominoes, Koi-Koi, Word Balloon, Balance, Billiards, 
 Bowling, Darts, and Takeover. Rounding out the list are three single-player games: Solitaire, Mahjong, 
 and a slide puzzle game called Escape.  

  Don't see your favorite game on the list? It could be hiding there under an alias. For instance, 
 the popular schoolyard game "Bulls***" is listed under its politically correct title, I Doubt It. 
 Other examples include Grid Attack, better known as "Battleship"; Word Balloon, which is a nice 
 name for "Hangman"; Last Card Plus, a standard deck version of "Uno"; and President, which many 
 a giggling child first learns as "A-Hole." The lineup is so diverse that everyone is pretty much 
 guaranteed to find a few games to enjoy. The best part is that the majority of games in the collection 
 let multiple players compete, either by linking multiple systems together or by logging into Nintendo's 
 Wi-Fi Connect online service. The only exceptions are the single-player games and a couple of the 
 basic card games.  

  What's especially great is that the whole product, from top to bottom, is put together in such 
 a way that anyone, regardless of age or amount of video game experience, can just jump in and begin 
 playing. The majority of games follow the same rules as their real-life counterparts, so you probably 
 already know how to play many of them. For the games you are not familiar with, rulebooks are just 
 a single tap away. The graphics and audio are very plain, but the upside to the no-nonsense table 
 depictions and cheesy lounge music is that everything is neatly organized and easy to see. When 
 you're not in a game, instructions are displayed on the upper screen, while interactive menus and 
 buttons are situated on the touch-sensitive bottom screen. When you're playing a game, the upper 
 screen shows the game board or table, while the lower screen shows your cards or pieces and lets 
 you manipulate them by using the stylus. It's all very accessible. Laying down cards and manipulating 
 pieces is always a simple matter of tapping and dragging onscreen objects with the stylus. For 
 action games, such as darts, billiards, and bowling, you grab onto the dart, stick, or ball by 
 touching them with the stylus and let them fly by quickly flicking and lifting the stylus away. 
 Simple animations show the objects sailing across the screen. Obviously, physical games played 
 in this fashion don't pack as many thrills as their real-life counterparts, but the video renditions 
 are still enjoyable.  

          Touch-screen control makes the games accessible to anyone.     

  All of the games are 
 generally as you remember them, although some of the card games have been streamlined in the interest 
 of saving time. You can't split in Blackjack, for example, and betting in Texas Hold 'Em has a 
 fixed limit. If you had dreams of yelling out "All in!" like Johnny Chan, well, you'll have to 
 settle for "Sixty bucks!" The most controversial changes concern the implementation of hand limits 
 and negative bankrolls. To make a long story short, you can continue to play when you're in the 
 negative, and games end after a set number of hands, as opposed to continuing until everyone is 
 eliminated. The games are still fun despite these changes, but there's no denying that some of 
 the tension is lost when people can bet from the red, and chip leaders can fold their way to wins. 
 It's worth repeating, though, that these changes apply only to specific card games. Anyone who 
 is looking for a great Poker game or a great Blackjack game won't find it here, but when you consider 
 that this is a collection of 42 different games, the renditions included in Clubhouse Games are 
 more than enough.  

  On your own, you can expect to kill quite a lot of time futzing around with all of the various 
 games. For games that allow you to compete against multiple opponents, you can generally specify 
 the number of CPU-controlled bots. As far as the CPU's play is concerned, it rolls over on the 
 easy/difficult setting and presents a competent challenge on the higher settings. Advanced games, 
 such as Chess and Texas Hold 'Em, are still a little too advanced for the CPU, which means that 
 seasoned players shouldn't have any trouble besting their computer opponents. Those games are the 
 exceptions, however, rather than the norm.  

  Single-player modes include free play, stamp, and mission. In the stamp mode, you earn stamps for 
 beating the CPU at each game in the collection. The mission mode, meanwhile, contains a number 
 of time- and score-based challenges that are oriented around all of the various games. Your reward 
 for collecting stamps and completing missions is a bunch of new avatars and table color schemes, 
 as well as the ability to access a couple of games that are locked away from the start.  

  Solo play is nice, but where Clubhouse Games truly shines is in regard to its multiplayer features. 
 Playing against other people introduces the human element that makes simple games like these so 
 addictive. Even the card games that have had their rules changed to encourage turtling tend to 
 get crazy when other people are involved, especially if those other people are your so-called friends. 
 Thirty-seven of the 42 included games support multiplayer play, either in one-on-one fashion or 
 with groups of up to eight players. A pop-up Pictochat-style interface lets everyone send messages 
 back and forth while playing.  

          Of the 42 games, 37 support multiple players through system link or Nintendo's online service. 
     

  You and your friends can link multiple DS systems together from the same room, or you can meet 
 up with people online using Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connect service. To get a group going in the same 
 room, you need only a single copy of Clubhouse Games. The person with the cartridge can beam individual 
 games to everyone else. The process takes only a few seconds, and everyone ends up with the full 
 experience (the same graphics, the same music, and so on) . If you go online, you can organize games 
 with people on your friends list or challenge random players in the worldwide mode. There are already 
 loads of people playing online, so much so that jumping into a game with strangers usually takes 
 only about 30 seconds. Leaderboard rankings are tracked for every game, and the system even maintains 
 a separate leaderboard for you and your friends. Disconnects are handled in a democratic fashion. 
 When a player quits, he or she is replaced by a CPU player. As long as you play through to the 
 end, you'll be credited for your performance. The only lame thing about the online experience is 
 that Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connect safeguards make it impossible to invite strangers to join your friends 
 list and limit the chat messages you can exchange in worldwide games to preset phrases.  

  Clubhouse Games is a perfect example of what Nintendo is trying to accomplish with its Touch Generations 
 initiative. It packs 42 different games that many people are already familiar with onto a single 
 cartridge and makes them accessible to anyone who can figure out how to tap the screen and drag 
 the stylus. Some of the games included in the collection aren't the best renditions, but there 
 are plenty of them, especially when you consider how many games you get for the purchase price. 
 On top of that, you can play against your friends, whether they're in the same room or across town. 
 It's like having access to your grandparents' game closet everywhere you go.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (86 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Haziqonfire
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2009 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Clubhouse games is the newest addition to my DS collection. I got it for $20 brand new here in 
 Canada and I must say it was definitely worth it.
  
  Gameplay.
  
  The game uses the touch screen for almost all the games. It includes 42 games ranging from darts, 
 bowling, billards, balance, rummy, texas hold 'em, poker, president, memory, pig, connect 5, checkers, 
 chess, etc. 
  
  All of these play well and all of them use the touch screen. Also these games can be played online 
 over Nintendo Wi-Fi which works great. You can play against friends or with anyone around the world. 
 You can also look at the leaderboards. During friends matches you can send each other written messages 
 however in matches against anyone world wide you can send pre-written messages like "good luck!" 
 or "good match!".
  
  Graphics.
  
  Nothing too impressive here, though everything runs smoothly and looks pretty nice.
  
  Presentation.
 
  
  Again nothing too impressive here, I mean it is just a game with these card games and such in it. 
 The Menu's look nice and everything, the music is actually kind of catchy and some of the backgrounds 
 for games look nice (especially the paper ones) .
  
  Sound.
  
  Again nothing amazing, the sound effects are pretty good and the music is actually catchy.
  
 
  Lasting Appeal.
  
  Clubhouse Games will last you a long time. Its is literally one of those Pick up and Play titles 
 -- you'll keep coming back to it every once in a while and its especially convenient for as those 
 on the go type of games.
  
  Final Thoughts.
  
  For $20, and 42 fun games -- you cannot beat the price. To top it all off you have Wi-Fi play as 
 well as missions you can play to unlock items. Great value for a DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rjp15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  ClubHouse games comes with over 42 games to play, ranging from card games all the way up to Soda 
 Shake games.
  
  The gameplay is obviously quite varied because of the fact that there are so many different games 
 to be played. The Soda Shake game is quite cool in that you have to shake a bottle of pop so much 
 so that it will "pop" on the other players when it is their turn to shake it. Also included in 
 this pac are board games like Checkers and Chess. 
  
  The A. I is actually quite adept at playing against you, especially if you set the difficulty to 
 Hard. Chess is one noteworthy game where the A. I adapts to your strategy extremely well. 
  
  The other fantastic thing about this game is that it includes Wi-Fi capabilities. You can play 
 with anybody online (you can only chat with them if they have Friend Codes) .
  
  If you love board games and card games then this is a must buy. Otherwise you should still buy 
 it because the amount of stuff to do for the money you spend on it is ridiculous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusicMegaFan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  This Game Compilation Has Over 42 Games Including: Poker, Darts, Bowling, Cards And Brand New Types 
 Of Games! This Is A Real Fun Family Game. The Multiplayer In This Is Great. You Can Play All The 
 Games You've Unlocked (Or, If You're Not The Host, The Host Has Unlocked) . There Is So Many Games 
 To Play You Don't Know Which One To Start With!
  My Favourite Card Game On This Is, Pairs. Pairs Is Easy, Fun And Simple To Play. My Favourite Board 
 Game In This Is Checkers, Because It All Ways Makes You Want To Come Back For More. I Would Rate 
 Most Of The Board & Card Games IN THIS Game A 5/5, But A Couple Of Games 4/5, Due To The Fact That 
 It Can Get Boring.
  Overall This Game Is A Must Have For Any DS Owner.
  P. S. Ignore The 12+ Rating That's Just There To Warn Parents About The Gambling Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldenlink24
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Club House Games for the DS is just the game you need to have in your collection. Who doesn't want 
 to pay 19.99 for a game that has over 15, no 30, no 40 games in it????
  
  Those new to my reviews, I review in 5 categories: Game Play, Difficulty, Controls, Replay Value, 
 Online Play.
  
  Game Play: 9/10
  
  The game play is quite simple... Card games like Poker, Hearts, Spades and more, Plus darts, bowling, 
 dot n lines, hangman and much more.
  
  Difficulty: 10/10
  
  Here is the best part, you can put the computer on easy, medium or hard. Simple and fun, or play 
 against your friend.
  
  Controls: 9/10
  
  Thankfully this is easy. Drag the cards around with the stylus. Games like darts and bowling may 
 take a lil practice in aiming straight, unless you cheat .... using a credit card to help aim with.....
 
  
  Replay Value: 9.8/10
  
  This game never gets dust. Its fun to play on the go, car trips, sitting down bored, every time 
 you play a game the outcome is different, never the same.
  
  Online Play: 8/10
  
  Here is the downfall, I gave it a good score because connecting is easy, its trying to connect 
 and find someone to play a specific game. All games except 5 are playable. But most people have 
 fun with darts bowling and so on. Trying to find someone online to play poker, or blackjack and 
 games like that will take a long time. But that is what FC and download play are for !!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZumaJones07
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  I already know I'll be playing this game many years down the line. Clubhouse Games comes packed 
 with 42 classic games and enables Wifi play with a majority of those and you can play your friends 
 even if they do not have the game.
  
  I actually learned how to play a lot of the games packed in there thanks to its great description 
 of how to play and helpful hints as to what you can do while in play.
  
  You also have the mission modes which challenge players to complete a certain task in the game. 
 For instance, one mission requires you to beat the computer in checkers with ten of your own pieces 
 still remaining. That's not even the peak of how challenging this game can get though. I'm still 
 exploring the games so I'll probably write a better review after I've played it a little while 
 longer.
  
  ... and it's only twenty dollars. You really can't find a better deal. If you have a DS, go out 
 and buy this game. I even wrote a review for it, I've never done that for another game. :P
  
  Laterz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LewieGee
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  42 All time classics.
  
  What's this game all about? Playing loads of "fun" little games.
  
  Yeah, fun.
  
  Out of 
 the 42, my favourites are the darts, bowling (even though it isn't very impressive) , soda shake 
 and chess.
  
  There is a billiards, but it's so bad i'd rather not mention it. Seriously. 
  
  The other games 
 are mostly either a variation of a card game, or a puzzle involving numbers or words. They do get 
 boring after a while.
  
  The single player mode? Ugh. It's so bad. You just follow the trail until you beat all the games 
 and get a 'prize'. Exciting. 
  
  The multiplayer, on the other hand, is more entertaining. Battling a non CPU-opponent makes it 
 all the more entertaining, You can have a laugh and can kick your feet up and relax with your DS 
 game. Possibly with a drink in your other hand.
  
  
  Yes, the single player mode is boring, but the simplistic play style, multiplayer mode and low, 
 low price make up for it. 
  
  All round good game.
  
  And it's a puzzle game.
  
  Go fogure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lgeisz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  First let me tell you I am not your average gamer (age wise or gaming wise) I am probably in the 
 older set of users for the DS or any game so what seems like a blast for me may tend to be a little 
 boring for most.
  
  This game is great. I play a lot to kill time while waiting to do other things. The availability 
 of a large amount of various games makes this an ideal game to play with other (providing you can 
 still find the game) . Although the AI in some of the games can get frustrating when they are your 
 partners you should still be able to find a game you will enjoy playing.
  
  Online play is spotty as I do not see a lot of people playing on line and it is hit or miss whether 
 you find someone online playing the game you want to play.
  
  Over all this game is well worth the price and the time to find it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I love games. Not just video games, mind you, but real games. I love Texas Hold 'Em and Spades, 
 Dominoes and Solitaire, Pool and Darts, Chess and Othello. But one of my biggest setbacks is that 
 so many times when I'm ready to up the ante, put on my poker face, or crack out the chess board, 
 I have nobody to play with. So, what did I do? It was simple. I bought Clubhouse Games.
  
  As is made indicative by the title, Clubhouse Games is a collection of classic games, ranging from 
 card games to board games to more physical games. And this collection is huge. There are more than 
 forty different games available to play, and all of them are incredibly fun. Detailed, in-depth 
 rules are provided with every single game, as well as some handy tips for the most competitive 
 among us. The game does a great job of evening the playing field; many games have a handicap setting, 
 and the rules ensure that after just a game or so, anybody -- those new to the game and pros at 
 it -- will feel competent.
  
  No matter what sort of games you like to play, Clubhouse Games has something for you. There are 
 three different categories of card games (grouped based on difficulty level) , two categories of 
 board games, and another few categories to round out the overall game play experience. The variety 
 of this title is jaw-dropping, as nearly every popular game that I can think of is present. Even 
 some games that are licensed are in here under different names -- for example, the popular game 
 Othello has been renamed Othello in Clubhouse Games.
  
  The games are fleshed-out surprisingly well -- these are not dumbed-down versions of popular parlor 
 games. Instead, they're full-fledged, and feature the same rules that you've likely played with 
 your entire life. The range of games is also shocking; the games range from simple card games like 
 Old Maid to complex ones like Spades and even to popular board games and action games like Darts, 
 Bowling, and Billiards. The games are grouped by type and difficulty, allowing you to quickly select 
 the type of game that you'd like to play depending on how intricate (or how long) you want a gaming 
 session to be. Additionally, the grouping really ensures that anybody can have fun with this title; 
 adults may opt for more complex games, but while playing with younger children, easier, simpler 
 games are the way to go.
  
  Unlike so many games that consist of collections of smaller games, Clubhouse Games manages to do 
 something truly amazing. Every game, with the exception of maybe one or two, are incredibly fun. 
 Think back to your favorite collections of minigames, be it classics like the N64 Mario Parties 
 or newer titles in the genre such as Mario and Sonic at the Olympic Games or Rayman: Raving Rabbids. 
 Sure, they may be fun. But even in Mario Party 2, widely considered to be the best game in the 
 series, there are several duds. There are some games that are genuinely boring to play. But that's 
 not the case in Clubhouse Games. Sure, some are better than others. But none of them are bad.
 
  
  There are a number of different modes of play in Clubhouse Games. By far the most popular and most 
 fun is Free Mode. Here, you can play every game that you've unlocked to your heart's content. It's 
 hear that you'll likely spend most of your time with this game; the AI is actually pretty good, 
 especially on higher difficulty levels, and you're pretty much guaranteed to have a good time playing 
 your favorite games. Plus, there's no worry of talking across the table if your partner is a computer, 
 right? If you're worried about a game that you're going to have to play for a while to unlock fun 
 stuff, worry no longer. There are only a handful of games that you must unlock, and more than 95% 
 of them are available from the get-go.
  
  How do you unlock those remaining games, you ask? Stamp Mode, I would answer. The best way to describe 
 Stamp Mode would be to call it the story mode of Clubhouse Games, although there is no actual story. 
 Instead, you'll play through each game in sequential order, ranging from simpler games up to the 
 difficult and complex ones. The mode earns its name because after you play each game, you earn 
 a certain number of stamps. You must collect three stamps on a game to progress to the next game. 
 What's very nice about Stamp Mode is that if there's a game that you're just not good at, you will 
 not be stuck there indefinitely, because Clubhouse Games awards stamps even for loosing. At most, 
 you'll have to play any given game three times before you clear it; however, if you win, you can 
 clear it after just one play.
  
  Clubhouse Games also does a wonderful job of allowing you to tailor each game to suit your individual 
 preferences. Before playing a game, you have the opportunity to adjust the opponent computer's 
 difficulty level. Also, if there are varying rules for different games, you have the option to 
 adjust these rules to make the game play how you like to play. Don't want to play trumps before 
 they're cut in Spades? Don't worry -- you don't have to.
  
  Clubhouse Games does have a great single player mode, but it's true awesomeness comes from the 
 multiplayer modes. Clubhouse Games offers WiFi play, where you simply select the game that you'd 
 like to play, and you're then automatically paired with other players who have selected the same 
 game. Sadly, though, the servers are not very busy for Clubhouse Games WiFi, because there are 
 not a whole lot of people who still play; you may have trouble getting an opponent, especially 
 if you select a game that's not incredibly popular.
  
  If that's the case, though, you don't have much to worry about, because then you could take advantage 
 of Clubhouse Games' fantastic download play. With just one game card, up to eight people can compete 
 in every single game that you have on your cartridge. That's right; unlike many games where your 
 selections are limited in download play, you can play every single game in Clubhouse Games download 
 mode. They're really fun in single player mode, and they're even better when you're playing against 
 live opponents.
  
  Needless to say, Clubhouse Games sports absolutely incredible replay value. The mere fact that 
 there are more than 40 different games (not "minigames" -- games) already ensures that you'll have 
 plenty of fun with the title. Just learning and getting good at all the different games is a blast, 
 and then you'll have even more fun playing your favorites. The fantastic multiplayer certainly 
 helps out here, but even without it, Clubhouse Games is still an incredible value for your money.
 
  
  Clubhouse Games is easily one of the most overlooked gems for the Nintendo DS. If I could have 
 only one DS game, I would say without hesitation that Clubhouse Games would be it. The forty-plus 
 games offer endless enjoyment by oneself, and once you bring your friends into the mix, the party 
 really starts. If you're one of the many people that missed out on this impressive DS title, I 
 cannot urge you enough to go out and buy it right now. Ante up, and get ready for some frantic 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krindor
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I discovered this game via the DS Download station featuring Darts. I was hooked instantly, and 
 ran out to buy this title. I have never been so glad to own a DS after getting this; this has something 
 for everyone!
  
  For those not familiar with this title, you can choose three ways to play: Free Play, which lets 
 you choose from the available games however you want, Stamp Mode, which lets you play a pre-selected 
 list of games, and advance to the top, earning stamps as you go, and Mission mode allows you to 
 unlock avatars; pics to represent your persona in the game.
  
  Free Play lets you play the games available any way you want. I say "available" because not all 
 the games are available to play from the get go. Card games range from Old Maid, Pig, and Spit, 
 for the younger folks (or those that are young at heart) and Rummy, Bridge, Spades, and Hearts, 
 and a couple of forms of Poker. Board games are present here, grouped as Basic games, like Checkers 
 and Chinese Checkers, and Advanced games, like Chess and Backgammon. Other board games are here, 
 albeit under different names, like Ludo (Parcheesi) , Turncoat (Reversi/Othello) , 
  and Field Tactics (Stratego) . The locked games can't be played until you play Stamp mode to unlock 
 them. Due to size constraints, a few games don't have exactly the same layout, like Chinese Checkers 
 and Ludo, but the differences aren't detracting from the game play. A few games, like Grid Attack, 
 which appears to be similar to Battleship, is played with using rectangles and squares to attack 
 your opponent's hidden geometric shapes. Games like Pig, had to be adapted for video game play; 
 instead of touching your nose when you get a matching set, or touching your nose without being 
 the last player to do so, you must grab a coin and place it on a spot, with only three coins available 
 to four players. Dominoes, while a fun game, is not easy to play here, as you place more pieces, 
 the dominoes shrink to accomodate the size of the screen and become harder to see. You will quickly 
 find your favorite games though, I love the Bowling, Darts, Billiards, and Rummy. Some of the games 
 like Koi-Koi, Soda Shake and Word Balloon are surprisingly fun, and Shogi, a game I never heard 
 of is very interesting, but has a high learning curve, at lest for me -- I'm still trying to learn 
 the characters on the pieces! Playing the games enough times will unlock designs for the games; 
 card backs for the card games, and for other games, a choice of "skins" altering the game's look.
 
  
  Stamp mode is a fun, if not sometimes frustrating endeavor. You must play from the lowest to the 
 highest level, playing pre-selected games until you clear the level. You can only start on Easy 
 at first, then after clearing it, you can then play the Normal and Hard levels. How well you do 
 on each game earns you a certain number of stamps. First place is always three stamps, second place 
 earns two stamps, and third or worse is always one stamp. Sometimes it helps to not do so well 
 on a game the first go and then win the second or third time you play it because the stamps earned 
 "carry over" to the next game you play. If you don't do so well, you only have to play it once, 
 which is relieving, if the game in question isn't a favorite of yours. Playing in Stamp Mode is 
 also the only way to unlock certain games, like Field Tactics and Shogi. You will unlock the games 
 before you are finished with Stamp Mode, but you will want to clear all Easy, Normal and Hard, 
 which will give you a little bonus. I was stuck on Mahjong Solitaire over six months on Stamp Mode's 
 Hard level before I won it, and I then played Chess and won on the Hard level, which I have never 
 done before. I caused the computer to draw in Easy and Normal level Stamp Mode.
  
  Mission Mode lets you play games by accomplishing certain goals, like Shooting the Moon in Hearts, 
 sinking three in one shot in Billiards, and getting three bull's eyes in Darts. Clearing Mahjong 
 Solitaire in three minutes was one of the hardest Missions to complete, but it can be done; the 
 only mission I haven't been able to complete was getting a Backgammon win in the Backgammon mission. 
 Clear a mission and you unlock an avatar for other players to select, or if you want to change 
 the one you selected for yourself.
  
  The game really shines when you play multi-player. Only one copy of the game is necessary to play 
 with others wirelessly with DS Download, but I bought a copy for both of my nieces; it makes a 
 great gift, and my oldest niece loves Shogi. Being able to play Wi-Fi is the greatest appeal for 
 those that want to play with others, but can't get together with anyone. It is easy to use, and 
 is a lot of fun.
  
  Whether you buy this title for yourself, or someone else, it is a must-have. Even though the graphics 
 aren't sophisticated, and the rules for a few of the games are different, these issues are trivial, 
 and you will enjoy it immensely. The only improvement I could think of would be if one or two dice 
 games made their way into it (Zilch/Farkle or Yacht/Yahtzee!) I hope those who buy this title will 
 enjoy it immensely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Clubhouse Games is a really, really fun game, I like to play all sorts of games on here, like Rummy, 
 Checkers, Pool, Bowling, Darts, Dots and Boxes, 5 in a row, and Escape.
  
  My favorite is Pool and Escape.
  
  Pool is played like 9-ball where the game decides who breaks 
 the racked pool balls, and you try to hit the ball with the lowest number on it, like you start 
 with the 1-ball, then 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and finally 9, BUT you have to hit the lowest pool ball, 
 then you can bounce off, anyother pool ball after that, like if the 1-ball is right in front of 
 the 9 and you hit the 1-ball into, the 9-ball and you sink the nine ball, you win, but if you go 
 and hit any ball except the lowest number ball on the table, then you will get called for a foul, 
 and your opponent get to move the cue ball anywhere they want to put it.
  
  Escape is a single player game where you move blocks and try to get the block with the crown on 
 it, there are 20 levels in this game, and with 1 being the easiest and 20 being the hardest.
  
  There are more games then this like Backgamman, Ludo, Grid Attack, Old Maid, Memory, Texas 
 Hold'em, Poker, and Solitaire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkystobartPSP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Clubhouse Games (or 42 All-Time Classics) is a 42-in-1 game for the DS, obviously. The choice of 
 games is amazing, with chess, checkers, Texas Hold'em, Rummy and Koi-Koi, just to name a few. This 
 is one of the best games in the fun, choice and the value for money categories. When i got this 
 game, it remained in my DS for at least 3 weeks. If you only own 1 DS game, make sure this is it. 
 This makes the ideal DS owner's birthday present. Only thing I don't like is the saving system, 
 which never tells you when you have saved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeppelin_64
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  
  This game is pretty great all around except for some minor details and setbacks. And as you can 
 see with its "E" rating, it is suitable for all ages. It's a great game to play with any of your 
 friends, even the RPG crazy ones. It is also great to relax with.
  
  8/10 GAMEPLAY
  
  I found it a little hard to get used to because it's all stylus controlled, and sometimes it's 
 not clear where you move your stylus. I found myself playing single player most of the time because 
 the wi-fi is pretty slow. Otherwise, it's very good because you can choose your opponents difficulty 
 in single player mode. As a bonus, there are 42 different games to choose from! What more could 
 you want?
  
  7/10 GRAPHICS & SOUND
  
  The graphics in Clubhouse Games are superb, but it would've been cool to see some hands in billiards, 
 darts, etc. Other than that, it's all very clear, and it doesn't look to pixelized. Now for the 
 sound. The sound gets repetitive very quickly. Even though each game does have its own music, I 
 didn't really like the music. It was like old style diner music to me.
  
  10/10 PLAYTIME/ REPLAYABILITY
  
  You can pretty much play this game endlessly. It never gets 
 boring. What, with the wi-fi and different modes, unlockable icons, etc. Like I said; it never 
 gets boring.
  
  FINAL RECOMMENDATION
  
  I recommend buying this game. Don't rent it, buy it. You don't have to right now, but in the next 
 month or so, buy it. Also, you should get a friend to purchase it too, or else you might get lonely 
 because people rarely go on wi-fi. Anyway, thanks for reading my first review. I hope it helped 
 you in your decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinyPinkRobots
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I am enjoying this game so far, its quite fun, not exactly very good for single player, but you 
 only need one game to play 2 player, and its quite fun to play against friends, there are quite 
 alot of games, i havn't counted yet, but i trust its 42. Its not as fun as the adverts make out 
 to be honest.
  
  i'm not sure if this game is worth the price, but its a good little timewaster and its a pretty 
 new concespt on ds. The little unlocks it has are quite fun, but to be honest it isn't the best 
 game you could chose. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fienno123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  so your there, just sitting there. bluffing your deck from a friend less than ten
  metres away about to win, then suddenly a fellow computer player wins randomly. you then get infurrated 
 with the friend. throw the cards on the floor and then play a game of mario kart or metriod
  
  yes, its time for another my rantings review
  
  so as i was saying.... so now your sitting 
 there a hand of cards playing a game you dont know and just following insstrution from the screen, 
 somehow you win. thats the main problem, if you dont know the game, you arnt going to larn as the 
 rules are bland and vaige on hints, but happily there is a guide that helps you during play. so 
 you finally finish that slow and tedious games for can play agiN! and try and get a crappy background 
 ! :D
  
  :l no. then there is mission where you gotta do objectives and they are but there too hard and 
 drive my insane. iv done about 3, they are the best. but sadly most of them are card games, and 
 i dont have a clue
  
  okay the last mode is a mode where you try and complete the games to get medals get 3 medals to 
 move on. you can lose every single game and still complete. i agree im not going into detail but 
 there really is much to say, people said there was endless replay value
  all i can see is endless crapness!
  the mutiplayer is good but the games you will play togher 
 are bowling, darts, and the fun games. not card games! and 3/4 are crappy card games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iluvstrawberry
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is basically the compilation of many card games, board games and other games like bowling, 
 pool, that can normally be found in club houses, hence the title. The game is simple, yet highly 
 addictive! (a word of caution to those that are planning on playing this game) The multiplayer 
 capability is needless to mention, an excellent feature for a game of its sort. Imagine going for 
 a group picnic, other than food, you probably only need to bring your DS, together with this game 
 of course, (but don't forget to ask your friends to bring theirs too!) and an mp3 player to enjoy 
 a wholesome fun together. You basically bring a clubhouse with you everywhere you go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_bobbypin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  well to start out the game takes MAXIMUM advantage of the touch screen interface. and not only 
 that but you unlock new games, items, icons, stuff like that. with over 40 games that use only 
 the touch screen it is something worth buying. the graphics are good but the only thing i dont 
 like is when you are done in the game, the bots speed up 20x to end the game faster although thats 
 the only flaw that i see in it so far. it has amazing multiplayer... great challenges, and fun games. 
 see some games you never played before? its ok. its got a rule book for every game simply select 
 a game and tap rules and it will tell you how to play-also there is a mode called stamp mode and 
 when you play a game no matter how well you did... you get a stamp. It takes three stamps to go 
 to the next game. and certain places give diff. number of stamps ex. first=3 stamps Second=2 stamps 
 3 or worse=1 stamp
  
  all in all it is so worth your time and money
  
  Thomas_Bobbypin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a somewhat hard game to review considering the fact that it's not really a game, it's a 
 collection of games, and a rather impressive one at that. Clubhouse Games is a compilation of classic 
 games, with card games, board games and such. You may think that, because there are so many, they 
 are probably poorly executed. Or that some could be too hard to learn on the ds. This would be 
 wrong. Most of these games are executed very well, and few will leave you unsatisfied. The instructions 
 are informative and easy to understand, even when it comes to the more difficult games. There are, 
 of course, going to be a few games that you aren't fond of. It's hardly a big deal though because 
 of the variety; surely out of 42 games you'll find alot that you can enjoy, with games such as 
 spades, hearts, chess, checkers, bowling, solitaire and darts. The CPU isn't bad for most of the 
 games, of course it would be more fun to play with real people. This would be where wifi comes 
 in.
  
  The graphics do there job, nothing more. This isn't a bad thing though. Most say that the music 
 is annoying, but I find it kind of catchy. It does, however, begin to grate on the nerves after 
 the hundredth loop.
  
  My only real complaint is the fact that you have to be on a team when you play spades, you can't 
 choose to play by yourself. There are three modes to choose from: Free play mode, where you can 
 play any game that you've unlocked, Stamp mode, in which you go through each game and unlock special 
 games as you progress, and Mission mode, where you can meet requirements and earn new avatars. 
 So, to sum it up, if you have a ds, you'd probably enjoy this game. Expect to be turning on your 
 ds to play this for a few minutes and end up spending a few hours with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAJORMOIST
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 28, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  I first encountered this game while at work when a co-worker was playing it. I decided i was underpaid 
 and underappreciated so I decided to join in on my DS. We would hide in a back room to play this 
 by the way. What's neat is that you can game share most if not all of the games! meaning I don't 
 have to have the game to play, I can bum off of a buddy. PLenty of card games, board games, and 
 alternative games exist. The games got so intense at work that another worker decided to join in 
 on their DS (I guess they were underpaid/appreciated too. This game has one rule: the more the 
 merryer. No local friends? Just go on nintendo wifi network and play other competitors. Beware 
 though, sore-losers could quit early on you. Sounds are a little strange but gameplay makes up 
 for it. This game has the bang for your bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Branzolis
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  I think clubhouse games is a really great and fun game to just pick up and play whenever you feel 
 like playing a not very active but fun game. Clubhouse games is a very classical and awesome game 
 because it has a bunch of fun games like billiards, darts, bowling and a bunch of card games and 
 other cool games. I think it is underated with that 8 that it got i think it is at least worth 
 a 9-10. It has single card play and wifi connection and trust me the wifi is great on this game. 
 It is most likely the best classical game you will ever find on the DS and probably one of my best 
 games for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great touch screen controls. Good instructions for games. Lots of variety. Addictive 
 online play. Easy interface. The Bad: Average graphics. Hard to find online players in less popular 
 game types (I Doubt It, Hearts, etc)
  
  The GS review covered mostly everything. The points I want to make is that this game can be a little 
 addicting, especially with the variety and online play. The action games, like darts, bowling, 
 and billards were alot more fun than I'd thought they'd be, thanks to the creative use of the touch 
 screen. More than half of the games I've probably never played before, but I pretty much enjoy 
 mostly all of them. This game is great in single player mode, but probably would not have a whole 
 lot of replay value if not for the online play. That said, I'd really only highly recommend this 
 game to people who would play it online. As for players, there are always some on, you just have 
 to check which games people are playing. If you can't find anybody to play with for one game, then 
 you can just switch to another. Those action games I mentioned seem to be the most popular so far, 
 though I've also played some of the card games online too. Hope this short review helps, God bless 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 30, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  Great value game at budget price, a wide variety of games available to play, decent enough wi-fi 
 capabilities, certain games are really addictive
  
  Bad:
  Not all games you'll like, lacking in decent presentation, its a bit tacky and turgid, pretty 
 tacky sound too, despite having tutorials they are not interactive
  
  42 All-Time Classics, a game which you wouldn't expect to get a lot of attention nor even really 
 get a lot of praise and good reviews. Well this game is deserving of the attention and praise.
 
  
  42 All-Time Classics offers, as you'd expect, 42 different games of many varieties, from Hangman 
 to Solitaire, Chess to Texas Hold em'. Most of them are worth there already low asking price. The 
 gameplay makes up for the turgid presentation and sound. I'm not going to describe all of the games 
 in detail, because that would be boring. You can tell though that the worst games are the ones 
 in which a lot of people moan about.
  
  The music and sound effects feel tacky and drained to say the least, though they feel irrelevant 
 as theres never going to actually change the feeling of the game, because its a puzzle game. Nayway 
 i just turn the volume down because i don't really take much of an interest in this game's sound, 
 depends if you are interested in sound and music in games, but Im never really bothered.
  
  The presentation and graphics are dry, but again they don't really matter as its a puzzle compilation 
 game, the gameplay is easily the most important element in these types of games. Overall around 
 30 of the 42 games you'll rate as playable and understandable to the point in which you can play 
 it. The others you'll just won't like or you might find them boring. But there are enough games 
 to keep you busy for quite while, a while more if you have wi-fi. But don't be fooled by the games 
 rather cheap price, becuse it really is worth it. Shame these type of games never are in the spotlight 
 much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_of_Hyrule
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 29, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  this game was really a great game. i had a whole lot of fun with it. the music to me could get 
 annoying at times but turning off the sound makes it all the better. it had a bunch of games like 
 speed, rummy, spades, poker, black jack, chess, checkers, bowling, darts, hangman, and many many 
 others. this game is great on the go in a bus or car and in you're home. by that i mean that the 
 games are short and quick and dont consume a lot of time unless of course you are facing a hard 
 opponent. it's a great choice to add to your collection i just loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 25, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Clubhouse Games packs 42 classics from the world of gaming. Nope, we're not talking about that 
 old school, legendary Street Fighter nor the awesome Mario series - we mean family games! Board, 
 card, and other great games are packed into a bundle. Worth it? Let's see.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are standard for the genre games. It leans toward the good side, but nothing 
 is really awesome. It's just your old classic games mixed with the DS hardware graphics.
  
  Sound: It packs some appealing, but constant playing themes. Online Wi-Fi music gets annoying while 
 looking for people to play, but all in all, it has good sound.
  
  Gameplay: Here is where Clubhouse really shows its potential. Now, all games need a stylus - it's 
 impossible to play without it, so find it if you lost it. :P Agenda did a really great job of using 
 FULLY the DS touch capabilities, and it turned out pretty good! 1 Player vs. 3 or less opponents 
 is fun, but Wi-Fi is where this game really shines.
  
  Value: Online multiplayer rocks. It's great to play your favorite classics with other players from 
 around the world! It includes a point system, which ranks your position in each game. It takes 
 a long time to get to the top. Simply excellent. All in all, Clubhouse games is one game that is 
 really worth having a DS - it's just pickup and play (except for the locked games) . Online is really 
 fun, although you can't write messages to strangers, you can send preset phrases. If you are looking 
 for a fun game (having or not Wi-Fi) , which involves a lot of stylus action, get Clubhouse Games. 
 Recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmm0070
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 6, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This game has an incredible amount of games that you can play in different levels single player 
 and in multiplayer.
  
  some tech info:
  
  -avaiability for online gaming.
  -up to 8 players online. Maximum depends on the game you choose, for example if you are in a chess 
 room you get up to two players (duh) , texas hold'em is up to 6 players and poker up to 8.
  -avaibility for messaging. online you cannot message strangers (not registered FCs)
  -Rumble 
 feature compatible-works great!
  -nice quality graphics, very comfortable and easy to understand.
  -each game has their instructions 
 in most languages with complete and wide explanations (for noobs in certain games or for those 
 who just don't know how to play them) . -multiplayer works awesome.
  
  I really reccomend this game, good chess players and poker or other games players should buy it 
 to challenge other ones around the world. i'll add more info when I get advance more in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fizzlegloop
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 5, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and addicting. The wi-fi feature is very good. You can actually play people 
 all over the world for points and the more you play and the more times you win the more points 
 you get. You actually get a rank on how well you are doing. Its very fun because if you don't like 
 one game on it like most people wouldn't you could play another one of the 42 other games. If there 
 is no one online you could play against the computer which is just as fun. So either way you never 
 run out of things to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Clubhouse Games is a fun fun fun game. Here is my review
  
  Gameplay: With 40 some games to choose from you'll seldomely get bored but after you do the mission 
 and stamp mode its pretty much multi playerr that keeps the game going. In stamp mode you must 
 do the objective and get 3 stamps do move on to the next game. In MISSION mode you have to meet 
 the objective. There are 3 modes of mp Wi-Fi, muliti-card and download play. PLUS if you have a 
 rumble pack u can use it. 9 out of 10
  
  Graphics: They are colorful. Its a DS card-board-etc. game the graphics don't really matter much. 
 But they probaly could be better i don't know.
  
  7 out of 10
  
  Sound: Not much here either i think there are two music modes - lounge and pop. It gets on my nerves 
 so i just leave it off.
  
  4 out of 10
  
  if u like games like this buy it is a good game!
  
  8.2 great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yerdua2093
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a good purchase if all of your friends have DS's. Its so much fun to play with other people! 
 If your friends donut have a DS, then you can always use wifi to play with someone from around 
 the world! (although playing with your friends is much more entertaining! :P) Overall, this game 
 is worth the money, and no matter what anyone else says, its really great! With all the different 
 games, you don't get bored! It also has a neat chat place, where you can send messages (or just 
 draw around if you are playing with the computer) to the people you are playing with! The chat 
 area makes it possible for you to use 8 or 10 colors instead of just the black that picto-chat 
 lets you use! I highly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  If you own a DS and are lookin for something simple to just pick up and play. You might wanna go 
 with Clubhouse Games. And with WiFi and DS single card download play it makes it even better. With 
 games like bowling, darts, pool, hearts, and just about any card came you can thing of. Its really 
 fun if you have another friend with a DS and another bonus is that the person without the game 
 doesnt have to buy the game to play with you. You can have them wirelessly download it from you. 
 Bowling happens to be one of my favorite games out of this great package of 42 games. What you 
 do to play is touch the Bowling ball on the touch screen with the stylus and flick it and hope 
 for the best. Now this whole entire game is used with the touch screen which really takes advantage 
 of what the DS can do. Sound and Graphics are nothing to be blown away about. But the DS graphics 
 are nothing to be blown away about in my opinion but its taking advantage of the touch screen. 
 So its unique from other games out there. I think the value of this game is really good right 
 now because I believe this game is 20 dollars right now in most stores and you get 42 games. So 
 thats a pretty big plus. I think this game is really great game for the DS and like Ive said 
 its really taking advantage of what the DS can do touch screen wise. So if youre looking for 
 a good first time DS game anyone can really enjoy then I really think you should get this. And 
 if you have been playing the DS since its been out then this is still a great game to just pick 
 up and play for 15 minutes or hours. Either way its going to give you loads of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devoo55
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  One of the best for DS. great game and a lot of games to choose from. The game play is great for 
 multi-player and single. You can do single-card play, multi-card play or wi-fi. great for each. 
 There should be more people playing on wi-fi. You can choose from 42 different games and a lot 
 of different icons for your profile. You wil love this game if you like card games or board games. 
 You can also choose a few action games like bowling or billiards. I personally love this game and 
 can't stop playing it. It is highly addictive and very fun to play against friends. GO OUT AND 
 GET THIS GAME PEOPLE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmcm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  Clubhouse Games is a party game that has almost 50 games on the one cartridge. The games are a 
 mixture of card games, board games and action games which include Darts and Bowling. Most of the 
 games are good and include classics such as Chess, Texas Hold 'em and Backgammon.
  On a graphical perspective, Clubhouse Games offers basic 2D, but they are very colourful and fit 
 the game well. Music is all generic and is generally quite good, but there is a few tunes which 
 will have you turning off the volume.
  Multiplayer is absolutely awesome! You only need one cartidge to play the game as other DS's can 
 use Wireless to play the game, however YOU CANT PLAY MULTIPLAYER ON THE SAME DS. This is a serious 
 disappointment to some people, although heaps of my friends have a DS, so it doesnt really affect 
 me personally. There is also Wi-Fi, to play people all around the world.
  
  Where this game really sells itself is in the replay value. It has terrific value and for a bargain 
 price too.
  
  I recommend this game. It is an affordable game thats long lasting and fun, especially in multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_killer7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I got this game on Monday (March 12th, 2006) , and spent a great deal of time on it because its 
 so addictive. 42 classic games in one game, with most of them having online play, thats freaking 
 great. This game also helped me learn how to play some games to, so not only is it a fun experience, 
 but also a learning experience, which is not like learning in school by the way (woot) . I actually 
 find alot of people to play online when I search worldwide, but I know there is a thread in the 
 Clubhouse Games forum, where there is a group of people who play almost everyday at like 10pm eastern, 
 and also there is a Clubhouse Games Union, which I am gonna join, and get everyone on my friend 
 list and start playing on friends more :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tom_Mix_1969
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 11, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  So, 42 games on a low-priced cart. It's GOT to be a bargain, right? Well.... I don't know.
  This title does have some things going for it. The presentation is quite good. Clean menus. Clean 
 graphics. Rules and options for every game. It's all nicely put together.
  The music I didn't like. But you can turn it off. So I did.
  The multiplayer is solid. You've 
 got single cart play for local games, and Wi-Fi connection for playing against anyone you can be 
 bothered to swap 'friend codes' with.
  But the games themselves. There's 3 pages of card games, but the only ones I've played a lot of 
 in single-player are Rummy and Texas Hold'em. There's a bunch of board games like chess, ludo, 
 checkers and similar, and the 'action' games. Bowling, darts, balance (?) , stuff like that. The 
 physics is none-too convincing, especially in the pool game, where balls stop in a most un-natural 
 way, and I can't find any consistency in the darts game, so it just feels like luck if I win a 
 game.
  So, if there's a few card games in there that you think you will actually play, it might be worth 
 getting. If you like any of the other stuff, think of it as a bonus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strongholdluva
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent, anywhere from Bowling, BlackJack, and Soda Shake.
  
  Gameplay: Wow your telling me fourty-2 whole games in one :o You mean there is even great mutliplayer 
 singlecard multicard. Plus Mission, Freeplay, and Stamp modes. You can also unlock certain things 
 to from a new music theme to icons and games. Believe this its true. This game has addicting Single 
 player with Smart AI not errr im stupid ones. Chess is particularly fun. Multiplayer is fun + addicting. 
 I went to the Mall of America and bought this game and on the way home me and my friend played 
 this till my batteries went dry. Even a chat tool all makes this game work.
  
  Sound: Cool lounge music plus unlockable pop music. Graphics: Not that great but hey this is a 
 mini-game type of game all you really need is mediocre graphics and addictive gameplay to make 
 it work so WHO CARES. But certain graphics are done nicely like the icons. From Animals to cars 
 they look realistic those icons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii-man-23
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 4, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  42 all-time clasics is what you look for in a DS game - it's easy on-the-go gaming, great use of 
 touch screen, cute and stylish visuals and almost perfect online play. This game deserves to be 
 firmly embedded within any DS owners game slot for good. It'll have you hooked for hours and you'll 
 never want to leave!
  
  To start with this games is easy.. i don't mean it's easy to complete or win at, but the layout 
 of this simplistic yet effective game means even a 4 year old could pick it up and start up a game 
 of darts. There's nothing that leaves you looking in the manual to see how to do it. Just chose 
 either singl or multiplayer and you're away!
  
  Let's start with the single player. There are three options : Free play, Stamp mode and Mission 
 mode. Free play is where you can play any of the games provided against the computer or on your 
 own. Your records are always recorded, so you can see how many times you have won at poker or lost 
 at billiards. As the game says, there are 42 clasics to chose from, and they are all in seperate 
 catogories from easy card games, intermediate and advanced card games, board games and much more. 
 All of which provide great gaming. Also, you are rewarded with prizes for winning so many times 
 at certain games/ For example, winning 5 card games unlocks a different coloured table cloth. This 
 may seem trivial and small, but it gets better and better as you go on.
  
  Now, there's alos a feature called stamp mode. This is where you progress through around 5 levels 
 of game-packed fun. Each level has around 10 differenct games you must win at to ear stamps. Win 
 enough stamps and you progress to the enxt game in the level. Complete a level and unlocl one of 
 the locked games, such as word balloon and field tactis. This is all very addicting and sees you 
 yearning to make it to the top. The final feature is the mission mode. This where you have to complete 
 certain challenges to unlock new profile picures that is displeyed when playing multiplayer either 
 locally or wi-fi. This is extremely addicting as you try to unluck some of the 30 profile pics. 
 The challenges include things like getting 3 strikes in a row at bowling, or completing solitaire 
 in a certain amount of time. Some of these are ridiculously hard, but you find you can do more 
 and more as you practise in free play.
  
  All through the game, you are presented with cute graphics and cheerful msuic that fits the mood 
 of the game well. Although, you can unlock new music through stamp mode. Also, there are next to 
 no loading times and slick gameplay is always to be had, and even online. Now, onto the multiplayer. 
 You can either play locally (offline with other DS owners) or via wi-fi connection. If you have 
 a wi-fi connection, prepare to be addicted by this game. As you can tell, local wireless is the 
 same as any other DS game. You can play with DS download play (only one game cartridge and multiple 
 consoles) or with muliple games. Either way, the host creates a room and everyone joins in. Once 
 in, the game is chosen and play commences. An excellent feature is the picto-chat ability, where 
 you can write messages to players in the same game. It's all good fun and great for bluffing. However, 
 thanks to Nintendo's family-fun safety policy, the chat ability is limited somehow when playing 
 via wi-fi. You can only send pre written messages such as good luck and good game. This works weel, 
 but the picto chat feature would have been nice. But, when online, you select your game and search 
 for opponents. It is never hard to find opponents on the mor popular games such as Poker and Bowlig, 
 but can take some time on the less popular ones. Also, you can see your rank in the world too. 
 So, after a few games of Poker, you may be ranked 7345 out of 9999 in the world. This is another 
 reason to keep on playing. You can also play registered friends onlie by joining a game or hosting 
 one yourself.
  
  overall, this game has it all, and for me it is argueably the best DS game out there thanks to 
 its simple yet effective gameplay, cute graphics and sound, replay value and excellent mulitplayer. 
 Truely a must-have for all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grenadepin88
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 21, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Lots of fun to play. Nothing special about the graphics or sound, but if you're deciding to get 
 this game you should know that anyway. This is a game anyone can enjoy and a game where graphics 
 and sound truly have no say in how much you'll get out this game. Great wifi play as well which 
 is perfect for this game. The total amount of games is around 42 or so you can play all the classics 
 or some new game you haven't played before. It's kind of difficult to rate this as a game because 
 it's just a compilation of board games, card games, and the like. The point is you should get this 
 game if you enjoy simple collection games that are a blast to play. All in all this game is good, 
 but not Gears of War good. you should still pick it up though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazlofan098
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Clubhouse Games features a wide variety of classic games, old or new. From card games to board 
 games, they can be addictive and exciting. There are three different modes in Clubhouse Games: 
 free play, stamp mode, and mission mode. In free play, players take on other people or CPU players 
 in games of their choice. Depending on your wins achieved, you can get different designs that are 
 included in certain games. In stamp mode, players have to complete all the games by getting stamps 
 . New games can be unlocked as you progress. Finally, in mission mode, players try to complete 
 thirty different missions. New emblems are awarded as missions are completed. Overall, it is a 
 good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTZ2k3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has made no bones about the reasons for the DS: they want to create a portable system 
 so universally appealing that everyone from five year old Suzy to the eldery, male and female, 
 can't resist. It's a worthy goal, but something I would have considered unattainable.
  
  However, this Christmas, I experience something I thought would never happen. I got my grandmother 
 to play my Nintendo DS. In fact, she loved it so much she was actually inquiring where she could 
 buy a DS. The game she tried? Clubhouse Game, easily the most massively appealing offering in DS's 
 already casual-friendly line-up.
  
  In fact, from my experience, Nintendo has nothing short of a smash hit on their hands if they can 
 market this thing correctly.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Here's the recipe: Take 42 world-renowned card and table games that have been popular for centuries, 
 along with a few others, like bowling, darts, and billiards, and add some excellent touch screen 
 interaction. Put them on a cartridge, along with well-written rules for each game and its variations. 
 Allow single-card multiplayer for friends with their own DS systems, online for the Wi-Fi community, 
 and bots for the lonely folks out there. Throw in a rudimentary career mode and a few unlockables 
 and ship it.
  
  And you know what? It works, only because the games themselves are so good and so well implemented. 
 Everything from childhood favorites (Go Fish!, Memory) to advanced fare (Spades, Chess) and even 
 some stuff you've probably never heard of (Koi Koi comes to mind) is available. The best part is 
 that each game has rules and tips, so you'll actually learn some new games to play, or at least 
 some new spins on classic rules.
  
  The single player bots are passable and make killing down-time at the airport or on trips easy. 
 Besides the prerequisite Quick Play, there is Stamp mode, which is basically an around the world 
 style career mode with a few unlockables. As a single player experience, the game is definitely 
 a good time.
  
  However, the multiplayer is where its at. Over either Wi-Fi or local connection, you can play with 
 as many as seven others in any one of the games on the cart. It really is a great way to kill an 
 evening and it beats the hell out of lugging around cards and boards. No matter how you play it, 
 Clubhouse Games is simply one of the best handheld games ever made, and bound to become a staple 
 in your DS collection.
  
  Graphics: 6
  
  The word minimalist comes to mind. You have your cards, board, or pieces and an icon for each player. 
 That's it. What more do you want from a collection of table and card games? Yes, it's underwhelming 
 and boring, but the interface is clean, and you can unlock some cool alternate visuals for the 
 games, though nothing it truly impressive and 3D is nowhere to be found. The game also supports 
 Picto-Chat on multiplayer games (though only with Friend List friends over WiFi) if that's your 
 thing.
  
  Sound: 5
  
  Even more basic than the visuals, the sound is a collection of forgettable midi music and generic 
 click and whistles. Mainly, its there to alert you when it's your turn and try to convey whether 
 your winning or losing. In that regard, it works. However, muting the system can often seem preferable 
 over longer gaming sessions. My suggestion? Play in conjunction with your iPod or some other music 
 player.
  
  Value: 10
  
  Let's see: You get 42 games for under $30. You can play 8 player multiplayer off one cartridge 
 or play all the games over Wi-Fi. It's the perfect pick up and play game, and who doesn't love 
 classic card and table games? Does this thing only go up to 10?
  
  Verdict:
  
  Does Clubhouse Games do anything that new or innovative? Not any more than Yahoo! Games on any 
 other online parlor game site. Is the touch screen implementation going to change the world? No. 
 In fact, your PDA may have touch screen versions of these games already. Does the presentation 
 show off the DS's graphic capabilities? Nope. Will you care at all when you're playing this? Of 
 course not! It's pick-up-and-play perfection, all for under $30. It's a closet full of board games 
 in your pocket. It's a digital game night. It's a million hyperboles and more! Don't be surprised 
 if you get your significant other, parents, aunts, uncles, and grandparents hooked in the process. 
 If you love games and have a DS, you need this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrZeb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  This game has been seriously under-rated by gamespot since it is one of the most brilliant multiplayer 
 games on the system!
  
  Agenda actually crams 42 different games into one card, which can then be downloaded and played 
 by up to 8 (EIGHT) players! On ONE cartridge!
  
  Every game is very well made with customizable rules for a great deal of them. Unlockable tile-sets 
 (different looking graphics) for almost everyone. Pictochat is enabled in-game so you can send 
 evil (or nice) drawings to your opponents! Also playable on wi-fi, but can be difficult to find 
 opponents for your favourite game...
  
  The graphics is good and clean 2D, so using the stylus is easy in every game!
  Music is great, 
 even if you dont think about it much while playing, you would surely miss it if it was gone. Sound 
 effects are good too like in bowling for example.
  
  42 games people! And none of them are bad. Sure there are a lot of card games, which could be a 
 minus if you're not into cards but I can pretty much promise you that you'll find SOMETHING to 
 your liking. And if you have a friend with a DS, you SIMPLY MUST OWN THIS GAME!
  
  I play this constantly with friends, this game is basically the REASON why some of my friends got 
 themselves a DS. FUN, FUN, FUN Multiplayer!
  
  Ok let's do a PRO/ CONS now...
  
  Pros:
  -GREAT MULTIPLAY for up to 8 players download play!
  -Great presentation! Easy to learn, 
 easy control (stylus)
  -Nice graphics and sounds!
  -Replayability? TONS!!! (Especially multiplay)
  -Difficulty options on every game!
  -Customizable 
 rules/ tilesets
  
  Cons:
  -Seems hard to find Wi-fi players sometimes...
  -The singleplay AI is sometimes not so challenging.
  -You could get addicted...
  
  This is 
 one of those rare games that will keep you coming back for more!
  So bring your DS-nerds... uh friends and play this one together! You will NOT be disappointed!! 
 Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryMe01
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  Clubhouse games is an interesting series of games Nintendo had released on it's DS. A total of 
 42 different games packed in ensures that there is something everyone will like. From cards to 
 simplistic board games are all presented so who ever picks up this will know exactly what and how 
 to play this game.
  
  Simplistic graphics and easier pick up and play nature enables easy and fast single cart multiplayer 
 which can be a blast to play. Online features for every game is also gives added value to an already 
 featured pack card.
  
  However, limited options and having to play each and every single game in order to unlock others 
 is a real pain. Forcing players to play games they don't understand nor want to play beats it pick 
 up and play as these locked games are better then some of the games included.
  
  A all touch screen interface is well crafted in this instant classic however with limited options 
 available and games included could be a major hurdle in full enjoy enjoyment of this value for 
 money game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saxman33
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 1, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty much what I expected it to be, and I am thoroughly satisfied to have it in 
 my collection. When you just want to kill some time with a wide selection of games, this set does 
 the trick. Certainly not the most exciting game to have or get pumped up about; however, it perfectly 
 fits the handheld system and is the type of game that fits the DS perfectly.
  
  If you have ever enjoyed spending more time than you should have playing solitaire on your computer, 
 this game is for you. Yes, solitaire is there, but there are many other options to vary it up a 
 little. Only some of the selections are not to my liking, due to the factor that luck plays into 
 some of them, but most of them are entertaining and addictive.
  
  The online play adds a lot more to the package. For example, it's much more fun to play Texas Hold 
 'Em, Memory, or Word Balloon against human players (although I do agree with the gamespot review 
 in their disappointment at the negative bankroll on hold 'em) . I think, overall a good buy, and 
 something that will fit in your game collection nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tellyn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Part of Nintendo's Touch Generation range of games, 42 All-Time Classics succeeds as a highly addictive 
 pick up and play game that can turn quick five minute sessions into five hour gaming marathons. 
 Warning: if you get this game, it will take over your life.
  
  42ATC includes several game modes which are really a bargain at only 19.99. There is just the normal 
 single-player mode, in which you play all of the 42 games (some need to be unlocked in Stamp Mode) 
 against CPUs. Then there's Stamp Mode, where you are set missions in certain games i. e. checkmate 
 your opponent or bowl more strikes than your opponents. As you clear levels, you progress to harder 
 games, and earn awards for beating entire levels such as icons for Wi-Fi play, new games and more 
 options. Stamp Mode is the one that currently has me playing for hours on end.
  
  I haven't had a chance to play wireless multiplayer yet, but I don't think you can go wrong with 
 16 players off one game card. Wi-Fi multiplayer is brilliant. It may well be worth buying the game 
 just for that, as NOTHING IN THE WORLD can beat the feeling of that when you throw the defeating 
 strike against a Japanese kid in bowling, and imagine him throwing his latest video phone down 
 in anger and crying into his DS. And then you get the disconnectors who play an entire game with 
 you, and turn off their DS before your victory is secured. Finding players, especially late at 
 night, can be quite tedious, and I have once waited for about 15 minutes in a game room with no 
 one appearing on the radar. But anyhow, it's a brilliant system, not too sure about the pre-written 
 chat messages, but very good.
  
  The music is no Zelda killer, but some of the tunes are catchy in a plinky-plonky way. Again, graphics 
 are very simple, but who wants high definition chess anyway?
  
  42 All Time Classics doesn't aim to be a masterpiece, but more of a Tetris-like gem that deserves 
 your hard-earned cash. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megas_rules
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  One of best games i have on ds
  Great family game no matter who u are, heaps of cards and bar games like Darts, Old maid, Texas 
 hold 'em and even Bowling i have to say one of the best colabroration games i have ever played 
 on any console
  good graphics for the ds and excellent gameplay make up for the repetitiveness of the sound i would 
 recommend this game to almost anyone and the price is exactly what u would expect The name says 
 it all Club house games that is all there is to say just go out there and get it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NatKing
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  I think this game is superb I put it first on my presents list!! i THINK THAT EVERYONE SHOULD BUY 
 IT!! I find the missions quite hard but I still managed to do them after about 10 minutes of practising 
 whats best though is that you can play darts!! so instead of trying to find good dart games on 
 the internet I can just play it on my ds!! If you are thinking about buying it buy it plus you 
 can link with someone else and play with just one pack but still have the same satisfaction. You 
 can play any game that you would play on a double pack anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Relex_Rahl
Rating: 3.2
Date: Jan 9, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Clubhouse Games for the Nintendo DS is a mini game collection mostly based on parlor games, such 
 as cards or... cards again. Clubhouse games is a repetative, lacking, and disappointing game.
 
  
  Most of the games are card games which render the single player campaign mode meaningless half 
 the time, because when a game is based on luck, theres no skill involved. The cards games, while 
 I'm still on a roll here, are frequently reused. For example, theres memory... then memory PLUS! 
 A whole new exiting version where the only difference is that the playing field is bigger...
  
  Not all the minigames were bad though. A few really stood out to me, however this is not enough 
 to make up for the flaws of the many other games. Like BOWLING. Never play bowling. Just don't.
 
  
  I had really high expectations for clubhouse games and was greatly disappointed. Their system was 
 done well and online features have something to say for them, however the game play needs work.
 
  
  Number one reason for writing this review? The irgonance of the rest of the reviews. THEY ARE ALL 
 WRONG, you're going to have to trust me on this one... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biendeo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  The Good: 7 CPU at a time, 42 nice games, Wi-Fi is 8P, Wi-Fi ranks people.
  The Bad: Game seems a lot like Mario Kart DS, AI ruins game.
  
  Clubhouse Games is a game that 
 will seem like Mario Kart DS and is VERY noticable if you own both that and this. The game runs 
 under classic games that you might know and some Japanese games that you will like.
  
  The single-player is pretty good as you can go play a game, unlock backgrounds, play the mode where 
 you can unlock games and some special things and then a mode for pictures.
  
  Free-Play: Pick a game, set the rules, manage the CPU and play.
  Stamp: Earn stamps from your 
 performance in every game.
  Mission: Complete challenging tasks that require skill.
  
  The games here are grouped into categories:
  Card: Old Maid, Spit, I Doubt It, Sevens, Memory, 
 Pig, Blackjack, Hearts, President, Rummy, Seven Bridge, Last Card, Last Card Plus, Five Card Draw, 
 Texas Hold'Em, Nap, Spades and Contract Bridge.
  Board: Chinese Checkers, Checkers, Dots and Boxes, Hasami Shogi, Turncoat, Connect Five, Grid Attack, 
 Backgammon, Chess, Shogi, Field Tatics and Ludo.
  Variety: Soda Shake, Dominoes, Koi-Koi and Word Balloon.
  Action: Bowling, Darts, Billards, Balance 
 and Takeover.
  Single-Player: Solitare, Escape, Mahjong Solitare.
  
  Mission mode has some tough missions like getting a turkey in bowling or put the three balls in 
 one shot in billards.
  
  The multi-player is really good, you can do local wireless which is DS Downloadable or use Nintendo 
 Wi-Fi to play over the internet. On Wi-Fi you can get your ranks for each game, it'll show your 
 score (win/loss formula) and out of every place the one with you.
  
  This game is a perfect gift for people and is a great game for Wi-Fi so this game deserves a great 
 and a good reccommendation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparky-05
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 6, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  The game selection available for the Nintendo DS is full of games that are highly addictive, spanning 
 from life simulation games such as Animal Crossing: Wild World to strategy games like Advance Wars: 
 Dual Strike. The DS is loaded with plenty of games that you turn on to play for a few minutes and 
 end up playing for a few hours. Clubhouse Games successfully continues that long standing tradition 
 of providing tons of gameplay hours for anyone who plays it.
  
  Clubhouse Games is a quick way to play many of your favourite games without the hassle of having 
 to pull them out of the cupboard and having to find the space to play them. It is a handy way to 
 play those same great games on the go. You can play alone, against friends and family or any other 
 gamer online. There is always someone ready and willing to play a game with you. It is a great 
 multiplayer game whether you are sitting next to your opponent or playing with someone whom you 
 have never met. The ability to chat with your opponent during the game makes it even more fun to 
 play actual people instead of computers.
  
  There are a total of 42 games available for play in Clubhouse Games, spanning from simple card 
 games to action games with a lot in between. There are in-depth explanations of each and every 
 game featured in Clubhouse Games. This allows you to take advantage of the entire collection of 
 games by giving you the ability to play each game with the knowledge of what exactly is happening.
 
  
  The gameplay is realistic, you feel as if you are actually playing your favourite card and board 
 games. The utilization of the touch screen is smooth and is completely appropriate for the game. 
 Instead of clicking buttons to play your favourite card and board games, you use your stylus on 
 the touch screen to play your cards, place bets and to navigate from game to game.
  
  There are three single player modes which can be played; Free Play, Stamp and Mission mode. Free 
 Play allows you to play any game you wish for as long or as little as you want. It is the perfect 
 mode when you only have a few minutes to play. The difficulty and number of opponents can be changed 
 by you, giving you the ability to customize the game to your liking. You can make it more challenging 
 or just add in more people, it is really up to you.
  
  Stamp mode is the story mode of the game, despite there not being a story it is still quite fun. 
 You go up levels by playing different games, the better you play in each game, the quicker you 
 advance to the next level. The reason it is called stamp mode is because each level requires you 
 to get three stamps for each game before you are able to advance. If you win the game, then you 
 receive all three stamps that are required for that level. If you lose, then you receive one of 
 the three stamps that you need before you can advance. This game clearly awards you for winning; 
 by winning you complete the levels at a quicker pace. However, losing is not the end of the world; 
 it just means that you will have to spend a little more time getting the stamps for that particular 
 game.
  
  The third single player game mode is Mission mode in which you have to complete certain missions 
 within games, an example of this is: Get rid of all your cards in Spit in less than 90 seconds. 
 It puts a fun spin on all your favourite games. This mode is enjoyable and offers plenty of gameplay 
 hours by just adding a little challenge to your favourite games.
  
  You can unlock quite a few things in this game including user icons and games. Not all games are 
 available for play from the start. To unlock them you have to obtain all three stamps for that 
 game in Stamp mode. User icons are unlocked by completing missions in Mission mode. User icons 
 are nothing more than something to look at, but it is fun to collect them all. There is a wide 
 variety of user icons to choose from as they span from animals to facial expressions. With these 
 unlockables, Stamp and Mission mode become even more appealing to gamers and successfully mark 
 themselves as a must play mode.
  
  The graphics are exactly what is expected for games on the Nintendo DS. They are neither jaw-dropping 
 nor flat out ugly. For card and board games, the graphics are sufficient. They are nothing to boast 
 or complain about; the game is not unpleasant to the eyes nor is it a graphical masterpiece.
  
  The sound in this game is decent, it is not completely terrible, but it is not amazing. Songs 
 tend to get repetitive and the sounds within the games can easily become annoying. More often than 
 not, you will find yourself turning down the sound on the game.
  
  Dollar for dollar this game will give you the most replay value possible. It is available for a 
 modest price of $34.99 Canadian. You cannot go wrong with the purchase of this game. Whether you 
 are playing alone or playing with other humans, it is more likely that you will have to stop playing 
 before you actually want to. The single player game modes are great and can be played for hours 
 on end. The multiplayer modes are just as impressive as they offer up a great game experience for 
 everyone involved. Even when defeated by other human players, this game manages to keep you in 
 a state of happiness.
  
  In short, Clubhouse Games is one of the best collections of games available for any gaming system. 
 Not only does it give you exactly what you expect of it, but it also provides you with so much 
 more. Clubhouse Games is one of those games that you pick up to play for a few minutes and end 
 up playing for a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 1, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Clubhouse games is a lot of fun when playing with friends or family because the games are all fairly 
 simple and easy to get started. Plus there's enough mini-games (mostly contains card games like 
 blackjack, Texas hold'em, etc. but also has plenty of other games like shake the bottle and so 
 on) that you can keep everyone interested for several hours. I personally enjoyed the games like 
 darts, billiards, and bowling myself. The downside is that playing the single-player actually makes 
 you feel kind of lonely because it's not as fun as playing with friends. What's really great is 
 that you can play all the games with single-card download play with friends or you can play over 
 Wifi too. Unfortunately Wifi was kind of a hit or miss for me. One time I was able to get into 
 a 8-player game of bowling while other times I never could get matched up with anyone. Regardless 
 though it offers a ton of more content than any other videogames based off of cards or board games. 
 A great game to share with your parents if you haven't visited them for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 31, 2006 5:22 am PT
Review:  It may seem like an odd idea: let's make a DS cartridge with over 40 somewhat bland, yet classic, 
 low-action games and throw it out in the market for people who generally demand speed, high action, 
 and lots of bells and whistles from their games. Yet, it worked, and the game's a winner, delivering 
 a ton of fun for your buck, and upping the ante by including Nintendo Wi-Fi compatibility.
  
  There's no real plot, no real rhyme or reason to this collection of classics thrown together 
 into several genres. From overly childish games like Spit, checkers, and Old Maid, middle-of-the-road 
 games like Rummy, 9-ball, or Texas Hold'Em, to high-strategy games like chess, contract bridge, 
 and a Stratego ripoff, the cartridge offers many somethings for everyone. It's all simple to navigate, 
 and everything is done with the touch screen, as you'll use your stylus to drag cards to discard 
 piles, move backgammon dots, and fling a bowling ball down an alley. And many of the games that 
 at first seem unfamiliar by their name, you've really played before, but copyrights and 'family 
 friendly' concerns necessitated a name change (ex. Turncoat is essentially Othello, while I Doubt 
 It is Bull****) . In addition to standard play, there's also a mission mode that sets out tasks 
 in different games (like taking no tricks in Nap or playing Mahjonng solitaire in under three minutes) , 
 with success unlocking a new online avatar.
  
  The sheer variety is the strongest selling point, and it's fittingly a part of the 'Touch Generations' 
 series of DS games that all ages can enjoy. You can turn it on for a quick 15 minute fix of solitaire, 
 or settle in for hours of online bowling, darts, poker, or Chinese checkers. There's also a 'stamp 
 mode' where you move up a ladder, playing all the games and along the way unlocking a tiny handful 
 of new ones not available from the start. While some may gripe it's a cheap way to make you play 
 everything, I feel it was smart in that by forcing you to play everything, you see that some games 
 you may be scared of are actually pretty fun and easy. One of the best features of the game is 
 how Wi-Fi disconnects are handled. Anyone cheated out of a win by a disconnect in Mario Kart DS 
 will appreciate that disconnecting players are replaced by CPU opponents, and even if everyone 
 leaves, you can still collect your rightful victory.
  
  There are a few negatives, but they're generally minor. Sadly, some people on bowling obviously 
 use a ruler or other straightedge, ruining the fun for all, though blessedly the percentage of 
 people who do is far lower than the people who've ruined Mario Kart's online play with 'snaking.' 
 This is also counterbalanced by the fact that most games offer no way to cheat. That all the betting 
 card games like poker and blackjack allow betting to continue into the negatives is just plain 
 stupid. It just takes away any strategy from people with chip leads if everyone can continue betting 
 the max well after they lost the chips they started with. And why they couldn't find way to allow 
 for splitting of pairs in blackjack is a mystery. The canned-phrase chat over anonymous Wi-Fi can 
 get irritating, and there really should be an option to turn it off. Some people just don't get 
 that they don't need to send a Nice! message every single time you convert a spare or toss a bullseye, 
 and (thankfully rarely) I've seen some obviously try to agitate leaders by endlessly repeating 
 a message during their turns.
  
  Everything flows smoothly in the game, since everything is handled with intuitive stylus motions. 
 The graphics are what they are: nothing fancy at all, but they're just great for what they represent. 
 Playing cards look like playing cards and dice look like dice. The sounds are very innocuous, all 
 while many games almost wouldn't need sound, the 'ffft-ffft' of cards shuffling or smack of the 
 bowling ball into the head pin are done well enough, though the default music that plays throughout 
 gets repetitive after a while. As long as the game stays popular over Wi-Fi, the game will have 
 high replay value, and while some less-popular games may present difficulty in finding an opponents, 
 games like bowling, Texas Hold'em, and darts nearly always have people looking for a match. This 
 is the sort of game you wish they'd packaged into the system because it's fun for all, showcases 
 the DS' touchscreen capabilities, and offers so much variety to keep you busy for hours on end. 
 This is a set of games all DS owners should add to their collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrettskye
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Clubhouse Games is a great collection of pick-up and play style games for your Nintendo DS. The 
 collections ranges from the excellent Chess, Checkers, and Hanafuda, to let's make it to forty-two 
 games, such as Soda Shake, with most of them leaning toward the excellent side.
  
  All the games play well, and the AI is great for a pick-up game on the train or in the car, but 
 online multiplayer is quite a blast. My only complaint is one that plagues most Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 games, that it is impossible to add people you meet in random online games to your friends list, 
 and that the chat feature is limited to about 20 stock messages and responses. I only know two 
 other people who own a DS in my small town, and neither of them wants to buy a bunch of card games.
 
  
  Also, the music in this game gets rather repetitive after the first few plays, and I would definitely 
 recommend killing the music before you want to stab your stylus into your ears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stixes14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Ok so here is the deal its a fun game and every thing but no one is ever wifi but thats cool i 
 have friends that have DS's and i share a play with them but any ways, it has all the fun games 
 we use to play with our family or friends like Crazy 8's but they named it different and darts 
 my fav.
  
  So in the whole game you play these awesome games and beat the missions and play one mode called 
 Stamps so if you like old games like really really old games then this is the game for you but 
 if you like pool or bowling or darts then get this game but yeah so here is my SCORE for this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: super-lukaz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  This is one hella good variety of classic clubhouse games, A fantastic example of a portable pick 
 up and play game, its all on here...
  Value, its one third cheaper than any other game.
  Multiplayer, single cart multiplayer that is, hours of fun, WIFI? Even better!
  Replay Value, 
 designs to unlock, missions to complete, stamp Mode. If ever you pop to a game shop check this 
 out, just try it, most compilation games I avoid but this my friends is not a dud, most games I 
 have never heard of but thanks to the very well explained rules that you can read with one touch 
 of the right hand corner of the screen I have learned how to play some of the games that no human 
 could have explained better! Check this out theres something for everyone in here, whether you 
 like billiards, dominoes, mahjong solitaire, backgammon, bowling plus so many more that you could 
 end up enjoying when experiencing this brilliant game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superwario213
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. It is lots of fun and great to play against other people with Ds. The 
 only problem is that it feels kind of like a bunch of mini games all roled into one snappy package.
 
  
  But go and buy it anyways, it is lots of fun.
  
  It says the text review has to be at least 100 caracters so i am just typing to fill that in. This 
 has nothing to do with the game.
  
  Want to here a joke
  
  what happens if you throw a red rock in a green river...
  
  it gets wet! hahahaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hells_zargon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Value for money is the main appeal of this game, at only &pound;20 and sporting 42 games, that 
 sounds like a damn good price. It certainly is, out of those 42 games there is only one which is 
 bland, the others are all great. There are many categories of games ranging from popular games 
 like Blackjack to the more unknown Japanese games with everything inbetween.
  
  However you never feel daunted when playing a new game thanks to the very detailed and clearly 
 written instruction pages which tell you everything you need to know about each game, plus a few 
 examples and little tips to help you get started. Agenda has really done a good job with implimenting 
 the touch screen, all these games seem perfectly suited to the DS. The simple little touches are 
 definately the best with different music, sound effects, customisable themes and little graphical 
 touches making the games even more of an experience. Agenda would do very well to make a game for 
 the upcoming Wii console lookign at this performance.
  
  Overall this is an excellent little game which is suitable for everyone, as well as always going 
 down an absolute storm in wireless multiplayer games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dannyboy2443
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I can't stop playing this game! It has a game for everyone. From Spit to Checkers to Billiards 
 to Chess to Old Maid. There are 42 games and three difficulty settings: easy, medium, and hard. 
 As I said in my title it is a must-have for all DS owners. It also has three game modes: Free Play (which 
 lets you play any game you want) , Stamp Mode (which is similar to a story mode in that, although 
 there is no plot, you have to play through each game to finish. You have to get three stamps to 
 pass each game. In a 3-4 player game you get three stamps if you land in first place, two if you 
 come in second, and one if you come in third or fourth. In a two player game if you win you get 
 three stamps and one if you lose. In games like Solitaire you just have to finish it, no places. 
 If you get three stamps in the last game and still have some left over, those will be added on 
 to the next game) , and Mission Mode (you have to complete specific challenge for each game. However, 
 unlike Stamp Mode, you can play each game as you want to) . The graphics aren't a technical masterpiece, 
 but they aren't disgusting either. It's a simple 2D kinda-pixilated style, like a GBA game. The 
 music is great! It's sound like elevator music, which rarely gets annoying, unless your stuck in 
 checkers or something like that. A neat affect is that, when your checked in chess or in other 
 stress moments like that, the music hightens, raising the tension a little. The touchscreen controls 
 are simple but great. You simply touch and drag a card or whatever you need and drop it where you 
 want it to go. Much better than having to press on a D-pad to select stuff like you would have 
 to do on most other systems. If you have a DS, you should own this game. It's that simple. I highly 
 recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Clubhouse Games is an awesome game that every DS owner should have. This game is full of variety 
 and it's replay value is massive. Clubhouse games has a variety of card, board, and other types 
 of games ranging from Chess, Shogi, Mahjong, Darts, and Bowling. Ontop of those theres plenty of 
 unlockable skins for the games, stamps for messaging and games. A lot of the games are multiplayer 
 which is awesome since this game can connected to the Nintendo Wifi Connection system so you can 
 play against people from all over. This is simple fun and I suggest you pick it up right away! 
 Go now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dry_Bomber_2006
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 24, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  This is the ultimate party game besides raving rabbids. It has over 40 fun and adicting mini games. 
 there are some one player mini games which are pretty fun if you dont like compititon. the mini 
 games that are worth your time are bottle shake, sevens, balance and alot more. the wifi experince 
 is pretty enjoyable. you can pictochat other people you are playing against. just one problem in 
 the game is that there are some games that are really hard aand almost unplayable and have alot 
 of rules that you have to read to understand the game. So if you are looking for a fun party game 
 experince then club house games is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leafs_ducks
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game knowing it was just board games, but i wanted to play some poker during my free 
 time. so i went out and bought this game.
  
  gameplay=this game has an whooping 42 cards, board games. from classics like chess, checkers, president. 
 to games like bowling, darts, poker, and much much much more. and the best thing is you get to 
 play online and challenge anyone around the world to your fav. game.
  
  the sound in this game is alright, since its only card and board games.. what kind of music shoudl 
 they have? lolz..
  
  graphics aren't eye poping, but decent. i couldn't care less about the graphics for this game. 
 its fun and addictive.
  
  overall this is an awesome game to pick up not only for hardcore gamers to casual gamers. from 
 young to old. everyone can enjoy this wonderful set of mini games. it also can come in handy when 
 going on a road trip. this game is an amazin and addictive game.
  go out and pick up this game if you haven't already done so-_-
  8.1 out of 10 is my score-_- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BAMFactor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  This is not a game . This is an almost ridiculous selection of many, many games for the price of 
 one. Before I tried this game, I was concerned that it might suffer from that old syndrome you 
 can do one thing really, really well or a lot of different things poorly . This game does NOT suffer 
 from trying many different things - it does most of them very, very well. Several of these games 
 I can see paying full price for if they were sold alone.
  
  You can't possibly get bored with this game. You can always move on to something else. Half the 
 time I can't even decide which one of these fun games to play. How did they do SO much SO well?
 
  
  There is one downside to the game. The screen size make it difficult to see detail in a couple 
 of the games, particularly Mahjong Tiles. It is sometimes difficult to distinguish the characters 
 on the tiles. But the game is still fun, and if I really can't read something I ask for a hint. 
 That generally solves the problem. Also a couple of the games do fall flat - the pool, with it's 
 tiny table and awkward control, is disappointing, however, there are many more good games than 
 bad.
  
  The graphics are pretty basic but the gameplay is good enough that it's not an issue at all. It's 
 a DS game. No one expects (or should) the graphics in, for example, Backgammon to look like Hardwood 
 Backgammon on the 360 arcade and your HD tv... If I was at home I would probably play these games 
 on my 360 arcade or Hoyles games on my pc, but the beauty of this is that it's portable, which 
 makes it way more useful than any of these games that don't really interest me at home when I can 
 play something like Gears of War instead. And this has games I've never seen in a video game before 
 like Darts.
  
  This game is addictive, fun, and suitable for anyone from the hardcore gamer to the casual player. 
 If you're out on the road with hours of time to pass this DS game is all you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brood_aliance
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:52 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY:
  Not much to say here. If you love parlor games, you love this. The online is good. The use of the 
 touch screen is very good.
  GRAPHICS AND SOUND:
  Also not much to say here. Obviously, the graphics and sound are the greatest, but this is a DS. 
 The graphics are good for a DS. The sound would need some work. Very simple little sounds and tunes 
 get boring and annoying after a while. I play it sound off to save battery.
  VALUE:
  Very good value. I got this for $35 CAD. You get literally 42 games (including Texas Hold'Em, Chess, 
 Hearts, President (Big Two) , and my favourite... Field Tactics (Stratego) ) . 42 games for 3/4 of 
 the price of a regular DS game.
  SCORING:
  Difficulty: The difficulty is just right. It could be set to Easy, Normal or Hard.
  Time Spent: 
 Very addictive. You would spend so much time on this.
  Learning Curve: You probably wont know all the games, but the games are easy to learn (except for 
 Koi-Koi) . The written rules are very well done.
  
  This game may not be the best DS game out there, but it is very addictive. Do not expect any awesome 
 graphics or sound. The value is the best part. $35 for 42 games. Overall, very addictive and very 
 good value. Buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIS_AMERICA
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  We all Nintendo is trying to reach the non-gamer society, and it definately has been working with 
 the releases of Nintendogs, Brain Age and now this. But is so much focus on developing non-gaming 
 products hurting Nintendo's image as a hardcore game developer?
  
  GamePlay: The gameplay in this game has no depth what so ever, but it was meant to like that. The 
 games, although fun in shorts bursts with excellent touch screen control (and I do mean excellent) , 
 the gameplay can get rather tedious if you play for long streches with the 40 or so games.
  
  Graphics: If the DS and NES graphics, this game would be king. But it doesn't, and the graphics, 
 although not horrible could have been better, even though there really isn't much to see.
  
  Sound: Meh!? The sound in Clubhouse Games is mostly low-tempo music that can either be nice 
 and soothing or very very annoying. However, I must say that when Bowling (one of the games) and 
 getting a strike, hearing all those pins fall down is like [good] music to the ears.
  
  Value: With 40 plus games, various difficulty levels and online play, this will last quite some 
 time, mostly for the non-gamer. However, if your a casual or nerd gamer and looking for a game 
 that you will spend weeks playing. This ain't it!
  
  Tilt: Though it has its moments, Clubhouse Games is geared more towards the non-gamer and not the 
 true gamer at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ButtonBasherBW
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  At startup, it contains a few options to help configure your game to your liking, such as your 
 icon and name. Essentially, there are a few options that are global, but these are tips and whether 
 to check Pictochat. Not too much more than that, really. The whole game is also controlled by the 
 touch screen, and nothing more. Well, OK. The start button is used to pause and quit games.
  
  Anyway, enough about the picky bits of the start of the game. Let's begin with the first option 
 it provides! Free Play! This allows you to jump into any of the games you've unlocked (most are 
 open by default, but there are five greyed out games that are for later only) , set the settings 
 such as players and some rules with certain games. Also, for the added visual content each game 
 comes with 4-8 different board layouts you can use for each of the games. They're obtained by winning 
 a set number of games with each one, something to work towards if you grow tired of each display.
 
  
  With not much more to be said about Free Play, we'll move on to where some more games can be earnt 
 - Stamp mode! This requires the user to move along in a board game fashion on set levels. The player 
 will have to complete the game several times before they can move on. If they prove they can win 
 the game, then they get more stamps and thus, move on to the next round a lot quicker. Basically, 
 to move on, you're forced to play the game a couple of times if you're not good at it.
  
  The last single player option is a mode I consider the hardest - mission mode. Here, you'll have 
 to perform some pretty good skill with a number of games on the DS to earn yourself more icons 
 to represent yourself as. For example, get a perfect win in Blackjack, or score three strikes in 
 a row in bowling. Quite the feat indeed!
  
  That's enough about single player for now. The multiplayer is where this game can really kick in 
 for a lot of people. This is where you can host a local game, for up to eight players and partake 
 in a digital version of poker, hearts, spades or reversal, line-connect, ludo (think of the board 
 game Trouble) and various other games. Online gives all the same options, but does bar out single 
 player games such as Solitaire. In Friends Matches, gameplay is exactly the same as local - even 
 the pictochat like drawing board is a plus and is easily used to send messages to everyone, or 
 focus on just one person in a tactical decision.
  
  Random play doesn't quite have the same chat, but for those who have played an online game of Hearts 
 or games like that, it's got some preset sayings that you can send out to other people. Very handy 
 indeed, particularly when you'll quite possibly be playing against people from other cultures who 
 don't have a shread of English about them! Graphics are fine for this title, and do their job. 
 Top screen is used to show players, who's next, who's winning and what their cards are (if shown) 
 so you know what's happening, so long as it's in line with the rules, of course! Bottom screen 
 is solely gameplay zone, the complete control area is right here.
  
  Sound isn't too crash hot, and music got to the point of being annoying. Better to just turn off 
 the music and stick a CD on for this one.
  
  However, just cause it's a bunch of games that one could quite possibly play with a deck of cards, 
 doesn't mean it's not something you could not enjoy, or even learn something from it. It provides 
 all the rules and examples to all the games on the card, and through playing them too, you learn 
 the ins and outs of each game.
  
  Definately one to take away some of your time as you progress through the title. Whether it's to 
 earn new games and icons, or just to waste some time waiting for a bus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tweetjj
Rating: 3.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:10 am PT
Review:  This game could have earned at least an eight if not for one crictical developer mistake. They 
 left out single DS multiplayer. Which means you can't sit next to your buddy and play the same 
 game. You have to play the CPU or your buddy has to have his own DS. I can't tell you how frustrating 
 it was to find out this extremely basic feature was left out. I can think of no satifsying reason 
 why this simple feature was excluded. So unless you have no reason why you would want to play this 
 game with someone else or you have friends and family members who own their own DS's, stay away 
 from this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me89me89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This game has all of your old-school board and card games in it! It has 42 games in it and 35 of 
 them can be played online with up to 8 other people! With 42 games, of course not all of them are 
 fun but there is something for everyone here. My personal favorite game is a game called balance 
 in which you have to keep stacking blocks on a platform until someone makes all of the blocks fall 
 over! If you don't have wifi though don't worry because you can play agaisnt the cpu. The music 
 in this game gets annoying as soon as you have the game on for 5 minutes but hey that is what the 
 volume slider is for. That musci is the only bad thing i can think of about this game. The gameplay 
 is very addicting being that there is 42 games. You can never really get bored of this game with 
 that many games to chose from. A nice feature about this game is that once you play a game on wifi 
 it will tell you your rank on that game out of everyone who has played that game (example: right 
 now i am rank 51 out of 5000 something) !! On wifi you can even send pre-made messsages to people 
 who aren't on your friend list! (like one more game, nice!!, im waitning, and nooooooo!!) If you play 
 against people on your friend list then you can send messages with a program similar to pictochat. 
 It doesn't really take very much time to learn these games either and if you forget how to play 
 one then there is a rule button you can just tap on the bottom screen and a list of rules pops 
 up. (very convenient for beginners) I think that is all there is to say about this game so I hope 
 it helps!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Apollo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  I have really enjoyed playing Clubhouse games. It has a lot of variety in a small package. With 
 42 different games and 3 single player modes plus local and wifi mulitplayer, it will keep you 
 busy. I like the graphic style as it looks very clean and fresh. The whole game is touch screen 
 based, some of course it handles very well. The games are pretty basic, but most of them prove 
 to make a good transition to the DS. I would suggest playing with the sound off because the music 
 gets pretty old fast, as it is the same for every game. The mulitplayer is fun and offers single 
 card play for all the games and online play for all, but the 3 single player games.
  
  Overall this game is a good pick-up and not bad for the $29.99 price tag. I recommend it to any 
 DS owner looking to kill some time or looking for a good online title, but it isn't ground breaking 
 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bluey2323
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that you should defently buy if u own a ds. The multiplayer is one of the 
 best parts about it. It has 42 games. Almost all of the games are good. Some games arent online 
 but the better ones are. I know 10 to 20 hours doesnt sound like a played it very much but i havent 
 had that long (only one week) . One good game is called Field Tatics. What happens is that you sort 
 of have an army and you envade the oppenits field and try to either destroy all thier pieces or 
 get into there base. The game bowling is pretty fun also. The difficulty is different for each 
 game kind of. For example some games i win almost every time but others i can never win. There 
 is also a Stamp and Misson mode. If u play stamp mode a lot u unlock new games and if u play mission 
 mode a lot u get new emblems. I reccomend this game to anyone who has a ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fish3689
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  If your going on a trip or waiting for a bus no matter how long it takes this will keep you busy, 
 with over 40 games (42 to be exact) this is a great game sure the graphics aren't the best and 
 the music can get slightly annoying but this is a great way for that boring long night or when 
 you are with a bunch of people all you need is 1 copy of this game 2-8 ds' and 1-7 other people 
 to play cards, board games, darts, pool, bowling, and more right on your ds.
  And of course there is the single player with 3 modes- mission, stamp, and free play.
  MISSION- 
 a way to test your skills at games by completing certain objectives.
  STAMP- basically a way to get you to try ALL of the games at least once and unlock new games.
 
  FREE PLAY- any game you've unlocked in stamp mode (35 to begin with) can be played this is where 
 the games single player shines.
  MULTI-PLAYER- The multi-player is great it's like game night in your hand and with wi fi this has 
 a great multi-player.
  
  So over all graphics aren't the best but things are clear
  sound is a little repetitive but is not so annoying to the point u will shut it off
  its kind 
 of quiet so if you don't like the music it's easy to not pay attention to
  easy to learn easy to play and is a very fun game
  
  whats bad though is the rule of about 
 5 games are changed but not that dramatically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: follis12
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  This is a fun, quick escape into gaming. It's perfect for someone who doesn't have alot of time 
 to play at a stretch. Each of the games are simple, traditional games that don't require any learning 
 curve and can be completed in about 5 minutes. All the games are well presented and won't disappoint. 
 The touch screen proves to be perfect for this application - especially in the darts game. One 
 of the best features is the wireless online play. Now you can have a quick game of checkers, darts, 
 cards, or whatever with a real opponent any time. It is also one of those downloadable DS games 
 that requires only one cartridge for two players in the same room - which adds to the value.
  
  Overall, it is hard not to like this game and you really can't go wrong. My only knock on it 
 is the price - a little high at $35, but even so, but there are a lot of worse games out there for 
 the same price or more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewkozis
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  Due to the hype and great reviews of this game i expected a little bit more, but still a good game, 
 not great but good.
  
  The gameplay couldent be much better, i havent heard of about 10 of them but if you like texas 
 hold'em this is the game for you. I suck at bowling and darts as there pretty hard to play but 
 still great fun. The multiplayer is the highlight of the game as its wifi. Texas Hold'em wifi? 
 For me its like a dream come true. My fav game out of all of the 42. If you have wifi i would seriously 
 think about investing in this game.
  
  The graphics are not bad but is there such a thing as good graphics when playing card games? I 
 mean cards are 2d. But when your playing i assure you graphics are the last thing on your mind, 
 if not at all.
  
  The sound is the worse part of the game and i tend to put my ds on mute and listen to music instead 
 while playing. Theres those annoying little buzzing noises and rings ect ect... But dont let this 
 put you off the game.
  
  The game is a low budget game and for only &pound;19.99 its GREAT value fot your money.
  
  
 Finally my overall score is 7.9, its not one of the best games on ds but is definatly worth having 
 ago. I would also suggest renting it 1st if possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cokessweet7777
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I got this game a week or two back and all i can say is that im loving it.
  
  42 different games, most playable on Wifi, and Online Pictochat make this game a MUST HAVE.
  
 
  Blackjack, Texas Hold 'Em, Bowling, Checkers, Darts, and Chess are just some of the games that 
 provide hours of play time on WiFi.
  
  This game is a MUST have for ANY DS GAMER with WiFi!
  
  this will not dissapoint you.
  
 
  This also has GREAT LOCAL multiplayer with friends.
  
  If you buy this game, add me, my Friend Code is 2491-9046-8748.
  
  Send me a message if you 
 do haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xenocalypse
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Super fun with plenty of unlockables. best of all is the online play! parents have been dreaming 
 of something like this for years, why build your kid a clubhouse when you can just go buy him Clubhouse 
 Games. just kidding, i just need some words so i can actually submit this review. but seriously 
 i enjoy this game very much and would prefer it over an actual clubhouse. i'm a telemarketer and 
 this is a game i play at work, on break, in between calls, during calls. most games are turn based 
 and there's no time limit so if i need to stop playing for a second it's no big deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPuzzlez
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  This is a game that many, MANY of us have been waiting for for a while. I have seen a lot of people 
 with those cheap little knockoff annoying beeping parlor games and now they should totally upgrade 
 to this, Clubhouse Games. I'm not gonna tell you what it is because you can look it up in the main 
 review, but I will tell you that this game is FUN!!!! There's WAY too many games in ChG to get 
 bored with it, plus, you can play it against strangers online! Ya can't beat that with a stick! 
 Also, one of the main games that I have been playing is I doubt it commonly known as Bull**** . 
 Very fun and very addictive. My only problem is that you have to have some super comprenhension 
 to understand the almost-text only help menu. Another game that I'm glad it has is Spades. That's 
 one of the games I grew up with my family playing and still have fun playing. Anyway DS owners, 
 you should get this game. If you don't already have either a lite or Heavy, now's a really good 
 time to get it. Even if it's just for a quick game of Solitare. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_holic
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 29, 2006 4:11 pm PT
Review:  At first I thought this game was another supid card game but then the players' review and gamespot's 
 review were pretty high so I've decided to give it a try. this game has lots of mini games to choose 
 from. Other than some common card games, it even has chinese checkers, mahjong solitaire, bowling, 
 and some word guessing game. Those are just some of the games, but not all of them. The best part 
 of this game is the WiFi function. You can play many games online with others and you can even 
 use pictochat if you are playing with a friend. This game also supports one card multi play function. 
 You just need one game card and u can play with your friends beside you and it allows you to play 
 all the games with your friends (VERY GOOD PARTY GAME) . The graphic of this game is just what you 
 can expect from any other card games out there. You don't need excellent graphic with some card 
 game anyway, so it's not even important here.
  
  The only bad part of this game is that sometimes you want to play certain game like Seven, you 
 can't find anyone to play with you on Wifi. I think most of the people play Texas Hold'm and blackjack. 
 Anyway, I still strongly suggest you to buy this game. This game is really worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluezy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Clubhouse Games is a collection of 42 card, board, and variety games, including Old Maid, Solitaire, 
 Backgammon, Darts, Bowling, Chess, and Texas Hold 'Em, to name only a few. Nintendo has a real 
 hit with this one.
  
  Simply put, the gameplay is incredible. The game is 100% stylus controlled, as most games require 
 it. To play Soda Shake, for example, you move the stylus over the bottle and shake it to get the 
 cork to pop. There are two single-player modes, Stamp and Mission. Stamp has you moving from game 
 to game, playing computer-controlled players. If you win, you get stamps that let you advance onto 
 the next game. You unlock a few games this way. The other mode, Mission, lays out some challenges 
 for you to complete, in order to unlock personal icons. Some challenges are easy, but some are 
 difficult, like scoring 3 bullseye shots in a row in darts.
  
  Apparently, Nintendo chose to make the graphics in Clubhouse Games easy on the eyes, because the 
 buttons are rather large (even just an ok button is large) and there is usually not much going 
 on at once on the screens. The graphics are good, but nothing spectacular.
  
  Playing over the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection is where this game shines, as well. Thirty-five of the 
 42 games available are playable over the WFC, and they can get rather intense. Take it from experience, 
 when you need to hit a 19 to win your darts game, your heart starts beating fast. Another nice 
 feature in Wi-Fi is that when you play against someone you share Friend Codes with, the chat feature 
 kicks in, letting you PictoChat (referring to the DS' built-in chat feature) with your opponent. 
 After your Wi-Fi matches, you can check your worldwide rank in the games you played.
  
  Clubhouse Games has great potential to be one of the finest games on the DS, and i'm sure countless 
 hours will be spent on both single-player modes and Wi-Fi. This game is one that should be a requirement 
 for all DS owners, regardless of age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Petman1325
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  This game rocks! If you want to play over 42 games, this is your game. Yet, the billiards balls 
 aren't in 3-D. They stay where they look like [ex. When you push the ball, it still looks like 
 (3) ] when they were not hit. Yet all the other games are excellent. I could play Texas Hold 'em, 
 Bowling, Soda Shake (you shake the soda so it does not explode on your turn) , Chineese Checkers, 
 Darts, Escape (you move pieces around so you get the huge piece out) , and 36 more! There are icons 
 you can unlock to represent yourself, designs (mainly stone, digital, normal, and paper) to play 
 with, and tweak with the rules (ex. On Old Maid, you can make the Old Maid Joker or Queen) a little 
 bit. This is a game for all ages (exept babies who suck on the Nintendo DS and then it doesn't 
 work because spit on it, or suck on the stylus, or smash the screen) young and old. You can even 
 get a rumble pack so when it is your turn, it will rumble three times to signal you. But what if 
 your friend wants to play a game by his or her self? Easy, they can download it from the host's 
 system with DS Download Play (takes about 2-5 minutes to download, depending where you are) so 
 your friend can play it by his or her self! But what if your friend wants to vurse you? Easy, this 
 is single card (DS Download Play) and muti card (more then one game card) ! You can even use Nintendo 
 WiFi to verus other players global! So, if you have a Nintendo DS, I highly suggest you get this 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaimzl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 5:15 am PT
Review:  online 42 different games only 3 of them are single player and you can play all the rest online. 
 even against a comp its so much fun.
  
  tons of replay value you will never get bored. what else can you ask for.
  
  THIS IS A MUST 
 HAVE FOR THE DS (BEST ONLINE MULTIPLAYER
  IF YOU READ THIS YOU HAVE TO GET THE GAME!!! SO I CAN WHOOP UR ASS IN TEXAS HOLD'EM)
  
  the 
 difficulty is just right because you can choose the difficulty
  i have spent a good 10-20 hours on this game and i just got it 2 days ago
  takes a while to learn 
 all the games but all you have to do is read the very detailed instructions. WARNING THIS GAME 
 IS EXTREMLY ADDICTIVE!.
  
  gameplay a deffinet 10 because of all th choices and unlockables like stone mode paper mode and 
 digital mode plus other games you can unlock in stamp mode.
  
  graphics are good it is up to par with most ds games a deffinet 8 because all the games arn't 3d 
 WHO GIVES A *****
  
  sound is great and you can also unlock different songs and music though the get annoying after 
 hours of gameplay so i just put my mp3 on
  
  value IS A DEFFINENT 10 you will not waste your money on this game i think its the best game so 
 far on the ds better than acww mph and mkds
  i dont know why gamespot didn't rate it higher 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PharaohsVizier
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Clubhouse games was a highly anticipated game. It has 42 classic games remade in one DS cartridge. 
 I will not take the time to list the games, you can find it if you look harder, but the collection 
 is huge. 42 games is a lot.
  
  Some of the games are not done as well as I had hoped. Mainly Texas Hold'em, it is limit, there 
 is no other options, and the betting system is a little weird. I highly anticipated this game, 
 and it was a disappointment. But when I booted up the game and played a round of Texas Hold'em, 
 I was amazed. The changes were made to fill up the time constriction, instead of having an hour 
 or two worth of poker, they managed to end it in 15 minutes or so. Also, the computers are amazingly 
 smart. In every mini game I have played, the Hard computers proved to be amazingly smart, even 
 the Easy ones had some tricky ploys.
  
  One mode I enjoy is Stamp mode. In order to unlock a few games, you must play stamp mode, which 
 is forcing you to play every game once or twice, understand the rules, then move on. At first, 
 I really dreaded this, but I see the reasoning behind this. They introduced me to a bunch of games 
 I have never heard of before, and now one of them (Hosami Shogi) is now my favourite game in the 
 cartridge.
  
  The wireless mode for DS is fun, and exactly what you expect, you can play with friends, and it 
 is a lot of fun, especially when you have friends that just borrowed a DS to play with for break 
 or something. The wifi is pretty awesome too, you get to play with people in the world. One problem 
 is that, there isn't that may people to play games that are more than 2 or 3 players. It is really 
 hard to set up a Texas Hold'em game.
  
  Overall, Clubhouse Games is a must for any DS owners. If you don't have it, you are missing out. 
 Its simplicity and classic games makes this an awesome game to carry around with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derblutenkat
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 22, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  This game offers more options and more playability than almost any game I've ever seen for a hand-held 
 system. The out of the box wi-fi capabilities for this gamepack for wireless router owners is an 
 unbelievable toss-in that will provide owners of this game with endless fun and great global competitions.
 
  
  The games are simply laid out and many are adaptations of current big classics such as Battleship 
 and Sorry. To further the ease of falling in love with this game, simple rules are easily accessible 
 for EVERY game through the game menu.
  
  The wifi rankings are an added bonus for really competitive gamers and the music and wonderfully 
 simple (yet stylish) graphics will keep you reeled in for countless hours of quality gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacf
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  i just got this game and i already put a good 40 plus hours playing it.! the graphis are good, 
 the sound is great, and the gameplay is awesome!!! this is the most satisfying game ive gotten 
 in years! ive been playing it with my brother and sister and they both LOVED it! probably, my favorite 
 thing to do is wifi, just because.. and theres over 40 games so theres most likely going to be games 
 you like. theres card games, board games, and even action games such as bowling, darts and bliards! 
 this game is probably the best game out, and is a must have for all ds owners!! i give this game 
 a 10 out of 10!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aashkii
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 20, 2006 9:43 am PT
Review:  Ive heard of this game for a long time. Now that I have it, Clubhouse Games is another hit for 
 the DS. There are over 30 games and most of them are Wi-Fi compatible, but it isnt going to appeal 
 to just gamers, but parents or other individuals who never played games before.
  
  There are a few games I like: Rummy, Spit (Speed) , I Doubt It, Escape, Bowling, Black Jack (The 
 list goes on and on.) The one game I want my mother to play is Rummy (since you can use download 
 play to try any of these games out, which is sweet.) As mentioned before, Im trying to get my 
 mother into videogames since she was the one who got me into videogames in my kid years.
  
  I didnt get a chance to play the game via online, but the few games I would play the most online 
 would have to be Rummy, Spit, and Black Jack. One problem I hate about this game would have to 
 be the icons. You are only allowed to choose the icons that you are dealt with (you can unlock 
 more through Mission Mode) and there isnt an option for you to create your own icon. The unlockables, 
 however, are huge. You can unlock new games by playing Stamp Mode (A mode where you earn points 
 depending how you win each game.) And there is a pictochat like chatting device in the game. (I 
 didnt use it that much since I didnt get a chance to play it in multiplayer.)
  
  Clubhouse Games isnt to be left out, since you and your family will enjoy this game till the end. 
 Dont miss out on this game. The game may be considered a classic within five to ten years, but 
 the games in Clubhouse are already classics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 18, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  I personally find it interesting that the games I want to enjoy on the DS, specifically, RPGs, 
 are pretty terrible so far. I even have a difficult time enjoying the GBA RPGs, though that's my 
 personal problem. The casual games, though, like Brain Age, Big Brain Academy, and now Clubhouse 
 Games, are fantastic. Totally accessible, fun, quick and easy to play.
  
  Clubhouse Games has a multitude of games, ranging from card (the majority) to puzzle, and even 
 things like bowling and darts. All games are implemented consistently, have online help that is 
 immediately accessible, clear, and concise, and they are all generally fun. The stamp mode, which 
 forces you to play every game, is wonderfully well done. You can even lose consistently and still 
 clear each stage, so it's never a burden.
  
  Although the game includes multiplayer, I haven't tried it yet. What I have tried are a good number 
 of games in stamp mode as well as many single player games both on easy and moderate difficulty 
 levels. At the easy settings games don't provide much challenge but that does seem to ratchet up 
 quickly enough, and regardless, the games are so smooth and streamlined that playing them is fast, 
 simple, and enjoyable.
  
  I do have one or two complaints, mostly taht billiards seems to have been compressed into too small 
 of a space and that darts doesn't really have a good 3D feel to it in terms of how you throw the 
 dart. Bowling, on the other hand, is done perfectly.
  
  The touch pad and stylus are well used and the game auto-saves. It is highly customizable and also 
 has some unlockable content. To summarize, you will never be without a game to play if you purchase 
 Clubhouse Games.
  
  Gord_Mose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfenty
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 13, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  The idea behind Nintendo's Touch Generation games is to make games that appeal to a wider audience 
 than the hardcore gamer. For those who have played Nintendo's other Touch Generation games, such 
 as Brain Age and Big Brain Acedemy, you already know thatthese games accomplish this goal with 
 competent, enjoyable pick up and play gameplay. While few would rank any Touch Generation game 
 so far as one of thier all-time favorites, they are ideal for mobile gaming, since they can be 
 played easily in short spurts. Of all of the Touch Generation games I have palyed so far, Clubhouse 
 Games is easily the one with the the msot lasting appeal and value. Nintendo has packed a lot of 
 gameplay into this cart, and while none of the games are the best example of thier kind, nearly 
 all of them are competent, and many are fun enough to ensure this will be one DS game that stays 
 in your rotation for a long, long time.
  
  Now, if you are buying this game, because you really want just one of the games on this cart. Say 
 chess, or Texas Hold 'Em. Chances are you will be disappointed. None of the games included will 
 blow you away enough to justify the price of the game. It is the totality of the games offered 
 that makes this a great value. I have been anxiously awaiting Chess on my DS since I bought the 
 system and one of the main reasons I bought this game was to be able to play Chess on the go. And 
 now I can, but that is not to say I would not buy a competent fully featured chess game if it were 
 to come out. The same goes for poker -- it does not compared to my fully featured Texas Hold 'em 
 DS game. But again, nearly acrocss the board, the games are competently made, with clean, simple 
 visuals, pleasant sounds, and lots of replayability. The convenience of having such a variety of 
 games in one package on the go is extremely appealing, and I can see playing these generic versions 
 of go, chess, mahjong, spades etc long after I'm done with Final Fantasy III and other games that 
 will no doubt get far more praise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  42 games come to oyu on your ds. From card to bar theres some thing every one will want to play. 
 The touch screen works really great with every game. The games that raised concer (bowling, darts, 
 pool,) work and are playable to an enjoyable degree. The one player offers some ok things such 
 as stamp mode (come in first place every time to move on to another game) and mission mode where 
 you have to do a challeng in certen amonunt of time or something way to hard. Theres also free 
 play. One player's missions will fell tiering and a chore to some for them to unlock pics or games 
 (dont worrey al the good ones are here at the start) wile others wil lenjoy them. Wifi is set up 
 good just chose the game you want to play and waite for oponents. The picto chat phrases you have 
 to chose from are poor and offer no way to have a real talk with any one. So your advised to get 
 friend codes. The music is the worst part it sounds like jazz elivator music. This game will keep 
 you entertained for a long time. it's always a game you can pick up and play for any amount of 
 time. Go get this and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikesway
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are not as bad as I had heard, the set up is easy, the games are GREAT, the multiplayer 
 is also great. Most of the games I have played have been very easy to navigate. Darts is an extremely 
 fun game, there are an enormous amount of games for everyone, different modes to play all the games, 
 some unlockable stuff- music, themes, give you a little more incentive to play. A ton of fun to 
 be had for all. I am very impressed. Ok I can't think of anymore to say but this needs to be 100 
 words so I'm just filling space right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Writer1983
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 11, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Clubhouse games rock! Many of the games are available at the start, others you have to unlock for 
 later. Three modes of gameplay are available: Free play : Play any game you have unlocked/play 
 available games. Stamp mode : Clear all the games in order (yes, each game, but you get stamps 
 when you lose, so you're not stuck on darts or whatever forever!) one stamp for third place or 
 lower, two for second, three for first; three stamps and you can move on to the next game.. a great 
 way to familierize yourself with all the games, plus it's the only way to unlock certain games
 
  and finally, Mission mode : Clear specific challenges to move on: Make X number of strikes in 
 bowling, for example.
  
  Some games are great, others stink, ditto to the music, but that's not we are here..
  
  There 
 are only a few games available at the start as I previously mentioned: *Basic Card Games*
  old maid
  spit (speed or war)
  I doubt it (Cheat!)
  Sevens
  Memory (yes, memory!)
  Pig
 
  
  *Intermediate Card Games
  Blackjack
  hearts
  president
  rummy
  seven bridge
  last card
  last card plus
  
  *Advanced Card Games*
  five card draw
  texas hold'em
  
 nap
  spades
  contract bridge
  
  *Basic board games*
  chinese checkers
  checkers
  dots and boxes
  hasami shogi
  turncoat
  connect five
  grid attack
  
  *Advanced card 
 games*
  Backgammon chess three others to be unlocked:
  shogi
  field tactics
  ludo
  
  *Variety Games
  Soda shake
  dominoes
  Koi-koi
  *unlockable game
  word balloon
  
 
  *Action games*
  bowling
  darts
  billiards
  balence ( Jenga )
  takeover
  
  *Single-player games*
  Solitaire (Klondike/draw three, go thru deck once; standard/draw 3, 6, 
 or infinate, go thru deck infinate)
  Escape
  Majongg Solitaire (lots of different ways to play)
  
  Whenever there is unlockables, simply 
 touch the greyed-out icon to find out what you have to do to unlock it! There are even unlockables 
 in the chooseable icons and picto-chat features!
  
  I love the intructions for most of the games! Anytime during a game, you can pull up a help window 
 which will teach you the intricacies of a given game.
  
  Now, this package isn't without stinkers:
  In Texas Hold'Em you can't go all in or even raise 
 a bet 
  in billiards and darts there is no actual ball physics, etc
  however, there is a robust mode of solitaire (both Klondike (draw three) and draw one . Most solitaire 
 games don't have this, and I HATE draw three! ) and majongg which are two of my favorite single-player 
 games and I wasted hours late last night trying them out. The intructions to refresh my memory 
 of majongg were flawless, complete with icons to help!
  
  The computer AI is great, especially in chess and checkers! How many of us have played online or 
 with an electronic handheld game, where you'd play a game against the computer and end up in a 
 cat game? (Where no one wins or loses, and no one can move on) ? or in chess, where the AI is stupid, 
 and cheats? This one didn't! It thought out moves, it made jumps or moves when I wasn't looking, 
 it even won sometimes, though so did I!
  
  While the package isn't without it's duds it does have perkes like redesigned versions of Battleship, 
 Stratego, Trouble, etc (most you have to unlock) , and Hanafuda, the game that Nintendo was famous 
 for before they got into video games in the 1800's!
  
  You can download all games (that you have unlocked) to another ds to let someone try them out, and 
 many games can be played onbline through Nintendo's wifi service, or a robust single-card and multi-card 
 download play!
  
  This is a great package overall, but some of the games could have been tweaked a bit more. I have 
 telegame's versions of Ultimate card games and ultimate poket games for the gba which has better 
 renditions of poker and other games then this game, and I'll be picking up their ds versions; but 
 for everyone who has ever played solitaire on their calculator or hearts and poker on the computer, 
 this game is a must-buy, especially if you have friends online. You can picto-chat chat with your 
 friends or use generic phrases like good job and one more game? with random match-ups.
  
  I'm glad I spent the money for this game, and while not all forty-plus games are available at the 
 start, it's fun to try to unlock them all.
  This game deserves a solid 8 or 9 out of 10! Go buy it, and I'll see you online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimBee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Club House Games, in a word, is GREAT.
  
  It's basically a collection of traditional games, on one card. What else can I say?
  
  I'm 
 not going to all out name all of the 42 odd games on here. The important thing here is that it 
 has nearly all of the games you know, and alot of the games you dont. Games like dominoes, bowling 
 right through to ludo and a massive array of card games.
  
  If you like bowling and want to use the touch screen to bowl, this game is worth the purchase, 
 because apart from the awful elf bowning, there is no other alternative except on this game.
  
  The menus are clear, easy to use and the games are categorized aswell. Its simple, you turn 
 the ds on, game loads up. And awya you go. You can select download play, wifi card play, single 
 play, stamp play (earn stuff like unlock more games) , or a mission mode or a challenge mode.
  
  Basically, you have the mass of variety of games, and the system offers you some nice ways 
 to trudge through them all. Either unlock things against the cpu opponents, or you can go right 
 ahead and play some with friends. Its easy, nice to look at and loads up like a dream.
  
  The presentation is superb, nice sounds (except for when you knock the pins down in bowling.. (would 
 of been nice to have more than just ONE sound..) . As i said, the graphics are clear, well presented 
 and above all, they dont leave you wating around for the next game to load.
  
  With an easy and fun scoring system, this game really makes these otherwise (could be) boring games 
 alot more fun for the single player.
  
  I found that i could just pick this game up, play a round of chess and before i knew it i was 1 
 hour into it already! Some games out for the ds require you to read pages of dialogue, sift through 
 menus... but this one is certainly a great pick up and play game.
  
  They really perfected the controls aswell, as best as it could be i think. It gives you some freedom 
 for card games, switching cards with the stylus as oposed to a more traditional (sort) button.
 
  The game is more interactive than you think, you constantly are moving that stylus around, which 
 is a great thing because it keeps you entertained for what its worth.
  
  To narrow it all down, if you are thinking of buying this- ONLY get this if you like things like 
 chess, backgammon, connect 5, card games (loads of them) , dots and boxes... you know, a bunch of 
 rainy day games you used to play as a kid. If you want some metroid prime action, steer clear, 
 but I can't think of a DS game which really made the DS perfect for this kind of game.
  
  Fair enough, Nintendogs was good, brain games are cool.. but its the traditional games we all know 
 and love, on a handheld.. the developers made this game easy to use, fun to play, and will attract 
 a mature audience aswell as young. It's nice to see a game which would be on the top ten DS games 
 you MUST own list.
  
  Seriously, you should seriously own this game for the DS. I can see this game being a standard 
 game for the DS. You know, like Mario is for the NES and Sonic is for the Genesis... Club House 
 Games is a game almost ANY DS owner should pick up. Its perfect for on the go play, and awesome 
 against friends.
  
  Overall, this game combines nice use of sounds, bold and clever presentation. And the vast collection 
 of games make it a worthwhile purchase. The only gripe is that you cant actually name the games 
 to the names you know them by. For example, grid attack?? or should i rename it, battleships..? 
 But its a minor thing.
  
  Another gripe would be that there is a little in the way of either winning or losing. In real life, 
 in a game Like donkey .. as i called it, where you ended up with the joker card at the end, you 
 cant shout a name at the loser via the mic!! that was the most fun part of the real life counterpart 
 for me. It would of been nice to of had this feature thats all.. br /&gt;
  
  This game, is definately the master of mini games and traditional games. Darts is probably the 
 weakest game because its not very much like darts (you dont aim.. you just chuck..) . But still, 
 every game on here provides a nice learning curve, and it mixes up speed round games and events 
 too, making it more than just a bunch of MIND games, but a more interactive competetive experience.
 
  
  Club House Games is a perfect addition to any DS game collection, forget Sega Casino etc, THIS 
 is the game you need to get if you like this sort of thing, and either want to go at it singularly, 
 or with 4 players.
  
  There are so many nifty litte features in this game, i would rather leave them as a surprise for 
 you. This is a quality title, worth its weight in gold and I guarantee it will leave you smiling 
 and itching to play with some friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 10, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This is one spectacular package! 42 games, 39 of which you can play locally, and 35 you can play 
 over WFC. There are even 3 single player games too. You control all of the games using the touch 
 screen. Most of these games are classics, such as poker, checkers, chess, billiards, bowling, chinese 
 checkers, and WAY more, but there are a few games you've probably never played. Some games are 
 clearly better than others, but you're bound to find plenty of games that you'll enjoy in Clubhouse 
 Games. Billiards feels a bit awkward though. You can play these games in free-play, stamp mode 
 (beat all of them) , multiplayer, and mission mode (some of the games with objectives to fill, and 
 if you beat them you can unlock stuff like avatars) . The obvious main draw is the multiplayer, 
 which is ABSOLUTELY STELLAR. You'll find lots of people to play with over WFC, and games require 
 only two players, while some can have as many as eight. Graphics and sound are so-so, but were 
 you really expecting top-notch production values? It's the perfect handheld game. Playing games 
 like chess, bowling, poker, and many others ONLINE is a blast! You can even communicate with friends 
 over Wi-Fi with a pictochat-like tool. It's a fantastic game to play when you're bored, and with 
 all of those games in this little DS cart, you probably be playing this for a LONG time (I know 
 I will) . This is a must-own title that will probably have a permanent spot in your collection! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
