-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Code Lyoko: Fall of X.A.N.A.
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/codelyokofallofxana/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Competitive multiplayer mode is fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The incoherent story is strictly for fans of the show.
 Graphics don't do the source material justice.
 The 2D portions are pointless.
 Just when you think it's going to end, it stretches on for another hour or two.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.3, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.1, 25 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Game Factory
Genre: Adventure
Date: Jun 20, 2008

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Deriving pleasure from this dull, monotonous RPG is a challenge that should only be undertaken by 
 the most hardcore Code Lyoko fans. 

   Code Lyoko  is a cartoon of many colors. It's made in France, looks like an anime, and features 
 traditional 2D art and flashy CGI. The storylines float from planet-endangering digital attacks 
 to preteen relationship drama. You would expect the game to follow a similar path by giving you 
 tons of variety and a captivating, albeit adolescent story. Sadly, every facet of the show has 
 received a giant downgrade in transition to video game form. From lackluster visuals and bland 
 gameplay to an incoherent story, everything about Code Lyoko: Fall of X. A. N. A. is disappointing. 

  The game centers around five boarding-school students with abnormally large foreheads who live 
 double lives as virtual superheroes in the online world of Lyoko. It's like  The Matrix , except 
 instead of agents, there are monsters powered by the evil virus X. A. N. A. This game follows the 
 fourth and final season of the show, picking up right after the previous season ends. There are 
 no primers to introduce you to the characters, and no tutorials to teach you how to play; it's 
 as if the game assumes that the only people who will be playing it are hardcore Code Lyoko fans. 

           They might look nice, but the 2D portions add nothing at all to the game.      

  Like 
 the show, Code Lyoko: Fall of X. A. N. A. is split into two different parts: the 2D world, which represents 
 the real world that the kids live in, and the 3D world of Lyoko. Here, the 2D world exists only 
 to let you hear the latest gossip and inside jokes from the show's characters. These sections are 
 completely pointless and can thankfully be skipped without any detriment to the story or gameplay. 

  All of the real action happens in Lyoko. Once virtualized, you'll guide a superdeformed sprite 
 around a three-dimensional world in search of switches to open doors, while battling random monsters 
 along the way. And that's it; there are no side quests or special dungeons, just switches, doors, 
 and monsters for nine laborious hours.  

  When a battle starts, the game shifts to a turn-based role-playing game, giving you control of 
 all four Lyoko warriors. The bottom screen shows your menu choices and the top screen displays 
 the action. After an attack has been performed, a recharge meter shows up and prevents you from 
 attacking until it is full. The recharge length depends on the strength of the attack, so special 
 moves will leave you waiting a bit longer. The system works well, but it isn't very challenging. 
 Most enemies will go down within a couple of turns, and if you stagger your attacks correctly, 
 some of your foes won't even have an opportunity to strike. If you do find yourself in danger, 
 you can visit the laboratory to purchase healing items and attack viruses. You can also configure 
 plug-ins, which act as modifiers to different stats. Given that the game doesn't let you spend 
 experience points when you level up, this is as close as you'll get to customizing your characters. 

  Like everything else in the game, the controls aren't particularly interesting. The stylus acts 
 as nothing more than a computer mouse, so don't expect to slash up monsters Ninja Gaiden-style. 
 There isn't much to do outside of holding it down to guide your warrior, and tapping menus to select 
 attacks. There are a handful of poorly executed minigames that crop up in battle, but they appear 
 only when your character has sustained enough damage, and they do little to make the combat more 
 engaging.  

  The one high point of the game lies in its multiplayer. If you have a friend who also owns the 
 game, each of you can load up your Lyoko warriors and battle it out using a variety of options. 
 Your warriors will have all of the items and plug-ins from your single-player saved game, so the 
 further along that you are, the more powerful your warriors will be. In the event that your warriors 
 are under- or overpowered compared to those of your friends, you can place various handicaps on 
 the match. In addition to the classic battle mode, there's a challenge mode and a bet mode. The 
 first sets a number of goals such as battling without items or using only two of the four warriors, 
 and the second lets you wager some of your items on the outcome of the battle. Battles against 
 a human opponent are far more intense than anything that the single-player game offers. Having 
 to quickly manage attacks and react to a real person speeds up the combat and adds a touch of excitement 
 not found in the rest of the game.          You'll spend most of your time in the 3D world staring 
 at an oddly misshapen 2D sprite.      

  Even if you're a fan of the last Code Lyoko game you'll be disappointed with the underwhelming 
 visuals in Fall of X. A. N. A. The impressive 2D artwork is still there, but it's a waste because 
 most of your time in the game is spent staring at a deformed representation of an already oddly 
 proportioned character as he or she shuffles around a drab environment ripe with texture tearing 
 and fog. The polygonal characters shown in battles fare a bit better, but they suffer from stiff 
 animation. The effects for items and special moves look as if they were taken straight out of an 
 early SNES game. Most of the sounds consist of digital menu bleeps and the shuffling sound of your 
 warrior's feet. Forgettable music loops in the background add to the hypnotic boredom.  

  Code Lyoko: Fall of X. A. N. A. is a dull game. The absence of any real fun or challenge makes it 
 feel less like a game and more like a chore. If you're dying for some Code Lyoko action, the 9 
 to 10 hours that you would spend playing this game would probably be better spent watching a marathon 
 of the show.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Released back in May of 2007, the first Code Lyoko game offered fans of the television series of 
 the same name an opportunity to interact with their favorite characters from the franchise. Now, 
 a bit more than a year later, a sequel has arrived on the Nintendo DS that allows fans to once 
 again jump into the storyline as they fight the never-ending menace known as the X. A. N. A.
  
  Code Lyoko: Fall of X. A. N. A. plays as an interactive version of the show's fourth season, with 
 the main challenges being to find William, who is being held captive somewhere within the digital 
 world of Lyoko, and to defeat the evil virus X. A. N. A. once and for all. Unfortunately, most of 
 this information comes from my own research on the title, as the game itself offers no tutorials, 
 and basically nothing in the way of back-story to help those who are unfamiliar with the show. 
 
  
  Like in the first title, gameplay is once again split between the 2D real world, where our five 
 heroes, Odd, Ulrich, Aelita, Yumi and Jeremy go to school, and the 3D digital world of Lyoko. However, 
 whereas in the first game the 2D school environment played an integral part in the overall gameplay, 
 in Fall of X. A. N. A. it is, for the most part, completely pointless as you are not allowed to explore 
 more than three or four screens, and even then, the only reason you would need to do so is to talk 
 to some of the secondary characters from the franchise, who will chat with you about the school 
 newspaper and other tidbits that would only be truly understood by hardcore fans of the show.
 
  
  Back in the Lyoko world, those who played the first game will notice another striking difference. 
 Where the first Code Lyoko title was essentially a platformer, this time around you are faced with 
 a slow-moving RPG that tries its hardest to be addictive, but falls pretty short.
  
  Movement is achieved solely via the touch screen. By dragging your stylus around the screen, your 
 character will move in the appropriate direction. Not allowing players to use the directional pad 
 to move is an interesting choice to say the least, as any sort of westward movement results in 
 half of the screen being covered by your hand.
  
  Another negative here is the waste of space on the top screen. Since each level in the game is 
 pretty expansive, a map would have been a greatly appreciated addition, but instead, the top screen 
 displays Jeremy (your real world liaison throughout your time in Lyoko) and small pictures of the 
 members within your party.
  
  Throughout each mission, you will run into various enemies which trigger battles that contain standard 
 RPG elements. Battles are turned based, with each character having their own action bar, which 
 must obviously fill before any action can take place. Each character has a different weapon and 
 specialty (for instance, Ulrich is a swordsman, while Aelita fires powerful orbs from her hands) , 
 but your choices for each character are the same: Attack, Power, Function, and Item.
  
  While Attack and Item are pretty self-explanatory, Function and Power deal with each character's 
 specialty and allow you to choose from various special attacks. Function attacks can only be carried 
 out with Jeremy's help, and require the use of FP points, while Power actions require DP (digital 
 points) and can allow for attack boosts, the analysis of an enemy, and so on.
  
  After winning a battle, your characters are awarded experience points, which eventually help them 
 level up into stronger, better defended characters, with eventually being the key word in that 
 statement. Each level may require upwards of 300 experience points to achieve, and with most battles 
 giving out 20 exp or less, it's a task easier said than done.
  
  Aside from battling, your time in the digital world will be spent looking for switches to remove 
 barriers so that you can venture into previously blocked off territory, as well as looking for 
 teleportation circles which achieve the same end. In addition, you can also spend some time finding 
 Data Packs, the digital equivalent of treasure chests, which can contain healing or battle items. 
 And that's essentially it in terms of the single player mode of the game: a very linear storyline 
 that takes place through monotonous and repetitive gameplay.
  
  In terms of multiplayer, there are three different battle modes to choose from, each containing 
 different limits or specifications on battle, but even then, at its core, you're still left with 
 the same, slow-paced, turn by turn action.
  
  Unfortunately, the graphics do little to help the experience. While each character is represented 
 in fair enough quality for a DS title, the environments are lackluster at best, containing, for 
 the most part, a monochrome color pallete and very little in the way of details.
  
  Likewise, the soundtrack within the game is comprised of a few techno tracks stuck on repeat, with 
 the only positive here being the song that plays during battles, which does a fair job at creating 
 tension throughout. Other sound effects are mainly reserved for the menu, filling the game with 
 digital sounding bleeps as you enter commands or the shuffling of your character's feet, as they 
 move throughout the environment. There are other sounds, of course, for example when your character 
 becomes poisoned in battle, or for when an enemy is defeated, but they are all pretty forgettable.
 
  
  In the end, Code Lyoko: Fall of X. A. N. A. takes a complete 180 degree turn from the first game, 
 and comes out worse because of it. Where most sequels try to take the good things from the first 
 titles and improve upon the complaints, Fall of X. A. N. A. instead throws everything good about the 
 first game out the proverbial window. While some of the most diehard fans of the Code Lyoko television 
 series might be able to stand the gameplay here, others should definitely look elsewhere for RPG 
 action on the DS.
  
  Review part of GrrlGamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=codelyokofallofxana 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
