-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Command And Destroy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/commandanddestroy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fun if you like your RTS gameplay 1995-style.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not much fun if you don't like your RTS gameplay 1995-style.
 Password saves!.
 Clumsy controls.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 17, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.7, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 20 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Destination Software
Developer: Cypron
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date: Feb 15, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
With an ancient design and old-fashioned gameplay, Command and Destroy is more like a gust of stale 
 air than a blast from the past. 

  Some might argue that real-time strategy games are not conducive to portable gaming, which is a 
 fair argument given the genre's time-consuming gameplay. Thanks to advances such as quick saves 
 and more action-oriented pacing, though, handheld RTS games have become a viable proposition. It's 
 unfortunate, then, that Command and Destroy features none of the advances that are now considerer 
 standard. This game might have held its own in 1995, but it's downright crusty in 2008.  

           Command and Destroy has all the parts of a solid RTS game from 10 years ago.      

 
  The story, told through scrolling text punctuated by pictures straight out of a high school art 
 class, is a classic alien-invasion tale. The game leaves it up to you to defend Earth as the humans 
 or enslave it as the aliens. Both sides have similar loadouts, though it's a bit easier to play 
 as the aliens because their high-tech gadgetry cuts out a few steps when it comes to resource gathering. 

  There are a total of 24 missions in the game, with 12 for each faction. Each drawn-out level gives 
 you garden variety primary and secondary objectives, which include such things as killing all the 
 enemies, destroying bases, building resources, and completing tasks with only a couple of units 
 at your disposal. Those familiar with the genre should feel right at home. Newcomers, on the other 
 hand, might have a bit of trouble because there is no tutorial or introduction. The game doesn't 
 throw too much at you too fast, but figuring out the gameplay and poor controls without instruction 
 is tough. A read-through of the lengthy manual is almost required.  

  If any system can emulate the mouse and keyboard control in an RTS game, it would be the DS, which 
 is why it's too bad that Command and Destroy botches the controls. There are no onscreen buttons 
 to switch between the different cursors, so instead of relying primarily on the touch screen, the 
 game requires use of both the D pad and face buttons, which results in awkward stylus juggling. 
 The game tries to mimic the feel of a mouse by letting you drag the stylus to select an entire 
 squad or tap on individual commandos, but the selector is often unresponsive. Repeating your commands 
 only makes the stylus juggling worse; it's a vicious cycle of annoyance. Combined with the drawn-out 
 missions, the poor controls help give the game a sluggish feel.  

  The biggest mark against Command and Destroy is its save system. With missions that can last up 
 to an hour and a pace slower than a Sunday evening drive, it's absurd that the game relies on passwords 
 to save your progress. That means if you're interested in playing Command and Destroy over more 
 than one session, you'll need to keep a pencil and paper handy. If you have a friend with the game 
 and a few hours to kill, you could play a slow deathmatch or two. Or you could do something more 
 exciting, like shred documents or watch a screensaver.  

           Because some maps feature impassable terrain, such as mountains or lakes, some black splotches 
 will remain for the duration of the mission.      

  Command and Destroy started out as a Gameboy Advance game, and it shows. You'll spend a lot of 
 time squinting at your DS screen because many of the troops and vehicles are hard to tell apart. 
 Because there's no zoom feature, you'll often select the wrong troop or vehicle for the job. The 
 sound is as forgettable as the visuals. Your troops bark garbled replies to your commands while 
 guns sound tinny and tiny. The random music that pops up during combat also gets old fast.  

  The one word that will likely buzz through your mind when playing Command and Destroy is  generic 
 . From the plain box art and throwaway story to the archaic save system and poor controls, everything 
 about Command and Destroy has been done before -- but better. The DS may not be a hotbed of RTS action, 
 but you should still skip Command &amp; Destroy, even if you find a discarded copy of the game 
 lying on the sidewalk.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: siebe9
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 18, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  Horrible : (
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx 
 Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx 
 Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx 
 Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx 
 Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx 
 Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx 
 Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx 
 Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx 
 Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx Thx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeterD23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Now, I know what your thinking, you'd say "This game is going to be terrible since its got loads 
 of bad reviews!" Well... You are completely wrong. Call me crazy and stick me in the loony bin, 
 but this game is excellent! It resembles Command and Conquer exactly. The gameplay runs exactly 
 the same as Command and Conquer, except without a proper storyline, which is one of its major faults 
 that the reviews probably stuck a score of zero onto.
  I've always wanted a Command and Conquer style game to released on the DS and the closest I got 
 was Advance Wars. Advance Wars on the DS was great, im glad we all agreed to that, but theres one 
 problem. It will never be Command and Conquer since its a Turn Based Strategy. The difference between 
 RTS and TBS is that in an RTS you fight in real time, instead of moving some units a distance, 
 then pressing End Turn only to watch in horror as your units helplessly get munched by a squadron 
 of Megatanks.
  Command and Destroy plays very similarly to Command and Conquer, you start with a Base and a Power 
 Plant, and have to build a Refinery in order to acquire some resources to build more things, like 
 for example a Barracks to build troops.
  As you get further on the game you unlock new stuff, but this is where I reveal its major, major 
 flaw. In Command and Conquer, you would usually pause the game to save just before a massive battle 
 between you and the enemy. Command and Destroy doesn't have this feature. When you win a mission, 
 you get a level code which you have to remember or write down otherwise you have to go through 
 the entire game all over again just to get to where you got to. But there is one way to bypass 
 this, if you are a Supercard DS One owner, like me, you can use Realtime Save to keep your save 
 status, without having to go through the whole game again.
  Back to the progression of technology. As you progress through the game, 
  you unlock new weaponry 
 and buildings to expand your arsenal of power. When you get to Mission 6 as the Humans, you unlock 
 the Launch Pad. I never actually got as far as building the Launch Pad, but what I know is its 
 a Superweapon. Now, in C&C you may remember the GDI Ion Cannon? That was the GDI Superweapon in 
 C&C. The Launch Pad is the Human Superweapon in C&D. Now, I smacked my gob when I discovered what 
 it does! It can deploy 3 fatal weapons: Paratroopers, Plane bombers and Nukes!
  
  You can play as two factions: Humans, if you feel like an easy start and want to defend your home 
 for sime bizarre reason, then I recommend it!
  Aliens: They want to wipe out all human life, for reasons unknown. But they are really weak, as 
 in one Human troop can wipe out 1 & 1/2 Aliens.
  Each faction has 12 missions, with 30 hours of gameplay for each. If you wish to know more about 
 the game, visit Cypron Studios for an overview. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Where most real time strategy games allow players to build and design their own empires, usually 
 by conquering a nation or planet, few let you play the game from both the perspective of the conqueror 
 and the conquered. However, Command & Destroy is one such game that gives players the opportunity 
 to play as both human military commanders and as alien squad leaders.
  
  After choosing your side, you are challenged with a series of missions in a level based format, 
 with 12 missions for each side. Each mission varies in length and in difficulty and can range in 
 tasks from simple repair missions to complex eliminate the enemy objectives.
  
  If you choose the human side, your main goals will be to discover enemy hideouts and eliminate 
 the aliens with the ultimate goal being to protect the planet from an eventual alien invasion. 
 Secondary objectives on the human side normally focus on earning credits by finding oil reserves 
 to power your many vehicles and machines.
  
  Likewise, if you choose the alien side, you will also need to find power for your machinery, but 
 instead of protecting a planet, your main goal will be to wipe out the human race.
  
  Like in most real time strategy games, ground level is viewed from a top down perspective, with 
 the stylus providing most of the controls, while the menu itself is on the top screen. Conveniently, 
 the shoulder buttons allow you to swap the map and the menu locations at will, allowing you to 
 interact directly with the menu by way of the stylus. While one would think that the DS would be 
 a perfect canvas for such games, I am sad to say that the controls were less than perfect in terms 
 of response time, if they responded at all.
  
  For instance, to command your troops, whether alien or human, you tap on an individual soldier 
 and then tap a spot on the map where you would like them to go. However, since the game map is 
 presented on such a small scale, your soldiers end up looking like random globs of blue or green 
 pixels and can be very hard to control.
  
  Under most circumstances, you'll end up tapping too many times, causing your entire army to follow 
 the same command, even if they are desperately needed somewhere else. So, you'll have to take the 
 time to send all of your troops back to their original positions, and you've gained no ground in 
 terms of completing the mission.
  
  After a few missions, this becomes less of a problem, since practice does make perfect, after all, 
 in terms of knowing where the proper tapping locations are, but it is still a frustrating occurrence.
 
  
  That's not to say, however, that the gameplay is terrible or is entirely flawed. Once you get the 
 hang of it, it's actually quite fun to watch your pixilated army attack the enemy. Likewise, exploring 
 new terrain, which is only unlocked once troops are sent there, and building new structures is 
 truly satisfying.
  
  What is flawed, however, is the overall look of the game. While larger buildings on the map look 
 detailed and crisp, in mostly dull colors representing the baron, war-ravaged landscape, the troops 
 themselves are downright tiny, lacking any real detail.
  
  One positive in terms of technical issues is the sound department. The background music is epic 
 and deep, which fits very appropriately with the "War of the Worlds" theme presented in the game. 
 Furthermore, when you are able to accurately command your troops, you are met with a subtle "yes 
 commander", or something similar, voice clip. Now, maybe it's just me, but real voice clips in 
 a budget title came as quite the pleasant surprise.
  
  Another surprising factor was the lack of a game save feature. Instead, gameplay is documented 
 using mission code passwords that let you resume where you left off. While this may not seem like 
 a big deal, it also requires gamers to have a pad of paper nearby at all times to write down codes, 
 making playing while on the go, like on a train or bus, a less convenient option.
  
  In the end, if you can get past the disappointing graphics and finicky controls, Command & Destroy 
 offers enough strategic gameplay to provide enjoyment for the diehard RTS fans among us, but leaves 
 something to be desired for those who are unfamiliar with the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  Two factions with their own strengths and weaknesses, and many troop/vehicle types. Bargain pricetag.
 
  
  The bad:
  Only twelve missions per faction. Basic turtling-up strategy wins nearly every time. Zero story, 
 other than "aliens versus humans, go get 'em!".
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Real-time strategy games are notoriously difficult to translate onto a handheld, as evidenced by 
 the many failures to do so (with the sole recent exception from FF) . One has to wonder why, then, 
 any development company might want to take on the task of trying to do a Command & Conquer clone 
 for the DS? Well, luckily, Cypron Studios and Destination Software have come through with a decently 
 implemented RTS in the thinly-veiled C&C clone, Command & Destroy. If you like Starcraft or C&C's 
 style of play, you will probably like this one as well, since it involves many of the same features 
 and gameplay options: build up a base, put in some defenses, tap into the land's resources to expand, 
 build an army, and wipe out the enemy.
  
  The two factions play differently enough that you don't tire of the gameplay that quickly. The 
 human faction has all the old types of gear and troops you are familiar with (tanks, missile launchers, 
 helicoptors, and so on) , encouraging the player to take out the enemy with brute force. The alien 
 faction is more mind-based, akin to Starcraft's Protoss, in that the vehicles and troops are much 
 easier to kill, but the use of mind powers enable, for example, your troops to convert enemy tanks 
 or men to your side. It involves a slightly different strategy from the humans, but ends up being 
 different enough that you don't feel like like you are just re-playing the human campaign with 
 different-shaped units that do the same things.
  
  The strongest thing about the game is the gameplay itself. Using the stylus as a mouse, one can 
 click on whatever one wants to control, and a menu pops up with available options. Or, by double-clicking 
 a troop, it will cause all identical troops to also be selected. Finally, one can drag a box over 
 a group and take control of them all at once. In other words, the ability to get something on the 
 screen to do what you want it to do is relatively simple and smooth. I never felt like I was out 
 of control of what was happening, and could quickly respond to any emergencies or events that unfolded 
 on the battlefield with ease. Another strong point was that the enemy seemed quick to exploit any 
 weaknesses in my base defenses, homing in on any unprotected buildings and decimating me if I wasn't 
 careful.
  
  The biggest gripes I have about the game are twofold:
  1) The entire set of human missions, and most of the alien missions, can be won by simply building 
 some defense turrets around your buildings, and massing an army to send out to decimate the enemy. 
 There is little reason to ever try chipping away at the enemy, since that stratgey effectively 
 seems to activate their aggressive side, and you are suddenly inundated with wave after wave of 
 tanks. So, if you don't like turtling up, you may find this a bit tedious about halfway through 
 the human missions.
  
  2) The game is far too short. I finished the dozen human missions in one evening's worth of play, 
 and the alien missions in a couple more (it took a little longer to figure out a winning strategy) . 
 In other words, the game ends within two days. I guess that's what you get when the dsitributing 
 company is more interested in selling you a vacation than a video game (try clicking Destination's 
 link to see what I mean) .
  
  In the end, though, if you are craving a Command & Conquer style RTS on your commutes to work, 
 you could do worse than Command & Destroy, at least for the few days it'll take for you to finish.
 
  
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
