-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Commando: Steel Disaster
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/07commando/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great play control.
 Good variety of moves and weapons.
 Vibrant, charming visuals.
 Intense, action-packed gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Difficult to a fault.
 Takes too much inspiration from other games.
 Could have used a bit more variety.
 Enemy screams get annoying.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep  9, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.2, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 70 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: XS Games
Developer: Mana Comp. Soft.
Genre: Shoot-'Em-Up
Date: Aug 25, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Commando: Steel Disaster takes its inspiration from some great side-scrolling action games, but 
 it's too maddeningly difficult to be one itself. 

  Don't let the title fool you; Commando: Steel Disaster has nothing to do with Capcom's long-running 
 series of Commando games. No, this game takes its inspiration from elsewhere. Actually, that's 
 putting it far too gently. It would be more accurate to say that this game shamelessly rips off 
 the Metal Slug series in its gameplay and art design, which will be immediately apparent to anyone 
 who has played one of SNK's cartoony side-scrolling shooters. Still, if you're looking for a series 
 of games to blatantly model your own game on, you could do a lot worse than Metal Slug. Although 
 anything but original, Steel Disaster's gameplay is action-packed. It's just a shame that the outrageous 
 difficulty level often makes the experience more maddening than enjoyable.  

           This boss, like the game itself, can be kind of a jerk.      

  As the heroic Storm, 
 you'll singlehandedly take on the innumerable agents of the evil mastermind Rattlesnake, who is 
 determined to take over the world. The story certainly won't win any points for originality, and 
 the telling of it -- in horrendous, poorly punctuated dialogue presented under static character portraits -- won't 
 win any points for style. Thankfully, you can always skip these sequences and jump right into the 
 action.  

  Storm is agile and has a good variety of moves at his disposal, which makes controlling him a treat. 
 In addition to being able to run, jump, and duck, he has a forward roll that's very useful for 
 dodging enemy fire. And, if enemies make the mistake of getting too close to him, he can dispatch 
 them with a quick slash of his knife. Quick reflexes are a must in this game, and Steel Disaster 
 nicely offers you the option to configure the controls as you see fit, though oddly, you need to 
 complete the first level with the default controls before you can do so.  

  Storm starts each level with an ordinary gun, but there are a number of very cool, powerful weapons 
 to be found throughout the game. These include typical weapons, such as rocket launchers and grenade 
 launchers, as well as more ridiculous weapons, such as the cocktail gun, which shoots massive fireballs. 
 You can carry two guns at a time, but the ammo in all of your special weapons is limited, and you'll 
 want to have at least one powerful weapon on hand when you reach the massive boss at the end of 
 each level. Thus, your choice of what gun to use and when is somewhat of a tactical consideration. 

  The game gets the fundamental action of running to the right and shooting bad guys down very well. 
 The rank-and-file soldiers of Rattlesnake will come at you by ground and by air. They'll pop out 
 from windows and fire at you from rooftops. They'll occasionally send a suicide bomber or sword-wielding, 
 portal-opening ninja after you. The nonstop action will certainly keep you on your toes but there 
 just isn't enough in the way of imposing minibosses, nifty vehicles, cinematic set-piece moments, 
 or anything to make the action truly memorable. Yes, the boss you'll fight at the end of each level 
 is large and very tough, but before you reach him, you'll spend a bit too much of your time just 
 fighting waves of the same faceless grunts and armored vehicles.  

  Steel Disaster is brutally hard. Intense difficulty is par for the course in many run-and-gun shooters, 
 which can be a virtue, but even the toughest of the tough typically give you some meager encouragement 
 in the form of checkpoints, a few extra lives, or maybe a couple of continues. Commando: Steel 
 Disaster is cruel and unforgiving, requiring you to get through each of its extremely challenging 
 levels on just one life. If you die, you must start the entire stage over from the beginning, without 
 exception. Even with the smattering of health and armor power-ups throughout each stage, that's 
 a difficult, often extremely frustrating task. You've got to be a bit of a masochist to like your 
 games this tough. Sure, you'll feel like a champ if you somehow manage to get through the game's 
 five levels, but by then, your spirit will have been beaten to a pulp. If you're really insane, 
 you can then hop into the game's Hard mode, the existence of which seems like a cruel joke.  

 
  The game's graphics are vibrant and attractive. The multilayered backgrounds, weather effects 
 in the foreground, and a near-constant flurry of action onscreen keep things interesting. It's 
 a bit disappointing, though, that all of Rattlesnake's grunts, perhaps taking a page from the handbook 
 of fellow serpentine terrorist organization COBRA, have their faces hidden, making them all identical 
 and without character. And throughout the game, the upper screen of the DS is wasted, displaying 
 a useless map screen. The game's sound is perhaps its least original aspect. The electrifying title 
 theme is copied almost note for note from music composed for a Gundam Wing game. And the enemy 
 soldiers have exactly three screams to accompany their deaths, which quickly become grating.  

 
           So far so good on mission attempt number 47.      

   

  Commando: Steel Disaster isn't a long game, but it will still take quite a long time to complete -- assuming 
 you can complete it at all. The intense difficulty of this game really limits its appeal, which 
 is a shame, because if it were just a tad more forgiving, the solid gameplay would have been a 
 lot more enjoyable.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KTGamer1986
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:55 pm PT
Review:  This was actually my first DS game that I purchased on the night when I first bought it. Truth 
 be told, it is a direct ripoff compare it to the Metal Slug series. However, just because this 
 is a direct ripoff does not necessarily make the game itself look and play bad. The interface design 
 is very similar to some degree as well as the gameplay itself.
  
  While starting the game, it does starts you off driving in a bike while destroying your enemies 
 which comes your way and the music from the title screen is also a direct ripoff from the Heavy 
 Arms theme from Gundam Wing: Endless Duel (which happens to be an SNES import) . Now let me get 
 this straight: some people were saying that this is suppose to be an inspiration of Metal Slug 
 while others say that its a direct "clone" of it. To my opinion, it really doesn't matter. In truth, 
 Contra was before Metal Slug as well as Gunstar Heroes on the Sega Genesis. Hell, years after Metal 
 Slug, there was one game known as Alien Hominid in which its original concept and design was also 
 inspired by these few games. I mean, as long as the game is playable and as long as it functions, 
 this game does deserve a better score than it should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manilove2d
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The Metal Slug and Contra references are undeniable but that's not a bad thing. 
  
  The graphics are very nice and appealing. Gameplay is fun and challenging.
  
  Fully drawn 2D, 
 challenging games are not plentiful these days so this game was a surprise release. After spending 
 time with it, it is quite challenging but not impossible. 
  
  I would agree that it could have been more forgiving like but its not a fault, it just takes more 
 play time to pass the levels. 
  
  The key is to practice each level until you get it right like most 2D games. Checkpoints would 
 have been a good idea, but the lack of them is what makes it a challenge. The way I see it, its 
 like the Arcade shooters older gamers grew up with, and thats a good things also.
  
  Was hoping for a more moves but the gameplay is still satisfying and solid.
  
  Nice background 
 music also but some sound effects are a little too loud.
  
  Overall this game gets a solid 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDopeness
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  Commando: Steel Disaster 
  
  I checked out the maker of this games website and it had dope looking games all over the place 
 i looked into one "bad day LA" it got something like a 3 so i was a little worried. The games a 
 little bit more choppy in the comparison than metal slug 7 and theres a little more slow down. 
 Personally i think there isn't anymore than enough to heighten the experience for dramatic effect 
 but thats just me. Instead of offering the one shot your dead you've got 3 lives approach Commando 
 hooks you up with 99 health with armor along the way for an additional 99. There are a lot of different 
 enemies than in your previous metal slugs and some that are the same. One that i couldn't get enough 
 of was the ninja, along with like 3 other attacks, it can cut a hole in the time space continuem 
 and pop up right above your head for a downward attack goku style. basically every encounter with 
 a ninja is a battle until you get up right next to him and you knock him over with your gun. Each 
 attack for every bad guy effects your life and armor differently. The story kinda sucks i've played 
 through the first level like 10 times read the beginning like 3 of the times and dont remember 
 it at all, but thats okay. Every level will have a completion rating so even after you've collected 
 that red disk 9 previous times the one time you beat the level you missed it so your slapped with 
 a 34.7 total garbage. but after draggin you through the mud your pretty determined to go back and 
 raise it up while your reflex's are still fresh. That other review also said you cant aim diagnal 
 (with any gun besides your heavy machine gun) and thats also true for metal slug 7 which is understandable 
 cuz than air villians would be to easy so its actually a good thing. One thing i did notice is 
 that you dont have any control over your grenades which is kinda wack and you also cant aim up 
 which would drive me insane if we didn't have the... Roll feature whenever you press down a you 
 can roll striaght through incoming bullets if you want to... a little cheesy but i wasn't pro until 
 i mastered it and it kinda gave it a 90's action flick feel to it. Overall this game is tough and 
 it does a lot to actually make you feel like your a single person so you strive to overcome the 
 monotony of trigger placed villains. if you liked my review you might like my music /antumbrarecords 
 backslash me after myspace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KazuyoshiDS
Rating: 1.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Okay, so to start things off, games usually have great preludes, like some kinda cut scene which totally 
 sucks you in right before the first d-pad button you've pressed or the first stylus touch you've 
 touched. 
  
  So like, this game has a crap first scene, the main character's at this.. snowy place with this girl, who 
 just tells you something about this weapon which should supposedly for you gone haywire, and is 
 attacking this lab. The girl then tells the main character to destroy it. Why he asks, why? Why? 
 Oh god, is the main character retarded or something? Cause the thing's attacking your base for god's 
 sake! So anyway, he just sprung into action, as in, you get into the 2D battlefield right away, 
 no other cut scene, no nothing, you just get in there and bust the opposing enemies' head wide open 
 -- Metal Slug style, that's right, Metal Slug style. In that moment of idiocy, I was like, What. The. Hell? 
 The controls in this game are sluggish and "unnatural" to the fingers, if you know what I mean. 
 I stopped and turned off my DS as soon as I went on foot combat. 
  
  Now, for the other idiotic part of this game -- it's difficulty, sure, it gives you 99hp and 99armor (if 
 you can get the pick-up upgrade) , IF. Okay, each starting soldier shoots you once, you deduct 20hp. 
 Imagine a whole lot of enemy soldiers ganging your ass, try surviving that, since this game copies 
 literally everything from Metal Slug,'cept for the cut scenes which Metal Slug doesn't have. 
 
  
  So the conclusion: Get this game, if you wanna waste your cash; better still, I'd rather burn my 
 cash than getting this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
