-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Contra 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/contra4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Addictively challenging level designs.
 Awesome boss fights.
 Tons of great extras, including two unlockable classic Contra games.
 Great mix of nostalgia and new content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Difficulty level is rage-inducing at times.
 It's a short game.
 No multiplayer in the older Contra games, and only multicard play for the DS game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.4, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 734 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: WayForward
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's mean, it's intense, it's difficult, and it's a raucous good time. In a nutshell, it's Contra. 
 

  Contra 4 is awesome. And it is awesome in exactly the same ways as the classic games that bear 
 the crest of Contra. Contra 4 is also mean. And it is mean in exactly the same ways as its forebears. 
 That's perhaps a longwinded way to say, "Contra 4 is totally Contra," but regardless, the point 
 remains. From its slavish dedication and great execution of the "run to the right, shoot stuff, 
 don't get shot" formula, to its utterly ludicrous difficulty, Contra 4 is not a game for the easily 
 vexed, but it is one for anyone who loves a challenging shooter.  

           Bill and Lance, vile aliens, spread gunsyep, it's a Contra game.      

  While the 
 numerical designation of "4" might not exactly be true, Contra 4 feels like more of an honest to 
 god sequel to the classic Contra games as anything in recent memory. Part of that is thanks to 
 developer WayForward's apparent deep, deep love of all things Contra. If you remember the classic 
 arcade and NES games, you'll remember a lot of what goes on here. From the reuse of notable Contra 
 heroes Bill and Lance (or Scorpion and Mad Dog, if you prefer) , to the healthy smattering of classic 
 Contra weaponry (the machine gun, the flamethrower, the ever-popular spread gun) , and the subtle 
 (and occasionally not-so-subtle) references to levels and bosses of Contra yesteryear, Contra 4 
 feels like a celebration of the franchise's heyday, a return to what made the series so fantastic 
 in the first place.  

  And it holds up better than you might think. The developers took few, if any, risks with the formula 
 here, turning in a gameplay design that just feels like a souped-up, two-screened version of 16-bit-era 
 Contra. You run to the right, occasionally run up (in a nod to the behind-the-back levels from 
 the original Contra) , and just shoot every bit of vile alien scum that crosses your path while 
 picking up some of the baddest guns around. The level designs here are top flight in every way. 
 There's just enough nostalgia sprinkled in to send the fans into giggle fits, but at the same time, 
 none of this stuff feels rehashed. These levels manage to feel new and exciting, even if they are 
 just based on an age-old formula, while the boss fights are some of the most intense action you're 
 going to find on the DS, period.  

  Intensity is really the name of the game here, and it's likely that it's going to be too much for 
 some. More than perhaps any Contra game before it, Contra 4 is  hard . Almost excruciatingly so. 
 Normal difficulty is like some kind of cruel joke. Enemies and bullets appear from every which 
 direction, often hanging out in the exact spot you're about to jump to or the area you'd most likely 
 run to in order to duck certain death. Keeping yourself alive is as much about memorization of 
 enemy attack patterns as it is about any measure of quantifiable skill. You get multiple continues 
 if you happen to run out of lives on a given stage, but once you're out of continues, you start 
 the game anew. Granted, this isn't an especially long game, but the odds of players blowing through 
 this thing on their first, second, or even third sittings hover somewhere around the zero mark. 
 To be fair, the game is extremely up front about its toughness, frequently mentioning the challenges 
 you'll face and even making it abundantly clear that easy mode doesn't include the last two levels 
 of the game. The difficulty itself feels almost like an in-joke for the fans. While it's bound 
 to frustrate a number of people, those who can stomach it will persevere and enjoy themselves a 
 great deal.  

  Though Contra might be a relatively short game, it sure doesn't skimp on the extras. This year 
 is Contra's 20th anniversary, and in celebration of that fact, the game comes with a ton of extra 
 content. Granted, you can't get too much of it until you unlock the challenge mode (which you can 
 do by beating the game on any difficulty level, including easy mode) and start beating the game's 
 challenges. These are all stand-alone level pieces that task you with everything from surviving 
 an enemy onslaught to getting from one end of a level to the other without the aid of a gun. Easier 
 said than done. But once you do get a few challenges completed, you'll unlock everything from additional 
 characters and developer interviews to playable NES versions of Contra and Super C.  

  The only real bummer about those unlockable titles is that they don't come with multiplayer functionality. 
 Contra was always a better game when you had both a blue  and  a red guy onscreen shooting at once. 
 Without that, these older titles lose a bit of their appeal -- not all of it, of course, but some. 
 Contra 4, fortunately, does include multiplayer for two players, and that is, in fact, awesome. 
 The only disappointment is that it's only for multicard play -- no download option.  

           The gameplay is mostly straight up, no-nonsense Contra style shooting with few wrinkles 
 in the formula, but old-school fans will feel right at home.      

  Contra 4 might not be one of the more immediately striking DS games you'll ever see, but while 
 the game might mostly just look like a 16-bit game on heavy doses of performance-enhancing drugs, 
 there's a lot of eye candy to be found the deeper you go into it. Whether it's the cool-looking 
 backgrounds or the absolutely crazy-looking bosses, at nearly every turn, there is one impressive 
 visual moment or another. The only real bummer is that periodically, the separation between the 
 two screens causes some issues, like bullets you can't really see popping onto whichever screen 
 you happen to be occupying. Audio is also quite enjoyable, from the "inspired by the classics" 
 soundtrack to the goofily fantastic voice samples from the various heroes, such as "Lock and load!" 
 or "Let's party!"  

  It's possible that Contra 4 might have benefited from a few updates to the design formula and maybe 
 a drop in the difficulty by a half-notch or so, but those quibbles aside, the fact remains that 
 Contra 4 is great at being a Contra game. There is no pretense here about the game being anything 
 but an intensely difficult shooter, as well as a great piece of fan service, and it delivers on 
 that promise. Contra fans and shooter fans in general would do well to pick this one up. It's a 
 blast.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (57 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: thebuckeye08
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:37 am PT
Review:  This game is very hard, even on the easiest difficultcy, but yet one of the best game on the ds.
 
  
  Without a doupt this game looks, and sounds great.
  Good amount of weapons to choose from.
  After completing the game (on any difficultcy) you unlock 
 missions, and if completed you can unlock bonus stuff.
  
  The thing that made me extremely mad, wasnt death, and having to start over, but it was this one 
 thing that when i beat it on easy, it wouldnt let me play the last 2 levels.
  
  Another thing was, easy is way to easy, i mean after a month i could defeat easy without using 
 1 life throught the game, but when i went on normal it was way to hard.
  
  This game will make you mad, and very frustrated, but yet your be begging for more.
  
  This 
 game has everything you could expect from a ds game, and now everyone cant wait for contra 5 (if 
 there will be one) but anyway, this is a must for any ds gamer, and who doesnt have anger problems. LOL.
 
  
  Great game, and if you get this, good luck, this is one of the few ds games that your be playing 
 for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mario_Dan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 24, 2009 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Due to restrictions on Terms of Use, my original review is only available on the next page (spanish) :
 
  
  http://mariodan. wordpress. com/2009/01/24/revision-contra-4/
  
  This is a translation trough Google Translate (too lazy to do it my self) 
  
  Good Things
 
  
  * Good material to unlock.
  * Good content as enemies and retro music.
  * Includes "Contra" and "Super C" (Contra II) from NES.
  
  Bad Things
  
  * The extremely 
 high difficulty could demoralize some players.
  * The version of "Contra" and "Super C" have no multiplayer mode.
  
  The veteran players know 
 the insurance saga Contra, Super soldiers faced alien hordes passing through several stages until 
 it reaches the head of the invasion. The game takes place in 2D side view as the predecessors of 
 the saga, although there are scenarios where the perspective is back to the style of the first 
 "Contra", collecting powers, eliminating monstrous enemies and defeating bosses at the end of each 
 level . Players who have not had the opportunity to know the saga may be an idea if you know the 
 saga of Metal Slug.
  
  The game will present quite a bit from previous deliveries, as enemies, weapons, music and one 
 another with head touches graphics. Whereas it is a way of commemorating 20 years of this saga 
 does not reduce its value to the game and I am sure the fans will enjoy all these details and refinements.
 
  
  With regard to major changes in the gameplay is that the action takes place on both screens of 
 the DS screen as if it were a single (by analogy to the original arcade version) , the principle 
 is a little getting used to watch the events from a screen with respect to the other but with a 
 little practice will exceed even the "dead space" between the two screens (a screen space that 
 separates the other) . To facilitate mobility between the two displays the character now has a harpoon 
 that will allow you to adhere to certain areas to advance. All weapons now have two levels of power, 
 such as weapon "F" (Flare) at its first level will have the effect it had on "Contra" (a ball game 
 that revolves slowly) , while in the second level will the effect of "Super C" (a great ball game 
 that the contact is divided into 4 balls other game damaging nearby enemies) .
  
  Unlike other versions, this has a way of "challenges" which must meet different types of missions 
 such as eliminating certain amount of enemies in a certain time to reach the target using a prototype 
 weapon with limited shooting of time or simply have a 1-1 duel with the head of one of the levels. 
 But do not think all this will not have its rewards, to be completing a number of missions will 
 be released concerning the galleries saga Contra, images, characters, interviews and even the first 
 games of the series that came out for the NES, "Against "and" Super C ".
  
  Yet the title is not very friendly for any player, the difficulty is extremely high (typical of 
 the series) , which will be submitted to die frequently. Only through experience and a bit of memory, 
 can evade the obstacles and develop strategies to overcome the levels with the least possible risk.
 
  
  There is also a multiplayer mode but it requires a copy of the console, and most unfortunate of 
 all is that the versions of "Contra" and "Super C" does not have multiplayer. Is was very difficult 
 to make an NES game as downloadable content or at least every player with a copy of the game? I 
 do not think so, and I think many people would have liked.
  
  Contra 4 I see it as a focused way for fans of the series that will tolerate and deal with its 
 advanced difficulty and enjoy the details and rewards in the game. This does not mean that it is 
 a bad option for those not familiar with the saga, the game has enough action to master challenges, 
 good graphics and music, and tenlo assured that even if you are very good for the game will have 
 to return several times able to dominate the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh811a
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 12:40 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting a long time for a new Contra sequel and my wait finally paid off in full. This 
 series is more than 20 years old and it's still kicking alien butt and 17 whole years since a new 
 Contra sequel (yeah that long) ; Not since "Contra 3: The Alien Wars" has there been another true 
 Contra sequel yeah there were semi sequels for the series, three of them were great (Operation 
 C for Game Boy if that really counts, Contra: Hard Corps for Genesis, and Contra: Shattered Soilder 
 for PS two) but as I said their semi sequels they don't entirely count, well now Konami has finally 
 gotten back to the jist of the franchise and it doesn't disapoint.
  
  The plot is pritty much the same typical Contra plot, the series was never really known for a deep 
 story so it's not too important but if you want to know then read this (it does have a pritty cool 
 cutscene) . Takes place after the 3 game evil alien warlord Red Falcon is dead but a new alien warlord 
 has taken his place his name is Black Viper and he and his alien force want the Earth for his own. 
 So you play as one of the four male commandoes from the series (why the hell can't the series have 
 some feime fatale characters does it always have to be an all male fest, let alone they didn't 
 include the female comando from "Hard Corps" and "Shattered Solider" oh well that's not imporatant) 
 to as always kick evil alien butt. That's it's all you need to know, with games like this you just 
 simply press start, play the game and don't die.
  
  I love the fact that for this sequel they kept it true to it's roots by keeping the gameplay intact, 
 which was what always made the game fun and the series sucessful in the first place, and they didn't 
 try to do anything experimental or fancy which I felt would of been a bad risk let alone unecessary, 
 so in short gameplay is as usual solid, simple and fun but most of all it all feels right. Graphics 
 are very good, well detailed backgrounds and level design they even redesigned three of the level 
 segments from the first game to pay homage/tribute to the first game that started this legendary 
 series (even loved the fact they brought back that 3-D shooting segment which I always loved and 
 missed in the series) . Though the highlight in the designs are always the bosses which are intimidating 
 and big I'm not kidding like that second level boss man that boss made me a bit nervious. Not much 
 in new features except that you have a "Batman" like rope gun that can elevate you up when needed 
 but what's cooler is the fact you can upgrade the weapons you carry making them more powerful and 
 yourself almost unbeatable by simply collect that same weapon that your currently carrying again, 
 so that's awdsome.
  
  And as usual the soundtrack is awdsome and memorable, the video game soundtrack was always one 
 of the best things about the series. I really loved how the remixed a few of the old songs from 
 the past games, they sound even better than before. 
  
  Yeah I know what a lot of newbies are probably saying, "Man this game is too hard" well I have 
 only one response to that comment, tough. Hard difficulty comes with the territory of the Contra 
 series, every Contra fan/vetern knows there are always innherant risks that come with the series 
 so like myself were all use to this kind of difficulty this game offers. So those that are newbies 
 or not seasoned enough in video games I have to warn you, you will be suffer constant frustration 
 (I know I did first time I played the series when I was 8 years old) so you can't stand the heat 
 you better stay out of the kitchen. 
  
  But usually when I died in this game it was because I made a simple misstep, one I could of easily 
 of avoided. And it's true what most people have said that this game is harder than the other Contras 
 mainly because it's a little longer than the past one, it has nine levels of difficulty. I'll admit 
 that is what makes the game a real buttkicker by my skill standards and that's the reason I love 
 it. With a game like this you have to take your time and practice constantly, each of the obsticles 
 are at least one step ahead of you so you can't expect to get it right the first time. But don't 
 fret each of the levels you accually can beat easily, like in all hard games the principle is always 
 "it's easy if you know how" if you analize and memorize each of the level patterns corrects then 
 you'll know all of the right places to stand and the right times to hit. I can get though each 
 of the levels without dying once, well at least not as many times as before; but trust me it's 
 possible and hey who doesn't like a chalange.
  
  And finally the rating that I've given this game and what I'm about to say may seem contrivercial 
 but Contra 4 is my favorate Contra game in the series (at least for now until there might be a 
 few more possble sequels in the future) . 
  Contra 4 is rearmed and reloaded and proves this series hasn't ran out of ammo yet.
  
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Contra 4 is arguably, the most fun I have had with the classic run-and-gun franchise by Knoami. 
 Contra 4 is a game that surprisingly makes a solid use of the DS's unique two-screen interface 
 system, and adds even more of the rush and intensity to the old-school Contra carnage. Contra 4 
 has brought an aging, yet beloved franchise, back to it's roots, and the remedy has come with thumbs 
 up.
  
  Two years after the events of Contra III, and three years before: Contra: Hard Corps, in the year 
 of 2638, Bill Riser and Lance Bean return to discover a new race of ailens named: Black Viper, 
 launch attacks on the human race, and strange readings are detected back at Galuga archipelago 
 (the setting in the first Contra game) , that these ailens mean business. It's up to Bill Rizer 
 and Lance Bean to put a stop to the deadly Black Viper. Looking at the storyline of Contra 4 in 
 a non-critical light, it is a uninteresting, cliche B movie plotline, and is the usual story of 
 the Contra games, but Contra 4 approaches its narrative with the same dramatic, dark and cinematic 
 bite that made Contra classics like Contra III such a hit. Contra 4 sucessfly reincarnates the 
 big, booming sound effects of Contra III on the NES, and the text-based dialouge of the NES adds 
 more to the punch. It's nice to know Contra 4 hasn't forgotten a compelling way to add life to 
 a plain story.
  
  Contra 4's core gameplay is classic run-and-gun Contra, and the unique DS touch screen interface 
 adds to the intesity of the action. Contra 4 does raise some new ideas which were not in the orginials, 
 as the pick-up-new-weapon, drop-new-weapon mechanic. Contra 4's gameplay restores everything that 
 made Contra so great, and puts the player on the edge of their seat, focusing on everything and 
 trying not to get hit. There are some aspects of Contra 4's gameplay which do feel a bit dated 
 and old, but, for the most part, Contra lends itself to the DS well, making it arguably the most 
 rivetting DS title yet. Contra 4 nails the fast yet strategic gameplay, that Contra will continue 
 to be rewnowned for.
  
  Overall, Contra 4 is pure Contra, and puts a considerably dying franchise back on it's feet. There 
 are some areas of Contra 4 which feel clunky and old, but, Knoami have provided the biggest thrillride 
 on the DS yet with Contra 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raptomex
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Like the previous Contras that follow the storyline, Contra 4, in my opinion, is the best. If you've 
 played Contra III: The Alien Wars then you'll find Contra 4 much like that one. Actually, it's 
 pretty much just a continuation of Contra III except this time you get a grapple.
  
  Contra 4 features 9 levels in all. If you play the game on the "easy" difficulty, you will only 
 be allowed to go up to and complete level 7. You must beat the game on the "normal" or "hard" difficulty 
 to complete the end of the game. It kind of sucks (especially because the game is so hard, even 
 on "easy") but the good thing is regardless what difficulty you beat the game on, you unlock "Challenge 
 Mode", a series of 40 challenges to test your Contra skills. And completing these challenges will 
 unlock even more content. Being a game that celebrates the series' 20th anniversary, the bonus 
 content is awesome.
  
  As stated before, if you've played Contra III you won't expect anything too much different except 
 a grapple and weapon upgrades. The graphics are much improved and the music is classic. The game 
 is colorful, exciting, and full of non-stop, fast-paced action. The only difference between the 
 commandos is their name and the color of their clothes. But each commando had a role in past Contra 
 games.
  
  Contra 4 is old-school style. A side scrolling shooter. But that makes classic. Choose a commando, 
 lock and load, and shoot aliens. With that stated, the aliens and bosses are awesome. Challenging, 
 but awesome.
  
  There aren't many negative things in Contra 4. It's really about preference. If there was something 
 you didn't like in the prequels then you probably won't see any improvement in Contra 4. Those 
 who have played past games, I assume we can all agree that the one thing with the Contra series 
 is that it's very, very, very, very, very, hard. And Contra 4 is no exception. One shot kills like 
 all the rest. You get hit, you die. You lose all your lives, you can choose to continue and restart 
 the level. You lose all your "continues", you restart the game. Contra 4 is just as hard and frustrating 
 as the others, maybe even more so.
  
  Overall Contra 4 is a classic sequel to an epic series. A series that's so hard but manages to 
 suck you in for the classic 2D side scrolling, face-paced action. Run, jump, aim, shoot, destroy. 
 That's all there is to it. Lock and load. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarDog1994
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Story: Contra 4 is set in the year 2638, Black Viper has taken over Earth, and Bill Rizer, Lance 
 Bean, Mad Dog, and Scorpion are the only ones that can stop him. Time to go back where it all started, 
 Galuga.
  
  
  
  Gameplay: Contra 4 is a return to what made Contra great. Side-scrolling, spread shot shooting, 
 explosive ACTION! Many games on the DS have gimmicky touch screen controls, not Contra, everything 
 you do you use buttons. Contra 4 also has many extras, if you beat the game even on easy you get 
 Challenges, and after beating these you can get extra characters, music, and best of all, you can 
 play the full version of Contra, and Super C, both of them with there codes, and it actually has 
 quite a nostalgic feeling, because it uses both screens like there one, just like the arcade version, 
 but that also is a problem, because sometimes there may be a enemy in the space you cant see, and 
 missiles sometimes stop there. Luckily, it isn't too bad.
  
  
  *notice how the pics dont match up right*
  
  Presentation: What I really like about Contra 
 4's presentation, is that its graphics don't try to go 3-D like it did on the last couple Contra 
 games. It looks a lot like Contra III which is really cool to me, and the music is really nice, 
 because it is the same as the first one except it has more detail. (is that the right word?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MINI-SLASH
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  Ah.. nothing like FRESH AGGRAVATION!
  
  Contra is a really great, addicting, relentless, and overall challenging game. The object is simple. 
 Make it all the way to the right side of the screen without getting hit. You get about 10 lives, 
 1 hit kills. It's a very hard game just by itself. There are two different games you can unlock 
 (Super C, Original Contra) So in total there are three games: Contra 4, Contra, Super C. There 
 is also a selection of about 6 or 7 characters, which don't really have different attributes. This 
 game also features lots of artwork you can unlock by playing Challenge Mode. The gameplay is pretty 
 solid. There are several guns to use from flames to lasers. 
  There really isn't much to say. basically all that you have is a bunch of levels with hordes of 
 insane enemies, one to three unforgiving bosses on a level and the 10 lives which should only get 
 you about halfway through if you try your absolute hardest, plus 3 continues.
  There really isn't much else I can say. Two soldiers fighting aliens and other soldiers, giant 
 monsters, tiny monsters, you get the picture. It's an incredibly frustrating game that will make 
 you cry and laugh, and want you snap your DS's screens in half, but you'll be playing it for hours 
 upon hours almost nonstop. 
  Take it from me, and a lot of other people. This game is definitely worth a buy. You'll laugh, 
 cry, go on a rampage across your own house, etc. It really is fun. BUT MAN!!! I AM GONNA DESTROY 
 THIS DS!!!
  
  Konami was at some E3 once upon a time, and they got questioned about having a 3D based game and 
 not a side scrolller 
  To that they said "Its time for revenge. Let's attack aggressively"
  (I probably messed up that 
 quote) 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Both Contra and Super C were the best 2D shooters back in the NES days, and since then they're 
 still considered to be among the best sidescrollers of all time.
  
  Many different sequels and spin-offs were released since then, some were great, some were outrageously 
 bad. But if you have ever thought that the long-running series of Contra are done for, try Contra 
 4, because it stands among the best sequels ever.
  
  The game can be hard and unforgiving to those who are unfamiliar with the previous titles, even 
 on the easiest difficulty. But c'mon, it's Contra, it's supposed to be this hard. And yeah, the 
 game is very rewarding. New characters, comic scans, the history of all contra games, additional 
 40 missions and, of course, the original Contra and Super C games. Yeah, both NES classics are 
 included in the game, though they need to be unlocked.
  
  As for the 40 additional missions - they're all quite different, with tasks like "finish the stage 
 in a required amount of time" and "finish the stage without being hurt at all". Some of them are 
 even harder than the main game, but in the end it'll be worth finishing all of them, because the 
 vast amount of the extra content can be unlocked only through missions.
  
  The gameplay itself is, well, Contra-esque. Lots of enemies, lots of guns and giant bosses, that 
 spread themselves onto both screens of the console. All that is spiced up with great visuals and 
 an kick-ass soundtrack.
  
  Both screens of the console are used in the game, but the touch-based controls aren't featured 
 at all. You can use the stylus in the main menu, but it's just an alternative to the d-pad.
  
  The guns are aquired the same way as in the classic Contra games. This time the game allows 
 you to carry two different types of weapons, and you can switch between them whenever you need. 
 Also, you can upgrade your current weapon by taking the same weapon-symbol as the one you're holding. 
 For example, if you have a spread gun - it fires only 3 shots at a time, but after the upgrade 
 it turns into a standard 5-shot version from the previous titles, the most useful weapon ever.
 
  
  Visually the game looks amaizing. It's pure 2D, and the animations are very smooth and detailed. 
 The music is, as said above, kicking ass all the way through the game. Some of the themes are new 
 and sound as solid as previous Contra tracks, but the others are remixes of the old ones, and damn, 
 they never sounded so good before.
  
  The game's plot is mainly about a group of the best soldiers on earth fighting back an alien invasion. 
 It's set two years after Contra III, and three years before Contra: Hard Corps. The main setting 
 of the game is, once again, the Galuga archipelago, the setting of the original Contra. Main characters 
 are, once again, Bill Rizer (the blue one) and Lance Bean (the red one) . The additional characters 
 are opened via completing the extra missions, and they consist of familiar faces from the earlier 
 Contra games.
  
  Basically, Contra 4 is a game that consists of the very best elements of the previous titles, with 
 an addition of some favorable twists to it. This basically makes the game the best in the whole 
 series, and by that I mean possibly the best 2D shooter ever. If you're still asking yourself about 
 getting the game, I have an answer - just do it. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Snake24k
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 28, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  Since the original "Contra" for the NES, gamers have been chiping away at seemingly impossible 
 levels in this series of games. Since then have been many sequels that are just as hard, if not 
 harder, than the original. From Super C, Contra 3, and the 2 PS2 Contra games, the series has been 
 slowly expanding. 
  Now Konami has created the most addicitive and worthwhile Contra game around. Contra 4 starts out 
 with just the option to play Contra 4 on any difficulty and the gallery of the Contra games of 
 old. I would like to say I was prepared for the game, but it took me a long time to be able to 
 beat it even on easy. Contra 4 has reverted to its 2D roots, which makes it all the more appealing. 
 The game features great level design, though I have some camplaints about the part in the harbor 
 level where you have to hold on to the rocket handles... but thats because Im a sissy. This game 
 is not for casual gamer, unless the casual gamer is in the mood to get murdered by the game.
  Extras and Unlockables is an area where this game exceeds. It features a challenge mode where you 
 complete objectives such as completeing portions of levels quickly, surviving an onslaught of enemies, 
 and using special guns to complete missions. Completing these challenges unlocks extra characters 
 to play as, Contra, and Super C.
  The conclusion of this review is that this game will appeal to hardcore gamers and fan of the old 
 Contra games. If you are a casual gamer who wants to hone their 2D gaming skills and want to have 
 a high mark to reach, dont hesitate to pick up Contra 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtleworm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I admit it. This was my first Contra game. I don't regret it though, because this is the best Contra 
 game I've played to date.
  
  Contra 4 throws you against a wall and keeps you there. The game is hard, so hard, it took me a 
 week to beat Easy mode, and months to beat Hard. This game makes you start over to the beginning 
 when you die, and all enemies kill you in one hit.
  
  This is the first game in which if I got frusterated, instead of taking a break, I'd play the hell 
 out of it again until I beat the damn game. That's how addicting this game is.
  
  With a load of features, it just gets better. Challenge mode, new playable characters, and even 
 the first 2 Contra games are unlockable! How many other games can promise that much?
  
  All in all, this game is a hidden cult classic masterpiece. It's pretty expensive currently, but 
 still buy it. It's worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4EverGreen
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 12:42 am PT
Review:  Let me just start off by saying that this game isn't just hard, it's REALLY hard! And it's not 
 just really hard, it's AMAZINGLY hard! And it's not just amazingly hard, it's so blisteringly hard 
 that scientists had to invent a new form of math just to figure out how hard it is! This game is 
 REALLY, TRULY, DEFINITLY NOT for the novice gamer! I consider myself a seasoned player, and even 
 I found this game to be hard. There is no telling how many times I died on the Normal Level or 
 even on the Easy Level! I didn't even attempt the Hard Level, that's how hard it is! This game 
 definitely means that there will be dying. And when I say dying, I mean a LOT of dying! On the 
 normal difficulty level, a lot of trouble can be saved by performing the Konami Code once two weapons 
 have been picked up and put into weapon slots. Just don't use the Code when the weapons are already 
 maxed or use them more than once in a stage level. It's not so much that the enemies themselves 
 are hard to destroy, its just that there's a lot of them! And when I say a lot of them, I MEAN 
 a lot of them! And they are always shooting to kill whichever character that is picked, which can 
 be killed in just one blow! If that's not challenging, I don't know what is! Yet for the dedicated 
 gamers, they richly reap the benefits of being great video game players! For every four challenges 
 in the challenge mode that is beaten, another new thing is unlocked in the "Contra 4" video game! 
 Including five additional playable characters, two "Contra" comics, a "Contra" museum listing every 
 single "Contra" video game that's ever been released, and even unlockable versions of the NES game 
 originals, "Contra," and "Super C," and even THOSE are hard! With patience and effort though, the 
 game can be beat and most of the challenges can be completed. It just takes a lot of time and patience, 
 so be prepared to spend some time with this game, because it's not for the faint of heart! I however, 
 proved my skills and enjoyed this game! That's why I wrote this review! :idea: Enough said! ;) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memphis5280
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably one of the best non Nintendo made game for the DS period, and it fills a 
 hole (games for people between 14-36) in the DS's lineup. But first things first; this game is 
 HARD. HARD and most people that are not gamers are going to have a really tough time getting into 
 a game of this magnitude. Most gamers that don't remember putting passcodes into games to get their 
 save files are going to have a tough time with this game (What do you mean I can't save????) and 
 even gamers that fill both of those requirements are going to have a tough time with this game.
 
  But the price is worth it, with great level design and weapons this game is probably the best 
 shooter on the DS, and a great reminder of days long gone
  
  Overall-8.9
  Graphics-7, it is a real shame that they can't make a game like this in true 3-d
  gameplay-9
 
  sound-8, but be prepared for a flashback
  control-8
  replay value-9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:06 pm PT
Review:  There have been many Contra games in the series. There's been Contra, Super C, Contra Force, Contra 
 3, Operation C, Hard Corps, and more. Out of all of the Contra games, there's only one game that is 
 worthy enough to be called Contra 4. Because Contra has been around for so long, the game can have 
 many unlockables, such as the first two Contra games released on the NES (Contra and Super C) . In 
 order to actually unlock things, you have to beat the game to unlock the challenge mode. After beating 
 some of the challenges, you unlock items like comics, extra characters, and more. Some of the challenges 
 are near impossible, but you can probably squeeze through for most of the time. I have. The main game 
 is hard and fun at the same time. There are several weapons like the machine gun, spread shot, flame 
 gun, laser, and the crush gun. You can collect the gun twice and it gets upgraded. For example, the 
 machine gun will shoot out two bullets for one shot instead of one. This game is hard because of 
 all the enemies flying up your ass the whole time! The game does have a vehicle to use in the first 
 level. You know the mini boss, who's in the spaceship on the rail? Well if you kill the person while 
 you have a grappling rail on screen, then hook onto that and jump into the vehicle where their plan 
 backfires and winds up kicking their ASS! There are a 9 levels in this game. Of course, the aliens 
 are saved until the last two levels. My favorite level is level 7 because you come to the Earth 
 city and kick some ass. There are giant bugs that pick you up, and some half human/half dogs and 
 more aliens to kill. There is also a motorcycle part, too in this level. All in all, Contra 4 is a 
 really fun and challenging game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyGamingNerd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Ok, First of all... Konami has done many awesome games for almost all the consoles. Metal Gear, castlevania 
 and Contra games.
  But now to Contra 4.
  
  This game is amazing, the graphics are very good, there are tons of unlockable things and awesome 
 boss fights... i would give this game a 10.0.. but theres only one reason why i dont give it a 10.0. The 
 Arcade is too short. It could have 15 levels. Thats why i give it a 9.5. But that doesent mean its 
 not a good game! This game is like the best ds game ive ever played.. and you know whats much more 
 better? my bro owns this game too, we have lots of fun playing this together.
  
  Many people complain about how UBER-difficulty this game is.. well their actually right, this game 
 is very, very hard. Contra 4 is like "Real mans game". But thats ok for me, I already completed it 
 on medium, and im getting better all the time.
  So, if you want a good action/shooter game, then contra 4 is for you. You wont be dissapointed.
 
  Now, whats very weird is that Contra 4 hasnt come to Europe. why hasnt it come to europe? I had to 
 buy this game via Ebay from hong kong, because this game hasnt come to europe and its been in USA 
 for like 7months?!
  All europeans. You must buy this game at Ebay or some other Web shop because i have the feeling 
 that this game never comes to europe. Ninja gaiden dragon sword came out in usa in march, here in 
 europe it came right now 26.6.2008.... So why hasnt contra 4 came out yet?
  
  Thank you for reading -HappyGamingNerd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicthemegaman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  Contra 4 is an old-school side-scrolling shooter in which you and a friend can team up against 
 an evil alien army. As the series is known for, Contra 4 is painfully hard at times. It's not impossible 
 to beat but, it's still hard. Though Contra has a faithful fan base, there is nothing especially 
 new in Contra 4. I guess the point I'm trying to make is that Contra has been done before. There 
 are of course power-ups and extra that enhance the game play. All in all, not much can be said 
 about Contra 4. The music, graphics, sound effects, and game mechanics are all what you'd expect. 
 If your new to Contra, this may not be for you though, I can't think of anywhere recent in which 
 you can get good first Contra experience so you're better of renting but, die-hard fans will be 
 hard-pressed to find real negatives in Contra 4. If anything, the game is pretty short so get it 
 at a bargain price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myviewing
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Theoretically, the idea of one man facing an entire alien armada should be an impossibility that 
 is best left in the hands of Master Chief. What Halo wishes to tell us gamers is that it is impossible 
 to save the human race without the ability to heal by sitting tight and waiting while having some 
 mindless lower-than-you soldiers to do your dirty work. To be fair however, capturing this feeling 
 in any form of entertainment, be it books, movies, music, even video games. There is, however, 
 one series that has managed to come very close to achieving this feeling of fool-hardiness and 
 epic scales That title, goes to Contra. 
  
  Debuting in the arcades in 1987 and hitting the home consoles in 1988, Contra became a well-received 
 game for its action-packed shooting, and two-player simultaneous game play, an uncommon feature 
 for its time. What Konami wanted to remind you in this title though, is that facing an alien armada 
 by ones self is the thing of godly proportions that few man alive could possibly achieve since 
 one hit from anything and no exceptions, would result in you losing a life. You only got three 
 lives, die and you return to where you were before, and three continues and the only way to get 
 them back was to get a high enough score to earn one. 
  
  Despite being nominated as the #1 hardest game by many gaming enthusiasts even to this day, beating 
 the game was something that could be achieved with enough hard work and dedication. Contra probably 
 is the hardest known game to date, but it is also because of this that it has gone on to be recognized 
 as a classic by many hardcore gamers. Unlike some classics, this one got sequels though, such as 
 Super C, Operation C, Contra III on the SNES, it would even go on to make a crappy 3D transition 
 to the Saturn and Playstation years later which wasn't met with warm reception from fans and critics 
 alike. The Playstation 2 games were better received, but not enough to ensure that Contra would 
 be seen in later years. With these titles, many thought that the Contra series was on its last 
 legs and soon to join the list of games that would be mere memories and not an on-going series.
 
  
  The idea that Contra was dead though was shoved aside by Konami and developer Way Forward, with 
 the release of Contra 4 for the Nintendo DS. Some haters of the current-gen Nintendo like to claim 
 that their systems have no true hardcore experiences and are filled with "games" staring non-talented 
 current-gen "teenage celebrities" or mediocre "cartoons". Is Contra 4 any different however? In 
 other words, it's been a number of years since there's been a Contra game, so is it still the game 
 that gamers from 20 years ago remember? If that's what you're wondering before buying this game, 
 you don't need to worry Contra's back in style!
  Beginning with the story, the title obviously indicates that it takes place after the first three 
 Contra games being the two on the NES and Contra III. The plot takes place in 2638 when an alien 
 named "Black Viper" has begun to launch an attack against the Earth Federation to destroy whatever 
 hasn't been destroyed during the first three invasions. To deal with this, the Federation sends 
 its four strongest commandos (your selectable characters) , the classic duo "Bill Rizer" and "Lance 
 Bean" and two new characters "Mad Dog" and "Scorpion", to the Galuga archipelago to destroy Black 
 Viper and once again save Earth from the invading forces And that's the entire plot in a nutshell, 
 you should know what happens if you manage to beat the game on Normal or Hard (Easy doesn't show 
 you the ending) . Contra of course has never been known for its deep storylines and were always 
 just known for a game where you run around and shoot aliens. The emotional stress must be hard 
 on the characters, but you're only playing as them aren't you?
  
  The next order of business is the graphics, since it's a wonder what the graphics of a current-gen 
 Contra game would have. Most of the graphics have that classic SNES look that will make retro gamers 
 feel right at home and the animations are very fluid. There's also a great number of enemy designs 
 that provide variety, and a vast number of them are able to take up a single screen. Some of the 
 more impressive feats come from the 3D-view tunnel stages that sport some very nice graphics, and 
 one of the best renditions you'll find is the boss in Level 6. Way Forward certainly knew what 
 Contra lovers wanted with a revival, 2D side-scrolling action with graphics that match the current 
 times.
  
  On the business of sound, much of the music that was made famous from previous Contra games is 
 all found here. Some of the music is made up of remixes of previous Contra titles and there are 
 also many new tunes to compliment the stages, giving players a sense of thrilling action. The sound 
 effects are also nice, seeing that guns have their own sounds, things are constantly emitting loud 
 explosions, aliens scream when they die, and so to does your character. They aren't the best sound 
 effects made on a handheld console, but they do fit with everything that's going on to a nice degree.
 
  
  The graphics and the sound are worthy of the Contra name for sure, but has the same gameplay managed 
 to stay intact? If you're just wondering if Contra 4 brings the same hardcore experience of epic 
 scales, you will find every bit of it here. One thing that made Contra famous was the fact that 
 getting hit from anything, no exceptions would result in death. That same curse follows players 
 into this game as well. There is a barrier power up you can pick up to temporarily ward off bullets, 
 but you'll rarely find any. Not only does the one-hit death remain, but the difficulty is added 
 on by the DS's dual screens. You will often have to pay attention to both screens at the same time 
 to avoid getting hit, and unseen bullets from above or below can cause some to proclaim, "Cheap 
 Death!" The core gameplay is overall the same formula from what was set 20 years ago, run, gun, 
 die, and kill the giant baddie bosses. There are a grand total of 9 stages to blaze your way through, 
 though you can only access the last 2 if you beat the game on Normal or Hard (trust me though, 
 you will want to start on easy) . The mini-bosses themselves feel like your typical boss in a sidescroller, 
 and the main bosses themselves are giant and merciless in this game, most taking up both screens 
 at the same time, offering great action against such behemoths.
  
  Besides the traditional gameplay, there are two differences that set this game apart from the previous 
 Contra's. First is the grappling hook, which is usable by pressing the X button that will shoot 
 your grappling hook upward. If the hook touches anything that it can latch onto, it will latch 
 and your character will make his/her way up. You'll be grappling from screen to screen pretty often, 
 making another situation where you need to pay attention to both screens at the same time. Another 
 new feature is the ability to power up your weapons by picking up two of the same type of weapons. 
 An example includes the Homing Rocket, picking up one will let you fire one rocket, but picking 
 up the same icon again while you are using it will upgrade your weapon so it can fire 3 homing 
 rockets at a time, the same applying to the spread shot, flamethrower, laser, and machine gun.
 
  So you might wonder, since this game is so short, will there be any reason to play it again after 
 you beat it? Oh yes there is. Beating the game on any difficulty unlocks the "Challenge Mode" which 
 will require you to play through certain stages under certain conditions, some of which include 
 blazing your way through a horde of enemies, getting to the end of the level within a set amount 
 of time, testing out new weapons, killing human-faced dogs, and running through stages unarmed 
 ("No guns in a Contra level? That's unheard of!" I know.) . 
  
  What do you get for your trouble in beating these challenges? This is where the fan service comes 
 in. Beating 4 the first time will unlock the NES classic itself for you to play on your DS whenever 
 and wherever you want, and 8 times will unlock the sequel Super C. They aren't updated at all, 
 the sound is the same, the graphics are the same, the screen ratio is the same, they are both perfectly 
 emulated. Beating more will get you new characters to play like "Probotector" and "Lucia", comics, 
 and other features for the Museum. Probably the only downside in the unlockable department is that 
 Contra III and Operation C aren't up for grabs. Without a doubt, if both games were included, Contra 
 4 would be the last Contra game any fan would ever need (unless Contra 5 is made of course) , but 
 alas not all dreams come true. Despite this, the unlockables are all still worth fighting for, 
 and provide the same challenge that the actual levels give.
  
  So is this game worth the money you lay down for a DS game? If you're into classic 2D side-scrolling 
 action, or have been waiting for a good Contra title for a long time, it most certainly is. Contra 
 4 offers great action, boss fights, and a nice amount of extras to perfectly justify a purchase. 
 Be forewarned however, the difficulty may come off as staggering to newcomers of the series. But 
 if you're willing to grunt and groan through the many times you die throughout the stages, Contra 
 4 can literally be a blast. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwe4ever_in05
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Contra 4 has alot that the older games have only it's a little bit harder then you think, if you 
 play it enough you can really get through the game, and what I mean by that is everything will 
 pop on to the screen at the same time everytime at that point of the game, like you can acctully 
 plann out when to jump and when to dodge, or duck.
  
  If it was up to me I would love to see another version of this game come out soon but with your 
 character in a different places to start and maybe a few extra surprises next time.
  
  This game gets a 9.0 from me, and the reason is simple that this game is very challenging and fun 
 at the same time, and I remember playing the frist Contra for the NES and it look close to this 
 but was easiers, but if there would be a letdown that I would give this game it would be that some 
 of the bosses are a little too hard, but that is the main reason they are called bosses.
  
  But yeah I say a 9.0 is a good rating for this game, and that is all I'm going to say about that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WAIW
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 9:31 am PT
Review:  Contra 4 is generally along the lines of what you would expect in a 2D platforming 'run and gun' 
 side-scroller. You can jump, run, and shoot. A simple formula, yet the toughest game to conquer 
 on the DS as of now. Blasting your way through 7-9 levels with infinite ammo and the ability to 
 hold two guns simultaneously has never reached a high like this.
  
  Konami has stayed true to its roots in this iteration of the series, fortunately. Arcade mode is 
 not different from any previous games in the main series; in fact, some music, bosses, levels and 
 enemies were ripped from older Contras. Nostalgia anyone?
  
  Despite the simple concept and an arcade mode that only consists of 9 levels, Contra 4 is far from 
 being a short game, and its learning curve isn't necessarily immediate. Later boss levels, 3D missions 
 and a unique ocean level offer different tactics and sometimes controls, which ultimately makes 
 the game better. New weapons affect the game largely (the pea shooter barely deals any damage, 
 which forces players to constantly be on the lookout for better weapons - what makes the game very 
 hard is that if you die, you lose your upgraded weapon) , and the variety is good. And if you haven't 
 realized by now, the Contra series is hard. This is perhaps the hardest in the series, which means 
 you'll be re-trying the arcade hundreds of times to get past normal mode -- making the mileage 
 for your money pretty high. Multiplayer requires two carts, but if you find a friend with a DS 
 and a card, get ready to kick ass on a game that seems much easier than its single player counterpart.
 
  
  What makes Contra 4 superior to most other DS platformers, though, is not just in the difficulty 
 it boasts; incredible boss fights, exceptional level design and a great soundtrack make Contra 
 4 a winner. You will learn to interpret "boss fights" as "adrenaline rushes;" they're creative 
 and the incredibly fast pace is stunning. The level design here is very interesting; whether flying 
 on the outside of a rocket or taking control of an enemy ship, the game always has insane ideas 
 to throw at you. The soundtrack by freestyle composer Virt is great; re-vamping older Contra tunes 
 works very well, as one would expect.
  
  Bonus features are plentiful and extremely entertaining. Fun, short missions with varying goals 
 - and great rewards. Contra 4 is an arcade shoved on a portable system; it's fun to be able to 
 pick it up and play through the Challenge Levels on the fly (beat the game on easy to unlock the 
 challenge levels) . Their short length makes the game much more portable.
  
  Overall, a rewarding game whether you played the older Contras or not. If you're casual about your 
 gaming, I'd suggest you avoid this; but if you're anyone else, this is an excellent game in an 
 excellent franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8trux
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  You've waited for it and now you got it. Contra 4 is here baby! And It takes awesome to a whole 
 new level (yeah that was lame) . On to the reveiw!
  
  Story: 2 years after the Alien Wars, Black viper is back and he is ticked. He blows up cities and 
 a bunch of other crap and the world is in chaos. The fate of humanity is in the hands of 4 four 
 soldiers who must kill Black Viper once again.
  
  Gameplay: It is very simple. D-pad is to move, Y is to shoot, B Jumps, A drops your weapon power 
 up, X is your gappeling hook, L is to switch back and forth through your weapon power ups, and 
 R is to stand in place so you can shoot around. The controls are awesome but no touch screen, in 
 my opinion is good because I think this game would suck w/ touch controls. This game also uses 
 both screens on the DS which is really cool.
  
  Graphics: This is one of the best looking DS games on the DS. the Backrounds and enviorments are 
 beautfil on the DS.
  
  Music: The music in this game is good.
  
  Difficulty: ENOUGH TO MAKE YOU THROW THE DS OUT THE WINDOW AND START BEAT THE CRAP OUT OF PEOPLE! 
 (well maybe enough to throw the DS out the window) .
  
  Value: Contra 4 has tons of extras. From new characters to play as, comics, interveiws, challenge 
 mode, and the 2 of the old contra games are here: Contra and Super C.
  
  Cons: this game has multiplayer, Which is awesome, but its only multicard so that means both players 
 must have the game in order to play it CO-OP and CO-OP is only in arcade mode. Plus there is no 
 mutliplayer in the old contra games on the game. And online CO-OP would have been nice.
  
  Overall: Contra 4 is the game contra fans have been waiting for and i highly recemend it to fans 
 of contra and people who want a challenge. You will be curssing at your DS for weeks. 9.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacsan456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  just when we thought contra was finnished konnami announced it and i was hyped as heck and when 
 i finaly got it it was just awesome!!!
  
  The graphics are great the charecters are hilghty deatailed to the touch the enamys are cool but 
 the bosses are just hardcore they look cool their attacks are great and they will beat you to a 
 pulp oh yes they will!!!
  
  the weapons are cool we got flame, crush, machine gun, and my favorite spread gun sweet!!
  
  now 
 there are some problems here first off the games too short with a game this great its gonna leav 
 you wanting more and the other they dont have contra 3 on here if you have the other two howcome 
 they dont have three 
  
  and last the game play is hardcore ths game wiil have you hanging on for dear life becuase it will 
 kill you!
  
  graphics :great highly improved
  characters: cool we got four main charecters and some unlockables
  gameplay: HARDCORE BALLS TO 
 THE WALL ACTION!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeromeerome
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  The original Contra game on the NES and Contra III on the Super Nintendo were two of the most badass 
 action games ever made. They were hard as hell without the Konami code yet they kept you coming 
 back for more. Since those glory days the series hit a major downward spiral as it tried to make 
 the move into the 3D world. The gameplay was never the same. Even when the PS2 version offered 
 the 2.5D games it just wasn't that great. 
  
  Finally after countless years of failure the guys over at Konami got their act back in gear and 
 made a worthy sequel to the originals. This game is worthy of the Contra IV title it receives. 
 They scrapped all the 3D and 2.5D crap that poisoned the franchise and rightfully took it back 
 to its solid 2D roots where it belonged. The gameplay is identical to the original Contra games 
 with the exception of the grappling hook. That only serves as a purpose for moving between the 
 top and bottom screens in certain sections.
  
  Everything about this game is pure Contra. The graphics are like the originals. The gameplay, the 
 enemies, weapons, level design, and over the top bosses. Even the soundtrack is rocking strong 
 on this title. One other thing that hasn't changed is the insane level of difficulty. Sure you 
 can play the game on Easy and whip through it but that isn't how Contra is supposed to be played.
 
  
  If you were a fan of the original series or just looking for some old school ass kicking gameplay 
 check out Contra IV. It won't disappoint you. This is what a Contra game is supposed to be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Overrated_Hero
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  
  Minus Legacy of War, Neo Contra and so many others failed attempts to revive contra, the series 
 has never really had a fair sequel to its third installment (Alien Wars) . For more than 15 years 
 we have are long awaited true Contra 4 that is now available on your DS does this game take us 
 back to the promise land of good old Contra or end up like the series past games and failed attempts 
 to make the Contra 3 lighting bolt strike again.
  
  Black Viper the second wave of aliens is not happy with humans living on this earth and not his 
 race of savage mutants, now it's your turn to either destroy these horrible aliens or die in there 
 invasion. Although there is not much story in this game but it's not what the series is about or 
 focuses on. Contra 4 brings back the heroes of the past games for you once again it's only you 
 and your pea shooter. In the beginning of the game you have multiple options which are Arcade Mode 
 where you would go threw the main story on Easy, Medium or Hard. Character Selection is where you 
 would pick 4 heroes of past Contra games to take on your gruesome adventure. Options are where 
 you configure with your game, your data is kept there, or you could also change on or off your 
 characters voices. Challenge Mode (must complete the game on any difficulty) is where you battle 
 threw 40 task to unlock hidden content and past games. Finally Bonus Content is the option to play 
 past Contra games as well read about there past games and it displays screen shots, dates and more 
 information about the game itself.
  
  Contra 4's is the same game play style as it's past games with the one shot kill mechanic you will 
 go threw 7 difficult stages, 9 depending on what difficulty you use. Let me tell you Contra 4 is 
 possibly the hardest game in the series even easy mode is like a kick in your teeth for new fans 
 and more of a cruel inside joke to older veteran players Contra 4 is no doubt a game for the true 
 Contra fans. 
  Game play in Contra 4 is pretty simple you start off with a set number of lives after you lose 
 all your lives you will re-start the level after that if you lose all those continues and then 
 it's back to the game, cruel yes but what do you expect form a Contra game.
  
  In Arcade Mode you will start off in stage one with your pea shooter but multiple times there will 
 be a chance for you to change that weapon into something better to get rid of those annoyances, 
 new to the series is the upgradeable weapons if your in easy mode you will notice that your weapons 
 are upgraded already but when your in the higher difficulties you will obtain a weaker weapon of 
 the same variety. Don't worry though with your friend the Konami Code you are allowed to upgrade 
 those weapons into some with more damage, like I said if you play in easy mode your weapons are 
 already upgraded for you. Also new to the Contra 4 is the Grapple in which it's activated with 
 the Y button it will help you in the game to cross stages and dodge enemy. There is multiplayer 
 in Contra 4 but unfortunately it's multi-card and a shame because Contra is best with a friend.
 
  
  
  
  Contra 4 goes back to its roots with 2D sprite animation with a little bit of 3D in the mix. Character 
 and enemy models look better than ever and more detailed since 3. The design in Contra 4 is pretty 
 different in each stage and adds a lighter color as contrary to Contra 3 dark apocalypse feel for 
 the entire game. During some levels the game will go into a 3d like stage this is also something 
 taken and made better form the older Contra games. The game plays out like the original did in 
 the arcade instead of just a huge tall screen like in the arcades it takes advantage of the DS's 
 second screen this works well for the game the only problem I might point out is that when enemies 
 attack form the top screen and the bullets go onto the bottom it sometimes goes anywhere where 
 not expected this might seem unfair and might frustrate players.
  
  Audio in Contra 4 is top notch there is remixes form the older games and hole new tracks. Music 
 in the game is set really good with the mood for example when you're trapped with a giant robot 
 or faced with a 50 foot alien the music gets to a creepy tone. Characters have voices such as "Lock 
 and loaded" and "Lets party" while there only clips it's a good feature, some of it might sound 
 clich but hey you can turn it off. The quality of music is by far the best in the Contra series 
 and one of the best in DS history.
  
  Replay ability is not a issue with Contra 4 with lots and lots of bonuses, 40 challenges, 9 stages 
 of the main story and 2 old school Contra games this is going to keep you occupied for more than 
 enough time and if that wasn't enough I'll guaranty you that the Arcade Mode is fun to go threw 
 not matter how much times you beat it. .
  
  
  
  Contra 4 is a game that should be on every Contra fans list it's a great game that brings back 
 the glory days of Contra and them some. The game is fun to replay threw again and again, and the 
 extras will keep you busy for a long time. The punishment may worry newer fans but I trust you 
 this is fun from beginning to end.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFoxA
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  As a big fan of the Contra series, I was skeptical when it went into the hands of WayForward. This 
 was mainly because of all of the games that they had previously developed  
 which was kind of unsettling. However, Konami picked the right developer for this game. It's packed 
 with features and (despite the game being only six levels) it will take you weeks to beat this 
 gritty game.
  
  I am a huge fan of 2D sprite graphics. I like all of the new high-tech graphics, sure, but 2D sprites 
 hold a place in my heart. The talent behind the sprites in Contra 4 is absolutely stunning. Massive 
 bosses span both screens of the DS and beautiful backgrounds cover each level. While keeping true 
 to the original Contra games (most specifically Contra III) , Contra 4 goes over and above what 
 is expected of 2D sprites.
  
  The sound, while staying true to the original, is very good. It blares out of the DS speakers louder 
 than any other game I've put in my DS before, however, so I found that I bit startling. The music 
 is remixes and original tunes inspired from the original, while the sound effects sound pretty 
 realistic. While the dev-team could've done more with the sound, what they did was good.
  
  Many people argue that graphics are the most important aspect of a game, but I disagree. Everything 
 must work together in an intricate way not unlike a clock. However, like clocks, some parts are 
 more important than others. That aspect is gameplay; crucial to the game. My, does WayForward nail 
 it. The action is fast-paced, gritty, and exciting. You'll always be holding down the Fire button 
 in fear that some enemy will fly down or jump up and kill you. If you thought other Contra games 
 were difficult, this one will change your mind. There will rarely be a dull moment for you, even 
 if you're playing on the unsuitably-named "Easy."
  
  The level-design is unique and interesting; adding to the gameplay in exciting ways. For example, 
 one level makes you climb up a missile that is firing up into the atmosphere (whilst dodging smaller 
 missiles being fired at you and warding off enemies) , and then attempt to survive as it makes its 
 descent towards earth. Many of the levels force you to think, "What can I do next?" but only gives 
 you a split second to solve it.
  
  The controls in this game are superbly done. They respond quickly, and are simple enough to remember. 
 I only had one problem with the controls. The X and Y buttons were so close together that I accidentally 
 hit one when I meant to hit the other. Despite this, the controls were well-down; while they also 
 stayed true to the original.
  
  The bonus features in the game are nice little distractions that you can look at while you attempt 
 to ward of the frustration of dying again. The gallery contains information, screenshots, and box 
 art of all of the Contra games of the past. For older gamers, this is a trip down memory lane. 
 Younger gamers can learn about the old-school days of Contra. I constantly go and look at it, since 
 it is a nice little feature.
  
  Also packed into the tiny cartridges are Challenges. I know you're thinking, "As if the actual 
 game isn't enough of a challenge," but this feature is fun. While you don't unlock it until you 
 beat "Easy," once you do you will go back and play it over and over.
  
  In conclusion, this game is incredibly difficult. I'm sure that if you're interested in Contra, 
 you already know this. If you didn't, now you know. Anyways, this game is so difficult that sometimes 
 you may feel like throwing your DS against the nearest wall. As a matter of fact, I recommend using 
 an Action Replay DS to gain infinite lives so you don't have to break your DS in anger.
  
  Overall, however, this game is a great game. For any gamer looking for a challenge, I recommend 
 picking it up. However, beware, this game is not for the faint of heart. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chronotriggr238
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  I would recommend Contra 4 to anyone who played Contra, but especially anyone who loved the original 
 games in the series. Contra 4 brings back the classic action and crazy difficulty of those first 
 3 Contra games, along with the addition of even bigger bosses than Contra 3. If you brag to your 
 friends about how few lives it took you to get through the first Contra, you should play this game.
 
  
  There are also a few good extra modes to play. The challenge mode provides an interesting twist 
 on the formula by limiting your time or ammunition as you play through sections of the game.
  
  The unlockables are great too, with 2 full games (Contra and Super C) to unlock, as well as 
 some beautiful character art.
  
  Contra 4 is a game that will not disappoint anyone looking for some classic Contra 1 style action. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Intro: Let me quickly address some of these reviews that complain about the difficulty of contra. 
 Either you lack the proper chromosome to conduct a coherent thought or you just didn't play the 
 original games. To the latter, let me say that there was a reason that Konami left in the Konami 
 code in the original game; They have and always should be incredibily hard games to beat. Most 
 of the Contra 2D games except for Contra force which is a piece of dried up dog dookie requires: 
 patiences, timing and memorization. These key elements are the main attraction to the game. If 
 you don't like playing a game that is trying to kill you then go play something else tard face!! 
 Thats like playing Madden and saying that you don't like it because it's to realistic. Ok, I'm 
 done ranting on dumb comments; Contra 4 is definitely the best version of Contra yet. The only 
 negative is most people don't feel that Konami can deliver a decent Contra game anymore. Most people 
 have properly lost faith on the Contra franchise; I can understand that; Contra's quality has fallen 
 to the shore side but please for the love of everything that is holy try this game out!!
  
  Gameplay: Nothing has really changed in the gameplay department for 2D side scrolling shooters. 
 The player usually starts on the right side of the screen and kills everything that comes towards 
 him/her; which will enter from either side. Obviously, if you don't like this type of gameplay, 
 Contra 4 isn't going to change your mind since it doesn't stray from the formula. Now, in C4 there 
 isn't any type of grenade or special power that can wipe out lots of enemies at once. Instead, 
 an upgradable weapon system takes center stage; essentially each weapon type has two forms a normal 
 version and a special or strong version. 
  
  For example: pick up the spread shot power up and you can shot in three directions at a time: Straight 
 ahead, above and below. With the upgrade, the spread shot shoots in five directions, as well as 
 increase the damage being done. Players also have the ability to switch on the fly between two 
 different weapon types. So I can theoritically store the spread shot upgrade and machine gun upgrade 
 at the same time and switch between them on the fly during gameplay. I say theoritically because 
 once you die you lose the power up that was selected and you will die often. Another ability that 
 was added to Contra's arsenal is a Batman style grappling hook; it works just as you would imagine: 
 you shoot it up toward a predefined grappling bar that lifts you up towards the heavens. 
  
  The final gameplay tweak comes from the hardware itself, which of course has 2 screens. Every 
 level; except the 3D vertical levels use the second screen as an actual part of the level. The 
 user can shoot up towards the second screen and even use the new hook mechanic to shoot up batman 
 style to the upper stage. The DS does add another level of action but also provides another flaw. 
 The space between the two screens does tend to mess with enemies and projectiles. It also becomes 
 increasing difficult to judge where bullets are coming from when tons of enemies start populating 
 the screen in later levels.
  
  Story: The story is as simple and sweet as ever. Aliens are trying to destroy the world and humanities 
 last hope lie on the muscular shoulders of four fellows that love kicking ass and taking names. 
 This is your typical early 90s action movie plot that is there to give you an incentive to kill 
 tons of aliens and military commandos. Overall, I love the simple plot and I hope that people realize 
 that not every game has to have an RPG style story with tons of plot twist and engaging characters. 
 Sometimes you need a story thats so simple a caveman could understand it!!!
  
  
  Features: There is alot to Contra 4: multiplayer adhoc, challenge mode which unlocks the original 
 Contra as well as other Contra games. The single player affair has multiple difficulties which 
 will test any ones patiences and time. Personally, the fact that they included the challenge mode 
 which pins you in specific events like going through a specific portion of a level without firing 
 a shot really adds another layer of replayability. Being able to play the original Contra game 
 and company doesn't hurt as well. 
  
  Sound: The sound effects and music do a great job of getting the user into the mood to kick some 
 damn dirty aliens and military commandos butt. Usually, rock music will do that but; overall the 
 music and sounds effects fit the Contral realm.
  
  Graphics: Graphically, there is a lot of style but doesn't really push the DS to its limits. The 
 spirtes look slick and sexy and the animations are top notch. The environments and enemies have 
 just as much quality as the burly main characters. I'm a huge fan of 2D artwork so I can't complain 
 but others with less of a liking to 2D could still find some style in this great game. 
  
  Conclusion: In the end, most gamers wont touch this game for two reasons: they don't believe the 
 Contra series has anything good left to give or they can't stand the difficulty. The latter I can 
 understand but not trying this new iteration of a great 2D game is just madness. I can honestly 
 say that I lost the faith after the 3D endeavors but trust me, Contra 4 is worth every minute you 
 invest. To sum up Contra 4: it stays true to its roots; if you liked those roots than give this 
 game a shot if not don't bother!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aang007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  First off when i started the game i noticed the awesome music, the soundtrack is fenominal the 
 music makes you want to shoot something. Secondly is the gameplay contra is a fast paced action 
 shooter and a difficult one at that, you will quite oftenly find yourself getting very angry at 
 this game as i am at stage 4. If your a fan of difficult games with a great challenge contra 4 is 
 for you to. Thirdly contra has many unlockables from the museam where you can get info on the recent 
 contra games and classic ones to the unlckable first 2 contra games this game has a lot of content. By 
 the way to earn the first 2 contra games you must beat the game on normal or hard i think.
  
  So all in all this game is very very good, however there is one flaw a major one that make 
 the game much much harder. Ok this is a hard one to explain, as we all know the ds has the plastic 
 part that seperates the 2 screens, well contra 4 treets the seperational piece as a missing link 
 so youll often find yourself wondering how where that certain missile came from or where that bullet 
 went. But thats just one thing and dont pass up the game just because of this one flaw its a great 
 game and a great challenge, by far the hardest game ive ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iansanity
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  I am going to call this the best DS game of '07 (really there were only a small handful of good 
 ones [similar to the Wii] ) . Okay, so if you have never played a Contra game or don't know what 
 Contra is I suggest to go on-line and download an emulation of the original before actually buying 
 Contra 4 (but remember kids, always delete the ROM after one day) . Also in the game Contra 4 there 
 is a feature called the museum which lets you learn about every contra game; '87 to '04.
  
  The Contra games are known for being hard. And when I say hard, I mean they so hard you want to 
 swear at the nearest person and shut down your DS. I am serious. But don't worry, like most Contra 
 games all you have to do is keep playing it and you will master it one level at a time. By the 
 time you finish it you will know every pattern and probably hardly die. From that statement you 
 probably think it has no Replay value. WRONG. After you beat the game on one difficulty, you can 
 try it on another.
  
  Easy may sound Easy but it is still very difficult. The only difference between Easy and Normal 
 is that Normal gives you 5 lives, 4 Continues, none of your weapons are automatically upgraded 
 (so you have to that on your own) , and there are 2 more levels. Easy gives you 10 lives, 5 continues, 
 all weapons are maxed own when picked up, and you onl have 7 levels to face. Then there is Hard. 
 This is where the game gets real fun. Hard is like an entire different game only with the same 
 maps. The Music is different (but it is more awesome than normal because it is a remix of the original 
 Contra) , the enemies are a little different, your starting gun is useless, and bullets coe at you 
 faster.
  
  Once you beat the game you can unlock a new mode called challenge mode. In challenge mode you do 
 challenges to unlock new things. Some of these things including the full versions of both the 2 
 original Home System Contra games: Contra, and Super C. You can get things like characters (some 
 even from non US released versions of Contra) , Game Art, and my personal favorite: the sound test 
 which plays all the music from the game (which there is TONS of) .
  
  The only problems in this game some people complained about where the 2 DS screens being a problem 
 because sometimes when you are focused on either only the Top or Bottom screen, an enemy kills 
 you from the other. Personally I have been killed a few times from this, but it does not bother 
 me. The characters catch phrases get a bit annoying from time to time, but they only say it when 
 you lose a life, so if you don't like it, don't die (or just turn voices off in the options menu) . 
 also the controls are somewhat confusing, mainly because all A does is select things in the menus 
 and throw your weapon away in medium and hard (which gets REALLY annoying sometimes) , but I got 
 used to it quickly, and I am positive you will too.
  
  Over all I will give it a 9/10 for it truly was an excellent game. None of the problems affected 
 game play critically, and for only $30 you can't go wrong. There is tons of Replay value for there 
 is always something new to unlock. Remember there are 3 difficulties with huge differences, and 
 a pair of full versions of previous Contra games on there to beat too. Thank you, and I hope you 
 buy Contra 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Contra 4 celebrates the series' 20th anniversary. If you are looking for that classic 2D side-scrolling 
 Contra action you've come to the right place. I actually didn't even know that I had nostalgic 
 memories towards this franchise, but now I know that in Europe this series was known as Probotector. 
 It was a hard game back then and so is Contra 4 today.
  
  In Contra 4 you fight against an army of evil alien invaders, who kind of look like people. Of 
 course you are the last hope of mankind to stop the invasion. Story is a classic Contra style: 
 simple and straight forward, but that's the way it has always been.
  
  Graphics resemble those old SNES games so in terms of graphical presentation Contra 4 is not very 
 good. Still you know what's going on and the use of bright colors is mostly good. Sound on the 
 other hand is excellent and music fits the intense shooting action perfectly. I still like to play 
 through the first level just because I enjoy listen the music so much. Sound effects are also great 
 and all the time there's some kinds of explosions or voice acting heard through your DS's speakers. 
 But I would recommend you to play Contra 4 with headphones on: it sounds that good.
  
  Both the DS's screens are used in gameplay and it works just fine, although you might need some 
 time to get used to it. As far as I know the touch screen is not used at all. Gameplay in general 
 is that same 2D side scrolling shooting action you remember: shoot everything on sight and gather 
 different weapons on your way and lose it every time you die.
  
  Contra 4 is a hard game: I've played on Easy and that's enough challenge for me. Pretty much the 
 only way to make some progress is to know in advance every single enemy you'll face. This means 
 a lot of trial and error gameplay, but since Contra 4 is so fun you most likely want to do it multiple 
 times anyway.
  
  The bad thing is that if you wish to play with a friend you'll both need to have your own copy 
 of the game. This means that I probably will not be able to play with a friend, since there's no 
 Wi-Fi option what so ever.
  
  Contra 4 is an intense and classical experience, so don't expect to see anything new here in terms 
 of gameplay or storytelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loathsome_
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 3, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is so FREAKING GOD DAMNED BLESS MOSES hard I can't even beat it on motherfreaking EASY. 
 Every time I pop this game in my DS I want do DESTROY ALL OF MANKIND and NEVER play ANY KIND of 
 game EVER again. This is Contra 4, this WILL EVENTUALLY make you kill somebody.
  
  At first you'll think "hey, I'll do this on medium .. This ought to be fun". Five minutes later 
 you'll find yourself bashing your head against the wall, screaming furiously, hitting your friends 
 out of pure rage and using all the swear-words you've ever heard. (Including, but not limited to: 
 Gribb, Mekk, Aslak, Burka, KNUSH etc.)
  
  Let me break this down. Are you a happy guy/girl? Do you love everybody around you? Really? Then 
 let Contra 4 change the way you look at your life. Seriously. After a few minutes of this intense 
 masterpiece you will never look back at your life the same way. This WILL change your life -- not 
 necessarily for the good.
  
  KNUSH!
  
  If you're happy with your life, stay the hell away from Contra 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liukang666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 2, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  Any game as hard as this was from a flaw in controls... but not here...
  
  Contra 4 is basically the huge anniversary edition of the Contra franchise. It has many modes like 
 challenge, multiplayer, museum, and obviously the new adventure Contra 4. The game has easy, medium, 
 and hard mode, all of which extremely challenging (except easy) , and extremely fun. Basically, 
 you have 10 hits before you start from the mid-point, meaning 50, or 50 hitpoints. Of course, that 
 rations out over ALL the stages. you only get another life after a stage or battle, etc. You have 
 7 fun and simple stages in easy mode, and 9 impossible stages on normal and hard mode. I personally 
 beat easy mode in one night/morning, but the others will be hard. Maybe too hard. Of course, those 
 who pull through will find challenge mode, where they can unlock many cool things, like playable 
 versions of Contra for the nes as well as Super C. Overall, I would say buy this game, but if you 
 are either a) a noob or b) have real temper problems, I wouldn't reccamend it. Seriously, i slapped 
 myself like 5 times when i lost to the last boss :) -skalokos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: classicgameR4
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  This game is really good, but can be hard well not hard, but challenging which is a good thing. 
 It is a bit short though. The graphics were really good especially with the alien bosses. Wow! 
 There were a lot of good power ups so many to choose from. One thing is though that the cheat for 
 30 lives i could never get it to work for some reason. This game was really good though; it took 
 me forever to write a review I got it for Christmas. This game can get a little frustrating at 
 times, but like i said a challenge is always good. Theres not much else to say except check out 
 my blog for funny videos and dumb rantings from me. This game is a must for any ds owner. Ds lite 
 is better then the original ds ha ha ha ha !!!!!!! It rally is no one likes ds fat lite is the 
 best. I have a lite, a white lite, yeah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 27, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I personally have not played a Contra game since the original back on the NES. That being said, 
 I still had fond memories of the game and when I heard about how Contra 4 is old-school using DS 
 technology, I figured it can't hurt to pick it up. Well, I've been playing this game for a month 
 or so now and I can tell you this game is a mixed bag for me.
  
  The game itself looks nice. The animations are decent, and the classic artistic look of the game 
 does it justice, but in the end does feel a little too simple for the DS and could have definately 
 made better use of the hardware. That being said, using both screens at once for combat does make 
 things a little more hectic and is very welcome.
  
  The sound effects are another story. They all sound outdated, though sometimes sound nice. The 
 music mostly feels like (nice) remixed versions of older tracks, but they will definately get you 
 pumped properly during each stage.
  
  Now, the game itself is fantastic. I first spent some time going through Easy to get familiar with 
 the stages (the last stages are not included in Easy) . The game has a lot of connections to the 
 original Contra, but at the same time it adds its own little flavor to make it fresh. The bosses 
 are each fantastic and each stage is a reasonable length, which is nice because this game really 
 doesn't have a save feature, meaning you have to get through the game in one sitting. Granted, 
 it can temporarily save in the last stage you were in if you turn off the DS, but it costs you 
 a continue to make use of that, which is no small price in the harder difficulties.
  
  The weapons are the classics, which are nice, and there is nice variety in the game, from the normal 
 stages, to the vertical stages to the classic '3D' stages. Oftentimes though, you will find that 
 the game is challenging to the point of extreme frustration, because sometimes it isn't a matter 
 of memorization, it is just a matter of some random enemy popping up and shooting you and then 
 you losing that life and weapon (one shot kills in this game) . That's how it was, and the inteniton 
 of this game was to be old-school. Still, it can be utterly frustrating and make you want to toss 
 the game.
  
  On the bright side, the game has a very lasting value. First of all there are 4 difficulties (each 
 adding new challenges to the levels, on top of the lower lives) , making each difficulty new in 
 its own way. To add to that are 25+ challenges that are short but test your skills in various fun 
 (and manageable) ways. From these challenges you can unlock the original Contra and Super C to 
 play, which is an awesome addition, because those games are absolute classics and are absolutely 
 fun. To round out the package is a little history section, that has a gallery of pictures from 
 all the games and a short backstory of the game, so you understand the bigger picture.
  
  The multiplayer is just awesome, like the good old days, and makes the game more manageable. The 
 only problem is that you need both people to have the game, which is understandable but unfortunate. 
 Still, it is a wonderful feature that makes the game extremely fun, like the good old days.
  
  Overall this package definately is worth much more than the entrance fee, but only if you have 
 the patience for how abusively difficult this game can be. It does properly do what it is meant 
 to do though: deliver an old-school experience that gives you more than you pay for.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Value: 10/10
  
  OVERALL: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  The long-dormant Contra series make a most impressive comeback in what is the hardest, best, and 
 best-looking game in the series. Constant waves of enemies keep you on your toes from the moment 
 you start, and the bosses are monstrous.
  You are given a little leeway because you can hold two weapon upgrades at once, and you start off 
 with 9 lives. But dont get too cocky, because in all Contra games, one hit and you are dead, and 
 you lose the current weapon you were carrying. If you are lucky enough to beat the game, Challenge 
 Mode becomes available, after you complete enough of them, the original NES version of Contra is 
 yours. (an SNES version is in there somewhere too)
  Tons of unlockables are available. And co-op play is as intense as it always was. Not only do you 
 have to worry about enemies, but your friend could also be your worse enemy when he runs head, 
 making you fall offscreen and die while he grabs the Spread weapon. All the classic weapons are 
 here, along with new ones. Contra 4 takes the series back to its roots.
  
  Gameplay 10- Old-school shooter, but one of the most intense shooters ever. The controls work really 
 well.
  Graphics 9- Hi res 2D goodness.
  Sound 9- The classic old tracks return in remixed form.
  Replay Value 10- Very High- Loads of 
 things to unlock and old versions of Contra to play. Combine that with getting taunted by the game 
 for beating easy mode, and you will be busy for quite a while.
  Fun Factor 10- Very High- Only one game can make shooting and platforming this intense and fun 
 at the same time.
  
  My Final Score- 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helen_Mirren
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 8:55 pm PT
Review:  This game will have you defecating blood in no time, just like the good old days. Spread shot indeed! 
 Plus you and grandpa can play together using co-op mode, assuming grandpa hasn't permanently misplaced 
 his Nintendo DS and/or Contra 4 game card! If you also own a Wii and have downloaded Super C on 
 the Virtual Console, this game will make you feel foolish for doing so, as it's an unlockable in 
 this here Contra 4! But, really, isn't that the point of the Contra series -- to make us all feel 
 foolish? All in all, a very good game to play while waiting in line at the DMV or while at the 
 cinema during a matinee showing of Alien Vs. Predator: Requiem. This game also ended my second 
 marriage, but I'm not holding a grudge. In fact, I rather prefer Mad Dog's company over the exes. 
 You hear that, Tracey? Disappointingly, this game doesn't incorporate any touch functionality, 
 so you'll have to do all of the "touching" yourself ;) Having logged over 208 hours on this game, 
 I feel confident in saying it's the game I've played the most -- and lost the most as a result of -- in 
 my life. A solid 8.0, just like my life up until this point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorkclub
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Like New Super Mario Bros. before it, Contra 4 ignores over a decade of gameplay evolution and 
 jumps backwards through time to the early '90s, imagining a sequel to Contra 3 unaware of the games 
 that have come between now and then. This brutally difficult, 2D run-n-gun shooter doesn't aspire 
 to be anything more than a simple diversion, challenging and replayable. As a sequel to Contra 
 3, it more than succeeds, reminding us why we spent so many hours toiling through those 'Alien 
 Wars' in our youth; and as a celebration of the Contra series itself, Contra 4 makes us wish every 
 entry could be this damn good. With a surprising amount of content and an old school, nostalgic 
 charm, Contra 4 is a bittersweet reminder that they don't make them like this anymore.
  
  For starters, most modern games are nowhere near this difficult. With large chunks of development 
 dollars budgeted towards pre-rendered cinematics and detailed narratives, developers need to ensure 
 every player will reach the end of their game to see all the content they went to such great lengths 
 creating. Contra 4, however, has none of these modern trappings. Instead, the one-hit-kill gameplay 
 is savagely difficult from level one to level nine, never letting up on you in the slightest. The 
 game requires a combination of rote memorization and battle-honed skill, as waves of projectiles 
 and surprise ambushes bring death with equal swiftness. As often as you'll find yourself cursing 
 the screen and out of continues  even on the game's easiest difficulty setting  the exaggerated 
 difficulty level only betters the game. Before too long, you'll find yourself beating each level 
 a little faster, dying less and less. Even after you've beaten the game, there's plenty of reason 
 to continue playing through its challenges, as each playthrough you see yourself inch ever closer 
 to perfection with a new high score to match.
  
  Of course, this sort of gameplay is old hat for fans of the Contra series, and Contra 4 comes packed 
 with plenty of allusions to older games to make any longtime fan smile. As the sequel to Contra 
 3, the game borrows heavily from the SNES classic, reimagining enemies, boss fights, locations, 
 and weaponry from the seminal shooter. And though a finally-useful version of the laser is more 
 than welcome, we sorely miss the multidirectional flamethrower. The original game that started 
 it all doesn't go unrecognized, as the first two levels act as loving homage to Contra's opening 
 stages. The original Contra's psuedo-3D, behind-the-back corridor segments also return, this time 
 with actual polygons, and punctuate the more difficult side-scrolling levels. The Konami code also 
 makes a comeback, though not quite as you'd expect.
  
  Contra 4 isn't only about nostalgia and series worship, thankfully. The game adds its own wrinkles 
 to the Contra formula, thanks largely to the DS' dual screens. The game's levels are rendered on 
 both the top and bottom screens, making for an experience rich in verticality. A gap between the 
 screens in-game accounts for the gap between the screens on the console itself, but with the number 
 of projectiles flying through the air, it's easy to lose track of one stray bullet when it disappears 
 into the break, only to have it reemerge unexpectedly and kill you. As you play, however, you'll 
 become more adapt at tracking projectiles, even when out of sight, and come to thank the screen 
 gap for the extra time it affords you rather than curse its existence. A new grappling gun allows 
 you to zipline between the top and bottom screen at any time, latching onto ceilings and power 
 lines. The boss fights, in particular, stretch the possibilities of the two screens to their limits, 
 as the game throws towering monstrosities your way, forcing you to pay careful attention to each 
 screen at the same time.
  
  After you first complete the game, even on easy, you'll unlock a challenge mode. Here, you face 
 40 unique challenges that have you completing levels under strict time limits, using prototype 
 weaponry, and battling endlessly respawning waves of attackers to unlock new playable characters, 
 comics books, and an interview with Contra series director Nobuya Nakazato. In addition, two of 
 the first things you unlock are full versions of the original Contra and Super C, which are just 
 as fun and playable today as they were on the NES. Contra 4 also features a virtual museum that 
 acts as a crash course in Contra history and places each game in the overall series timeline, including 
 Japanese and European releases. It's clear that Contra 4 was made by a group of people that know, 
 love, and respect Contra. Their passion permeates the game and it's difficult not to have at least 
 a little of their enthusiasm rub off on you.
  
  Besides playing great, the game looks and sounds great too. Visually, Contra 4 looks like a lost 
 SNES classic, but no game on the SNES was quite this detailed or fluidly animated. Artistically, 
 Contra 4 borrows heavily from Contra 3, completely redrawing many of its most recognizable sprites 
 and backgrounds. The variety on display is stunning; you'll visit an abandoned laboratory, a lush 
 jungle, and an alien hive. The game's minimal interface elements, however, relegate your score 
 to splash screens between levels, making it impossible to track how close you are to earning a 
 valuable extra life. Contra 4's soundtrack is also a blast from the past, featuring the sort of 
 synth-rock video game music that's no longer en vogue in this age of orchestrated OSTs.
  
  Contra 4 feels like a game that fell through a hole in time. Lost to the past, it found a new home 
 here in the present. The game is a relic from a bygone era, a memory of halcyon days spent with 
 Ocean platformers and re-numbered Final Fantasy titles. Still, as a modern action title, Contra 
 4 proves how timeless and compelling its 2D challenges are, and stands proudly as one of the most 
 accomplished action games on the DS. Younger gamers whose 2D experience is isolated to minigames 
 and submenus will find a surprisingly substantial, always challenging experience. Similarly, us 
 old codgers looking to relive our 8- and 16-bit glory will find a game that allows us to remember 
 The Good Ol' Days, even for just 45 minutes or until our continues run out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kimder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Too many people score this game too low based on it's difficulty. They are wrong. This game is 
 just right in the way that it kicks your ass, but you feel you get just a little bit better every 
 time you play, and when you kick it's ass back, it feels so good. You feel accomplished when you 
 progress. 
  This is a game that take you on a retro ride so pure and polished, that any shoot em up fan will 
 fall in love with it. From the huge bosses and mini bosses, to the ride on a nuclear missile, to 
 the infiltration of the alien lair, everything is awesome. No better word to descripe it. The only 
 reason I haven't given this game a perfect 10, is that you need 2 copies to play co-op and no online 
 co-op play.
  
  I was nervous about WayForward developing the next game in the Contra series, but they have done 
 a job they can be proud of, by making what I now consider the Best Contra game ever made. I can't 
 wait to see what they have for us next, and we can only hope that they will be the one doing the 
 next Contra too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manoiud
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 10, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  OK, I understand that brain is not a quality that most people have developed, but this game is 
 for the most brainless imps of them all. Keep the shoot button pressed until everything dies and 
 hope that one of those flying circle-like bullets doesn't eliminate you. That's that's what Contra 
 DS is: A tough generic shooter by today's standards. No originality, it's not even too difficult 
 compared to similar games, like Ghosts & Ghouls, and no karma. If you're an imp with 0 brain BUY 
 THIS GAME, if you are a wizard with sex addictions BUY THIS GAME, if you are an RPG fan like me 
 BUY THIS GAME because I didn't and I'm happy for that. Actualy, with the money that you would spend 
 to buy this game you could buy a live chicken and teach it to play Contra Strike. Half like is 
 a much more addictive game with RTS & RPG & TBS & STD elements. I like it very much. Thumbs up, 
 bimbo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nakk_luffy
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game has caused me to crack my DS screen in frustration. Sure the bullets are easy to jump 
 over and shooting the little fricks is cool to. But! I absolutely hate games where you touch the 
 enemy and you instantly DIE! I'm like wtf? Are they coated in a thick layer of cyanide? Surely 
 bumping into an enemy in real world combat doesn't mean you die instantly theres a fumbling of 
 weapons before that happens. And another thing I HATE DS games that make you buy two of them to 
 play multi player. Generally your playing with your friends and it kinda sucks when you both get 
 the same games every time just so you can play together. Thats why Gemometry wars is the best DS 
 game ever right now. Anyway don't buy it. Take my word for it you'll regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklynx13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I never really liked contra games. 4 years ago my friend tried to get me into it, but i never really 
 gave it a chance, and hadn't played a contra game since. But 2 days ago i walked into gamespot 
 with some extra christmas cash, and looked for some good DS games. The first thing i see is Contra 
 4, and thought to myself i try it again. Went home, put it into my DS, and was instantly blown 
 away. It looked great, had amazing power-ups, and it was beautifuly designed. And even after you 
 beat the game there is still loads to do. I don't want to spoil anything for you, but lets just 
 say, if you want to relivethe good old NES days, you'll beat the game.
  
  Anyways, Contra is currently in my top 5 favorite series and Contra 4 is my favorite from all the 
 ones i recently played, all DS owners need this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-J-J-JayMan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Contra 4 is an amazing game. It is definitely my favorite game for the ds. They got everything 
 right about it, the difficulty is hard but that makes it a challenge, witch makes it good in my 
 opinion. Single player is very addictive and will keep you busy especially on hard difficulty mode. The 
 challenge mode is fun and classic contra is awesome. The multi player is the best, me and my friend 
 play it like everyday and its just plain fun. The only problem is the climbing levels, if you out 
 climb your teammate he ends up dying and without cooperation one of you will end up dead. The boss 
 battles are the best, they provide a true challenge and they never get old. No complaints other 
 than the multi player climbing, Overall I rate this game a 9.5 out of 10 for being a great sequel 
 and for being Contra. The only way this game is being bumped from my number one is if metal slug 
 7 is better. I hope this was useful and thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blonderambo
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  now this is the DS game I've been waiting for. If you love (d) Contra or Super C on the NES than 
 you'll love this new revival of the series for the Nintendo DS. Now, the game is very difficult 
 even on easy but that doesn't disway the fact that it is fun as holy hell blowing stuff up with 
 hell of a lot of weapons and such and aquire such as missiles, lasers, and my personal favorite 
 spread shot! 
  I may have only made it up to level three so far but it is so much fun that I can't put it down. 
 So to cut to the chase, Contra 4 is everything "old-school"
  Contra fans will come to love, especially with the fact that Contra and Super C are also playable 
 when you beat the game and they come with the Konami code. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 5:35 pm PT
Review:  My reaction after playing this game for some time after I got it was natural, I was absolutely 
 in love with this game; what a pleasant surprise I was in for, this may be be the best game I've 
 played on the DS, simply amazing.
  
  This is action filled 2D side-scroller the way the gods intended it to be! Come on, lots of guns 
 just waiting to destroy and annihilate everything you come up against, gigantic bosses that will 
 scare the crap out of the bravest, four main characters easily describable as the four manliest 
 men ever to walk on this planet, extreme challenges designed for the skillful, a killer soundtrack; 
 this game screams manliness!
  
  Everything fits pretty well together, the graphics are great, very detailed. The sound is one of 
 the best I've ever heard, I don't remember a soundtrack this good in a portable game, fits perfectly 
 with the action that is frenetically delivered! The controls are great and pretty well responsive.
 
  
  What might be frustrating for some is the difficulty, but the game probably wouldn't be this good 
 if it wasn't for the high difficulty; both screens are used, and amazingly well used, enemies on 
 both screens will try to hit you and it's thrilling trying not to die, of course it adds to the 
 difficulty a lot, since it's two screens to keep track of, but manageable within some time.
  
  So you need another fact to be sure that this game rock? How about get 3 for the price of 1? 
 That's right, get Contra 4 and receive both, the original Contra and Super Contra for NES as well, 
 and that's not all, you get lots of unlockable stuff, like comic books and interviews!
  
  One of the best games for the DS indeed, a must buy for any 2D side-scroller fan and old school 
 players! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  The Contra 4 title fits this game perfectly. Particularly if you haven't played a good Contra game 
 since Contra 3. Taking place two years after the events of Contra 3 you assume the role of one 
 out of 4 classic Contra characters Bill Rizer, Lance Bean, Mad Dog, and Scorpion (which appear 
 to only differ in aesthetics) . This time instead of facing off against Red Falcon you are pitting 
 military brute against Black Viper. 
  
  It's classic Contra with 2-screens and some nicely done 2-D graphics. This game is all about running 
 and shooting and attempting to conserve as many precious lives as possible. It only takes one hit 
 to lose a life and the number of lives depends on the difficulty. Luckily there's an easy, normal, 
 and hard mode to tinker with. Controls are simple but effective and the action is always intense. 
 This is the kind of game that is meant to be difficult and played repeatedly until you get the 
 patterns of each level nailed down. In that sense it is a more old-school style of gameplay. The 
 game is made up of only 9 levels but good luck getting to the end of the game. I'll probably never 
 get that good. There's no real fancy plot-points or anything like that. This is a game about action 
 so enjoy it. I usually can't handle very difficult games but I have always enjoyed the Contra series. 
 Even though you get defeated constantly you never really feel "stuck." I suppose that's what keeps 
 me from getting frustrated with it. I almost always get just a little further every time I play 
 it. It's not even a game I go in expecting to beat the first time (if at all) . It's just not setup 
 that way. 
  
  Graphics, controls, music, sound affects, are all very well done. There are also several parts 
 of the game that break it up enough [such as climbing up cliffs, riding a water scouter (of some 
 sort) , and even climbing a missile] that keeps the game varied and interesting. There's also some 
 additional content containing tidbits and box art from the entire series.
  
  There's not a whole to complain about of this game. One area that could have been improved, however, 
 is the multiplayer component. The lack of single-card download play or Wifi will ensure that I 
 will never be able to play a multiplayer game. No locals buy the games (and if they do, they don't 
 socialize) . The #1 feature this game needed to include would have been Wifi. Then again, playing 
 Contra with a player that is a lot better than you, or worse than you, can actually create frustration 
 so maybe it's a good thing that Wifi wasn't included. Hard to say. None-the-less a fun DS game 
 that's easy to pick up and put down when needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doppleganga
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  First, here's the negative:
  Multiplayer requires two carts, and there is no multiplayer on the original Contra or Super C, 
 and that kind of sucks! But you can have your friend press some buttons, and it's kind of like 
 multiplayer, and that's fun.
  
  What is COOL about Contra IV is its replayability. New SMB was fun, until I beat it. Zelda was 
 good, but the game ended when I started to get into it. Neither is really enjoyable to pick up 
 and play after it's been beat.
  
  That's where Contra IV is different and where it gets things right. It can be played repeatedly, 
 and the player can get more out of it each time. I've been playing it for weeks, and I still have 
 a long way to go thanks to the game's difficulty. And when I do finally beat it, I can play a harder 
 level or maybe play Contra or Super C.
  
  The challenge isn't as frustrating as it sounds, as long as you're willing to learn from your mistakes 
 and keep playing. Each time I fail, I get another chance to do better than before, and I have to 
 work for it because continues are limited. You'd think that would be a pain, but it's not. Usually, 
 the only way modern gamers will ever have to go through the first levels again is by accidently 
 wiping their memory cards; it's seen as a hassle. But with Contra IV, it's just the way the game 
 is played, and the player can either give up out of frustration or get so good that the beginning 
 levels become poetry in motion. Lovely buff-man-shooting-aliens poetry.
  
  Assuming you're a (somewhat) casual gamer as I am, you won't speed through this game, and victories 
 will be slow and steady. It's like practicing a musical instrument: it's tough, but when everything 
 falls into place, you feel really good about the work you've put into it. Maybe playing harder 
 games can remind us of the importance of persevering when life gets hard, too. Maybe!
  
  Contra IV shows that it's not the ending that is fun: it's playing the game. I think that's much 
 more fun and fulfilling than just being handed a victory. That's what makes Contra awesome!
  
  Hooray! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: helium_flash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Contra 4 is a throw-back to the classic days of the SNES and NES, where gameplay was the main focus, 
 the story was non-existant, and the game was punishingly difficult. Contra 4 is no exception. From 
 what little story is told, the game starts out two years after the Alien Wars have ended. Everything 
 was fine until one day Black Viper returned to Earth to reak havok. Humanity was quickly destroyed, 
 and all seemed lost. However, an alien signal was picked up near New Zealand, and all hope to defeat 
 the alien menace is in the arms (and guns) of Earth's four finest soldiers: Bill Rizer, Lance Bean, 
 Scorpion, and the ganster Mad Dog!
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  If you have played previous Contra games, the gameplay will be very familiar. It is a classic 2D 
 shooter, where you move from left to right while hoards of monsters and demons are sent at you, 
 and you must survive by killing them with everything you've got. You have the ability to carry 
 two weapons, and the weapon can be swapped out for different or stronger weapons as you move throughout 
 the levels. Let me tell you right now, this game is no walk in the park. There are three difficulty 
 modes: Easy, Normal, and Hard. It will take you a TON of practice and playing to beat the game 
 on Easy Mode.
  
  The controls are set up nicely. The only complaint i have is that there is no possible way to shoot 
 diagonally while on the ground without moving in that direction. I feel that the left and right 
 trigger buttons could have been used for this. Besides that the gameplay feels very natural and 
 controls well.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  For the graphics, for the most part, are good. If looks like any natural SNES game did, which is 
 not exactly a bad thing. Graphics in a game like this do not need to be excellent, but I think 
 they could have been better. Proof from other games shows that environments could have looked better, 
 or character models looked sharper.
  
  None the less, it gets the job done, and you will be too busy fighting through the hoards of monsters 
 to notice anyway!
  
  Sound: 8/10
  For a simple 2D sidescroller, Contra 4 puts out some good beats. Each level has its own custom 
 theme music, and is some levels it will change from area to area. Boss fights always have their 
 own dramatic music. Also, every gun, monster, and movement also has its own sound effects. Everything 
 sounds great and you will enjoy listening to it will the bodies pile up. Hopefully you last long 
 enough to hear them all!
  
  Value: 9/10
  There aren't many levels, what makes this game have great replay value is its addictiveness. You 
 always want to come back, to see how far you will be able to make it the next time you try! Once 
 you beat it on Easy, you want to see how far you make it on Normal too!
  
  Also, after you beat the game on Easy mode, you unlock a Challenge mode. Challenge mode is a series 
 of custom challenges with different objectives and goals, and there are tons of them! And another 
 great deal is that once you beat a certain number of Challenges, you unlock classic Contra games 
 too! At first you may be disappointed with what you get, but once you get far enough the package 
 seems like a steal!
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  All in all, Contra 4 is a great, fun, addicting game that shines out in any DS owners collection. 
 The only downside is the difficulty, which seems a little unfair and aggrivating at times. Other 
 than that, i suggest all DS owners to pick up this game and you will see how funit can be! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Contra 4. I was expecting this game for quite a long time, and being top priority on one's list, 
 we should think that it will be a success, right? Correct. However, this time, Konami and Wayforward 
 open the gates to one of the most difficult games in video game history. No, I'm not joking.
  
  Graphics - Well, it's a classic Contra game, so don't expect any kind of 3D presence. In fact, 
 it's a very well done 2D platformer, and it's quite colorful. Most will say: "Ok, they graphics 
 are important, but we want a hardcore game". Make no doubt, as Contra is for you. 8/10
  
  
  Sound - Hehe, I love the theme that accompanies Contra. What can I say more? I mean, sound 
 is not a fundamental part of this game, although good, elaborated SFX is present. 9/10
  
  Gameplay - Ok, get ready, I'm about to list this main part. Gameplay. Ah ha, the very core of Contra. 
 This is a beautiful platformer, but freaking hard. You can't imagine the difficulty of this game. 
 I swear it's the hardest game I've ever played. Am I whining? No...
  
  Anyway, you have a variety of levels to complete (I guess most of you won't even be able to pass 
 the first, and that's on Normal mode) , and you can gain upgrades to your weapon when defeating 
 enemies. Hard as it is, you die if ONE single enemy bullet hits you, so stay on the lookout because 
 they re-spawn quickly and you must kill them before they shoot, or face the trouble of avoiding 
 their bullets. Bosses are insanely hard, but what isn't in this game? 8/10
  
  Replay Value - Oh, this has a lot of replay value. But no, it's not because it features tons of 
 multi player features, it's because the game is so hard you're bound to have quite some fits of 
 anger before you can claim victory. And I won't even start with the hard mode, thats tons of anger 
 packed in levels. 7/10
  
  Resuming, Contra 4 is a game that joins some great graphics with good sound, but insanely hard 
 levels make this one rated H for Hardcore. I can't understand Wayforwards "way" of thinking, but 
 it's certainly not "forward", that I can tell you! Unless you are a true fan of this game or simply 
 a hardcore player, I'd advise you to stay well away from this game. Really, you don't want to be 
 scorched for a long time due to it's difficulty. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ah_lim81x
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 10:57 pm PT
Review:  For those fans of Contra or newbies should never miss this issue out at your own retail shop. It 
 bring back the good old times where you put yourself once again in front of your big screen and 
 start to feel the habit of shooting your good old enemy. It remind me of an old friends who work 
 very hard to gun down a giant robot in stage 5, we manage to take cover from enemy fire and start 
 shooting at the metal door in stage 2. We were so close to stop the hearts from the alien base 
 but we run out of life during our adventure -_-", but that does not stop us from winning. Are you 
 ready to Lock n Load? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geist9049
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  i just spent the last dozen hours or so getting the crap kicked out of me by this game. im not 
 sure the reasoning behind the difficultly level on this, but Konami sure likes to put the smack 
 down on the player. in this latest incarnation of the contra series the game is kinda short but 
 once you accept the pain and the steep learning curve kicks in, the game is really pretty fun. 
 the graphics and music are typical for this sort of game and so are the enemies. but if you loved 
 the earlier contra games, you'll love this one too. just dont let your high-strung friends near 
 your copy.... it may get tossed thru the nearest window due to a frustration induced rage-fest on 
 their part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DefHalan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't want to be the best looking game. This game doesn't want to be the game that 
 makes your grandma want a DS. This game is a kick ass side scrolling shooter for the DS. It doesn't 
 go for the first person view that so many people go for now. It doesn't let everyone beat it. This 
 game is Hard and its just like the old Contras. If you love games and you have a DS get this game 
 now. You will fall in love with Contra and want to get them all. You can unlock the first two contras 
 for Nintendo systems on the game so right there you are getting 3 games for the price of 1. This 
 game will give your thumb a work out but it is a great game. Fast paced action arcade style shooter. 
 It goes back to what was so great about the first Contras. Buy this game if you have a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/nintendo/games/contraIV. html? var1=sc3
  
  Some franchises that have existed since the NES days (Castlevania, Ninja Gaiden, Mega Man) , share 
 but one common theme. They can kick your ass and make you want to hide in a corner, sucking on 
 your thumb. Is this the kind of experience that you feel you thrive on? Are you ready for more? 
 Well, you'll have to be if you want to play Contra 4. For fans, if you think that some well-timed 
 jumps, memorization or impeccable teamwork can save you from deathwell, all I'll say is keep living 
 in that dream. WayForward has made absolute sure to make Contra 4 the toughest yet.
  
  One thing is for sure though, the Contra games have never been about the story, similar to the 
 Mario franchise. Red Falcon and Black Viper, a couple tyrannical aliens, have been trying to conquer 
 Earth for a couple decades, but to no avail. Two years after The Alien Wars, Black Viper has launched 
 what many believe to be the final extraterrestrial offensive on our beloved planet, and it's up 
 to the Contra staples Bill Rizer, Lance Bean, Mad Dog and Scorpion to yet again make sure that 
 they're repelled. What's especially awesome is that Contra 4 returns the franchise back to where 
 it belongs, its chaotic 2D sidescrolling action roots. Are you drooling yet? I sure was.
  
  WayForward's first Contra project has turned out to be very special because it was developed as 
 absolute fan service. Despite the series' fanbase being rather niche, what Konami and Co. have 
 done to celebrate the IP's 20th anniversary is noticeably a labor of love. The core gameplay of 
 the 2D titles remains perfectly intact, yet Contra 4 introduces a few welcome tweaks that makes 
 the borderline insane gunplay 150% more interesting and entertaining. The first addition is a new 
 gadget, the grapple hook. It's really nothing your jaw will drop over, but the implementation is 
 seamless and works extremely well. Since the game's activity occurs in both of the DS' screens, 
 the hook allows you to safely pop up to the upper half if deemed necessary. Perhaps you want to 
 quickly escape impending danger, or just experience a different part of the stage you're traversing, 
 the hook can help you do both. Another change is the ability to stack power-ups in twos. In other 
 words, every single one of you who adores the Spread weapon can collect two and witness an increase 
 in the upgrade's power and range. Finally, the option of choosing among Easy, Normal and Hard in 
 terms of difficulty makes Contra 4 the most dynamic series entry thus far. Just know that you can't 
 really beat the whole game unless you take on Normal or Hard. It's funny too, apparently the developers 
 wanted to be blunt, sarcastic punks with not only how they wrote the instruction manual, but describing 
 those difficulties in the game. They think you can't be a hardcore gamer and need a stint in boot 
 camp if Easy mode has to be your first. Basically they taunt us Contra aficionados, and while I 
 think it's clever and humorous, they can really kiss my behind, because Easy mode is by far even 
 harder than the original three Contra games.
  
  What I don't particularly like gameplay-wise is the jumping limitation. Don't take this the wrong 
 way, I understand that the Contra soldiers are totally human, and by no logic should they have 
 super abilities. But man, having those extra few feet of space is what made avoiding all the dozen 
 stray bullets so much fun. In Contra 4, you can't jump out of the water, and when you're on land, 
 it feels as if you're weighed down by something, which is tough to adjust to when you're so familiar 
 with the original Contras. Nevertheless, for everything that makes this game so awesome, it's a 
 minor complaint.
  
  The eight stages bring anyone who chooses to partake of the experience some of the greatest feelings 
 yet. The chapters feature a mix of new and nostalgic, as a good deal of Contra 4 delivers extremely 
 noticeable callbacks to previous games, including the impressive bosses, some of which take up 
 both screens. The stage elements should also be memorable, and a nice chunk of the music has been 
 remixed. Composer Jack Kaufman definitely did a noteworthy job on the tunes in Contra 4, and while 
 the new stuff didn't exactly blow me away, what struck a nostalgic chord certainly pleased me. 
 There's also a very fine amount of voice work, which basically extends to your character saying 
 a cheesy one-liner when he comes back to life. It sounds a bit out of place, especially because 
 only one voice was recorded for the four commandos, so it just didn't seem necessary to me. As 
 for the rest of the audio, Contra 4 is the most action-driven one yet, and all the battle effects 
 reflect that perfectly, as they always have.
  
  I also love the presentation as a whole, graphically speaking anyway. While I doubt that WayForward 
 really pushed the DS hardware, Contra 4 still achieves a very slick, clean and appropriate atmosphere. 
 The sprites are surprisingly well-detailed (you can even see the soldiers' six-packs) , animate 
 very smoothly and just look alive. The enemy variety is also impressive, as you'll see a nice handful 
 of different baddies in every stage, which makes battle feel fresh across each chapter. Even the 
 level layouts prove convincing as potential warzones. If you have a second or two to take in the 
 battered backgrounds and landscapes, you'd see dilapidated buildings, decommissioned cars and just 
 so much more that drives home the proven theme of Contra. Every boss is very distinguished as well, 
 whether they span both screens or not. They may not be as difficult to fight as fans are accustomed 
 to, but considering how the rest of the game is, it's nothing that I'm going to challenge WayForward 
 for. A little leeway never hurts.
  
  What really pushes Contra games out into the market every time though, is the return you see for 
 your investment. By no means does it feel unfulfilling to play alone, but everyone knows that the 
 franchise has always won us over with its co-operative campaigns, and the case is no different 
 here. While it's a tad lame that each player needs cartridges, it's so darn worth it. Never has 
 two-player in a Contra game felt ill-contrived or not enjoyable, so there's nothing to look forward 
 to but even more chaotic fun that's so accomplished because of the teamwork aspect. Coordinating 
 one another's attack patterns, feeling each other's pain as you're massacred by Black Viper's forces, 
 finally taking down the last boss with one life to spare, boy, doesn't that sound like what multiplayer 
 gaming is all about? If that wasn't enough, Contra 4 has plenty to hide, as the game is just waiting 
 for you to surface an array of unlockables. The museum is especially cool, showcasing the box art 
 of every game in the franchise to date. There's also Challenge Mode, which offers 40 different 
 scenarios that range from reaching the end without dying while being unable to shoot, or eliminating 
 a set number of enemies with limited time. It's the completion of said challenges that opens most 
 of Contra 4's bonus content, and if the original Contra and Super C don't prove additional incentive 
 for purchasing this game, I don't know what would. It's a shame that The Alien Wars didn't make 
 it in, but it's acceptable given everything else the DS title offers. Seriously fellow fans, have 
 at it.
  
  Let's think about something folks. The first Contra was released almost 20 years ago, hence the 
 anniversary, but isn't it incredible to consider the fact that so many fans still play it to this 
 very day, in addition to the other classics? Where do you think the value for Contra 4 lies then? 
 Heck, the only reason why I think it isn't perfect is because of the lack of single cart Download 
 Play, which I just don't understand. But hey, even if you have just one person to regularly tackle 
 the game with for the next five to ten years, that's saying a lot. Despite the game's difficulty, 
 we all know there are going to be the few crazy gamers out there who dedicate hours upon hours 
 of their lifetime to beating the game without dying. To this date, I've finished the original Contra 
 over 600 times easily, and now I can't wait to approach that number with 4, which I've absolutely 
 fallen in love with. Who cares if the story is run-of-the-mill, WayForward's efforts to re-embrace 
 the series' monumental gameplay roots has a stronghold on my attention, and probably will for years 
 to come. The question is, will you join me? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funkmission
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  If you never played Contra before let me fill you in. Contra punishes you for being so bold as 
 to attempt it. Yet a bold few are gultens for punishment and if you fall among them then this game 
 welcomes with open arms. The main part of Contra 4 lets you pick from group of well armed individuals 
 and send you out to get killed in an arcade mode that is as much tribute to other contra games 
 as is its own piece of work. In the unlikely event you beat the arcade mode you rewarded with a 
 challenge mode. As though the delevopers hate you and dangle mouthwater unlockables like full versions 
 of classic contra games just to make you feel inadaquit about your gaming ability. Over all if 
 you know what your are getting you wont be disapointed. If this is your first time playing be prepaired 
 to scream wild and filthy obscenities at your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaction3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  While I only got into the Contra games resently, when I got the game for my NES resently, I was 
 hooked and played until I beat the game, Super C I played next on my NES emulator but never beat, 
 but it's such a fun game, it's not terrible either that I don't. And then I got Contra III on my 
 Wii's Virtual Console and it was one of the best in the series in my opinion, hard yet extremely 
 hardcore fun. After that, all new contra games have been a joke. They some have been okay from 
 what I heard but there is not been a new solid Contra game, until now.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The Gameplay brings back the old-school Contra games as well as a couple new things. The new grappling 
 hook feature is a nice touch for moving up to different parts of the DS screens when needed, and 
 it's used well for challenging bits too so nothing about it goes to waste. Easy mode is still hard 
 but good for people who want to get used to the game first or those who are not Contra veterans. 
 Normal is more interesting in my opinion, it's harder, but it gives you more ways to use your weapons 
 as if you get two of the same power ups, you can upgrade your weapon to it's fullest and one thing 
 everyone will want to upgrade is the all powerful and worshipped Spread Shot, the famous Contra 
 gun that took out all enemies in your path. Many old guns from Contra 1, Super and 3 return and 
 some with new abilities as well. One cool thing for veterans of the original Contra is that 3D 
 tunnels are back and are still fun to play. And the difficulty holds up to what made the original 
 Contra games so great as well and the controls are spot on.
  
  Other features this game has are a challenge mode that you gain by beating the game in any difficulty 
 and adds a lot more to do in the game and allows you to unlock more content like some digital comics, 
 additional characters from other Contra games, even Probotector from the PAL region versions of 
 Contra which never used the Contra name at the time, and best of all, portable versions to play 
 on the go of the original NES versions of Contra and Super C with the only downside on them being 
 multiplayer can't be used on the DS with these emulated titles but from how things are, it's understandable 
 so I let it slide for once. My only real gripe on the gameplay in this game is one of the bosses 
 in the second tunnel is impossible to beat without one of the special guns, your normal gun will 
 never kill it unless you have the fastest fingers possible.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Great 32-bit style graphics mixing both 2D and 3D well. For the most part this is 2D as Contra 
 SHOULD be and thank you Konami for making it that way again. The frame rate and sprite animations 
 are great.
  
  SOUND:
  MUSIC WISE:
  One thing I really enjoyed were some of the remixed tunes from older Contra games as well as some 
 new ones, it continued the feel of war and action that the tunes in the original Contra games were 
 able to give me. Also two recomposed tunes of the original Contra are in this game as well, the 
 Tunnel boss fights has the same song as they did in the NES Contra and if you play the game on 
 Hard, in level 1, the music from the first level of Contra comes up as well, hearing these newly 
 composed versions of these two original Contra tunes really helps kick in the nostalgia for how 
 many times I have been playing the NES Contra.
  
  EFFECT WISE:
  Great classic style sound effects as well as literally some old sound effects from the game Contra 
 III: The Alien Wars as well. I have nothing bad to say about this at all.
  
  VOICE WISE:
  Remember when Konami made the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles beat em ups? All the turtles shared 
 the same voice, well in this game, Bill, Lance, Mad Dog and Scorpian all share the same voice as 
 well. While in the old days I would accept this more, in this day and age as this is the generation 
 where voices are a standard in video games, I would be expecting the voices to be a LITTLE different 
 with each character. However the voice that is used is fine and is able to fit all the characters 
 in my eyes. One cool thing is that if it bothers you, you have the ability to turn the voices off 
 during the game, something I wish Sega would add into the 2D Sonic games on the DS and PSP as Sonic's 
 current actor fails at life.
  
  
  OVERALL:
  If you felt like you never wanted to buy another Contra game again as they all never lived up to 
 the original ones on the NES and SNES, then I say, you don't have to fear anymore, one finally 
 came for the DS, Contra 4 is the new Contra experience that all you Contra veterans have been searching 
 for. It's challenging, it controls perfectly, you kill everything in your path, great bosses, it's 
 everything that made the original Contra games great and more. So if you are a true Contra fan, 
 pick this one up, you will not be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrikerGold
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:10 pm PT
Review:  The tired debate over casual and hardcore games can be put to bed by Contra 4. This is *the* definition 
 of hardcore.
  
  Reaching back to the classic NES gaming days when no one realized how truly difficult some games 
 were, because there weren't many to compare them to, Contra 4 is a fast paced, 2D eye-candy romp 
 for only those with the sharpest eyes and the most deft touch of the D-pad. 
  
  The gameplay is excellent, featuring at times 10 different enemies on the screens at once and they 
 are constantly coming at you. For screen sizes like the DS, and the perfect scale of the sprites, 
 that's alot of baddies. The controls are perfect and the addition of the grappling arm is a great 
 touch. However, it would be nice if you could shoot while ascending. 
  
  It cannot be stressed enough; the difficulty is very high, but the game is NOT cheap. If you die 
 in the game, its your fault for not seeing a bullet or laser, or reacting fast enough to the swooping 
 creature. The only issue is the gap between the screens, because baddies and turrets can hide-out 
 there.
  
  There's the satisfyingly familiar range of weapons, Laser, Fire, Crusher, but yes, the Spread gun 
 still is the most effective. You can hold two weapon types at the same time, and switch between 
 them. Its not too often you'll have to switch, though the mini missles are good for destroying 
 turrets and bunkers but if you find yourself about to die, switching out the Spread gun for another, 
 so you retain it upon re-spawn, is a good strategy.
  
  For old school Contra fans, the second screen is a very nice addition, but can take some time to 
 get used to, as you must split your attention between both screens, in search of floating power-up 
 pods and incoming ordinance.
  
  The sound is dead on perfect for fans of the series, and the voice samples are a nice touch. Being 
 able to unlock the old school Contra games is simply icing. Even the instruction book has homages 
 to the original gameplay, like advancing too fast in multiplayer causing the death of player 2 
 by scrolling off the screen.
  
  Finishing Contra 4 is still a matter of memorization. Every time you play, you should get a little 
 farther, because most enemies still spawn or sit in the same place. That said, the presentation 
 quality and sheer entertainment value of the game will always keep you coming back.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicquebec
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I'm no Contra fan, i've played it on the NES and SNES, and this one is for fan only IMO. I think 
 that a 12 y/o boy who never actually played a contra game before wouldn't like this game...
  
  The game is great, don't worry, but it's nothing new, and if it wasen't called Contra 4, it 
 would be bad. But it is called Contra, and i've played Contra before, and i'm very happy with my 
 game, it's very hardcore, even on easy i wish i had some cheats :)
  
  If you like Megaman, Nanostray (it's kindda like Contra but in the air) this game is for ya!
 
  
  Controls are basic, they added the "bionic commando" grappling which is cool, the boss fights are 
 very fun and i can't wait to play Multiplayer...
  
  Oh multiplayer... im very dissapointed that it needs 2 games... c'mon!!! in Mario Party DS you 
 can play with 4 players on 1 game !!!
  
  I wish there was more "saving options" you die.. you have to restart all over again, people!! you 
 gotta realize that the DS is a portable system, people play it on train in the bus between classes.. 
 etc You need a way to save your game fast.
  
  Anyway the game is fun, but i think a better version could have been made!
  
  Think about Contra 
 4, with the visuals of New Super Mario Bros, Online play and you have a winner, still for 30$ this 
 is a great game, thx for all the additions Konami, playing the old school Contra is great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  Honestly, who plays contra for it's story? There's a lot of story told in the museum, and the opening 
 cutscene helps, but mostly, this game is not story focused. Aliens invade, and you're one bad ass 
 mother f... we'll leave it at that.
  
  Graphics:
  Very well drawn! This game sacrifices nothing in it's attempts to look like the "good ol' days". 
 Everything is old pixel art, with the only slight advancement being water in one stage. However, 
 where it's not computer generated graphics and such, it holds a charm in the fact that it's not. 
 The world is well detailed, people animate nicely, and their blending of the bottom and top screen 
 is rarely to never an issue.
  
  Only complaint I have is on.... hmmmm... ummmm, the 3d levels look a bit griany in places, for 
 the whole 5 minutes you spend there.
  
  Gameplay:
  Tighter tuned than a bolt, you have nothing to blame for your pathetic failure to complete this 
 game than yourself and maybe your friend. Each weapon powerup has it's use, each enemy has it's 
 own strategy for a take down, and the 2 screens never gets in the way. Levels constantly switch 
 up on you, and the grapple gun is a welcome addition, if not a bit underused for what it could 
 have been. Bosses are also massive, and somewhat epic. Where you'd think this would be like pure 
 nonstalgia value, it doesn't feel like it. Everything is built as if it was a snes game built at 
 the time, not a ds game built in homage to a snes game.
  
  I do have bad points however. Where this game features both contra 1 and super C from their NES 
 builds, there's the problem of multiplayer on it, or more the lack of it. You can select 2 player 
 mode, but both people follow the same dpad, and you have individual jump and fire buttons. The 
 experience is completely disorienting and pointless. Also on the topic of multiplayer, I was told 
 and showed at some point this had 4 player multiplayer, and it seems like it could handel it being 
 that there's 4 characters to select from, 4 people shown in the intro story, and plenty of room 
 for them, but the feature got dumped for some odd reason. 
  
  Sound:
  The music is GREAT. Once again, it's kinda a throwback, but it's rarely nonstalgia that this game 
 lives off of. There's a remix of old music here and there, but mostly it's new music, and feels 
 enough like the old games to have a relation without being a rehash.
  
  My main complaint is that the gun sounds could have been a bit less bleepish and a bit more bangish. 
 In general, sound effects are the things I wish would have improved since the snes days.
  
  Who wants this game?
  Anyone with an interest in contra, or some who may not have ever played 
 it before but like the genre. It's the best of it's kind in this day and age of metal slug constant 
 remakes and annoying top down shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: especensor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  First things first, this game is hard. Its about as hard as the original Contra if not even harder. 
 You can try play the game on easy mode but unless your a real hardcore contra fan who's been playing 
 contra recently, I doubt you'll be able to get past Stage 4 on your first playthrough.
  
  OK, there aren't that many levels in the game. Only 9 overall. Make no mistake, these are probably 
 going to be the 9 hardest levels you'll ever play in your life. But its because the game is so 
 hard that makes it so bad ass. Its all classic Contra.
  
  Basically, your a guy, here's your gun, go shoot stuff. Your a one man army and you take on a practically 
 never ending horde of enemy soldiers or robots or whatever the game throws at you. Similar to other 
 shoot em' ups like Metal Slug.
  
  The instant where you start the game and are dropped off by a helicopter, you'll know it, everything 
 about this game just screams classic. The controls, the weapons, everything's here. They even kept 
 the pseudo 3D corridor levels. The music. You'll hear your classic Contra tunes remixed or else 
 new tunes in the same style. The bosses, you'll find the first boss to be practically the same 
 as the one in the original Contra.
  
  Theres also a multiplayer co-op included in the game. The co-op is virtually the same as single 
 player. But double the Fire Power, double the Lives and double the FUN. Just one thing though, 
 the camera doesn't scroll down so on vertical scrolling levels, if a guy is too slow or a guy is 
 too fast, the guy on the bottom will die.
  
  Overall this game just rocks. There are plenty of unlockables including the original nes Contra 
 and Super C just to name a few. The game is practically built for Contra fans. It caters almost 
 purely for that group but thats not to say this is a bad game. If you've been itching for a tough 
 as nails old-school game, Contra 4 is your best bet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: usagi704
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  Presentation: 9.0
  
  The moment you reach the title screen and hear the classic, but reworked Contra title screen music, 
 you know it's totally on like its the late 1980s all over again! There are also lots of homages 
 to earlier Contra games in the level design, enemies, and bosses that will make Contra fans squeal 
 with glee!
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  
  While good, the graphics won't blow you away, even for DS standards. Don't let that worry you though 
 since they are still very good and highly resemble Contra III's graphics expect much cleaner looking. 
 Contra 4 definitely has the "Contra look."
  
  Sound: 10
  
  Where the graphics lack a bit, the music more than makes up for it. From the previously mentioned 
 title screen melody to the amazing familiar-but-new stage music, it will be very satisfying to 
 any Contra fan. If you play on the hard difficulty setting, then you'll hear 100% true-to-the-original 
 stage music which is a nice touch.
  
  The sound effects are also like you would expect, with explosions and gun fire sounding appropriately 
 16-bit, but with some nice added oomph. They even added voice-over samples when you die and then 
 respawn with lines like, "Let's party!," "Locked and loaded!," and "Come get some!" The only thing 
 bad I can say about the sound is the effect for the machine gun. It is far to "pew, pew" sounding 
 for me, but otherwise the SFX are great.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  
  If anything comes to mind about this game, it is this: "Contra 4 is ****ing hard!!" It takes balls 
 of steel to play this game! No pansies allowed! I am dead ****ing serious! If you haven't played 
 a Contra game before and are wondering if you should get this game, my advice is don't bother. 
 Unless you are used to or don't mind punishing old-school styIe games, this won't appeal to you. 
 Contra 4 plays like the previous 2D Contra games, end of story.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 8.5
  
  It'll surely take you a good long while to be able even finish this game on normal as the easy 
 difficulty level will only let you play through 7 of the 9 stages with no ending. The Challenge 
 Mode is also something that will keep you occupied for awhile too. This mode is were you unlock 
 secrets such as developer interviews, Contra promo comics, and even the NES version of Contra and 
 Super C!
  
  OVERALL 9.0
  
  Contra 4 would make even Chuck Norris weep like a little baby! Contra fans should pick this one 
 up immediately, but all others will likely wonder what all the fuss is about. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
