-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Contact
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/contact/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Strange, quirky premise gives a great first impression.
 Lots of items and side quests to discover.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Bland combat never really picks up.
 Having to go back and forth through the same areas feels like a grind.
 Fairly short main quest for a role-playing game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 7.3, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 488 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Grasshopper
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Oct 19, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A promisingly strange premise gives Contact a strong start, but the often-boring combat and exploration 
 sequences that ensue just don't live up to it. 

  Contact is a weird little adventure role-playing game in which you play as a boy recruited to help 
 a pixelated scientist get his flying space lab back into working condition. It's got a good sense 
 of humor and plenty of charm. Yet while the story can be interesting, the convoluted environments 
 and simplistic, repetitive combat bog down a game that just scrapes by thanks to its quirky style. 

          That 8-bit professor seems like a nice-enough guy, though being his errand boy for hours 
 on end grows tiresome...     

  At the beginning of Contact, you're introduced to the professor, who looks straight out of an old 
 Nintendo game and seems like a nice-enough guy with a cute pet dog... that dreams of one day becoming 
 a cat. You control a boy named Terry, whom the professor needs to gather some power cells that 
 can get his space lab back up and running. The power cells have been scattered all around a tropical 
 archipelago, and the space lab becomes a ship that can sail between these islands. So Terry must 
 set out on foot to run the professor's errands, and he'll encounter all kinds of weird monsters, 
 the military, and a rival band of adventurers called the CosmoNOTs in the process. Terry winds 
 up going through the game's dungeonlike levels hacking and slashing away at monsters while solving 
 some basic, sometimes annoying puzzles.  

  The initial weirdness of the premise quickly gives way to a straightforward dungeon crawl. Combat 
 in Contact is purely stats-based, so all you really do is get close to a foe, hit the B button 
 to enter into combat mode, and watch as Terry trades hits with the enemy until somebody runs out 
 of health. You can use food and other items to restore your health, and you can learn a variety 
 of special abilities, but the combat never really picks up. In fact, most combat can easily be 
 avoided just by running straight past your foes. However, you'll come upon some unavoidable battles -- basically 
 boss fights -- that you'll probably lose at least the first time, because you'll be too weak to win. 
 You don't gain conventional experience points from defeating creatures in Contact, but you have 
 a whole mess of combat-related statistics related to your health, your defense, and your strength 
 that gradually go up as you fight. There's no real consequence for running out of health besides 
 a trip straight back to the professor's lab, so gameplay often boils down to slogging through the 
 same few screens' worth of enemies in an attempt to get stronger.  

  The game is somewhat nonlinear at first, but the ability to travel to a few different places and 
 wander around the environments without much direction mostly just makes it harder to figure out 
 what you're supposed to be doing. To the game's credit, there are a lot of different items to be 
 found, including different outfits for Terry that change his appearance and give him new abilities. 
 Some of these give him new skills, such as the ability to cook, fish, or pick locks, so finding 
 each new outfit can be exciting. But then it's back to running around in the same set of areas, 
 fighting the same creatures. You get a decent sense of Terry's increasing strength as he keeps 
 on fighting, which is important to any role-playing game, but since the fighting and exploration 
 isn't particularly involved, Contact can get dull.  

  It doesn't help that the presentation leaves a lot to be desired. The initially quirky charm of 
 the visual style wears out its welcome, since you'll wind up fighting so many plain-looking creatures 
 and Terry himself looks generic. The game doesn't do much with the two screens of the Nintendo 
 DS, either, as the top screen is almost exclusively limited to showing you the professor dillydallying 
 as you do his dirty work. You use the touch screen and other DS features in a few spots, such as 
 for peeling off and slapping special decals onto the screen, but this might as well have been a 
 Game Boy Advance game. Contact does have a few nice music tracks here and there, but a jarring 
 transition to and from combat music is what sticks out. Sound effects are sparse but decent. There's 
 no speech, though you hear a little vocal cue when some of the main characters talk, which helps 
 give them a bit of personality. It helps that there's some nicely written dialogue, which is rarely 
 flat-out funny, but often amusing. There's a creative edge to this game, such as how the instruction 
 manual is presented as if it were the professor's personal Web log, complete with some emotional 
 rants and pointless surveys.  

          ... and that's kind of the point. But Contact's interesting ideas would have been better 
 off in a game that's more interesting to play.     

  Contact is pretty brief for an RPG, clocking in at around 10 or more hours, though it could take 
 you longer if you get stuck. There's more stuff to explore after you've finished the main storyline 
 (besides trying to wrap your head around the ending) , such as trying to win over the hearts of 
 several young ladies, but Contact doesn't offer much in the way of clear-cut replay value. The 
 game does have some basic Wi-Fi support in the form of a system that lets you and other Contact 
 players exchange friend codes so that you can visit a special island where you'll get to meet each 
 other as non-player characters. That you can get some special items here is probably the most worthwhile 
 thing about it.  

  Contact is either not quite fun enough or not quite weird enough. Its strangest ideas are introduced 
 at the beginning and reconciled at the end, to a certain extent. But in the middle, you get a basic 
 adventure role-playing game that'll make you forget about the game's oddball style and good writing. 
 This turns out to be part of the point, but that point may get lost in the shuffle because the 
 underlying game doesn't have more to offer.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: jprincess88
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited to play Contact, I loved Earthbound's innovativeness and it's quirks. The game 
 starts out very promising, giving you two different screens and the ability to communicate between 
 them. I like how you get to control your male character, and how the professor communicates with 
 YOU holding the DS and the male as well. 
  
  After the introduction sets out that you are in search of cells that the Professor has "lost", 
 you start searching through different maps in the system. The top screen professor guides you through 
 what you are supposed to do as you figure out how to battle, get items, and change into new clothes 
 which give you harness to different abilities. You get a boat and start setting sail to different 
 parts of the globe, giving you different items, clothes, and skills to collect. 
  
  I'm only halfway through at the moment, and the most frustrating part is at the desert, Aegis. 
 As soon as you walk in, you are faced with seemingly endless desert. With no indication of what 
 you are supposed to do, and no helpful buzzing from the Professor, I've spent hours walking around 
 grinding. Finally, resulting to a walkthrough, I figure out I missed out on something obscure in 
 an earlier part of the game. I fail to see how I was meant to figure this out without a walkthrough 
 or game guide. 
  
  Constant backtracking, repetitive tasks (such as making potions) , and a boring battle system seems 
 to be the downfall for this title. There are it's redeeming qualities, such as collecting different 
 items and costumes, cooking and fishing, and interacting with the cute Mochi, but it is lost in 
 the confusion of what the game tries to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cubivore10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Contact will always be one of my favorite games on the Nintendo DS. This game has a story like 
 no other, and a lot of it is up to you to decide. And, unlike most games, you don't play as the 
 main character, but you control him, and he realizes it at a point in the game. This game is kinda 
 hard to understand until you play it. So, this game is very good. The graphics are as good as they 
 can get, when it comes to 3D, and game play is great, but there is one problem, and that problem 
 is, the fighting system. You don't go up to your enemy and press a button to hit 'em, but instead, 
 you equip your weapon like usual, but you just wait by the enemy and wait for the character to 
 attack on his own. That's pretty much the only problem, although there is one thing that could 
 have made the game better, it was very short, although making it longer might have changed the 
 charm of it. One of the things that makes this game so cool is the unique leveling-up system. You 
 get the basics, and such, but you get extra stats such as reading. It doesn't really do much good 
 to level-up that stat, but it's neat that they put it in. The plot though is what makes it so great, 
 and the music is just awesome, also. So, if you like Earthbound, RPGs, or you're just in the mood 
 for a great game, pick up Contact for the Nintendo DS. Let's hope they come out with a Contact 
 2, so we can understand the story a little better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpg_lover_freak
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 4:20 pm PT
Review:  review 
  
  genre 
  series (only if I've played this in a series ) (not in this case) 
  overall
  
  
  GENRE
  
  well its an rpg like game but more or less like hand held rune 
 scape (i don't play it) anyway its goods are :plot, and some gameplay music. the gameplay ideally 
 very well made. battle idea is good but repetitive only lasts a little bit. music nice catchy not 
 like final fantasy music but overall pretty good. plot is what carried this game through its repetitive 
 life time. now its bads: battles are repetitive, tilt is ok and value is none. i will say its got 
 a value to long to rent / waste of money i would say don't buy it but defiantly play your friends 
 game. its long but easy. 
  
  genre score 5.0/10.0
  
  
  
  OVERALL
  
  this game features some awful things and some good things in it but really the good out ways the 
 bad a little bit. even if if you have a good friend who has this game they will try to sell it 
 to you or give it to you. in reality this game is ok and should only be played when you are stuck 
 and you need some fresh nothingness to clear your mind. 
  
  overall score 6.5/10.0
  
  thanks for reading 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: predo124
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  To say the game in one or two words would be, "could-have-been" this game could've been and should've 
 been more. I am pretty sure that the length of the main quest won't bother ANYBODY because you'd 
 have to be a genius to not get stuck somewhere in this game. There many challenges in the quest 
 and side-quests, but none of them get me motivated to do anything. The story/plot is just kind've 
 shoved in your face without an explanation. Sometimes there are some elements of the game that 
 are not explained in the manual that you have no idea how to accomplish; such as if you wanted 
 to train your dog (to help you in battle) you have to go great lengths to figure out how to do 
 that, because it is not explained anywhere. Already, that alone makes it fairly difficult to navigate 
 the game-world. The game-play is actually one of the best aspects of the game. The attributes system 
 works surprisingly well, and the "fame" attribute (how well people like you, so they will be friendlier 
 towards you) gets you motivated to not be mean. (being merciless, killing harmless animals/people.) 
 the battle system gets a little tiring after awhile, but eventually you are leveled-up to extreme 
 heights (if you don't get stuck before-hand) and can have fun killing people in one fell-swoop. 
 One more good thing is the multitude of items there are in here, there are so many different things 
 you can pick up that it took me 5 entire minutes, literally, to read the sub-line for each item. 
 Although there are some hardships in this game, you can tell it was trying to be something, I'm 
 not saying that this is a bad game, but the satisfaction in the end says something like, "well, 
 that's that." instead of "Wow!! i want a sequel!!!!!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark77778
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Contact is short. Plain and simple. Many people are comparing this game to Earthbound, but it's 
 not like that at all. Earthbound was a lengthy RPG that began to over stay its welcome the second 
 it abruptly ended. Contact on the other hand, starts off beautifully and ends right when it was 
 about to grow on you, sort of like Merry Poppins. If I had to compare this game to another one, 
 it wouldn't be Earthbound, it would be something more like Live a Live.
  
  Before I go into the actual body of this review, I would like to take this moment to rant about 
 the length of the game to get that out of the way. If you say I don't care about game length, it's 
 about the content, I still encourage you to read on, as that's usually the sorts of things that 
 I would say. If you've already read other reviews that rant about how short Contact is, then you 
 probably already have the idea and then I encourage you to skip this little bit.
  
  Okay, so Contact is SHORT. The game itself flows along nicely and gets an A+ on the storytelling 
 scale. The atmosphere it presents is great, and it's an amazing game to pull out when you're just 
 having one of those days. However, it's over way to quickly, when it easily could've been about 
 three levels longer. Instead of rushing all the story information at the end, the developers could 
 have drawn out the mystery element a little bit more, so that you didn't feel like you were on 
 this constant wild goose chase at the mercy of the professor. Then, by the time the game throws 
 everything at you, you finally realize that you're at the last level and the game ends. The game 
 gives you a lot of content, but not enough time to do it all in. It makes this player wanna-be-designer 
 certainly think of many ways that a sequel could be done that would make up for all of the negative 
 things that Contact has.
  
  Now, let's get into some other categories here!
  
  Graphics and Visual design:
  
  I cannot stress how gorgeous this game looks visually. The game 
 takes the DS graphical hardware and polishes it to a glimmering shine. What makes Contact so gorgeous 
 is that it doesn't try to do what FF3 did with it's attempt at pushing DS 3D graphics. The sad 
 truth is that the DS doesn't have that sort of capability, and when a game comes out for the DS 
 in 3D, it makes you feel automatically that it would've looked better on another medium.
  
  Contact on the other hand, takes what the DS can do on the hand drawn 2D scale, and perfects it 
 so that what you're playing feels like a PS1 quality SNES game. It works beautifully, especially 
 with the different island settings that the game produces.
  
  So, in terms of graphics and design, Contact gets a 9/10! (Only reason it's not a 10 is because 
 unfortunately, as good as it looks, it's not groundbreaking, and the graphics of the professor 
 versus everything else clashes something fierce.)
  
  Sound FX: Okay, the SFX in contact are totally unrealistic. They're not bad, mind you, and they 
 DO fit the overall tone that Contact provides which is a big thing, but in terms of what you'd 
 expect things to sound like, it's not accurate at all. Terry squeal like a mouse when hit, enemies 
 sorta just poof when you kill them, and weapon sound effects are totally over exaggerated or completely 
 unrealistic. The only exceptions to this rule are the sounds of the sea, and the cat-dog... but 
 the cat-dog doesn't even sound like a dog trying to be a cat... which leads me to believe that the 
 dog is a REALLY good trans-species cat.
  
  6.5/10
  
  Music: Contact's music is great. It's not memorable really, but it's great. Every song fits the 
 sci-fi fantasy mood so well that you really couldn't think of anything else to do to the songs 
 instrumentation. Just next time, the songs could really do a lot to be a little more on the catchy 
 side. 8/10
  
  Mechanics:
  
  Okay, Contact has mechanics. It has a lot of mechanics... but the problem with Contact's mechanics 
 is that they're rather pointless. This in partial has to do with the game's length, but honestly, 
 why would anybody bother fishing so close to the end of the game when you can just kill some enemies 
 and cook up something fierce in your chef outfit instead. There's no motivation for many of Contact's 
 mechanics.
  
  Aside from the fisherman's outfit, let's take the stats for example. Contact has many stats, and 
 some of them are more relative than others. Strength, weapon proficiency, def, and HP. These are 
 all relatively basic stats and the way that you level them up is via an Elder Scrolls method of 
 The more ya use it, the better you get at it. There's no direct EXP in the game, but there is a 
 gradual leveling factor for all of your specific stats. The best stat that there is is probably 
 the running one, as you can always feel the difference between the different movement paces and 
 it's very noticeable and fun to run faster and faster as you wander around more and more.
  
  However, besides the stats listed above and the profession stats, the rest of them are rather 
 pointless. In the game, along with your normal defense, you're graced with different types of elemental 
 defense; unfortunatly the game is too short and the enemies are hardly ever elemental in nature, 
 that it renders these stats absolutly useless.
  
  There's also my BIGGEST stat peeve which is the Karma stat. Karma is basically the game's sad attempt 
 at open gameplay. The more Karma you have, the better people will treat you, and the less you have, 
 the worse people will apparently treat you. I'm sorry, but I don't care HOW much karma I have, 
 if I go through the town brutally murdering people I should have pitchforks and blow darts shoved 
 up my butt. Instead in Contact, as long as I still have 10+ karma, nobody cares if I'm Charles 
 Manson. I can even get special limited items for brutally murdering the populous.
  
  That's the other thing in Contact, the items... you have so many item slots, but almost all of them 
 are useless or have absolutly no relevance.
  
  Also, the way that the Inn system sort of works in this game is cute, but random. I'm sorry, but 
 if I'm in a military facilitiy, I think they'll notice if I'm sleeping in their bed and using their 
 bath, which evidently looks like every other bath in the world.
  
  Also, unfortunately, another one of combat's elements of Open Gameplay is the lack of information 
 that it gives you. I'm sorry Mr. Professor, but you could've told me SOMEWHERE ahead of time that 
 i needed to spend all my money on a piece of sheet music in order to get to the last boss, instead 
 of spending it all on weapons for the last boss.
  
  Finally though, there's the online mechanic, which if you put some time into it, is great. It's 
 actually really fun to get some funny AI characters running around on an island who are based off 
 of real people and their information, especially when they give you free abilities and items... then 
 you can kill them brutally afterwards!
  
  It's within these annoying mechanics that Contact looses a lot of its points. I give it a 4/10 
 in this area. I've listed all of the bad mechanics above, however there are still some minor good 
 ones that make it relatively passable [like the online] .
  
  Combat: The combat in Contact is actually nice. You don't, unfortunately, have as much control 
 as you would like to in it, but it plays out like a round of KOTOR combat would, so you're actively 
 selecting targets and enemies and the like. Also, the summoning mechanic is a neat touch which 
 allows you, the user, to interfere with Terry's combat and take some matters into your own hands. 
 However, as good as the combat is, it can get a little stale like many other RPGs. Also, because 
 of the odd stat effects, it's near impossible to get all of the desired stats within the game's 
 time frame, but you get enough of them to do the desired damage without grinding like it's 1990. 
 6.5/10
  
  Story, Content and Appeal: This is why I'm writing this review. Aside from its broken mechanics 
 and short gameplay, Contact makes you feel all warm and fuzzy inside, and really sympathies with 
 the characters that you hardly know, but begin to love as you spend more and more time with them. 
 Then it's all over too quickly and it leaves you rather sad at the end, but happy that you were 
 able to experience such an adventure. The characters, jokes and animations are classic [you get 
 to fight pilots that don't have airplanes, so they run around with their arms out yelling Zoom! 
 ] and actually makes you rather overlook the other broken aspects of the game, save for it's length. 
 9.5/10
  
  So, averaging this all out, Contact gets a 7.5 on my list. It's totally worth the play, but damn 
 you wish the developers spent more time working on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyberpixie
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Contact is a really mixed bag, and will only keep players that didn't mind plodding through the 
 monotony to discover Contacts true colours. 
  
  I've been playing Contact since I arrived in Spain about 5 months ago, but only clocked in a total 
 of 20hrs playtime. There is a simple answer for that, it's completely psychotic, swinging alarmingly 
 from dangerously addictive to stupefying and boring. Not that it's a bad game, because it's not, 
 it's just that it has so many things wrong with that finding the good bits becomes a real challenge 
 in itself.
  
  Contact has an interesting gameplay angle which you could liken to The Nomad Soul, you play yourself, 
 and the DS is effectively a control device. The Professor has contacted you and needs your help. 
 He wants you to use your device to control a kid, with the goal of finding powerful energy cells 
 which The Prof requires. The Kid (default name Terry) is not aware of you, and needless to the 
 say from the off the whole situation sinks to high heaven, but there you go, that's the situation.
 
  
  Terry can be controlled with the stylus on the touch screen with a minimal HUD but you can use 
 the D-Pad and other buttons if you wish. As the game progresses I found that using the buttons 
 was better for battles but the choice is yours. Various menus can be moved between to access your 
 stats, inventory (which has an auto separation of weapons, food and special items) , special skills 
 and your Decals, more on these different sections later. 
  
  The game is not a realistic one but there are some interesting game mechanics. Rather than random 
 encounters popular with Japanese RPGs the monsters can be seen on screen. This changes the pace 
 of the game some what, as avoiding monsters can be just effective as fighting them. Fighting is, 
 well, interesting in some respects. To start combat you much select it, now Terry will attack any 
 target you select, be it monster, cow, child or crazy sheep. You can change weapons on the fly 
 during combat, with the weapon skill defined by the one in use. The attack styles are Slashing 
 (swords, katanas, knives etc) , Striking (clubs, hammers, staves etc) and Punching (a wide selection 
 of knuckle dusters) . There are many weapons to collect throughout the game with different bonuses 
 and nerfs but I didn't see any need to select anything other than the most powerful weapon you 
 currently have. So with a weapon now selected, you return to the game, and the slug fest ensues. 
 You can do little more than sit back and watch. You can move Terry with the D-Pad to try and put 
 some distance between you and the enemy between hits, but often they move quicker than you. 
  
  There are special skills which you need EP points for, which you build up as a separate meter 
 next to you health. You have a maximum of 5 points, with the number of EP points need for each 
 skill reflecting the level of the skill. Most of these are quite potent, but you must kill 2 enemies 
 without using EP to gain 1 EP, making it tactical but also very annoying. 
  
  Other combat related skills are Trick Decals, which you collect through the game. You basically 
 select them from a menu by "peeling" them off (it's pretty cool) and then pasting them on your 
 target. Some of these use the DS in nifty ways such as the Balloon Decal, blowing into the DS mic 
 will inflate the balloon increasing the damage you do with it. Unfortunately, even with all of 
 these options, combat is a dull and soulless exercise. The frame work for good combat is there 
 but it just doesn't deliver mainly because of the lack of interaction with the fights. You can't 
 block, some of the skills you get later increase blocking but the damage is done by then. More 
 often than not, the outcome of a fight is determined by the amount of food and potions you have, 
 which is lame to say the least. There is little skill involved other than in some of the boss battles 
 later in the game were the attack pattern must be learned and attacks dodged. Yawn. 
  
  As well as the 3 types of damage that can be done with weapons, you also have 4 elemental attacks 
 but you must be wearing the right clothes to do this. Having said that, I never really found that 
 exploiting an enemy's weakness with the correct attack did much difference, which was a shame. 
 However, once you've realized how dull combat is, you can just run away. You don't really need 
 to do any grinding in the game if you don't want to but instead you'll have to invest some time 
 in cooking. 
  
  Yup, cooking. The game has another interesting element which is that your clothes change your abilities 
 (aka. some of the Final Fantasy games) . There are 6 in total and most must be found by exploring 
 thoroughly. The Fireman's outfit allows water attacks, Fisher King gives fishing, Shadow Thief 
 gives lock picking and stealing etc. The most interesting one for me was the Chief outfit, which 
 you get from a naked chief on a beachdon't ask. While you have it on you can gut enemies for 
 food items and use the various cooking areas in the game. Cooking is a simple affair and amounts 
 to nothing other than selecting items to put in the pan, and cooking it up. Your cooking skill 
 determines the likeliness of success (failures create nice lumps of carbon, yummy) and your level 
 limits what you can cook. So, for example combining steamed rice with carp, will create sushi, 
 two different meat types creates burger meat, tomatoes and lettuce makes a salad and so on. It's 
 all fairly logical and is actually pretty fun with my only gripe being making potions, you need 
 a lot of them and need to make them separately. This goes for all food but when you need 30 potions, 
 it gets pretty tedious selecting everything 30 times. There are only 15 recipes to find in the 
 game which are generally more obscure, Croquette anyone? The others you can work out for yourself 
 through with logic and experimentation. 
  
  Fishing becomes an important part of the game later on not just for fish but for finding items 
 (you can catch jewels to try and win one of the potential girlfriends) but unfortunately it's incredibly 
 boring. Terry casts his line, and you sit and watch a box displaying the float, hitting the screen 
 with the stylus when it disappears. I don't know how they could have made this more interesting 
 without turning it into a proper mini-game but it doesn't stop it from being painfully dull. Needless 
 to say, I stopped fishing pretty quick. 
  
  Your stats can also be boosted by using Decals dropped by enemies, you can apply up to four at 
 a time. These effect one or more of your stats but if you want to replace one, you'll have to throw 
 one away permanently. It's a good system but I didn't find it made much of a difference through 
 the game. 
  
  So far, I admit I've been fairly damming and with good reason, however, Contact does have some 
 good points. For a start it looks great, with a nice play angle, menus and backgrounds. Each of 
 the areas that you go to investigate are distinctive with only the labyrinth like dungeons being 
 a bit repetitive in design. The bottom half of the screen which you play on has a modern take on 
 8-bit style pixel graphics with lovely drawn backgrounds. The top screen really is 8-bit looking 
 though which is used to display The Prof in his ship with Mochi (a space dog that wants to become 
 a space cat) . 
  
  The clean, solid filled vector graphics of the lab will be familiar to people that have played 
 games from the late 80's and 90's and that's not were the pop gaming and modern lifestyle cultural 
 references stop. The games style is one post-modern amalgamation of references and homage's which 
 I'm sure I didn't pick up on all of. Sure it's being clever and a bit of a smart ass but it works. 
 Most of it comes through The Prof but also talking to the inhabitants of the various islands will 
 reveal more, and often put a smile on your face. One of my personal favourites was a boss were 
 the key to defeating it was to "change the channel" of the TV. The researchers (including the woman) 
 controlling the attacks on you could be distracted if you managed to flick it to a soft-porn channel 
 called TV Pink (all in good taste mind!) .
  
  Another interesting part of the game is Mochi, The Profs friend and traveling companion. When you 
 save the game, Terry goes to bed, during which time The Profs lab is on your touch screen instead. 
 You can play with Mochi during this time, letting him play the computer, have a snooze, eat or 
 give him a good power scratch. This funny little Tamagotchi mini game has its benefits which are 
 that Mochi's power increases when you summon him in battles. Bizarre but fun. The music is also 
 very good and draws a lot from its retro themed roots. Sound is also pretty good and fits in well 
 with the rest of the presentation of the game. Weapon hits sound right, Mochi's little meow is 
 endlessly cute and the funny noises people make instead of talking is quite cool.
  
  As I said before I took about 20hrs to finish, but that was only the story. The story and ending 
 was very interesting and quite unexpected, certainly different. Despite parts of the game feeling 
 like a chore the ending really made up for it. However, once you finish the game you can reload 
 your last save game and you'll be back on the ship. You can now continue the game with a whole 
 bunch of side-quests now open and other stuff to do. I've not started playing this section of the 
 game yet but from what I've been reading, it sounds like this section of the game is possibly the 
 best part. Some other time though.
  
  I have mixed feelings for Contact. On one hand it's a cute, clever little game with a lot of good 
 ideas and on the other it's really dull, stupid and drove me away time and time again. However, 
 something kept me coming back and indeed once I started avoiding combat, I started to enjoy it 
 more. And who knows, maybe the post-game will be very enjoyable but at it stands I think I can 
 only recommend this game to a very small group of players. If you own a DS, like weird RPG's, and 
 don't mind enduring a games faults to get at the juicy bits tucked away, go for it, but for the 
 rest of you, give it a miss.
  
  - Niall Macdonald
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  The story starts out strong, with you being treated as what you are, a watcher from above the good 
 doc. He ask you a bunch of questions, and then stuff happens and the doc crash lands, picking up 
 a kid who acts as the true main character through the game. Personally, I would love much more 
 exploitation and use of his knowledge that you are watching above the both of them. I don't want 
 to be a god in this, but it really struck me as unique to start out the game being recognized as 
 me, and I was sad to not be acknowledged like this very much through.
  
  Anyways, it delves into a fetch quest for these crystals, so the story isn't very off track with 
 all the other adventure games out there. Still, the game's use of humor and well written dialog 
 pushes this above average.
  
  Graphics:
  Beautiful! The 2d here is well drawn and grows on you, making a clear separation between the world 
 your in and the odd world the ol' doc on the top screen comes from. The worlds are detailed and 
 effects are pretty good. My main problem is that at points, you'll easly believe this was doable 
 as a GBA game, and animations can grow choppy on some characters. For instance, I had a person 
 following me who half way to our destination, stopped playing his walking animation. He just kinda 
 glided across the floor.
  
  Each island you visit is very distinct and holds a great feel to it. You will look at screenshots 
 of this game after playing it and very easily tell where they are in the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is where the game gets and loses most people, depending on how far you get. For 
 every great point, there's a bad point in this game. Lets start with the bad:
  
  Combat is not all that interesting. You press a button to go into combat mode, then choose a target 
 and the game takes over. You watch eachother exchange blows, with the choice of using specials 
 and such. It does mix it up on boss fights, but for the most part, this is how you go. Also, there's 
 little glitches and bugs here and there, and seemingly untested areas that are so hard, you'll 
 grind your teeth. Further more, many features are thrown in but are just overly complicated so 
 you get no use out of them, and sometimes features that should get more use, don't.
  
  Enough bashing though, lets get to the fun side. There is a LOAD of secrets to find. You will learn 
 this quickly by when the doc says in the first cave you enter "there are maybe around 12 secrets 
 to find in this cave alone" (or something like that) . There's a lot of little features like cooking, 
 and little games in this that just give the world a detail of it's own, and often not everything 
 is out to kill you. For instance, I walked into a cave and found bats. they had a life bar and 
 existence, I could kill them, but you could walk right around them and they were just neutral. 
 Little details like that which stack up to make a fun world.
  
  Sound:
  The music is very good for striking an ambiance. Sit by the shore and get a nice relaxing tune 
 to watch the waves, or battle with Lester and get his upbeat evil tune to go with it. It's very 
 good at pulling the game together. Sound effects however, some are good and memorable, and some 
 get annoying. Each time you scroll through text, you hear a small "grunt" from the npc your talking 
 to. ON a low toned person, this isn't annoying at all, but talk to a little girl with a lot to 
 say, and hear that little high pitched laugh she gives off over and over and over again. 
  
  Who wants this game?
  Adventure fans and people with time on their hands, who can delve into 
 the depth of a game and work past a few flaws. This isn't the oblivion of DS but it's one of my 
 favorite RPGs on DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: My_Name_Is_Sin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Contact definitly has a very unique story. It also has an earthbound feel to it for sure. I spent 
 less than 12 hours on the game. I wouldnt say it was the most awarding experience but if your a 
 hardcore handheld rpg fan than its definitly worth picking up. Combat is kinda lame and it does 
 get annoying having to walk through everything. There are a TON of items to be found. The whole 
 costume system is fun but I honestly did not push to hard to find every suit. All in all, I am 
 definitly glad I bought the game at a low price (15 dollars) but I did enjoy it expecially because 
 of its old school nature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manticore32
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Fantastic Story. Unique RPG. A Space-Dog that wishes he was a Space-Cat and an awesome sense of 
 humor. Those are the traits of one of Atlus's most recent titles, Contact. It takes place in another 
 world where you must help a young boy named Terry find cells for a proffesors ship. All the while 
 encountering tough enemies and bosses. And as I said before, the sense of humor is great. For example, 
 at the start of the game if you say you don't like cherries. Later the proffesor will say to Mocchi 
 his Space-Dog. Mocchi, do like Spicy food... cherries? you just have to laugh at that one. If your 
 looking for a great game, with great traits for the DS, get Contact. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenpachiSama
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 1:52 pm PT
Review:  A lot of reviews were pretty hard on Contact, I felt. But for someone who really takes his games 
 seriously, I wanted to give this game the play it deserved before reviewing. I have to say, Contact 
 almost makes you one with your DS. It's a game that requires a bit of your time and has you thinking 
 about puzzles and strategies even when you are not playing. In an animation style that is very 
 similar to Earthbound (Mother) , Contact already was a warm welcoming as you are greeted by the 
 Professor. It starts off quirky and fun, and it only continues on as being strategic and embracing. 
 Any RPG fan would be thoroughly pleased with what Contact has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phubbadaman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  This is the type of RPG, where the more you do something, the better that stat becomes. So if you 
 fight with a knife, you get good with knifes. If you get beat up a lot, your HP will go up, etc. 
 The game itself, is set up almost as a movie that you control. An old professor will guide you 
 through the game, and you will control a poor hapless boy who doesn't even really know he is being 
 controlled. You do need to do a little level building, but the game isn't extremely hard. There 
 are a few point in the game where I was confused what to do next, but for the most part, the game 
 is straight forward. Very fun, and amusing at times. A very unique RPG for the DS, that had a fresh 
 look on how games should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gabrielpat
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 23, 2007 3:50 am PT
Review:  i had this game its great the start is good and teaches you all you need to know you can use the 
 touchscreen or the buttons for combat anyways enougth of that at first the game is fun and gives 
 you challenge the boss does require a bit of grinding to defeat after youve made some progress 
 the game loses its charm it requires constant grinding and costumes are impossible to find and 
 you end killing every shop keeper for weapons and then everything seems a bit repetative until 
 you get to the arcade machines it was definatly something ive never seen before you got in and 
 in to area styled like old games however im now revealing no more except from the fact you use 
 sticker to do special attacks
  this brings my review to an end with contact is worth playing if you have patience p. s, use water 
 outfit when you get it its teh best in teh game teh lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steelr07
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  I had read about Contact in the Official Nintendo Magazine, and instantly wanted it. I waited months 
 as the game's release was continuously set-back; but when the game finally hit the shelves, and 
 my copy came through my letterbox, I was not disappointed. The mix of pre-rendered backgrounds, 
 2D sprites and the infamous 8-Bit graphics of the Professor's ship are enlightening. The combat 
 system is completely original and very effective. The storyline, although relatively short, kept 
 me enticed for hours at a time. This is definitely a solid RPG and can easily be played by just 
 about anyone. One of the better RPG's currently around for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HestlerX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Contact is a great concept for the ds. When I heard about this new game from atlus with earth bound 
 like highlights I have to admit, I was excited. As it came release time, I got the game for Christmas 
 and was pretty excited in cracking it open. For the first hour of gameplay, I was hooked. I couldn't 
 stop playing. The dialogue was fresh, and the concept was new. Basically you are a god and you 
 talk to this professor who uses special crystals to feul his space ship. The professor contacts 
 you when he is under attack by another space ship wielding foe who knocks out his crystals which 
 become scattered aroud the world he was on. From this point on basically, you help the professor 
 recover his crystals. The game really begins when he lands by the first crystal which happens to 
 be near a boy named Terry. Now since the professor is an old man accompanied by a dog he can't 
 really go out and get the crystals himself. He sort of backhandedly recruits Terry to help him 
 recover his crystals.
  
  The professor charges you with looking after Terry while he remains in his ship to track the crystals. 
 Well, looking after Terry is equivalent to controling him without his knowledge. After you recover 
 the first crystal with Terry, the professor installs his space ship into an actual sea ship where 
 you are now able to sail around the world which is made up of many small islands, or at least thats 
 how they appear on your map.
  
  You recover crystal after crystal with Terry to regain operation of the professors ship. Soon you 
 come into conflict with the opposing force that originally attacked the professors ship and a battle 
 ensues to take control of the crystals as they have a great power imbued inside them that can be 
 used for more than just piloting a space ship. With the basic story out of the way, we come to 
 the gameplay. It takes no time at all to get the hang of combat in the game Contact. Basically, 
 all combat consists of is activating combat mode and selecting a foe. Once you activate combat 
 mode and you are close enough to attack, you begin attacking. Now this may not seem so bad if not 
 for the glitchyness that you will no doubt experience. For example, if an enemy hits you at the 
 right time, he will stop you from attacking completely. This may not seem so bad, but if you encounter 
 a few enemies that attack at a decent speed, they will cancel out every single one of your attacks. 
 There are three different types of weapons, fist, sword, and blunt. As with virtually all of your 
 attributes, these will increase in level with use. There is no indicator as to when they will level, 
 but its no real pain to gain levels with your weapons. What I'm getting to is that after a few 
 levels, you will gain special moves with a category of weapons. For example, when you get ten or 
 so in blunt, you will get a move that will deal 200% damage. Basically, the first special move 
 is the same for each type. In order to use the special move, you need to build up the special gauge 
 by killing enemies. Only, as I stated before, enemies can cancel this special move out if they 
 hit you at the right time. This can be extremely detrimental if you are fighting off multiple enemies 
 and really need to be able to use your special move. I wish I could give this game a better score 
 than 6.5, I thought the story started off great but it just couldn't carry the poor gameplay throughout 
 the whole game. Also, a huge part of the game are outfits that you can find. I thought that many 
 outfits were pretty tought to find without the use of a guide which is a pretty lame trend I see 
 now a days in certain games. It wouldn't be so bad if you didn't need said outfits to further portions 
 of the story. All together I don't regret owning Contact and I really like where it was going, 
 I just think that it could have been a whole lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basludanto
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  I spent a lot of time deliberating whether or not to buy Contact. The initial glimpses I saw were 
 promising and the premise sounded wonderfully quirky, but there was much ado about the combat system 
 in reviews and some complained that the game had an unfinished feel.
  
  After seeing it used I decided to finally give it a shot. I couldn't have made a better choice.
 
  
  First of all, the game is definitely skewed in a sense. The involvement of the player in the game 
 is unique, as is the constant presence of the professor in the top screen (sometimes in the bottom 
 for the occasional cut scene) . The process of healing (eating and taking baths) must be unique 
 in the gaming universe and works in the context of the game. There are strange enemies to combat 
 and stranger townsfolk to meet.
  
  The dialogue is snappy: you can tell that the initial script writers as well as the localization 
 team had a great, subtle sense of humor. There is little in the way of slapstick or gut-busting 
 humor, but rather the game opts for a wry, understated sensibility. A smile was on my face nearly 
 the whole time I played. Contact's system for leveling up - by way of using the skill you wish 
 to improve - is leaps an bounds above most traditional RPGs, in which an increase in level results 
 in an arbitrary increase in some skill. In addition, the suit system and sticker system, while 
 not deep or immersive, are fun and add customization to the character.
  
  The sound design is quite wonderful. While I wouldn't rush out to buy the soundtrack (I must admit 
 I rarely would) it was well done and never annoying. The quality of the instruments and the incidental 
 sound effects should be noted.
  
  There are a few abilities that can be learned, such as fishing and cooking, that will add to the 
 experience as you try to catch rare fish and make gourmet meals.
  
  And finally there's that combat system: by pressing the A button, you will enter combat mode and 
 attack at timed intervals. At first this felt clumsy and ungainly, but once I began to play the 
 game entirely with the stylus I found it to be liberating to have the power to dodge attacks and 
 position myself strategically. It takes some getting used to and is certainly not action packed, 
 but is nowhere near as boring or game-ruining as most reviewers seem to make it out to be. It can't 
 be worse than holding down the A button as in the Final Fantasy games, in any case.
  
  All in all, I am very happy to have taken a chance on this game and would recommend it to DS owners 
 who want a semi-action RPG with great humor and enough variety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3V0LUT10N
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Contact is certainly a peculiar little game, but thats just what youd expect from the team that 
 last year created the downright bizarre cell shaded shooter Killer7. However, Contact has a somewhat 
 lighter tone than developer Grasshoppers previous effort. Instead of a game filled with blood and 
 gore, here youll find yourself exploring beautifully drawn worlds, fighting fantastical creatures 
 and hunting down Cells, the treasures youll be searching for throughout the entire game. While 
 the basic gameplay mechanics may sound familiar to anyone whos touched an RPG in the last 20 years, 
 its what Contact does differently the makes it the awesome game it is.
  
  For starters, in Contact you dont actually play as a character in the game. Rather, the story 
 is that YOU, using YOUR DS, manage to contact an alien professor whos been looking for other life 
 forms for years. Its a unique premise, as well as one that holds up well throughout, and the opening 
 few minutes of the game really introduce you to the games quirky sense of humour. The Professor 
 will directly ask you a few personal questions, and will make comments on your responses. However 
 it doesnt take long for things to go horribly wrong. The Professor openly admits to you that hes 
 being hunted down, and no sooner as he spoken than his ship comes under attack.
  
  Flip forward and were introduced to Terry, the games young protagonist, asleep on a bench. However 
 hes somewhat rudely awakened by the Professor's space ship touching down feet away. In a moment 
 of confusion, he ends up on the Professors space ship as it takes off once again. Stuck onboard, 
 hes whisked away into space until the ship is shot down on a mysterious (though rather earth-like) 
 planet. With Terry unconscious on a deserted beach and the Professors power sources (Cells) scattered 
 across the planet, it seems its up to you to travel across the globe and make things right.
  
  You quickly take control of Terry, though obviously youre not playing as him. Rather, youre 
 influencing his movements and decisions without him knowing. Your first job is to reach the Professors 
 ship, and it is likely here that you will be introduced to one of the games more controversial 
 features, the combat system.
  
  To begin a battle, you simply press the B button to enter Battle mode, and sidle up to the enemy 
 you want to attack. Terry will start to fight with whatever weapon hes equipped with, and thatsumbasically 
 it. You can try and move around during a fight to dodge enemy attacks or leg it if youve no chance 
 of victory, use some magic attacks and access your inventory for healing items or to swap weapons, 
 but with most enemies the best plan of attack is simply to sit back and watch as both sides slowly 
 wear each others health down. Its a love it or hate it gameplay device. On one hand, its a breath 
 of fresh air in the world of RPG battles, but its also a little simple for its own good. You never 
 add new members to your party, all the weapon animations seem identical, and youll be doing a 
 hell of a lot of fighting from start to finish. So if youre going to become bored after a while 
 with this style of fighting, youll probably be best giving Contact a miss. However, this slightly 
 dodgy mechanic is counter balanced by the rest of the unique features all present and correct.
 
  
  One of the most striking things about the game is its contrasting visual styles. Terrys world 
 is a lush wonderland full of beautifully hand drawn environments that just beg to be explored. 
 But by contrast, the Professor and his lab are drawn is a simple, almost blocky style similar to 
 the Nintendo classic Earthbound. These styles were apparently chosen to highlight the fact Terry 
 and the Professor are from different worlds, and it works beautifully in action. Also worth mentioning 
 is the sounds. As youd expect for a DS game with a lot of dialogue, none of the characters actually 
 speak. Rather, each has a single recorded sound that plays at start of each line. This works to 
 give you an idea of how the characters sound, but during the longer conversations actually becomes 
 rather irritating as the same grunt is repeated over and over again. The music is good, though 
 rather standard for the genre. Contact is filled with sort of tunes that are good enough to stick 
 in your head, but arent exactly going to win any awards. A downside though is that through the 
 entire game youll constantly hear three songs again and again, the weapon drawn music, the enemy 
 chasing you music, and the battle music. Theres no gentle fade to them, they just come blaring 
 out the speakers, and worse still, theyre all pretty dull and youll certainly be listening to 
 them a lot. Its a shame that a good musical score is constantly interrupted again and again, to 
 the extent you may end up just turning your sound of all together.
  
  So far Ive actually failed to mention quite a few of the games more interesting features, so Ill 
 take a little time to describe easily the oddest, the Decal system. After each Cell is recovered, 
 the Professor will create you a Trick Decal. These are basically stickers that can be used any 
 time during play. You simply open a menu, select the Decal you want to use, peel it off (with the 
 stylus of course) and stick it to the level, at which points the Decals effects will take place. 
 Decals range from the Transform Decal, which changes everything on the screen into something else, 
 the Mochi Decal, which summons the Professors cute little space dog to help you out in a fight, 
 and the Balloon Decal, which allows you to blow into the microphone to inflate a balloon that will 
 explode and damage everything on screen. The Decals are primarily useful for when youve got yourself 
 in a bit of a pickle, but can only be used once before you need to return to the Professor and 
 get a fresh batch.
  
  Interestingly enough, while you explore, fight and chat on the bottom screen, the professor's lab 
 will remain on the top screen. If you glance up now and again you can observe him working, running 
 around and occasionally making conversation, being with a useful hint, a useful observation or 
 just an amusing comment. The professor becomes even chattier when you save your game. While Terry 
 sleeps the Professor swaps top the bottom screen youll be able to listen to his random rantings 
 and play with Mochi in a strange sort of ultra basic Nintendogs. Again, neither of these features 
 is the sort of thing thats going to make you want to leg it down to the shops and pick the game 
 up, but theyre quirky little additions that make the game shine
  
  In a possible nod to Killer7, Terry can gain new skills and powers by changing his appearance. 
 Rather than switching personalities, he can change his cloths to gain new magical abilities (just 
 like in real life *sarcasm*) . Initially hell start off with a simple T-shirt and jeans, but it 
 wont be long before he discovers the Aquashot costume, a set of cloths that resembles a blue ninja 
 outfit and allows him to use water magic. Other costumes include the Nitro Boost, F1 racing kit 
 that allows him control over fire, the Knuckle Mole, a builders outfit that lets him dig up hidden 
 items and hurl rocks, and the Fisher King, which (surprise surprise) lets him fish. Some costumes 
 involve sub quests, others youll just come across as you explore. Its easy to find a favourite 
 since they all look very different, though nearly all of them will actually be required for certain 
 parts.
  
  For example, in order to cook youll need to track down a chefs costume. When you do this and 
 get in the Kitchen, you realise just how much stuff is hidden in Contact. Sure, you could just 
 cook that meat you found, but you could add something else to make a burger, or sprinkle some spice 
 to tenderise things. Later on youll be able to create proper meals, though dont expect any Cooking 
 Mama gameplay mechanics here (you simple pick what you want to cook, and the game handles the rest) 
 Similarly, theres as much variety in other items, including weapons, though they all typically 
 boil down to typical RPG fare.
  
  The locations youll explore and enemies youll face however are far from ordinary. Throughout 
 the games 15 hour campaign youll traverse through everywhere from Pyramids, Forests and Caves 
 to Haunted Castles, Military Bases, Supermarkets and even a game within a game. Each location comes 
 with its fair share of enemies as well. As well as fighting strange monsters, youll battle soldiers, 
 aliens, clones, enchanted appliances, mummies, and a whole host of other nasties. This variety 
 of old and new locations also allows Contact to poke some harmless fun at society in general. From 
 a shopper frantically searching for the collectors edition of Snakes on a Boat to the Professors 
 handy advice on beating a boss, which involves weak points and massive damage, the game never tries 
 very hard to be serious. The dialogue is on the whole well written and genuinely funny, and while 
 youll never laugh out loud, I guarantee you wont be able to resist smirking at a least some of 
 the conversations
  
  And if that wasnt enough, the game features Wi-Fi support as well. By using friend codes, you 
 Contact your friends online and meet on Wi-Fi Island, where amongst other things, youll be able 
 to explore with friends, swap details and create new and wacky Decals.
  
  Overall, Contact is a game thats bound to get a cult following die to its many quirks, and while 
 it may not revolutionize the industry in any major way, its still damn good fun to play. The game 
 oozes charm and uniqueness, and while its somewhat dodgy and very common fighting sequences hold 
 it back, everything in the game is packed to the brim with originality. When a game even manages 
 to make saving something youll look forward to, you know your playing something special. So if 
 youre willing to overlook a few technical problems, then Contact is a game that you absolutely 
 have to try out. Hope to meet you on Wi-Fi Island soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superdude687
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the world of Contact, where you must help the professor get Power Cells for his ship, 
 and umm kill terrorists???
  
  Story: The story is relatively simple, The Professor is trying to make contact and You ( The Player) 
 use your DS to Contact him. Then he crash lands &amp; you must help the Terry (The Hero of this 
 game) traverse may different Islands to collect Power Cells. Simple yet fun.
  
  Graphics: The top screen shows the Professors Lab in a 2D 16-bit view while the bottom screen shows 
 the beautiful 3D world outside. The outside world is full of life and colorful &amp; lush.
  
  Game Play: This is all and all your typical Action RPG fare. As you do things like walk and 
 Attack your stats and abilities increase. You have 3 types of attacks Punching, Slashing and Striking. 
 There are Weapons for each of these types. For Punching you get Gloves &amp; Knuckles, Striking 
 you get Clubs &amp; Maces, and for Slashing you get Knives and Swords. There are also Staffs that 
 up your Magic and Striking. You also fight bad guys like Snakes, Evil Sheep, Blobs of Water, Terrorists, 
 Army Men, Mummies, and Potato Bugs.
  
  Battle System: Also another important aspect of the game is the Outfit System and . As you travel 
 across the many Islands in the game you may come across different Outfits. These Outfits add many 
 different Stat increases &amp; Abilities. Now
  where was I? Oh the Battle System. This game is your normal I hit you, You hit me back type of 
 game. Think Mystery Dungeon mixed with a Action RPG. You hit B and enter Battle Mode, While X brings 
 you to the Menu and Y lets you use Techs. There is also a Decal System. If you hit R you can peel 
 off a Decal &amp; stick to the screen to do different things. L Lets you change Targets.
  
  Replay: Early in the Game you'll be able to Cook and there are a few Mini games, and Doors to open 
 after you get a certain outfit so I think the replayability is definitely there.
  
  
  In Conclusion: Buy this game ASAP. It is an Atlus game and may be hard to find later.
  
  Total 
 Score: 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valmier
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  When I first powered on Contact, I was excited by it's creative way to tell an interesting story. 
 It leads you to believe that you are actually communicating with a professor in another dimension 
 and it uses this interface to take you through an interesting story. However, one can only keep 
 his excitement for as long as it takes to get to actual gameplay. The gameplay of Contact is a 
 turn-based combat/exploration hybrid tht works just as intended: it just isn't that good. Basically, 
 you search around for stuff for a long time, then, when you encounter an enemy, you go to battle 
 mode. This is pretty much a mode in which Terry (your character) takes out his weapon and automatically 
 attacks at certain intervals. So, basically, you stand there and watch yourself smack stuff until 
 one of you runs out of health. The only reason I rated the difficulty as hard was because of the 
 imbalanced boss battles: you usually need to walk around leveling up for hours before each boss 
 due to the difficulty of the bosses and the lack of skill involved in the battle system. This is 
 a shame, because Contact really has some interesting concepts behind it. To regenerate health, 
 you can eat food, but you cannot simply stuff your face until your health is all the way up: each 
 food has a certain amount of space it fills up in your stomach, and, once you're full, you need 
 to wait a certain amount of time (which varies depending on the food) before you can eat any more. 
 You can also cook things, making for a lot of different food combos. There are many other cool 
 concepts as well, but they are all muddled by poor execution and surrounded by frustrating, boring 
 gameplay. Despite its flaws, Contact is an interesting game that is worth a try simply to experience 
 something new: but don't spend $35 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arus645
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Contact is really a great nintendo DS game, one of my personal favorite games, the games story 
 is lacking, but the gameplay more than makes up for it! The battle is very easy, but takes some 
 time getting used to, you simply press B and Terry will switch into attack mode, if you get close 
 enough to any living thing terry will attack it. The music is great! I mean its Atlus so what do 
 you expect? (Atlus has great music) The music is both snappy and fitting for the environment! If 
 you like an innovative experience, and a great RPG, I reccomend picking Contact up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zacf
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  i thought this was one of the most addicting game for the ds. it is a MUST PLAY.. but if you can 
 rent it. they game is WAYYYYY too short. but it has great gameplay and the controls are easy! this 
 game deserved a way better score from gamespot, but what can i do? its great how there are so many 
 weapons to choose from, how you can cook to make health, buy things, sell things, and it also has 
 a great story line!
  so lets just hope they make more contact games that are longer.
  and once again this is a MUST PLAY for the ds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_magnolia
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 21, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is kind of like a 16-bit dream pair. It's got the look and feel of Earthbound, right 
 down to the questions the professors asks you in the beginning, and the fighting style of Secret 
 of Mana, with it's straight forward action rpg style. The games quirky story and characters are 
 enjoyable to interact with and it's gameplay, mainly the battles, don't get old unlike what the 
 GS review said. Boss battles still require strategy, managing spells and the innovative healing 
 system, and even require action, seeing as you have to physically dodge a lot of attacks. I think 
 that it was a tad bit unfair for GS to rate it so low, but perhaps they don't value old-school 
 nostalgia like I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nighthawk_yb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 16, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  The Story
  Terry, a young boy, skips class one day, and accidently comes in contact with the professor, who's 
 spaceship just landed on Terry's planet. He gets off quickly with the professor because they are 
 being chased by an enemy spaceship. But after a short chase, they have to make an emergency landing 
 on an unknown planet. The green crystals (the power cells of the ship) are shattered accros the 
 world. This is where YOU come in. The professor asks you, the player, to guide Terry and get the 
 crystals back. And that's where Terry's and your adventure start...
  The cool thing about this game is that it has a modern theme, but it does remind you of many older 
 games. Some elements reminded me of Earthbound, other things point out to games like Metal Gear 
 Solid. And you won't find many RPGs with a wacky theme like this.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is very simple, yet extensive. Running around is simple, just use your stylus or press 
 the D-pad to run around the world. Fighting is real time and very easy to use, just tap an enemy 
 or use the B-button to go into attack mode. You'll move slower, but Terry will then automaticly 
 attack an enemy if he's close enough. The fights can be boring if they take a long time, but by 
 defeating enemies, you'll build op energy points, which you can use to use your skills. Skills 
 are gained by building your stats. And there certainly are enough stats: normal stats like strenght, 
 but also stats like running (the higher the level, the faster you go) , cooking, ...
  Next to skills, there are decals. Decals are stickers with special powers: one decal is used to 
 retrieve the power cells, other ones use a special attack. They might come in handy sometimes, 
 but you can use them only once, then you'll have to recharge them at the professor (who stays in 
 his spaceship -disguised as a pirate ship- all the time, you can see him at the top screen.) The 
 game also uses costumes. By wearing a certain costume, you gain stat bonusses or new skills. Or 
 some costumes even let you play mini-games, like fishing and cooking.
  Overall, the gameplay is nice and easy to use, but it can get a bit repetetive after some time, 
 what can make the game get a bit bored.
  The game also features Wi-Fi, but I haven't been able to tried it out yet. But it should get you 
 some extra items (and you can really get lots of items in the game.)
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in this game are truly great. Althought they look simple, they fit in the games style. 
 When you start the game, the selection menu at the beginning gives you control over (3 buttons 
 of) an old computer. An original idea and it remembers you of the old, 8-bit times. More 8-bit 
 madness, most characters on the upper screen, except for Terry (which are actually just Mochi, 
 a space dog that wants to be a cat, and the professor) are all 8-bit. The professors computer screen 
 is actually an image of 'pong'. The lower screen has beautiful backgrounds (which I really love) 
 and then some nice sprites of Terry, NPC's and other characters.
  The graphics may not be the best, but the fit into the retro-style of the game, and I couldn't 
 have thought of a better way to do it.
  
  Sound
  Sound are nicely done, but can get repetitive. The simple sound effects can remind you of older 
 games, which again fits into the game's style. I loved the background music, it's been nicely composed, 
 and I'm a fan of it.
  Only the 'battle music' (which you hear when you battle an enemy, duh) can get annoying, 'cause 
 it's always the same. But I really liked this games soundtrack, and strangely enough, the music 
 playing when you die, is the coolest (my personal opinion, ofcourse)
  
  Overall (and why you should/should not buy this game
  Overall, this game is very nice, and I 
 advise both inexperienced players and hardcore RPG fans to buy it. It's easy and fun to play and 
 understand for everyone, even if you have never played an RPG. The hardcore RPG fans might not 
 find this game much of a challenge, but the game has a unique theme that you won't find in most 
 games of the genre, what makes it a nice change next to games like Final Fantasy.
  So anyone who gots some money, and want to buy a fun game, buy this one, you'll love it.
  
 
  P. S. This is my first review (hooray!) and I hope it's good enough. There might be some spelling 
 errors, but I'm 17 and Belgian, so my English isn't perfect:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zh666
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Contact was short, so there wasn't much of a chance to flesh things out. I did spent 11 hours on 
 it initially, but atleast 4 of those was straight up power leveling up. There's only 9 Islands 
 and only a few of them are big enough to hold a dungeon. There just wasn't enough content in the 
 game to really hold the interest in the RPG fan inside me. Overall, my first initial run was fun, 
 but I still feel a little gipped about things. The music was good, the graphics were good, the 
 controls were ok, there just could of been more to accomplish.
  
  ----------Battle System ----------
  Contact is a top-down-view dungeon crawler MMO-styled RPG. 
 You can only play as Terry. You hope from Island to Island helping various characters out while 
 trying to retrieve green gems that powers the Professors ship. He can equip suits, these suits 
 give Terry different abilities and attributes to use in your journey. For example, a Monk can dig 
 holes, and has extra Earth resistence and powers, while the Shadow Thief costume can pick locks 
 and treasure chests. Terry can also equip a ton of different weapons, including a knife, sword, 
 mallet, fishing pole, pan, etc. Some weapons can only be equipped with certain costumes, for example 
 you can only equip a pan by the Chef or the fishing pole by the Fisher King. When you get near 
 a monster, you have to hit the B button to get Terry into attack mode. Terry attacks by himself, 
 you control where he walks, but it's up to him to swing his attacks. Once you're in attack mode 
 you can use special attacks for Terry though. If you hit the Y button you can scroll through all 
 your special attacks. Each Special Attack will use EP points, you can only hold 5 at a time and 
 you can't recharge it with food or healing items either. Everytime you kill 2 monsters without 
 using EP attacks you gain 1 EP point. So it's wise to save these for the bosses.
  
  Terry gains experience not by killing monsters, but by doing actions and skills. There's over 20 
 different things to level up in this game, and you can max out each up to 100 levels. Everytime 
 Terry swings his sword he'll gain experience for his strength and sword abilities. Everything he 
 cooks something he'll gain cooking experience. Each costume and weapon (sword, hammer, knuckle) 
 has 7 abilities to it also. Once you reach to a certain level in each category you'll gain a new 
 ability. The biggest flaw in Contact is gaining the abilities, the goals are to unreachable at 
 the start of the game. Leveling up takes way to long, and even if you stick to one type of weapon 
 and one type of costume you still will only learn a few abilities until you beat the game. There's 
 isn't much reward for maxing out your skills either. The level designs are short and rarely do 
 they have any type of puzzles in them. I was expecting atleast fun puzzles in this game, but the 
 whole goal is to make it from point a to point b without dying. There's challenge in that sure, 
 but nothing a little power leveling can't fix. This game doesn't take brain power, it takes pure 
 patience. The fun of the game mostly consists of collecting each type of weapon, food and item. 
 ----------Characters / Story ----------
  The simple story goes like this, the Professor and his faithful companion Mochi first meet you, 
 yes this game actually makes you as a character. They don't really use this as much as you would 
 think though. After the initial set up, the professor is looking for green crystals, and happens 
 to find one that next to a kid, the kid is Terry the main character in the game. Terry is a silent 
 hero like Link for the most part. They talk and Terry gets on his ship and they sail off until 
 they get attacked by the CosmoNOTs. After this attack they lose all his green crystals that power 
 his ship, so Terry ends up going on a quest to find all the missing pieces and to stop the CosmoNOTs 
 plan.
  
  The plot was good enough for me, it's just has weak dialog for the most part. While the game was 
 wacky, I was expecting even wackier stuff. ----------Graphics ----------
  While I loved the graphic style of the game, the level design for the dungeons and caves were very 
 bare bones, repetitive, and pretty short. There's a ton of blacked out areas in the dungeons, and 
 re-used backgrounds and graphics, it's almost a bore to look at. On the other hand the areas where 
 you are side scrolling have beautiful backgrounds, and in some of the beach areas look great also. 
 ----------Sound ----------
  The music is excellent, all the songs fit the levels perfectly. The sound effects were ok at best, 
 the most annoying was when Mint or any other main female in the game had dialog and they would 
 repetitively giggle with each line. Mouchi would also repetitively meow all the time too. At the 
 begining of the game there was voice over of a very distorted phone operator but that's the only 
 thing in the voice over department of things. ----------World Map ----------
  The world map is displayed by an actual globe sitting by Terry's bed. When you click on it you 
 can rotate it in any direction with the stylus or d-pad and pick which island you want to hop to. 
 Once you pick your destination you have to go to sleep or wait until the ship arrives. This is 
 the most annoying thing about the game actually. ----------Time to Complete Game (first run through, 
 last save before final boss) ----------
  
  11:07
  
  After you complete the game you gain 4 new items, and you can continue from your last save. If 
 you don't save before fighting the final boss, then you'll lose all the experience and items gained 
 since your previous save. When I beat the game I only saved at the first save spot in the Castle 
 and ended up losing a ton of things.
  
  There's new sidequests, fetch missions and minibosses to fight after the game is complete. The 
 main quest is rather short, but if you complete the game 100% you can get into the 50 hour range, 
 maybe even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seifervii
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  It'shard to describe Contact, but I'll try. If you've ever played Secret of Evermore, Startropics, 
 or Earthbound you're getting a little of all those games with Contact. The presentation of this 
 game is amazing with full use of both screens, easy to use menus, and a easy use of touch controls.
 
  
  The game centers around the Professor and Terry who travel abroad in search of several cells. You'll 
 come across other characters each with their own motives and goals. You'll discover a large number 
 of items along with the unique decals that allow for a multitude of crazy and fun things.
  
  As you advance through the game you find new outfits that give you different characteristics. 
 Anything ranging from cooking (you'll find different meats, spices, and herbs that you can fry 
 up for items) fishing, and several other outfits add some depth to a pretty straightforward action 
 RPG.
  
  The battles are simplistic with a little bit of strategy. A nice touch is when the monsters chase 
 you to other screens. It's a little more realistic from games of the past where creatures stop 
 once you exit to another screen. You can change weapons from the menu system and use a variety 
 of techniques to defeat your foes. The bosses are fairly strong and require you to stock up on 
 the usual health items.
  
  Overall I found Contact to have a good story and look forward to playing more through the game 
 over the Thanksgiving holiday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xanst
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 13, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  The story is good, and it does a good job of breaking the third barrier between the player and 
 the game. The original story is kinda short (like most DS games) and the bigger things, ie, techs 
 and items, require you to put alot of hours in. If the original story were longer, it wouldn't 
 feel like you had to grind these out. The decal system is very good, can greatly change the way 
 you play. One of the better ideas besides story.
  
  Cooking and fishing wouldn't be so boring if they had a use besides techs and collecting. I know 
 that you can cook stuff to heal you, but potions are pretty cheap and work better than most of 
 the foods, which are there to add stats... which isn't all that helpful.
  
  WiFi is also a disapointment, a team misson or head to head fight could shine some strategy into 
 the game, but the way the game plays makes the battles mostly a grind or give situation. The game 
 isn't bad, you just need to have pateince to collect everything. However, I'd rather it be skill. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Machine
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 10, 2006 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong fun game, with lots of potential, but it falls short. Near the end of the game 
 their is stuff to get that you need to be at level 70 to get, but if you play the game normally (i. e. 
 not wondering around for hours) you'll only be around 30 at that time. One of my favorite things 
 is to level up an outfit (Yes very FFX-2ish) try to go save, witch you can only do at your HQ, 
 just to have the game randomly freeze on you. I have had this happen 3 times on my first play through. 
 The digest your food thing screws you in a tight spot too. Eat some food to get life then if you 
 need more within a minute, nope can't bellies full and a weak creature kills you... boo. It was 
 a ok game I just expected more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LINKTHECHAMPION
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  This game gets old, but while you still like it, it's a fairly good game. I mean, sure the battle 
 system sucks, but it is pretty good to revisit this game every week or so. Personally, it took 
 me 7 hours to get bored of it, and by that time I was barely to the 4th level (island) . I'm not 
 sure how many levels the game, but if there are over 10, you will definitely be getting a good 
 deal when you buy Contact for $30.
  The graphics on this game are pretty good, especially if you like the style, and the sound is perfectly 
 in tune with the moves you make. This game may have a bad reputation, but it is better than can 
 be expected from GameSpot's Review. I haven't played Wi-Fi on it, nor do I know what Wi_Fi does 
 on it, but I hope it's as good as the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Grasshopper, the people that created the cult hit Killer 7, are an interesting development studio. 
 If you are one of the few people who manage to give Killer 7 a go, then youll understand just 
 how unconventional the game was. It also probably wont come to a surprise for you then that their 
 next game, Contact for the DS, doesnt follow any rules as well. Instead Grasshopper has offered 
 to make a role playing game with a difference. As an alternative of actually being the hero of 
 the game, the player takes a role as a middle man between the game's two main characters. One is 
 the Professor, who knows about your existence because you communicate with him through the DS. 
 The other main character is Terry, a lost boy who manages to stumble onto the professors ship. 
 Published by Atlus in the USA, Contact aims to bring a fresh perspective to the RPG genre.
  
  The story begins with the Professor fleeing from the CosmoNots. Successfully evading the enemy 
 he ends up crash landing on an unknown planet and to show just how unlucky he is, the Professors 
 power cells for his ship are scattered all over the place. His high tech space shuttle can now 
 only be used as a typical run of the mill boat to travel the planets oceans, and visit towns and 
 places. As Terry is also not from this planet, the Professor asks him for his help and also looks 
 to you to watch over him. Working together as a team you have to help the Professor and command 
 Terry at the same time to help find the lost power cells.
  
  While the story might sound pretty generic, the main inspiration behind Contact is just what the 
 games title means. The player isnt actually in the game; hes just a player looking into the 
 world of Contact. His job is to help the people who are in the game accomplish what they need to 
 do. The game is a role playing game, but not one of your traditional Japanese RPGs. Its true that 
 you do control what Terry does through the stylus, or you can directly control him with the D-Pad, 
 so if you lack the imagination you might think this game is just trying to flaunt off a gimmick 
 idea.
  
  The game, however, manages to make sure that you are coming across as the correspondent between 
 to two. This is done by the professor, who lives on the top screen of the DS, speaking directly 
 to you. With the advice taken from him you then pass on the information to Terry by telling him 
 where to go. The battle system however is automatic. The enemies appear on the map and when you 
 are near them you can tell Terry to enter battle mode. In this mode Terry is in a battle stance 
 and is ready to attack if need be. When he comes close to an enemy he will start to attack it automatically. 
 Its like real time but without you actually doing the tapping of the buttons. You just sit back 
 and watch as your companion is doing all the dirty work you tell him to. It feels like you are 
 playing God.
  
  As you would expect from a RPG, the character gains experience as you progress. Rather than accumulating 
 experience points at the end of a battle, you get it on the spot. Its pretty similar to the likes 
 of Elder Scrolls: Oblivion where by everything you do is building up experience in some way. Terry 
 will randomly get symbols appearing above his head to tell you that he has levelled up in that 
 selected category. If little Terry is getting beaten up a lot (then you should help the poor guy) 
 he will level up defence. Attack loads and he will become stronger and walking obviously makes 
 you start to walk faster. A good thing that helps the game is that when you die and you certainly 
 will at some point as Contact can be harshly challenging in some places. The game sends you back 
 to the Professors bed with all increase stats intact. It means that you can keep dying and dying 
 and yet you will still be stronger the next time round. It really helps that you dont have to 
 keep saving when levelling up, just because some inconvenient git thought it would be nice to slay 
 you and laugh at all your hard work that just went out of the window.
  
  Terry knows more than just to hit things repeatedly. He will learn a lot of different tech skills 
 on his journey, as well as building up a collection of huge amounts of weapons and items. The ability 
 to wear clothes adds to what Terry learns: it adds specific skills for that type of clothing. If 
 you, say, have thief clothes then you can unlock doors, water suit and you can cast water spells. 
 Some of the clothes like Chef and Fisherman have a deeper usage through that selected jobs mini 
 games.
  
  The game also features a unique element called the Trick Decals. This lets the player slap a 
 stamp onto the desired enemy coursing something to happen. Its a simple use of the stylus to touch 
 the screen to peel off the sticker and then rub it back on the desired location. Theres no first 
 class stamps featured in the game, so you dont have the power to post enemies to people you hate 
 or to draw a moustache on the Queens face for a joke. The system for battles makes it feel like 
 you are really helping Terry. The whole contact concept might only work for a few gamers who have 
 the mind to believe in the idea, but with all of this you do feel like you are in between the two.
 
  
  Contact has a unique visual style that is used to separate the two views you see. The top screen, 
 the Professor view, has a very retro style look to it. Its reminiscent of the 8bit days. Its 
 also very close to the style of Nintendos own EarthBound series that appeared on the NES and SNES. 
 The bottom screen is where most of the graphics are showing off. The backgrounds in the bottom 
 screen are pre-rendered artworks that look quite attractive. Its certainly not pushing the DS 
 hardware though, but it is pleasant to look at in some of the games areas. Audio wise Contact 
 is very basic. It includes the standard affair for sound effects, but its really the musical score 
 that suffers. At some points in the game it sounds solid, but most of the tunes are forgettable 
 and you dont really get the feel from them. The game doesnt feature any voiceovers for the 
 characters, but the Professor does have an interesting sound effect for when he speaks. It sounds 
 like he is putting all his effort into humping something.
  
  In terms of length, the game is pretty short for an RPG. An average gamer can probably get through 
 the games quest in around fourteen hours. Thats for finishing the game without finding every 
 item and costume that is available. Its also quite linear: the story doesn't really go anywhere. 
 Its a simple principle of get to place, get to end of dungeon, kill the boss and then repeat. 
 Contact comes across more of as a dungeon crawler than a full blown story driven game. That said, 
 it has some great dialogue. While nothing to do with the story, the Professor will randomly say 
 lines that are reasonably comical. Remember the big joke about Sonys E3 press conference with 
 the giant crab? Well get to the first boss and the Professor will tell you to hit its weak point 
 for massive damage. There are other references to games, pop culture and movies as well. Snakes 
 on a Boat anyone?
  
  Contact is like nothing that has come before. It might not be an extraordinary title; it is, however, 
 a good game that feels like a lot of love has been put into creating it. Its full of charm and 
 personality that is only made better by how by trying to be different from typical RPGs. It features 
 simple usage of the Nintendo WiFi system, enabling players to share data with each other (it makes 
 an AI version of the player's character and he then stays and lives on WiFi island) . People who 
 are looking for a RPG that isnt just a clone of the others out there should try out Contact for 
 a one of a kind experience. Be warned though, as its an experience that isnt for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mister_mister
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 6, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, I thought it was going to be cool, especially if it has Nintendo 
 WFC in it. Basically you play as... well... yourself for part of the time, but most of the time 
 you control a boy named Terry. The one thing I really like in this game is that your abilities 
 level up at certain times and certain uses. In a way, it reminds me a bit of FF2 with the whole 
 stat-specific boosting and not leveling as a whole. Some of the music is a little iffy here and 
 there, meaning that some of it could have been better. However, the sound effects were rather good 
 which somewhat saved it. The graphics aren't too impressive to talk much about, but they're still 
 good enough to keep someone playing. The controls are pretty good, although sometimes you end up 
 getting stuck between, say, two trees because of how you end up moving your character. As for the 
 Wi-Fi, I was a little dissappointed. You don't really do much with it except find secret stuff 
 on a little island. Other than the things that I said, this game is really enjoyable, especially 
 since you can attack random people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick0091
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 5, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Game play: 8/10
  
  This game has a similar style of game play such as many mmorpgs. Basically you choose the enemy 
 and your character attacks it, simple as that. He will continue battling unless you choose otherwise. 
 Of course you always have a few skills to throw in when you feel like it. Also the levelling system 
 feels like a lower version of the elder scroll series. You gain stats by using certain weapons 
 or skills. For example you will level up in strength the more you attack, same with you will learn 
 fire skills when you use fire skills, same with getting defence from melee attacks or learning 
 to fish or cook better, etc. It is pretty self explanatory. Even though the battle system isn't 
 the most amazing you will still be impressed with other aspects of this game such as cooking. There 
 is so many things to cook and you can mix things together to make new foods as well. Also food 
 is very unique in this game quite a fresh look on healing items in general. Food of course heals 
 you however if you eat to much you can no longer heal until you have digested it. Each food has 
 a certain time limit of how long it takes until it is digested and until you can eat again. This 
 provides a unique way to use your healing items carefully. Also a lot of foods provide temporary 
 boosts or weaknesses. Such as loss of max hp by 20 or gain 5 strength, etc. very unique.
  
  Also You can be 8 different class/ costumes, Which include 4 elements (air, water, earth and fire) 
 As well as your default, fisherman, cook and a thief. They all have unique skills in and out of 
 battle and the more you use one the more skills you learn.
  
  There are plenty of things to do in this game and overall with these features the story line is 
 also very unique and sometimes confusing however I won't get into that.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  Earthbound style graphics for the top screen and amazing high rez textures and backgrounds 
 on the bottom / main screen. This game has amazing backgrounds defiantly one of the best on the 
 DS.
  
  Sound 9/10
  
  If you have ever played earthbound it is a very similar / unique style of music / sounds. Amazing 
 music to change the atmosphere of every area. It always fits perfectly.
  
  Value 8/10
  
  The reason I gave this game a value 8 out of a 10 and not a 10 out of 10 is because it is a 
 tad short. If you play through the main story line rather quickly it feels like you havent even 
 done a lot. For example you may only have about 20/80 or so skills in total. Seems like there is 
 so much more levelling to do yet you beat the game. However even though the main story line is 
 a bit short there are tons of side quests to keep you occupied.
  
  Reviewers tilt 9/10
  
  This game has the whole package and more. Great game play a good balance of things to do and 
 enough action to keep you going. This game has a very good sense of humour similar to earthbound 
 of the snes. This game is defiantly worth a look into for anything rpg fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dangsaucer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 3, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is where the game will falter for most. The gameplay consists of you guiding the 
 main character into battle. From there, he is on his own. In fact, the only thing that you can 
 do to assist your character from there is to add in special attacks, use healing items, or change 
 his weapon. Why, you may ask, is anyone playing a game with such an obscure battle system? Well, 
 for me, it is because of the options and depth presented to you from the start. There are 75 different 
 weapons and 75 different healing items, each with different strengths and advantages. You have 
 over 20 attributes that upgrade on the fly. On top of all that, you can choose one of 8 costumes 
 that will let you specialize in a job or element.
  
  Graphics: Grasshopper Manufacture has a knack for making beautiful landscapes that you really can't 
 see in any other game. On the touch screen, you see nicely animated characters put in beautiful, 
 extremely detailed landscapes. These landscapes range from the pyramids of Aegis to the technological 
 shopping building of Habara. The only flaw is the slightly unimpressive upper screen, which many 
 will still love because its resemblance to Earthbound.
  
  Sound: If I could possibly give the sound an 11, I most certainly would. The soundtrack in this 
 game is virtually flawless. From beautiful orchestral compositions to catchy battle tunes, this 
 game has it all. The sound effects are also above average, especially for the DS. Each weapon type 
 even has a sound of its own, a detail that could have easily been overlooked. The only slightly 
 annoying sounds are the connecting to WiFi sounds.
  
  Value: Unfortunately, this game is exceptionally short. If you knew what to do, you could probably 
 breeze through the cartridge's dungeons if about three hours. And yet, I have put over 20 hours 
 into this exceptional game. Why, you may ask? First off, the depth in this game is exceptional. 
 With over 20 statistics to level up, 64 special moves to earn, 8 costumes to find, and 225 items 
 to collect, there is enough content in this game to make up for the pricetag two or three times 
 over. For those of you who don't enjoy grinding, collectig, and stat raising though, Contact is 
 not for you.
  
  Overall: Contact is an exceptional game, but is almost an aquired taste. Many people will put it 
 down because of its seemingly shallow combat system, put those who keep playing will find their 
 experience more enjoyable then many of the other DS RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustusK
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  Contact DS is one of the first RPG's made for the DS that I've actually found interesting enough 
 to play. I waited months for it to come out and soon forget about it. One day while on my lunch 
 break at work I went to the video same store and bought it THE DAY it got out. The funny thing 
 is that I didn't even know the release date.
  
  Once home I couldn't put the DS down. I was hooked on it so much I forgot the time of day.
  
 
  The thing that makes this game so special is its functionality. It does what Animal Crossing WW 
 and Harvest Moon DS do for hunter gatherer genres, and puts it all into one. It also adds a little 
 extra, with the same type of feel of Harvest Moon's relationships with girls. Many great games 
 that I love do this. [Harvest Moon, Animal Crossing, Monster Hunter, Fable, and Runescape)
  
  The gameplay, however much repetitive, does not get old... And the replay value of this game 
 is unbelievable. You can beat the game and continue on, looking for more and more to accomplish.
 
  
  Even though most of the gameplay is linear, you can jump around from island to island on your own... 
 And when you travel and find all of them, you've got an abundance of side-quests to run on. You'll 
 also find yourself wandering off in this huge world, trying to find every single nook that may 
 lead to a secret room, or a hidden treasure chest.
  
  This game has it all... Humor, Entertainment, Roleplaying, Plots, and that little extra fun factor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValKilmerStyle
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:50 am PT
Review:  Contact is a new RPG for the DS in which you control a boy named Terry who is out to help his new 
 acquaintance, the Professor. Along the way you'll have to work through dungeons, fight off pirates, 
 change clothes and assist naked chefs to retrieve the lost power cells to the Professor's ship. 
 When all's said and done, Contact somehow manages to deliver both a completely unique adventure 
 AND a traditional RPG, and makes each of them a lot of fun.
  
  The game starts off with the Professor, a little 8-bit looking dude in a lab coat, asking you a 
 few questions about yourself. Not yourself in the game, mind you, but yourself communicating with 
 him through the DS. One of the most enjoyable aspects of Contact is that you, the player, are actually 
 a character in the game. The Professor will turn towards the screen and call you by your name all 
 throughout the story. You (yes, you with the DS in your hands) have been given the charge of controlling 
 Terry, the game's protagonist, without letting him find out he's being controlled. Often dialogue 
 will play out between the Professor and Terry, but once Terry leaves the room the professor will 
 talk straight to you. This little twist will keep you interested in the game's story all the way 
 to the end since you feel like you're actually involved in the drama.
  
  The story itself helps to make the game more fun. The Professor's ship has been attacked and you 
 and Terry have to help the Professor recover his lost power cells. You'll travel between different 
 islands scouring dungeons to find these little buggers. Eventually you meet resistance from a small 
 band of pirates who call themselves the CosmoNOTs, and who happen to be out tracking down the power 
 cells as well. The characters all have distinct personalities, and some of the dialogue is even 
 funny enough to make you laugh out loud. It's charming, enjoyable and will keep you engrossed the 
 whole time.
  
  The actual gameplay is what Contact has taken the most grief over. The basic battle system is simplistic. 
 Pressing a button will put Terry into battle mode, allowing him to attack anything within range. 
 Once a fight breaks out everything is turn based. Normal melee attacks are automated while you 
 control Terry's 'techs.' To initiate a tech during combat you open up the tech menu, pick one and 
 watch Terry go. There's a tech meter that determines how often techs can be performed and you can 
 access them at any time while in battle mode. The system is so simple you'll find yourself watching 
 most fights instead of participating in them. It's a small departure from a traditional hack 'n 
 slash, but it can grow dull at times.
  
  Luckily, the character customization in Contact makes all the fighting worthwhile. Terry has no 
 fewer than 26 stats that each determine some aspect of his makeup. Running will increase your speed, 
 attacking will increase your strength and taking damage will increase your HP. There are so many 
 different things to train that leveling up never really gets old, as it does in many other RPGs. 
 On top of the stats, you'll find costumes that grant you special modifiers and techs. These work 
 essentially as a job system, and there's one costume for each element of magic. All this gives 
 you the freedom to build Terry pretty much any way you want him.
  
  It's a good thing that the leveling doesn't wear thin, too, because some parts of the game will 
 have you doing a lot of it. You may find yourself breezing through enemies in one area only to 
 get stomped by the boss at the end. The difficulty can get lopsided like this in a few areas, and 
 there are a couple parts in the story that will have some players stumped as to what to do next. 
 Contact definitely doesn't hold your hand and guide you to where you're supposed to be, so if you 
 don't want to get lost you'll have to pay attention.
  
  Anybody who doesn't end up wasting time trying to figure out what to do next should be able to 
 get through the whole story in a measly 15 hours. This may seem short, and when you get close to 
 the end it certainly feels short, but there's a lot in Contact that will keep you playing well 
 beyond that. Aside from the great customization, there are three optional costumes that turn you 
 into a chef, a fisherman and a thief. Fishing and thieving are pretty fun and can offer some good 
 incentives, such as rare items and money. Cooking is so addicting it can derail you from the story 
 entirely. There are 95 different food items, over half of which can be made by combining different 
 ingredients. Trying to find all the different recipes is great fun and an easy way to make money. 
 There are also an equal number of both weapons and collectibles, so going through and trying to 
 do everything will make the game last around 20-30 hours.
  
  The presentation is another one of Contact's unique and endearing qualities. The two screens are 
 used to represent the two different worlds in the game: the Professor's on top and Terry's on bottom. 
 The lush and detailed environments on the bottom screen mix beautifully with the old-school NES 
 look of the top. Neither front pushes the DS to its limits, but it looks great and fits the game's 
 goofy vibe perfectly. The audio usually doesn't stand out, but the score is in line with the lighthearted 
 feel of the game and most weapons have their own sound effect to go along with them. It's all pleasing 
 to the ear, even if it's not superb.
  
  Overall, Contact is a game that relies heavily on its charm and character to immerse the player 
 in its world, and it succeeds. The up and down difficulty, the mostly bland combat and the short 
 storyline don't take much away from the total package. Contact sucks you in and makes you want 
 to stay for as long as you can. If you have a DS and are at all interested in RPGs, this game won't 
 disappoint you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dlowrey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 26, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Pros: A unique play style and story line. Great graphics. Great music
  Cons: Sometimes difficult to figure out how to operate
  
  Contact is a new quirky RPG for the 
 Nintendo DS.
  
  In it, you act as the go between for a professor who is in a crashed space ship (currently disquised 
 as a pirate ship - I told you it was quirky) and a boy named Terry who's task is to fetch a bunch 
 of lost power gems that the space ship lost while being attacked.
  
  As you move through the story, you find that there is a LOT you didn't know about the Professor 
 and why he was shot down.
  
  Terry has a lot of different stats he can work on. These are raised simply by performing tasks. 
 You increase his speed stats by having him walk around a lot. His fighting skills (slashing (swords) , 
 striking (blunt weapons) and punching (fists) ) are raised by fighting with an appropriate weapon. 
 Etc.
  
  He also has special moves called Techs. You first have to find the Techs, usually dropped by enemies. 
 Then you can invoke them during a battle by pressing the Y button. Not all Techs can be used at 
 all times. You may have to be wearing a certain outfit or have a specific weapon equipped.
  
  Fighting is done simply by walking up to a NPC and pressing the B button. You will then attack 
 them and, usually, they will fight back. You have no control over the battle other that what you 
 are equipped with and what Techs you choose to use.
  
  A new concept is they way the game handles spells . Instead of learning spells, you collect stickers. 
 These are dropped by NPCs when you kill them or are found in treasure chests. You use a sticker 
 by peeling it off it's backing with the stylus and sticking it on an enemy. Then the sticker's 
 effect takes place. You can also put stickers in a book you carry to increase specific stats.
 
  
  All of the above info took me a while to figure out, and that is really the only complaint I have 
 about the game. The instruction manual is practically useless. But once you figure things out, 
 things work very well.
  
  The game uses the DS' dual screens very well. Normally, you see the Professor's ship, with him 
 and his dog (who wants to be a cat) Mochi, on the upper screen. They are rendered as if they are 
 8 bit graphics. They look like a colorful cartoon. Terry's world is more detailed, like you would 
 normally expect on the DS. The reason for this? Try the game and find out! :-)
  
  You control Terry with either the Stylus and/or the DS controls. It is simple to do. I really cant 
 say much about the story line without spoiling it. But it is an engaging story with many little 
 surprises. In addition to the main quest (Find all of the Professor's lost gems (or so you think 
 at first :-) ) , there are many little side quests to be performed. You can also (need to?) go back 
 to places you have previously been to get to areas you previously couldn't get to, once you have 
 obtained the appropriate items and/or skills.
  
  Contact does support WiFI. However it's in a unique way. You and your friends exchange Friend Codes 
 . You enter them into the game. Then, when both of you are online, your friend becomes a NPC on 
 WiFI Island. You can obtain unique items from the NPCs. You can even fight them, but they tend 
 to be difficult to defeat.
  
  The music in the game is wonderful. There is quite a variety of songs that are played in different 
 areas of the world, as well as during different times such as battles, playing with Mochi, sleeping, 
 etc. Sound effects are basic, and I do get tired of the Professors grunt and Mochi's meow which 
 you hear at random intervals as they go about their actions on the upper DS screen.
  
  Overall it's a very playable and engaging game. I give it an 8.5 out of 10.
  
  And remember: 
 Mochi = Love! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penacilen
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 8:01 pm PT
Review:  it has a wide range of things to do like fighting cooking and fishing. the non button mashing combat 
 is nice but it can get boring. the graphics remind me of Golden sun (GBA) . the story can be complex 
 or easy you can get into it but if your a younger player you can still have just as much fun. The 
 freedom in this game is great there are many attributes including: Strength, Defense, Dexterity, 
 Agility, Wisdom, Stamina, Speed, Fame, Courage, Karma, Thievery, Fishing, Cooking, Slashing, Striking, 
 Punching, Earth, Water, Wind, Fire, Anti-slash, Anti-Strike, Anti-Earth, Anti-Water, Anti-Fire, 
 and Anti-Wind.
  good for a wide range of audiences (Rated E+10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardboardonly
Rating: 4.8
Date: Oct 25, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  This game could have been great. Before I get into what I see as the negative parts of the game, 
 I'll give Grasshoper the benefit of the doubt and tell you what they did that was not only well 
 done, but better than other games. First of all the sound. I have never heard better music in a 
 DS. It is engaging, never annoying, and rarely less than beautiful. This ties in with the overall 
 presentation of the game which is great. The stroy telling is very cinematic and fresh and never 
 boring.
  
  Everything else is though, unfortunately.
  
  The combat is the worst part. In the game you enter into combat mode by pressing the B button. 
 In this mode your speed is reduced so you can't really dodge anything. You accomplish that you 
 must switch in and out of combat mode. Once in combat mode though, you don't directly control the 
 main charcter's actions must at all aside from selecting a few special attacks gained from leveling 
 up. This aside, if there was any real strategy to the game I would let the lack of a real control 
 over combat slide. It does fit in with the concept of the game after all. The problem is the game 
 is way to short to even begin to develop the skills you learn or feel the need to in the first 
 place. There are a few more things about the game that are good, such as a well defined UI, good 
 colorful graphics, and a unique sticker' system that affords you special abilities. These sticker 
 attacks aren't really explained well at all though and I could see younger players having trouble 
 grasping what to do with them to use them effectively. The concept and the story aren't bad either, 
 aside from the painfully 2D characters, by which I mean their intentions and characteristics. When 
 it comes down to it though, this game is flat out boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisekris86
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is probably where the game can tilt either way for any given person. The battle 
 system is in my opinon quite robust.... ok so you dont have alot of choices in what you can ACTUALLY 
 do but you have about a million different wepon choices once you collect them all. Not to mention 
 all the suits that Terry can find that will changes his stats and given him certain specail attacks. 
 Finally the hyped Sticker system... so its funny here because even the professor in the game is 
 a little confused about how this works... basiclly you have two types of stickers ones that are 
 in a book that help you the player (chaning surrounding monsters into rabbits) and then ones that 
 directly effect Terry (changes his stats) ... if you noticed i said some help you and some help Terry 
 the main character.... thats becasue YOU the person playing the DS are a character in the game 
 too! this is one of the strongest points of the game because it really makes you feel like your 
 part of the story... anyway the battle system is well balanced when Terry fights many guys you 
 can feel the power growing in him but during boss fights you realize you might need to go back 
 and level up somewhere but it doesnt take long its almost perfect in the ammount of time it takes 
 to get leveled up.... its worth the work to defeat a boss and know that you actually had to work 
 to get to that point but its not too much work that it gets boring
  Saving is an issue many people dont talk about in a game review but i thought i would bring it 
 up even thought Contacts save system is fairly basic ... there are Beds that you go to sleep in 
 which will save your game also there is typically a bathtube around for recharging your health.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Ok again this is a preference thing... the graphics in the professors world are all in bit style 
 (8/16) yet in terry's world its all hand drawn beautiful land scapes.. . the bosses are somtimes 
 a cross.... more towards terry's side becasue the battels take place in his world. all the animations 
 are pretty good
  
  Sound:
  The music in my opinion is one of the best things about the game... there are some songs i feel 
 are not used enough. all weapon sound are good and all creature sound are good... Value:
  first of all let me say im not sure how the value will work out... seeing as im not sure how wifi 
 works yet i know the idea but will it keep me playing? we will see.... other then that i think 
 it will be fairly good seeing the fact that there are like a zillion items you can collect... im 
 serious... there are like 3 different types of items... weaopons, foodish items, and other items 
 and there are prob about 50 or 60 of each type so there is alot to collect also there are many 
 spells which i havent begin to learn... so if you see value as content then well this is the best 
 handheld value around.
  
  Other:
  This section was just to say that the characters and story development has been my favorite part 
 seeing as I am NOT terry I am ME... the professor is amazingly funny and the story is quite intersting 
 so far...
  
  Overall: As i said before this is an All-around good RPG with fun gameplay, lots of upgrades and 
 collectables, good story and amazing characters! It cant be beat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrett_duffman
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: First off, this game is amazing!!! dont believe the hype, because its better than what 
 they say. the stylus controll is nearly perfect (you're going to want to calliberate your screen 
 before playing for maximum pleasure) . i dont even like using the d-pad because the sylus control 
 is so comfortable. they filled this game with tons of little funnies and such. i could play this 
 game forever. i have yet to find out what exactly wifi does, you have to have friend codes for 
 it. besides that, the sticker system is fun and new, moster battling is always fun. the fact that 
 you have a hunger meter can be tedious alot of the time, but it just adds to the reality of the 
 game (even though the game is totally bonkers) they provide you withtons of things to do, theres 
 always something to find and someone to help, or you could just prawn them. i dont totally understand 
 the karma system, but i guess the higher level makes you more of a hero. there are a ton of things 
 to level up. spells, attributes, running speed, magic, everything is upgradable. GRAPHICS: the 
 backgrounds are beutiful on the bottom screen (when your not asleep) and the top screen is a fun 
 colorful little place where the professor stays. the characters are prettey well made, they remind 
 me of golden sun people. in general, the graphics are all beutiful.
  
  SOUND: the sounds are also really good. all fo the different battle songs are my favorite. i also 
 like the mochi song when you summon him. nice little happy tunes make the sounds great. also, the 
 weapon noises are nice, all of the enemies have their noises too.
  
  VALUE: there are tons of things to do in this game, whether your training your sword/fist/hammer 
 skills, magic, cooking, fishing, and other things, you'll never be left bored with this magnificent 
 title
  
  REVIEWERS TILT: the game is just plain good, nuff said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantasmCipherX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Well, I must say, Contact is quite a game. And also not a game, in the sense that you are... YOU! 
 Yes, that is who you are in this game, amazing concept isn't it? You play as yourself, speaking 
 through the Nintendo DS to a professor who needs help. Along with yourself, the professor has enlisted 
 the aid of a young man named Terry, who, unlike most RPG characters is devoid of amnesia and spiky 
 hair, OMG, a first for a RPG. Terry, however, does not know you exist. You are his conscience, 
 his guide, and his inner voice. Combat is very MMORPG style, where Terry attacks the enemies automatically 
 with basic attacks after you've initiated battle mode . Though you do not have control over Terry's 
 basic attacks you do control his special abilties, also known as techs. Different techs can be 
 aquired by outfitting Terry with a variety of different costumes which in turn grant numerous other 
 abilities, like the ability to take raw meat found in the wild and cook it, thus granting the meat 
 new ability buffs and health power for Terry to use.
  
  The graphics on the top screen, which display the professor are very reminscent of the old SNES 
 classic Earthbound and the bottom screen displaying a hi-res realistic look. Some locations are 
 simply gorgeous, such as the beaches you first land on.
  
  The sound is superb, with varying soundtracks that play according to the mood of the game, the 
 music is very fitting with the game and changes tempo quick. Very nice music. the sound effects 
 are numerous and well done, but the only thing annoying with the sound is when the professor trys 
 to communicate with you at various points during the game, and when you're using a headphones the 
 random beeping could very well give you a headache.
  
  The stat system is... simply awesome. Every little thing Terry does has a stat. From cooking to 
 melee, to running, to magic. Terry levels up not by reaching a master level ala Final Fantasy 7 
 but he actually can level up a single ability at a time as you play. For example, run around alot, 
 and he will gain a level up in speed. Attack with a sword often and he will build up his strength 
 and slashing ability. Take big hits and he develops HP. A very nice system of leveling that can 
 lead to having a very customized Terry each time you play the game again if you so chose so.
  
  Now, you're probably wondering does this bastard have anything bad to say about this game? 
 Well yes I do. The game can get alittle hard at certain points, and character grinding is often 
 the best way to overcome a boss. Nothing wrong with that, but some people may be put off by the 
 thought of clearing dungeons over and over again in preparation for the boss. However, some people 
 love building up their character intensely as I do, and therefore may not have a problem with it. 
 Also, the game can sometimes fail to offer you a direct idea of what you need to do. You're often 
 left wandering around trying to figure out what to do. Some purists may see this as a good thing 
 though, as it leaves an element of suprise and mystery in the game.
  
  Finally, this game is overall an incredible game, packed with laughs, a fun level up system, strategic 
 battle system, and a unique and engaging story. I encourage anyone interested into RPGs or the 
 quirky, to check out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioismyname
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  this game is just super fun. the whole thing with the characters is really cool. It's like there 
 is the professor, terry, and you. It's a great idea. the battling is really cool to. If you run 
 away the monsters follow you. They even go in other rooms If you go in a different one. The music 
 is really good too. I love the music. I dont know what it is but it makes you really happy. there 
 is only one thing that is weird. there is a sticker thing. you peel stickers and you can change 
 people into monsters or you can go back to your ship. there is also battle stickers or something. 
 those give you stats. that's pretty sweet. plus the title screen is like the coolest thing ever. 
 If you like a good rpg this is the one. trust me. this is the best one so far 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
