-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cooking Mama
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/cookingmama/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Lots of different ways to use the stylus to prepare your dishes.
 Colorful cartoon graphics.
 76 different dishes to make.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The game lacks a point, or direction, of any kind.
 It won't take you long to blow through all the available dishes.
 Progression of the different minigames lacks cohesion.
 Difficulty is slight at best.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 6.7, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 956 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Taito Corporation
Genre: Miscellaneous
Date: Sep 12, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Cooking Mama is a cute, charming little cooking-themed minigame collection, but it lacks direction 
 and depth. 

  For the aspiring Rachael Rays and Bobby Flays of the world comes Cooking Mama, a culinary-themed 
 puzzler for the Nintendo DS that makes liberal use of the touch screen to have you perform just 
 about any kind of cooking-related task you can think of. The game tasks you with all the preparatory 
 work for a variety of recipes through a quick and slightly disjointed series of minigames, all 
 while Mama, a bright-eyed anime chef, judges your progress and eventually assigns you a grade based 
 on how quickly and accurately you performed the tasks at hand. It's a bright, colorful game with 
 a lot of charm and some amusing minigames, but it's also exceedingly light on difficulty or depth, 
 and it does eventually get old.  

          Set it, and forget it!     

  Everything you do in Cooking Mama revolves around your master kitchen tool, which is the game's 
 term for the DS's stylus. With this master kitchen tool, you can do anything. It slices, it dices, 
 it mixes, it presses, it grates, and it even delivers sauces smoothly and evenly. It's basically 
 the kitchen appliance of Ron Popeil's greatest dreams, and it's a breeze to use. Each time you 
 are presented with a task, you simply tap, swipe, or scribble with the stylus. Say you're presented 
 with some garlic over a grater. Just put the stylus on the garlic, and swipe it back and forth 
 to grate, while periodically clearing out the collected garlic gunk on the bottom side of the grater. 
 Want to pan fry some meat and vegetables? Watch as a specific progression of tasks slides by telling 
 you when to raise and drop the oven temperature, periodically stir with the stylus, and perhaps 
 even flip the food in the pan from time to time. You even get to blow into the microphone in certain 
 games to cool things off. It's all very simple action, relying on quick, easy movements with the 
 stylus and some good timing, but it's all quite fun too, at least at first.  

  There are at least a few dozen minigames in Cooking Mama, though some of those are variants on 
 the same basic game, and all of them are tied together through a specific progression of games 
 for each recipe. The dishes themselves are made up of a wide variety of foods, ranging from boiled 
 rice to spaghetti Bolognese, pork-fried kebabs, and so on. There are 76 in all, and there's even 
 a mode that lets you combine certain recipes into new dishes. Unfortunately, as neat as that sounds, 
 the basic progression of the game doesn't lend itself to long-term enjoyment.  

  The main problem with Cooking Mama is that it just doesn't have a very good progression to it. 
 With each dish you play a series of the various minigames, but not in any kind of logical order. 
 Basically, each time you complete one of the games, you're spit back out into the main dish menu, 
 and have to click the icon for the next minigame to start it. With this kind of structuring, you 
 lose the sense that you're actually involved in the cooking process, and instead just feel like 
 you're actually playing a scattered series of minigames with no real overarching point to them. 
 The game simply lacks the frenetic pacing of something like a WarioWare, or the cohesive structuring 
 of a game like Trauma Center, and without either, you're left with a series of similar, simplistic 
 minigames that feel disconnected and eventually lose their novelty after a few hours of play.  
 

  Incidentally, a few hours are all you'll need to try out every dish in the game. Creating each 
 dish doesn't take more than a couple of minutes, and each minigame only takes up anywhere from 
 a few seconds to maybe a minute, tops. The only real reason to go back and play them again is to 
 earn higher scores, but after you've seen and done each game, they don't really inspire any desire 
 for multiple plays, especially considering you'll undoubtedly end up doing many of the same games 
 dozens of times throughout all of the available dishes. It also bears mention that Cooking Mama 
 isn't really going to teach you very much about cooking. You might glean a bit of info on what 
 goes into some of these dishes, but this isn't a virtual cookbook. There are no precise recipes 
 to be accessed anywhere in the game. There's also no multiplayer component of any kind, though 
 the advertised four-player wireless icon on the back of the box might lead you to believe otherwise. 
 All you can do is send a demo recipe to friends' DSes that they can download and play themselves, 
 and it's not multiplayer.  

          As amusing as the notion of chopping up vegetables via the stylus is initially, it wears 
 thin after a short while.     

  Cooking Mama does earn a few style points, however. Its colorful cartoon graphics are pleasing 
 to look at, even when all you're staring at are things like raw meat and uncooked vegetables. Mama 
 herself takes up the top screen while you're busy with the bottom screen doing your cookery, and 
 though she doesn't move around too much, she makes some amusing faces when you succeed, and gives 
 an even more amusing, flame-eyed look when you fail. The game's audio contains a number of cooking-related 
 sound effects (sizzling pans, knives chopping, and the like) and some cheery piano music that repeats 
 too often to be pleasant.  

  It's disappointing that Cooking Mama doesn't hold up over time, as it does make an exceptionally 
 good first impression. But once you settle into the repetitious, disjointed nature of the minigames, 
 you'll find yourself wondering when the game is going to graduate to something more interesting, 
 or at least challenging. Sadly, it never does, instead devolving into the sort of game that can 
 be played in quick bursts for pure time-killing purposes, but is basically impossible to play for 
 longer than that without becoming entirely tedious. On the plus side, Cooking Mama won't cost you 
 more than a budget price at retail, and as a rental, it'll surely provide you with at least a few 
 hours of solid amusement. But you can't help but feel like those few hours of amusement could have 
 turned into a lot more with a more ambitious design.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (77 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Axman89
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  Being the first, this particular game in the Cooking Mama is arguably the weakest, but it also 
 makes one of the best impressions.
  
  Following mini game steps to make dishes is a strange and inexplicably wonderful phenomenon that 
 has (to date) spawned 4 sequels between Nintendo's 2 platforms. The original Cooking Mama features 
 the gameplay foundation on which each of the sequels were built on.
  
  Mama is a happy-go-lucky cooking instructor with a think Japanese accent, who walks you through 
 the paces of making exotic meals. The gameplay takes some getting used to because of the scrutiny 
 you'll face when your dish is judged. However, the game's rigidness can not stand up to the bliss 
 you feel when you make the grade.
  
  Above all, the game (and the entire series, for that matter) oozes charm and can make even the 
 grumpiest gamer smile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domenico54
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  E3 winner? What was it up against, big rigs? This "game" is a minigame. Not mario party fun or 
 even warioware fun. This game is good for about half an hour then the minigames have you saying 
im chopping stuff up again?" One of the great "challenges" is working an oven. You have to put 
 in 10 minutes, by hitting 1,0 than hitting enter. Genius. For 20 bucks, you can get a DS game that 
 is actually decent, A mario game perhaps? To all people giving it above a 7, you must have never 
 played pokemon, GTA, mario of any sort, legend of zelda, and the list gos on and on. I really dont 
 see how you give a game you play for 30 minutes anything above a 3. Its great, because the wii 
 version gets worse than this, because its even more pointless than randomly punching in numbers 
 in an oven. E3 winner.... i wonder the trash it was up against. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSFanaticNerd
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 4:30 pm PT
Review:  So, guessing from my rant at the top, it's a game for bored people. Oh so true. It's not the most 
 fun game, but it's nice to play for travel or if you have one of those super-bored days. It does 
 take time to beat, but it's not that worth it. I know you think I'm being harsh, but I'm not.
 
  
  For instance, I have beaten it. Done all the recipes, gotten gold in all of them , and beat all 
 the mini-games. I could've done it in one of those "Just Plain Bored" days, but I didn't. 
  
  If you like cooking, that's great, try a different game. This one has non-realistic timing, 
 ingredients, and such. Not like I was expecting it to, but you know... Being a critic is being specific 
 on what isn't or is good in a game or why you should or shouldn't have this game. Be good to yourself 
 and rent it, play your friend's copy (if you did buy it, and if you don't like it Garage Sales 
 are a great way to earn some cash) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggo21
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama isn't a cooking simulator, so don't expect it to teach you how to make some yummy 
 dishes. It might have the side effect of giving you the idea of how particular meals are prepared, 
 but it's doubtful that you can apply any skills learned in Cooking Mama to real world cooking.
 
  
  The game is nothing more than a set of casually laid-out challenges where each "level" is a certain 
 meal. It can be as simple as making instant ramen to something more involved like pork curry and 
 rice. Each step in the recipe has been paired down into a touch-screen mini-game. Most are simple: 
 slicing an onion on the lines, or quickly chopping chives, or shredding some garlic. The complex 
 tasks are the ones you have to watch out for: cutting tough meats, weighing specific ingredients, 
 diced vegetables, or performing specific tasks in "rhythm." Even though most of the game is a simple 
 matter of paying attention and following the instructions, the tougher techniques can turn a gold 
 metal meal into a bronze medal.
  
  The big question: is any of this fun? Though the entirety of this game is simply doing what you're 
 told as quickly as possible, it's actually an amusing game if you're not expecting much out of 
 it. More importantly, though, it's been well-designed as a portable game, as the developers have 
 given it a good "pick up and play" presentation: turn on the system, make a dish, get your rank, 
 turn it off. All progress is saved, and the more dishes you complete the more that become available. 
 So there's a discovery element to Cooking Mama: what sorts of dishes are hidden to unlock? It also 
 has a bit of challenge due to a "margin of error" element -- as good as you are at following directions, 
 there's that one portion that can screw up that important gold medal.
  
  And as you add more recipes to the queue, you're also building up the skill set of mini-challenges 
 that can be practiced and played outside of the cooking "game." Here, you can try and top the high 
 score or go for the maximum, and if you pull off the top score possible it'll be noted with a nice, 
 satisfying chef hat. For a simple set of touch screen challenges, the designers give the production 
 a good amount of legs. A nice bang for the twenty bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IHeartCloud
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 14, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Honestly, I bought this game for the cuteness appeal. The fact that it was only $20 was also a 
 major factor. That said, I am definately happy I bought this game. It's just a game to pick-up 
 and have fun with. I've played it anywhere from 15 minutes at a time to 2 hours. 
  
  In a weird way, it's kind of addicting. I couldn't put it down until after I'd gotten gold medals 
 on all the recipes. The basic town screen controls are neat, and rarely - if ever - make you seriously 
 upset. And the fact that cooking mama's eyes turn to flames when you screw something up always 
 makes me laugh.
  
  That said, this game is definately not for everyone. It really doesn't have much substance, and 
 doesn't challenge your brain - at all. I can't believe this game spurred any sequels, because I 
 can't see anything that can really be changed in another version - aside from a couple new ways 
 to slash the stylus. 
  
  At $20, I say go ahead and buy it, there's no point to renting such a cheap game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS_PLAYER_WILI
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:23 am PT
Review:  Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis 
 Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic 
 than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better 
 graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much 
 more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real 
 fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis 
 Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic 
 than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better 
 graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much 
 more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real 
 fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis 
 Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic 
 than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better 
 graphic than Wiis Cook Of! Real fun! Much more better graphic than Wiis Cook Of! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofan404
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 8:29 am PT
Review:  You play as Mama's hands in this game you must pilot her in order to create fantastic looking foods. This 
 game is better then you think its really addictive and can boast hours of fun and enjoyment. Mama 
 needs your help to make these foods its ok if you mess up because Mama will fix your mistakes. You 
 are ranked according to your skill and timing. Gold for outstanding, Silver for good job, and Bronze 
 for ok. Then you can choose to swap designs and make the recipie better. You can also practice on 
 individual parts of the recipe, or even test your skills and try a mode of cooking and test your 
 skills. You can also combine recipies with other recipe's, you can really mix and match these things. All 
 and all this is a great game to have and great for burning time. Cooking Mame is great overall and 
 shows great potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashbag
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  As the title states, the game involves preparing and cooking various meals. You have a time limit 
 in which to complete each of your tasks and how you perform in each one dictates the overall quality 
 of the meal, for which you get a grade. To complete each task, you have to do a variety of things 
 with the stylus, which would imitate actions with cooking utensils in a kitchen. 
  
  Doesn't sound too bad does it ?
  
  And it isn't, cooking mama provides a fun experience and 
 you are offered a variety of different dishes to make, each one providing a different level of 
 challenge. The game makes very good use of the stylus which adds to the enjoyment and also gives 
 the game a more realistic feel to it.
  
  The graphics are quite good too, being given an anime style to them. They provide a good level 
 of detail while also being clear and quite colourful. This theme of cartoons and fun is mirrored 
 in the games music, which is quite charming.
  
  However, the game has one ,major and awful flaw which is enough to ruin the good points of the 
 game. It is shallow ! There is only one mode, many of the tasks for each different dish are the 
 same and there arent that many dishes to unlock either. 
  
  This leads to a rather repetitive, dull and boring experience that wont keep you entertained for 
 very long and this is a shame because the game was presented so well.
  
  To sum up, I cant recommend this game to anyone because it is too shallow. If you buy this game 
 dont be expecting any steak pie because tou'll get a nice crust, but there wont be any filling.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissSugarL
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 16, 2008 3:36 am PT
Review:  Firstly, this is one unique game on the DS. The stylus is great for the functions in the game, 
 you know, typical cooking things. Frying, grating, filling up water jugs or spreading sauce into 
 a smiley face. But I would have to say my cooking skill is much better in this game than in real 
 life, better than average. 
  
  There is a range of recipes to unlock and you need to practice the recipes a few times to get a 
 perfect score, or at least a gold medal. The first thing I made prefectly was a sandwich. It worked 
 much better than in real life I can say. Colours are beautiful and visuals are represented well.
 
  
  The one thing that massivly annoyed me about this game, the music. It's so repeative and you get 
 sick of it after about 10 mintues of playing. Basically thats all you will be doing. Playing it 
 for 10 mintues and then getting on with your life. Doesn't have much playing time to it.
  
  Overall, Cooking Mama is great for a short play and you may have a better cooking skill in this 
 game than in real life. But, its a good buy for $30 if you can find it in stores.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12345girl
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. Entertaining but could have been harder. Good for training your DS motor 
 skills. There are 120 recipes. You start with about 15 and unlock them when you make recipes. You 
 peel, chop, cut, remove the tendon, grate, crack an egg, set the microwave and lots more. You can 
 either choose practice or make. When you make it you achieve a score at the end, medal and you 
 get to see the meal that you made and see a recipe that you unlocked. Great game!!! Could have 
 been a bit harder but overall great. Requires a steady hand . It's fun when you get tom blow in 
 the microphone. B. 7yrs+ Very entertaing!!!!
  
  P. S. You can also do combine recipes where you put two recipes together like sweet fried egg and 
 boiled rice. There is also use skill when you can test your skills on certain things like peeling 
 potatoes or cracking an egg. Could have been better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Purplex777
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing!! I got addicted to this game since the first time I played it... You 
 have so many foods to choose from to cook! Ideal for people who really cook.. You can Practice 
 before you start cooking something. You can even blow the food yourself using the mic provided 
 on the DS!! That's not it, for some recipes, you get a chance to decorate the plate yourself :D
 
  You can perform almost any kind of cooking-related task in this game.. which is awesome.. There 
 are like so many ways to use the stylus.. to mix, use it as a knife.. etc. Touching the stylus to 
 the frying pan or other pans makes actual sounds that occur when you touch the pan with a spoon 
 or something.. Chopping has never been so much fun ever before!! Overall rating: 9.0.. I don't 
 think that Cooking Mama should get anything less then 8.. or 7.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kovuchu
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Well I am. Cooking Mama is most definatly the best game out there for the DS. Well first off it 
 has a great way of putting cooking into "a fun format" without spilling the Oregno all over the 
 floor. The stylist is a perfect untinsil to use for any resipe. :) (Please exuse my spelling) So 
 far I have 46 resipes, and I think there are 60 or more. I just know they will be worth the challenge. 
 Mama always seems to cheer me up someway or another. Mabye it's Nintendo's ginuesness? Mabye so. 
 Mabye Not. Either way, Cooking Mama is definatly a game to get your kids for their birthday or 
 for a winter Holiday. The controls are very easy, for both Adults, (young and old) , and children 
 to understand. Choose resipes simple as Grilled Cheese, or go challenging like Miso Soup. Overall, 
 Cooking Mama is great. I give Cooking Mama a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luigifan323
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  When you first start cooking mama, you will have a few recipes to choose from which you will have 
 to make, sometimes you will also find after you make a recipe, that a new one will appear! To get 
 a gold metal, you absolutely can not mess up!! You have to score a perfect 100 to get one! To get 
 a silver metal, your score has to be around the 90's and a bronze is around the 80's. If you score 
 lower then maybe 75 you will not get a metal at all. If that happens, you can go into the practice 
 mode and work on the things you had trouble on. Their are still some things that even I can't do, 
 even after having it for months!! A fun recipe that is a good recipe to start out with is a simple, 
 but fun to make sandwich! Once you get a gold on it, then I would try some of the harder recipes 
 instead of trying the harder ones first!! I hope you have fun playing this game!!
  
  ~Luigifan323 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vjro
Rating: 2
Date: May 28, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  I really looked forward to playing this game. It looked inventive, and fun and basically worth 
 a purchase. And of course I was enticed by the "Best of E3 Award". One can only imagine what other 
 trash it was competing against...
  
  I must admit, for about 10-30 minutes, I had some fun. The games are varied (to begin with) and 
 use the touch screen well. But the next day, I went to play it and was instantly bored. "Oh God, 
 not the stewing game again", I thought as I sat there blowing vaguely at my DS and wondering whether 
 this was supposed to be exciting. The most exciting thing in this game is... putting toppings on 
 a pizza however you like! I think that says it all.
  
  And why is it so offensively boring? The minigames (i. e the entirety of the gameplay) are boring, 
 stupidly easy, short and pointless. One even asks you to set a timer for 10 minutes by pressing 
 1, 0, Enter! Is that supposed to be making cooking fun? Because that's just downright patronising. 
 Even for a 3 year old!
  
  I'm sorry to sound pessimistic and so angry toward this game, but I was so let down and actually 
 offended by the quality of this game that I literally relished the thought of trading it in. And 
 I never trade in games!
  
  And so, to conclude this rather long review, I would like to use just one word to sum up this game:
 
  TEDIOUS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverwind1012
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has certain qualities. If you feel that you can't cook/ to lazy too, maybe lying down 
 on your bed and cooking will make you feel great! The only thing you do in this game is cook, COOK, 
 AND MORE COOKING! Well, it might sound like a ripoff, but man, it was a great idea. You cook food 
 like pizza, seafood, etc. with your stylus only, making this one heck of an easy game. As long 
 as you follow directions, this game shouldn't be a sweat. After beating the game, the only thing 
 left to do is cook the same food over and over again... well.. there is one tiny thing left to 
 do. There is a feature that called "challenge" that let's you challenge yourself to breaking eggs, 
 making hamburgers, etc. This game isn't excellent. The REAL letdown to this game was it's lack 
 of players. If you can play this game with one or more people, this game would be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VOAG
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama is a slightly educational game where you prepare and cook various foods by following 
 a recipe. By educational I refer to the fact that you learn the different ingredients that make 
 up each meal and the general process to cook those meals.
  
  http://tinyurl. com/6ac5zd
  
  There were many different types of preparations skills, some include chopping, folding dumplings, 
 baking, cutting tendon, frying, stewing, tearing, cutting, cracking and peeling an, peel an egg, 
 tenderising meat, peeling, grating, shaping, etc.
  
  The recipes ranged from easy to hard which include making grilled gyoza, beef steak, fried chicken, 
 sandwich, boiled egg, pork cutlet, potato salad, spring roll, pizza, meat pie, etc.
  
  In the main menu you have three game play modes: 
  Let's Cook: make food according to a recipe
 
  Let's Combine: combine two recipes
  Use skill: use your skills in preparation
  
  When playing Let's Cook you are able to select the food you wish to make and can either practice 
 making the food which allows you to try out the individual parts or make the food in which case 
 you won't be able to retry a certain part if you fail it. 
  
  You are trying to prepare and cook the food correctly and as fast as possible. You are required 
 to follow instructions and in most cases need to beat a timer. For each part in the preparation 
 or cooking of the food you receive a rating - very good, good or failed. Once the meal is cooked 
 you are shown your final score out of 100 and are awarded a gold, silver or bronze medal depending 
 on your score. You sometimes unlock a new recipe when completing a meal.
  
  On some meals you are able to place the toppings you desire on your meal, for example, pizza.
 
  
  The Use Skill game play allows you to practice the skills you have learnt when making meals. There 
 are several rounds of practicing the skill and after each round the timer or the ingredients to 
 add increases.
  
  One issue I have with this game is that when preparing a meal sometimes you didn't quite understand 
 the instructions you were given. Maybe when practicing to make a meal you should have been given 
 exact instructions on what to do.
  
  Another issue that comes to mind is when some parts of making the meal didn't make sense. For example, 
 when removing the pasta from the pot, if you caught all the pasta but not the water then you would 
 not receive the "Very Good" rating. Another example is when tossing the spaghetti; you need to 
 constantly toss the spaghetti up and down to receive the "Very Good" rating.
  
  A point to add is when failing a part of the cooking process it's sort of over exaggerated. You'll 
 see from the picture that if you fail, cooking mama's eyes are burning, kind of like your effort 
 was such a failure that it hurts to look at it. 
  
  The game is intended to those whom are interested in cooking and learning different meals but it 
 may also be suitable for those whom enjoy simple activities. It seems to have a "WarioWare: Touched" 
 kind of game play to it as in each part to making the meal is short and like an activity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crittercat303
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 5
  Value: 6
  Tilt: 8
  
  Cooking Mama is a fun game, very entertaining for the first couple of days. Afterwards, the fun 
 wears off and there isn't much to do. The game has no multiplayer functions, except for advertising 
 the product by sending a short and boring demo via Download Play.
  
  It is not much fun for older people, as it is almost too easy/simple, but it would be appropriate 
 for a younger audience.
  
  The graphics are very impressive- sharp, bright, colorful and cute- again, designed for a younger 
 audience, which is appealing to them. Graphics when cooking the food is also realistic and fairly 
 accurate.
  
  The sound is very loud, and obnoxious after a while, and is very repetitive by repeating the same 
 jingle endlessly, so naturally you would turn the volume. 
  
  There is not a lot of substance in the game, since you finish very early and have nothing to do 
 afterwards except cook the same old recipes or practice the same old skills, again, and again.
 
  
  The controls can be quite annoying but they have tried and succeeded to use the touch screen efficiently, 
 by using the touch screen mainly (the keys are not needed at all in this game.) The controls can 
 get frustratingly annoying, and the time limit provided is sometimes too much, or not enough.
 
  
  Unfortunately, there is a lack of instruction when cooking, and you end up guessing what to do. 
 This game is not worth $60-$70, but if you do find it at a reasonably cheaper price, it is recommended 
 to purchase it, for people who have younger siblings or are new to the DS, or enjoy cooking/food. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heidi564
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  The cooking game brings fun and enjoyable cooking with mama. An awesome game about on how to cook 
 but yes a pretty guilty game whenever you screw up making food or didn't cook the right way she 
 gets fire is her eyes but still great game! The updates were awesome you will love it! This game 
 is like one of the best and my favorite cookin' in food is cutting not the dotted line its cutting 
 with a knife but like best game ever! I think xela as Alex dosen't like this game because she suck 
 at it and then she had to leave this game for just for me cause' I like it but Alex had an ideal 
 of playing her Gamecube instead while I have this game as an good ideal instead of throwing it 
 away or giving it to somebody eles. I have really enjoyed it!
  
  END REVIEW
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xela8
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 18, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Mama has cooked some really hard food like back in the 80s and never get any medal. I'm not a very 
 good cooker here and like I hate to screw up food mama looks really angry with those flames in 
 her eyes that has just frustrate me and my sister but my sister is more of a good cooker then I 
 do. But I hate to tell you that this game is so f*ckin frustrating and confusing like you need 
 to be a really hard cooker to cook all those foods. This game is like suppose to be rated A for 
 adults not E for everyone. Too silly, frustrating, and very confusing for younger kids and also 
 big kids-Teen its like too crazy and make them feel shocked so its better to play as adults (if 
 they know how to cook now) I have bought this game before the WII version to see what its like 
 cause' the cover looks interesting but then it came up very confusing and we have kept it too long 
 to sell it back and I never played it so mommy decided to leave this game for just for my sister 
 instead and I'm never buying the WII version eather!
  
  Please do not buy or rent this game for kids! If you are an adult, just buy it for yourself!
 
  If you want to buy the WII version, please tell me if it is easy or not on my profile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Maniaco
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  You already it thought about playing something where you must cook? Appositive that not, but exactly 
 thus Cooking Mama was born. Cooking Mama is a new skill of being to play, imagines to cook in ds? 
 He seems coarse, but it is not Cooking Mama it very uses well stylus in its minigames, is amused 
 and it was never so easy to cook since a sandwich something more complex. The Minigames demands 
 rapidity with stylus since you have little time to make each stage of the plate and in the end 
 you she receives a note and a medal depending on the medal you unlock new plates and if still to 
 want can join two plates in one! The graphs are simple, everything very cute, the game also do 
 not have voices, but it is not necessary lack you nor perceives while it plays. Cooking Mama is 
 a simple and amused game that all must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama has you using both the touchscreen and the mic to cook up quite a few dishes ranging 
 from fried rice to tempura.
  Using the touchscreen you'll tilt pots, cut vegetables, measure rice, peel potatoes, tenderize 
 meat, make meat balls, fold gyoza, pour batter and input increments of time for cooking rice.
  While at first that's alot of fun, there's only so many recipes you have and thus, repeating them 
 over and over isn't exactly fun. At least the price tag is decent!
  The point of the game is to get a gold metal for each recipe, meaning that you cannot make any 
 mistakes. Unless you're vastly uncoordinated that's not too hard.
  In all, I'd say this game could take about 4 hours to finish depending on how much game play you 
 get in and your skill level.
  This is the type of game you'll finish, bury, then dig it back up every year or so to see how rusty 
 you've become.
  The good-Quirky game, quickly addictive
  The bad- Not really a soundtrack unless you consider the sound of a knife or timer going off a 
 sound track. Needs more recipes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The title says it all - a cooking simulator that uses the stylus+touchscreen controls. Sounds like 
 this game is fun and promising, but - no, it isn't. Just because of one reason - there's absolutely 
 no motivation to keep playing further.
  
  That may be not a bad thing at all, because this game is casual to the bone. That will probably 
 suit those gamers, who are interested in playing on-the-go without much involvement into what's 
 going on in the game, caring only about the gameplay itself. Because there's nothing else in this 
 game besides the gameplay. Even the arcade feel of this game is not fulfilled, because there's 
 no score board, or something like that, just to show you how much you've progressed so far. There're 
 no such things as achievements too. Come on, Taito Corporation, if you can't create a good story 
 - then at least a tournament-like game progress will do. Otherwise, I repeat myself - without any 
 depth there's no reason to keep playing, because the game's gameplay is not that strong to replace 
 the need for a motivation.
  
  The game's process is simple - you cook something, and then you gain points. The amount of points 
 depends on how well you did while cooking. Cooking a meal usually consists of some separate tasks, 
 like cutting vegatables, slicing meat, etc. If you finish the task until the time limit (if there 
 is a time limit) , or you complete the task exactly how you were asked to - you'll get the most 
 points (the maximum amount is 100) . If you're successful - a new receipt will show up. Also, you 
 can unlock new receipts during the cooking process, by simply changing the ingridients (if allowed) . 
 There's a separate mode that allows you to test your cutting/slicing/etc. skills, by performing 
 a set of chosen tasks, going from the easiest one to the hardest. And, well, that's about it.
 
  
  If you want a cheerful game with a lovely design, music and overall concept - then 'Cooking Mama' 
 may be the game just for you. But if you want something more than just a combination of cooking 
 simulation and arcade gameplay - then I'd rather not buy this game if I were you, and get something 
 like 'Trauma Center: Under the Knife' instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amnesiac23
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 8, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you look at on the shelf and ask yourself "can that possibley be 
 any good?". The answer is yes. It's actually a great, if not short, game. 
  
  The gameplay is refreshingly simple yet fun. Basically you start off with 15 recipes. You can eventually 
 create a lot of different dishes (can't remember the amount) , which you unlock. Each dish is comprised 
 of a couple of mini games. For example: to create the Miso Soup you have to chop unions, slice 
 onions, make stock, drain the stock, and stew. These are all seperate mini-games, but they actually 
 are really fun. 
  The best part about the Cooking Mama gameplay is the fact that this game really takes full advantage 
 of the DS's capabilties. The stylus is used amazing well and controls very well. Also, sometimes 
 you are required to blow into the microphone. 
  
  When you cook a meal, you will get a score at the end. Depending on it, you will either get a bronze 
 medal, a silver medal, or a gold medal. Some meals are hard and require you to master it. Luckley 
 the game has a practice mode for each meal. The only thing I don't like about the medal system 
 is the fact that it's not much of a reward for all that hard work. The game would have worked better 
 if the game rewarded you differently somehow. But it's a collection of mini-games at it's heart, 
 so I guess maybe I'm expecting too much. 
  
  The length of the game also could have been longer. While there is a lot to do in this game, it 
 can be completed in a couple hours. Gold Medals and all. And there isn't much to switch things 
 up (except a mode where you fine tune your cooking skills) . 
  
  The over all look and sound of the game is ultra cute. The music is cute and quirky and so are 
 the graphics which actually really pop. This game has a style all it's own. 
  
  Bottom line is, if you are looking for a game that you can play on the go, this is a great game 
 to pick up. It's a bit short, but it's still a great addition to anyone's DS collection. Just wish 
 there had been a little more to the game and a couple more modes of play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofu-lion91
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 30, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  I got this game with no expectations and was amazed by its highly addictive game play.
  
  There are 76 dishes to play through which sounds a lot but will take about a day or two to get 
 through. Each dish is made up of a few minigames which are repeated throughout so the game can 
 get boring after a while. The whole game is guided by a cute and charming 'mama' who grades each 
 dish. The music and colours are bright and cheerful and the game has a childish charm to it.
  
  Although the game lacks depth and is easy to complete, I found it to be a nice and relaxing 
 game to play. It's something different and the concept of cooking with the stylus is a new and 
 innovative approach to gaming. Even after completing it, I find I still go back and re-do dishes 
 because it is a cheerful and entertaining game.
  
  There is a feature so recipes can be shared between 4 people but the lack of Wi-Fi is something 
 that needed to be rethought.
  
  Overall the game is addictive and fun to play but due to the lack of depth and direction I wouldn't 
 say it's worth 25-30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frozenleaf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  I doubted first, whether the game would be fun. Seemed childish & easy. Well, childish & easy worked 
 for me.
  
  It was very addicting. I did finish it in a day or two. It was easy to go through all dishes, but 
 I wanted to get 100 points per dish (yes, perfection) . So it took me 2 days to finish, but it was 
 worth it. It was fun & even a little bit challenging and it was fun to play it all over again. 
 Though they should have thought of something better with the extra games. It was just practicing 
 your skills, which you could also do if you completed all dishes. Ah well, they had to add something 
 extra I guess.
  
  
  When slicing rapidly, I thought my Touch Screen would get damaged. Luckily my Touch Screen survived. 
 It worked very well on Touch Screen & I'm glad to fully use it. (I mean, even though the Mario 
 games are great, there's not many interaction with the Touch Screen)
  
  Overall fun, good, easy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neopolss
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game for quick pick-up and play folks. It is easy to learn, and games can be 
 played in under five minutes. Any father with a two year old can appreciate a game that can be 
 accomplished quickly but still be fun. Great for getting a breather between diapers! Gameplay is 
 simple and fun, with different games that utilize every aspect of the DS. You may even find yourself 
 wanting to make a few of these meals for real! Considering that this game is now under $20, you 
 can't really go wrong with the purchase. Even the wife will play this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VG_Freak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game to play, i highly recommend this game you should get it. if you wanna 
 just have fun without worrying about a story then this is your game. Mama is adorable but don't 
 get her mad the only thing i hate about the game is the one where you got to circle a portion and 
 it has to be correct to get a gold rank on it. You got so much to do i can't wait for the second 
 game it is going to be super fun. Plus the game is really addictive once you start you can't stop 
 how i felt when i first got it so enjoy this game when you get it. I always liked this game so 
 you will too. So buy it once you have a chance and when i get a WII i'm gonna get Cooking Mama 
 Cook off YAY! Definitely get this game it rocks except sometimes it is really easy which is good 
 to have hard and easy parts in every game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smarties1717
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun and keeps you playing for a long time. You won't get bored with this game 
 with all of the recipes and all of the things you can create in this game. Some of the recipes 
 might give you trouble since there are no exact directions for the steps to the recipes. You can 
 actually practice the steps though. I like this game since its not actual cooking (I really don't 
 know how to cook) and I get to (not literally) cook! I would actually tell you to not get this 
 game if you already haven't sine they are coming out with a sequal to this game with upgardes so 
 I would suggest getting that. But if you want to get this game and try it out before the sequal 
 then go right on out and get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splash-Bar
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  I just recently purchased this game for about 20 bucks, and have probably spent just over 7 hours 
 playing it. Let's start off with the good stuff. You might see this game and recognize it for its 
 good price, which is a plus. And if you love cooking or eating cooking at all, then you will probably 
 sap some enjoyment from this game. For the short:
  
  Basically, get it if you're an avid cook like I am. Don't get it if you don't like cooking or eating! 
 The graphics aren't impressive, but the mechanics are fun; the game has no depth, but it will provide 
 10 hours+ of slightly different cooking! And the price is right! There are 76 recipes total btw, 
 but it seems like too many in my opinion :) .
  
  For the description:
  
  It really is a simplistic game. You have 3 immediate options when you turn it on: Let's Cook , 
 Let's Combine , and Use Skill . Cooking is basically using all the game's skills (actions) to create 
 dishes, which you are graded on. The skills you will use include tapping the knife to chop food, 
 moving it bad and forth to saw harder foods, kneading dough, blowing into the mic to cool off food, 
 grating, sauteeing, tapping and dragging food items, running water, etc.! The action can be amusing 
 in an instant, although sometimes aspects of skills can be unforgivingly unresponsive (might just 
 be my screen protector though) . Most of the skills are timed, and you have the option of practicing 
 doing a stage (in cooking a dish) an unlimited number of times. Usually it's a breeze to chop your 
 onions, fry your egg, grate your cheese, salt it and flavor it and then arrange it on a plate, 
 for example, and it can be satisfying to get through cooking a dish and getting graded well on 
 it. Once you finish most dishes, another similar dish will be unlocked and you can choose to cook 
 that; when you get to a certain stage of a dish it often offers you several choices of similar 
 dishes to work with off of what you've prepared, and these dishes well become available to cook 
 at any time after it has been completed. Any dish can be cooked at any time by selecting it on 
 a menu.
  
  Combining lets you combine, for example, rice and fried chicken, or meatballs and spagetti alfredo. 
 Mostly anything will combine, and you will be given credit for making a tasty combination! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jehovanny
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Mama's here to teach you a lesson in cooking. Cooking Mama is a minigame compilation based of food. 
 You play the pupil and Mama is teaching you how to cook. There are about 70+ recipies to keep you 
 entertained. Although no multiplayer but you can send a demo. The graphics are great the music 
 isnt too bad either. You use the touch screen to prepare and cook your recipies (such as spin circles 
 to wash rice) for $20 its not a bad title it'll keep you coming back for more. With so many recipies 
 you'll be spending a good amount of time trying to get gold medals on all of the recipies. Look 
 forward to the sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matdredalia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  I have yet to meet someone who did not enjoy this game. It's fun, quick entertainment, and extremely 
 easy to learn the mechanics of.
  
  You don't need to read the manual or spend hours on a tutorial. All you need to do is get your 
 stylus handy and make your way into Mama's kitchen for some good, quality cooking!
  
  The various cooking steps change over time, and even when you're at the very end of the 76 unlockable 
 recipes, there are still new activities being added. Just when you may start thinking Uggh, I'm 
 so sick of beating eggs! , Mama throws new challenges at you!
  
  I would give this game an honest 9.5/10, and I'm not easy to please. My one and only complaint 
 is that I wish there were more recipes. Not because I mind going back and repeating the old ones, 
 but just because I'd like to see some yummy new dishes headed my way!
  
  Cooking Mama is absolutely an instant classic, and I really hope Majesco keeps it up. There is 
 a lot of potential to make this series a powerhouse, if they can keep cranking out the innovative 
 game play, fun features, and delicious looking food. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainbodragon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  I get the hang of the games and its over. Also, a little more variety in the games would be nice. 
 I was doing the same games for all the recipes. Also some games just didnt work right, like peeling 
 veggies was frustrating. I didnt really understand the scoring since sometimes you do everything 
 perfectly but get silver, sometimes you mess something up and you get gold. All in all though its 
 a great little time waster, fun to play when you dont have time to play something drawn out. It 
 did actually seem to actually wear out my stylus, although im still not sure how that happened. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampire_Turtle
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama is one of those games which is good for when you are bored, and need something to 
 perk you up a little. You will enjoy the many recipes cooking mama has to offer but after you master 
 the recipes the game seems to loose objective, and becomes boring. Cooking mama is one of the epic 
 titles for the DS but isn't the worst either. Fun but will become boring. Give cooking mama a go, 
 maybe you'll like it as it is not for everyone! I enjoyed it and so did my sisters.
  
  The cute graphics of Cooking Mama seem to be nice at the start but I got annoyed with it as time 
 progressed.
  
  Soundwise everything matches.
  
  Gameplay is fun to start but will not last.
  
  The game wont last too long but while it does 
 its a fun experience.
  
  Overall cooking mama is decent but not epic.
  
  Score: 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sugarcandysin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  My friend and I bought this game from a nearby gme store and we happened to come home with this 
 game. It is great and fun, and you should try it if you want!
  
  Gameplay (9/10) -
  There are 76 recipes you can unlock! Naturally, me and my friend just completed all the recipes 
 a few weeks ago, and we cooked like CRAZY, but we're still having fun with it!
  
  Graphics (10/10) -
  They look great, bright and cheery! The food looks great, too!
  
  Sound 
 (9/10) -
  The music sounds OK. The sounds are great! Hearing the sizzling of the pan makes me hungry for 
 my aunt's cooking!
  
  Value (10/10) -
  Anyone should buy this piece of treasure!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt (9/10) -
  Very good game!
  
  -TOTAL SCORE- (9.3/10) -
  This game is really 
 good, and I think you should buy it! Or if you like blood and gore, maybe not, cuz I don't think 
 some cooking game will have any violence! (obviously) But buy it if you think you can! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icym
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 31, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Initially Cooking Mama is great fun with the best use of the stylus so far. You get to make, in 
 the simplest way, a wide variety of dishes. Starting with a limited amount of recipes, you cook 
 them with Mama watching you and covering up for any mistakes you might make. All the ingredients 
 are yours to prep; cutting, mincing, etc. Depending how well you cook, you'll get ranked and are 
 able to unlock more and more recipes and alter the recipes as you cook.
  
  Cooking Mama is amazingly fun with the cooking and mini-games. The graphics are brightly 2D colored 
 and the sound effects are well designed for the game. Sadly, the replay value isn't good. The has 
 no real progression after a little time, for some, it could get boring really fast. But for the 
 price of $20 I got it for, its well worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 11, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Pretty simple and repititive chop mix and cook over 73 various diffrent foods from the 
 US and japan. A geat idea.
  
  Graphics: They are ok compared to some DS games but nothing that the develepor could brag about. 
 Anime Style art and animation.
  
  Sound: Nice, cartoony sounds. From sizzling steaks and beating eggs to random music and dings The 
 sound quality is great as is most sound on nintendo DS games.
  
  Value: A very very very short game but for only 20 dollars you cant go wrong. This will hold you 
 over on a short vacation our 2-3 days of gameplay takes less than 5 hours to beat.
  
  The Good: Gameplay is fun sound is good as well, cheap Price
  
  The Bad: Short Game, Repititive 
 Gameplay.
  
  PS: There are no hamburgers in this game : ( If your wondering about the title of the review its 
 a lyric in a friend of mines hilarious song :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sealightbreeze
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 10, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  A very fun game for the Nintendo DS. You need a lot of skill and pratice with the stylus to be 
 able and do most of the recipes for this game. A lot of skill for cooking, actually depends on 
 the skill you have with using the stylus.
  
  There are a lot of fun recipes to cook in this game. You start out with only a few, but as you 
 master certain recipes, you gain others. I think that is the most fun of the game- learning new 
 recipes and being able to get a gold medal in them all is quite a challenge.
  
  The graphics are pretty decent. Not high quality like a PS2, but really good graphics considering 
 that it is for the Ds. The music is up-beat and happy. Should make a DS sequel to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tieed15
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama is an odd game to review. It is something of a collection of mini games, but it does 
 have a more cohesive pull to it than WarioWare's random games do.
  
  In essence, you the player are learning to cook from one of the best -- Mama! Mama watches you cook 
 special meals and dishes as you perform various tricks and operations using the DS. There are around 
 75 different meals to prepare, and the way you go about making it is in a string of mini games. 
 For instance, if you want to make a beef stir fry-type meal, you will have to proceed in a few 
 operations to get the job done. You'll have to cut up the meat by tapping the screen, and when 
 that is done you will move on to the next stage of cooking up the meat by performing various functions 
 such as blowing into the microphone or tapping various ingredients or buttons on screen. The mini 
 games are not extremely varied, but that isn't really a problem in and of itself. It is pretty 
 fun to just chill out and try and make a perfect bowl of curried rice with Mama by your side. After 
 each mini game you'll be graded and receive a medal or just fail. Your end dish will also need 
 to be arranged on a plate for serving. When you start to unlock more dishes and dinner ideas, you 
 can actually combine two dishes to create a new one. In this manner you can end up with pizza covered 
 in rice, or so on.
  
  Graphically, the game is very pleasant to look at with its cartoon, 2D graphics. The sound is also 
 ok, with noises like chopping and sizzling being pretty spot on -- even if there isn't much variety. 
 Value wise, Cooking Mama costs $20... and it is packed with a lot of mini games and little things 
 to do. I'd say it is definitely worth the admission price, but if you're not a fan of these mini-game 
 centric games... then you won't like Cooking Mama. It is really just as simple as that. For everyone 
 else, put on your chef hat and start flipping those patties! Mama is waiting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioManiac34
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Introduction: Well, I recently picked up Cooking Mama for an eight-hour car ride. I wasnt planning 
 on getting it, but then bought the game on a whim the day before the trip. Throughout your life 
 you might have had people tell you not to buy things on a whim. As I learned, they are right. While 
 Cooking Mama is not a terrible or broken game, it wasnt worth the $20 I paid for it. Mama aint 
 the next Emeril, my friends, she just aint.
  
  What do you do? Other people have said that Cooking Mama is WarioWare with a food twist. That is 
 true. Youll be preparing dishes by going through the steps of the recipe. Each step is its own 
 little minigame. These minigames range from chopping, peeling, and grating to measuring water, 
 saut&eacute; ing ingredients, and cracking eggs. After you complete each minigame, youll be given 
 a bronze, silver, or gold medal depending on how you did. At the end of the recipe, youll be given 
 one of the same types of medals depending on which ones you scored during the individual tasks. 
 To perform almost all of these steps, you use the touch screen, and, actually, they all work and 
 are fun to dothe first ten or so times you do them.
  
  This brings me to the main problem with Cooking Mama: theres not a lot of variety in the steps 
 of the 70 different recipes. Sure, a lot of the recipes are unique, as youll be making things 
 from potato salad to curried pilaf (what is that again?) , but the steps to cook the recipes are 
 all very similar. For example, to cook potato salad youll have to slice a carrot. To whip up some 
 curried pilaf youll have to chop an onion. Chopping both of these things is basically exactly 
 the same thing. The carrot obviously looks different from the onion, but you do the exact same 
 thing to chop them both. Chopping isnt the only minigame that gets repetitive, either. Almost 
 all of them feel the same no matter what recipe youre making. Needless to say, this makes the 
 game get old fairly quickly.
  
  Another problem with Cooking Mama is that most of the recipes are Japanese/Asian. Sure, there are 
 a few western-type foods, such as the aforementioned pizza, but the majority of the recipes originate 
 from Japan. Now, you might not see this as a problem, especially if you live in Japan, but being 
 a resident of the Western Hemisphere, I dont think this is ideal. A lot of the recipes youve 
 probably never heard of before. For example, have you ever had soba? Probably not. My point in 
 all of this is that I think the game wouldve been a lot more fun if I was making food that I eat, 
 not food that people thousand miles away eat. I realize that a Japanese developer made the game, 
 but maybe there couldve been more localizing to the game to make it friendlier to the Western 
 audience.
  
  The main mode in Cooking Mama is called Lets Cook. Basically, you just complete a recipe, unlock 
 a recipe, and repeat. Theres not a story or anything to tie the game together. Essentially, the 
 goal of the game is to unlock recipes or, if youre a perfectionist, get golds on every recipe. 
 The game feels like a bunch of taco fillings thrown on the floor without a tortilla. Needless to 
 say, I wouldve preferred if there were a tortilla to give the game some cohesiveness.
  
  What do you see and hear? Cooking Mamas graphics are varied between cartoony, and  
 The things in Cooking Mama that are cartoony include various kitchen utensils, such as cutting 
 boards and pots, and Mama (who is there when you cook) . While Im on the topic of Mama, theres 
 one thing I need to mention. When you do badly on a minigame and fail, Mama will get angry and 
 her eyes will light on fire. This is a nice little graphical touch that adds to Cooking Mamas 
 overall quirkiness. The thing in Cooking Mama that is sort of realistic is the food. I dont mean 
 to say that its picture quality - its still fairly cartoony - it just looks more realistic then 
 the rest of the game. However, some of the realistic looking food actually looks ugly, such as 
 the shrimp. While not terrible, I think the whole game wouldve looked better if the developers 
 just made everything cartoony.
  
  The sound and music, like the graphics, is just okay. The sound effects such as the sound of knives 
 chopping, eggs cracking, and meat frying are all actually pretty good. They sound fairly realistic 
 and add to the overall feeling that youre actually cooking something. The music is where the game 
 gets into trouble. The soundtrack consists of essentially one song, maybe two or three, that plays 
 over and over. The song itself is nice (its an upbeat piano tune  I love the piano) its just 
 that theres simply no variety. If there were just more songs, then the music would be fine.
  
  Does it last and is it worht it? Cooking Mamas replay value is probably its worst aspect. 
 For starters, there are only 70 recipes in the main mode. Youll probably be able to unlock all 
 of them in 3-5 hrs. There are two other modes to play, but neither of them seems a lot different 
 then the main mode. Also, like I mentioned earlier, the game gets repetitive, so you wont want 
 to play the recipes over and over.
  
  Overall, I would say dont buy Cooking Mama unless you can get it for the price of a rental, because 
 it is worth renting. The minigames are all fun and the novelty of cooking will at least keep you 
 entertained for a while. Also the graphics and sound, while not great, dont really detract from 
 the experience. Cooking Mama is not a terrible game, but its not a good one either. Some might 
 think its a steal for $20, but even the cheap price cant justify Cooking Mamas flaws.
  
  Summing It All Up:
  
  Two words that describe this game arerepetitive, short
  
  Two words 
 of recommendation about this gameuse caution! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_burnout
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Good colourful presentation; easily accessible; tricky skill mini games; wonderful Japanese 
 influence
  
  The Bad: No real challenge at all, though you wont get gold medals all the time; repetitive music; 
 simply not enough purpose and cohesion; extremely short.
  
  
  
  The quirky Japanese 
 cooking game that is Cooking Mama is a intriguing case, for one things its colourful and delightfully 
 Japanese, however, its far too easy and lacks any real incentive to play, though that will never 
 stop you from having fun for as long as it lasts you.
  
  There are 3 main modes in Cooking Mama; lets cook which lets you (as the titles suggests) cook 
 one of the 76 recipes, lets combine lets you combine two recipes together to string two sets 
 of mini games and use skill provides you a handful of challenges based on the mini games in lets 
 cook. Right off the bat there arent that many modes and it probably could of done with more and 
 it is the lack of things to do in Cooking Mama that makes it only suitable in short bursts.
  
  In the 76 recipes you will be cooking that includes pizza, sandwiches, rice balls, sushi and 
 even a cup of ramen, Mama (as she is so adequately named) will guide you through the cooking process 
 step by step, you will be cutting, kneading, frying, basically everything you would expect to do 
 in real life. The actual input put in to these tasks via the touch screen is fairly well done to 
 say the least, some are dead easy and some are a little convoluted and tricky, more so than they 
 should be, but the instructions for each task are always there if you can be bothered to read them. 
 Throughout a recipe you will be doing roughly 4 to 7 tasks, and since some of them only take about 
 5 seconds to do, and 1 recipe wont last you long, some tasks however let you arrange things on 
 a plate and stuff that lets you add more finesse to your meal with no time limit, depending on 
 how long you take could extend the lifetime. Depending on how well you have done you will be scored 
 out of a 100 and given a bronze, silver or gold medal and thats where the challenge in Cooking 
 Mama practically starts and ends, cooking is easy, but perfecting the tasks isnt, so getting gold 
 medals every time wont be happening. If its challenge you want then Cooking Mama can provide it 
 in the use skill mode, here you can perform the majority of the tasks seen in the main game, 
 only this time they will be a lot harder an ridiculously timed, however this mode doesnt offer 
 any reward to the player and is just there for a few more moments to kill time aimlessly.
  
  Graphically, Cooking Mama is hard to describe, it seems to have gone for a more realistic look 
 in terms of the food, and in the process, looks a little rough, you can see some very striking 
 pixel problems around the edges of some images and thats what sadly most of it is, images. The 
 menus and mama her self look very colourful and quirky indeed, thats not enough for it to really 
 make up for the peculiar looking food although it does help a lot. Games and good soundtracks are 
 becoming more of a staple than luck theses days and Cooking Mama sadly does not deliver that staple, 
 the main game music is just monotonous and boring, its drones on throughout the game and really 
 begins to make you feel like dropping the DS on the floor hoping it would just go away and leave 
 you alone, that said the sound effects in Cooking Mama are actually pretty good, things fry, things 
 boil, and things just get cooked in a convincing and generally good way.
  
  Overall Cooking Mama just doesnt have enough going for it, it often pleases with its visual style 
 and certain mini games that do require some skill (its shame its only some) but above all that 
 the one problem still remains, theres no real purpose, no real sense of achievement, no reward, 
 its simply just a time killer that can be enjoyed in short bursts. If your looking for a DS game 
 that will provide you with hours of play and will be most likely in your DS away from the dust 
 than actually collecting the dust, this game isnt for you, however, if your just looking for something 
 fun and quirky for a few hours then its worth giving Cooking Mama a shot.
  
  ~Death Burnout 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mari14
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  I really love this game.. It might be lacking a lot of stuff and can be sort of boring after a while 
 but it also can be addicting and sometimes good trying to beat it in all.. i espesically like all 
 of the things after you beat it plus it also has many other thing you can do so don't get your 
 hopes down from this game it's really enjoyable if you like food and cooking! oh and try to purchase 
 this game if you want to be a future chef in all so don't be distraught ok so purchase this game 
 and you will see! i'm sure 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fw190a8
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Taito know how to make games. GOOD games. They've been in video games since 1973 and were behind 
 Bubble Bobble, Arkanoid and Space Invaders. Yes, THE Space Invaders. From the outset of Cooking 
 Mama, it's clear this game had the potential to be another great, but falls desperately short.
 
  
  Put simply, this game needs a plot or a storyline. It contains over 100 recipes, each of which 
 is split into a number of minigames (although the same minigames are used over multiple recipes) . 
 Logically, the recipes make sense. Vegetables must be chopped and shrimps (prawns) peeled before 
 anything is fried or boiled. The games are entertaining, and importantly, make very good use of 
 the DS stylus; something many titles on the handheld simply fail to do. Chopping might consist 
 of drawing a line with the stylus, or tapping it on the knife icon, and peeling involves moving 
 the stylus back and forth. It works very well. Why doesn't the game as a whole work well?
  
  The problem lies in the fact that nothing is tied together. In the process of making one recipe, 
 you are faced with playing several individual minigames that don't link to one another, so instead 
 of the cooking experience being a flowing, pleasant one, it is jarred with loading and menus. On 
 a device that uses ROM cartridges, this is just inexcusable. Add this to the fact that the recipes 
 don't link to one another in any way, and it's merely a case of working through each one for no 
 apparent reason other than to have something to do. We're past all that. Today's games are rich, 
 continuous experiences that we can enjoy from start to finish, but Taito seem to have forgotten 
 this.
  
  It would have been so simple to add a career mode, perhaps with different dishes to prepare for 
 different customers in a fictional restaurant, or different kinds of challenge to overcome, but 
 instead this potentially excellent game is spoiled by a few poor decisions concerning the interface. 
 This is still an entertaining game, but serves to please for only a few minutes at a time, making 
 it a good choice for travelling or the most casual of gamers, but for everyone else, Cooking Mama 
 will be frustratingly unfocused. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tails_and_mario
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 19, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  In Cooking Mama for Nintendo DS, you are introduced to Mama, a great cook and your mentor in this 
 microgame masterpiece in the vein of WarioWare. Using the stylus as an assortment of various cooking 
 tools, Mama instructs you on making various entrees and you play minigames to cook the food. Making 
 Fried Fish has never been this entertaining. Mama's a silent type, but when you fail, she turns 
 satanic and starts to yell at you (silently of course, but with flaming eyes and clenched fists, 
 she's one tough mama.) It took me about two months until I finally found this game at an EBX. The 
 game is affordable and of course, very fun. It gets addictive a bit too easlily...... soon Mama 
 will addict you to the point of insanity. This game is by far one of the most creative on the DS, 
 and I'd reccomend buying it now. It's quite a popular game, and it's not for girls. It's for all 
 genders, ages, races, whatever! It's just one of the best games to come out of Nintendo's oven 
 since the GBA Pokemon games and WarioWare Twisted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackenedSky719
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 18, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Whether you like the simple but addictive play of games for the DS I assure you that the novelty 
 of this game will wear off. At first its high addictive and leaves you reaching for it even after 
 you turn it off for the night and say that you're done. The fact is that soon after that the play 
 becomes repetitive and dull, The challenge that was first presented by the time limits for each 
 step quickly ends and you end up with more than enough time to do the simple tasks that the game 
 lays out. This is a game thats better rented then actually purchased. By day two I was more than 
 bored with it and had gotten down all the tasks that the game laid out. Another problem with the 
 game is that while you get a ranking for how well you make each meal there is no real gain for 
 finishing the meal. You don't really move up in levels, they just give you the recipes and say 
 alright make this and do it with this many steps and give you a time frame in which to have it 
 complete. All and all it really isn't even worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thesimsfrk111
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 10, 2007 9:14 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama is your virtual Japanese portable kitchen. Making all sorts of fun things, like sushi, 
 doing various things such as tapping the stylus repeatedly to cut cucumber, or to blow in to keep 
 some stew from overflowing. Either way, Cooking Mama is an addicting game that will steal your 
 heart in a matter of your first meal. It's really fun to make. P. S. - And yes... there IS Instant 
 Ramen to make on the game... all you do is put water in and thats it... I got a 100 Gold on the meal...
 
  
  Well anyways good game. Buy it . I don't really know if it depreciated in value or not... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K4ze
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 9, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This is the first cooking game I've ever played and it's surprisingly fun. The graphics are what 
 you'd expect from a DS game and the music is interesting to say the least. Learning how to play 
 will probably take mere minutes due to the fact that the only thing you use is the stylus. However, 
 if you want to get a gold coin for every dish, you'll find yourself spending hours tapping and 
 sliding that stylus of your's. If you're good with the stylus, this game will be simple, if you're 
 not, this game can be practice. The only bad side I can see in this game is how short it is. If 
 you're looking for a game where you can just sit back and enjoy, go for it. If you're looking for 
 a challenge, I'd suggest looking elsewhere. Overall, this game is pretty fun and hey, it might 
 even teach you how to cook a little, although it's not that realistic, at least it tells you what 
 ingredients to use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  The name Cooking Mama sounds just like how the game plays. The graphics are very cutesy anime and 
 the sound is just little sounds with loud music in the background. This game can be picked up and 
 enjoyed just by about anybody. This game doesnt have a story just a bunch of cooking mini games. 
 Using the touch screen a lot. So if youre looking for a game that really gives the touch screen 
 a work out then this is a good game. In this game you make a lot of Japanese dishes and few American. 
 So be prepared to scratch your and say Whats that I making? With this like pizza also that can 
 be made. From cutting the pepperoni, rolling the doe, making the sauce, and putting on the toppings 
 you really feel like youre making a pizza in 5 minutes. From also using the touch screen to the 
 best it can do to also frequently using the mic to blow on the dishes you really use the DSs capabilities. 
 Ive found this game for about 20 dollars and its really worth it if youre looking for a game 
 for your kid. I find this game great wonderful and cute. The worst violent this in this game is 
 that you have to cook meat. Besides that I dont think Ive seen a game so tame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaudBlaze890
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Cooking mama is a very intriguing game the controls are some times very difficult but the payout 
 is very rewarding. This game is for those of us who can barely make a sandwich. You can make rice 
 balls to hamburgers. This game is not meant to keep your attention for very long it is just a way 
 to pass time until pokemon .This game is just little minigame. What would make the game much better 
 is if you could have access to all the ingredients and make your own recipes. The game is simple 
 but very complex at times. This game is good but you will not stick with it, really who want to 
 play a game about cooking for 3months? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niptuckSean
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 3, 2007 1:32 am PT
Review:  Surprisingly, Cooking Mama for the Nintendo DS is a fun game to pick up when youre bored and need 
 to use up some free time. I really didnt think I would enjoy it; my mom bought a DS and this game 
 so I decided to play it when I was wicked bored and couldnt stop playing for like two hours.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  Amazing use of the Touch Screen, but some of the steps can get pretty repetitive and tedious, and 
 some can be slow and boring. (Stewing comes to mind) Also, some of the steps dont seem to have 
 accurate control (Peeling) , but other than that it is a fairly realistic cooking experience.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game are clean and colorful enough to please the eyes; you 
 really cant get bored with the graphics because of how vibrant they are. It is a little bit cartoon-ish, 
 but I believe that was the appeal they were stretching for. Sound:
  Most of the sound effects for the motions are realistic and sound crisp, but the lack in the variety 
 of the music will probably make you mute the volume anyway.
  
  Value:
  The game is pretty long-lasting with over 70 dishes to prepare, and you will most likely try quite 
 a few times to get a gold medal for each dish, which does not get tiresome. Its worth your twenty 
 bucks.
  
  Tilt:
  I had some very enjoyable experiences with this game and became somewhat addicted when I realized 
 that I couldnt put the DS down after a while. Good way to burn some extra time, and its put to 
 good use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Janellworks
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  Okay I will start with the stuff people really want to know.
  
  
  The Game play ___
  
  There are 
 a few hours of game play with new things, after that it is just perfecting all the recipes. However, 
 it is nice for a boring day.
  
  The Music
  ___
  
  The music sometimes gets on my nerves, and sometimes it sooths me. I Do 
 not really like the music very much, but it is OK.
  
  The sound
  ___
  
  The sound 
 is just music and a few cooking sounds, and it comes out clear, there are some sound glitches though.
 
  
  Graphics
  ___
  
  The graphics are not that good, the Food when it is fully baked are the best graphics. However, 
 it is not that bad because it is really the fun of the game right?
  
  Difficulty
  ___
  
  Most of 
 it is very easy. However, I find some things, like boiling very hard and nearly imposable to get 
 past. Some people have troubles with pealing, but I mastered that in a few minutes and do not find 
 it hard at all. 
  The Bottom Line
  ___
  
  I got this game for Christmas. I like it but I would recommend you 
 wait until it is on sale for $10.
  It is easy and I mastered just about everything in two hours.
  It is very fun but it is more 
 of a game to play when you are bored or just want to play something pointless.
  I have those days where I just want to curl up on my bed watching TV and playing this game.
  
 However, I think this game is worth buying, and fun to play, but I would suggest just an hour maximum 
 a day or it will only last a couple hours!
  I really do like this game though, so maybe pick it up, turn on the cooking channel, and make some 
 Pasta, so you can stop your mouth from watering at the good food graphics! 
 
  I would like to add that if I missed anything send me a Message and I will fix it.
  
  
  -O-O-O-O-O-O-A Review of Cooking 
 Mama by Janellworks-O-O-O-O-O-O- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HiyonoYuizaki
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 22, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is a fun simple and highly addictive game. The controls are solid and responsive 
 for the most part. At times you may have to repeat the action for the game to recognize it, but 
 it doesnt distract from the game. With 76 recipes, youll find yourself busy for a few hours. 
 The game has a combine game mode where you cook multiple dishes one after the other to make a 
 meal, but its pretty much the same as the main game. There is a single cart download play function 
 where you can send dishes to your friends, but there is no actual competitive or cooperative multiplayer, 
 unlike the Wii Cooking Mama.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are simple, has a cute cartoon look to it and is nice and crisp. It doesnt 
 really push the graphical powers of the DS at all, except for a piece of meat here and a block 
 of tofu there.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is really simple, calm and cheerful. It does get stuck in your head 
 after playing the game for a while. The sound effects are pretty realistic and generic at the same 
 time.
  
  Value: I got my copy of Cooking Mama for $29.99, which is ten or twenty dollars less than most 
 other DS games. With 76 recipes, it will keep you busy for a while. A problem with the 76 recipes 
 is that many of them are very similar. The 4 or 5 spaghetti are the relatively the same except 
 for one or 2 steps where you may add seafood instead of beef. Still fun and worth the buy though.
 
  
  Tilt: It has an original idea but can still be improved. There no story line to the cooking, so 
 you just cook to unlock more dishes to create. Its fun for hours and brings in the rest of the 
 family and other non-gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Well.... Cooking Mama ... This is quite and interesting game... i mean really
  ,really interesting. When i first saw this i couldnt believe it. The title itself was a little 
 confusing.. was it about a Mom?.. or was it about cannibalism? I was half right.. or not even close.. 
 It does have a mom, but theres no cannibalism. But the main focus of this game is... Cooking.. Yes 
 seriously! Cooking Mama is another addition to the Nintendo DS, Its yet another interactive game 
 for your own entertainment. The whole idea of this game is you and your Mama ( the gal with the 
 pink Babushka) make a whole varities of cooking dishes.. A majority of these dishes seem to be Japanese 
 oriented but still, they do look good... except for the Octopus Ball ( Ughhh!) The dished will varies 
 in certain skills and learning, Such as measuring the amount of water, cutting lettuse, peeling 
 potatoes, watching the stove while you cook and several others. And lets not for get that DS rod... youll 
 need to use the ds rod for the entire game. And depending how well you do, and how much of good 
 score youll achieve.. youll be able to unlock new dishes and youll of course make Mama proud... failure 
 to so.. well... all i can say is Don't worry, Mama will fix everything! GAMEPLAY: The game is quite 
 interactive and impressive. Its an excellent game for interacting with yer DS. As mentioned, the 
 DS stick is needed to play this game, and surprisingly so is the microphone on the DS... what for? 
 well for blowing on HOT FOOD!! OUCH!! GRAPHICS: The graphics are acceptable but it seems to be 
 a tad too cartoony.. But the dishes do look good!
  SOUND: The music is real corny, but theres great cutting, pounding, chopping, dicing, mixing and 
 etc sound effects
  VALUE: There many dishes to unlock, and its quite a good experiences.. but it not meant for everyone.
 
  ORIGINALITY: Hey else do you need.. you get to learn to cook!
  OVERALL: Very interactive, excellent way to interact with the DS,
  
  If you into cooking, baking, 
 and NIntendo DS.. this game is for you..
  now if you encuse me.. ive gotta check My instant noodles.. I thinks it on Fire! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esplender
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Cooking Mama. From the title, you know that this is a game about cooking. The next question is 
 that if this game can make u hang on to your Nintendo DS for long enough, or it's just wasting 
 your time and money? I say no. This game deserves a credit for making your time worth while. Yes, 
 you can expect that your leisure time will be a little more colorful. This game offers lots of 
 cooking recipes that can even be applicated in your daily life. In the beginning of the game, you 
 will be greeted by a chef that looks like Mama. This chef will guide to through your journey in 
 the world of cooking. The game play looks quite innovative and nice, especially when it comes to 
 cutting garlic, frying eggs, making dough, etc. Yep! The developer really wants you to feel the 
 real situation behind those delicious meal. The sound hears pretty neat too, with realistic frying, 
 cutting, beating dough-sound that can make you fell like you're actually in the game, cooking meal 
 for your friends. But the whole game feels a little bit short. Yeah, because the game is because 
 cooking meal, you don't have a chance to search the outdoor and (maybe) looking for raw stuff and 
 ingredients for your meal. Too bad, but maybe they can put this kind of feature in the sequel. 
 Cooking Mama, if you want to cook, cook like Mama does! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDDichard07
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama is an amazing game that uses the Nintendo DS's touch screen to its maximum potential. 
 Good: Cooking Mama puts takes the Nintendo DS and uses it to most of its full potential. Never 
 have I seen the touch screen used with such innovation before.
  Gameplay is extremely fun and nearly as addictive as Katamari Damachi
  One of the few games on 
 the DS that actually uses the microphone.
  Audio is near perfect, whether its the sound of the heat on high, or the sizzling of a steak on 
 the grill.
  Cooking Mama has almost 250 dishes to cook, mini games and tons of unlockable meals to cook.
 
  Also the ability to combine dishes is great fun.
  
  Bad:
  Graphics are mostly two-dimensional and cartoony, but not too bad for a portable console.
  No 
 story or anything, the only thing that even comes close to a story is Mama barking evil matriarchal 
 commands at you.
  Gameplay can seem repetitive but only after a solid chunk of playing.
  
  Overall Cooking Mama is a great game thats tons of fun and any DS fan who loves cooking should 
 definately pick up or try out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juby_w
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:02 am PT
Review:  got this game for my girlfriend and that is a perfect game. you get to cook food and there's all 
 kinds of food to choose from. for $20, it's worth the money and time cuz it can be pretty entertaining 
 and it's easy to learn. you kind of do the same thing over and over but it's a first of its kind. 
 graphics are cute, sound it alright but very easy to learn and is a fun game for girls. everytime 
 you get a medal for completing a dish, new dishes come out and there's a lot of variety of food 
 to choose from. to get a gold medal, you have to score 100 and actually on some of the items, that 
 can be hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ernice
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama isnt really a game to begin with. it doesnt have any storyline whatsoever and it doesnt 
 have any goals for you to reach either. basically it is made out of many mini-games (recipes so 
 to speak) that you can attempt at any point of time and in any order you wish to.
  it also has mini-games that are not recipes, namely being skill mini-games which help to improve 
 your handling of the different utensils.
  
  Cooking Mama is also a very easy and simple game. its not hard in any aspect. all you have to do 
 is follow the instructions and soon enough, you'll find yourself whipping out the dishes accordingly 
 without any fuss at all.
  
  overall, Cooking Mama is mainly a unique game that you may or may not wish to try. it is something 
 different compared to all other games out there. however, it offers no challenge nor real satisfaction 
 whatsoever but is only present to lull away whatever spare time you may have.
  
  and lastly, no it does not help you to cook any better or to learn how to cook in the first place. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KIM7813
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama is a simulation game, but here's the catch: You are cooking foods.
  
  Oddly enough, the game involves cooking a variety of dishes under the guidance of a cheerful looking 
 woman called Mama . Using the DS stylus and microphone, you have to prepare food as the directions 
 say on the top screen. If you don't Mama will get mad at you for not doing it right or for burning 
 something.
  
  You can unlock dishes by completing the default dishes. Laughably funny case in point: instant 
 ramen. Others may range to familiar dishes to Japanese delicacies.
  
  It's very addicting, but foodie gamers might agree that it is a welcome change in their library 
 next to games like Sonic and Mario (providing you win again... after the 375th time)
  
  This is an interesting game that I may just one day run to my local shop to buy the Wii if the 
 Cooking Mama Cook Off for Wii comes to the US. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  Simulation games, in order to appeal, have to deliver more than what a real life version of the 
 game would offer. For example, The Sims wouldn't be as affective if you couldn't furnish your house 
 with crazy furniture and breed aliens etc etc. But this may be where Cooking Mama lacks. All you 
 can do is cook food. As challenging and fun as this is, gamers deserve a whole lote more. But, 
 the dishes themselves are good nonetheless. Ranging from different dishes from different nations 
 ... Cooking each dish ranges in difficulty. From simply making a sandwich to a delicious curry. 
 Cooking Mama herself is a bit of a psycho, but it adds to the fun of the game and in general this 
 works. The stylus is also injected into the gameplay well. Although, this game severely lacks strucutre 
 and cooking food is basically all this game has to offer. What you see ... Is certainly all you 
 get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This game is something i have been waiting for a while. a game where you can cook different things. 
 Although it does not really teach you much about cooking it still is very fun to play. You can 
 cook 76 different recipes in he game. This is one of my favorite ds games for many reasons. 1st 
 I love to cook its something i have loved since i was a kid and always wanted to go to culinary 
 school after i am done high school. and this shows me many Asian recipes that i have not even heard 
 of. 2nd its addictive. You want to keep making more dishes and get more foods you can cook. some 
 foods like steak can have like 6 different recipes in one food item. 3rd. you use the stylist very 
 well. in the game. say you need to cut some veggies up you take your stylist and cut the food. 
 it also uses the microphone to blow on your food while boiling the food. it uses the ds functions 
 very well. Graphics are very basic and could be a lot better. its like snes graphics. sound is 
 very repetitive and can get annoying at times. its basic kitchen music if you call it. Value is 
 one of the best sides to it. you get a very good ds game for get this 20 bucks! in my mind thats 
 a great deal for what you get. Overall i enjoyed this game and would advise people to purchase 
 this game . its a great addition to any ds library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Not a great game, but a good game and worth playing for a few hours at a time, and buying cause 
 its only at 20 dollars anyway...
  
  There is so much creativity to be had in this game, but not enough satisfaction unless your playing 
 against someone. I cant exactly picture this game ever being put in the scrap pile but id would 
 say Trauma Center: under the knife is a much better game then this along with a nice story line.
 
  
  Switching and combining dishes is my favorite part, making cooking mama happy is just the extra 
 special bonus. Theres so much to combine in this game and so many variety of dishes you wont be 
 making dishes the same time after time, which is a good thing.
  
  I would recommend this game to nearly every person out there, only because its 20 easy bucks... 
 not a real big deal and its good fun. Though a much better game is Trauma Center 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToaInikaJaller
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I got this at Wal Mart for $18, Picking it over Superstar Saga, brain Age, and Brain Academy. I 
 must say I am Impressed. Being Culinary myself, I love the idea of the gameplay. Using the stylus 
 to cut food, prepare dishes, mix ingredients, knead bread, etc. is awesome. I especially love the 
 Mixing part. You can go all original and combine Rice and Pizza. Be as original as you can in this 
 game. In some stages there is a time limit, and if you don't egt the job done, you do not want 
 to see Mama pissed off.
  
  Graphics are pretty Nice, showing 2D can be cool. Sound isn't much, but is still very cool. I would 
 prefer if you could make drinks, Breakfast, and desserts. Wether you're a culinary type person, 
 wanting a good, cheap game, or just want to get every DS game, this is definetly a good add to 
 any collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holyschmitt13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama has a weird premise but using your stylus to cook is very fun. The use of the Stylus 
 is very high compared to other DS games. You can cook your all-time favorite meals ranging from 
 the complicated Salisbury Steak to the simple cup of Raman Noodles. The Graphics are colorful but 
 use very little of the DS's hardware power. The Sound is nice but gets annoying and repitive after 
 about 20 Minutes. I would recomend this game to any Rachel Ray fan or someone just looking for 
 a relaxing way to spend there afternoon. But don't buy this game if your expecting a game with a 
 plot, story and/or much depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerriegamer40
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 24, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Just like going to the grocery store, you shouldn't play this game on an empty stomach. Cooking 
 foods like spaghetti bolognese and fried chicken will make you want to binge. Just be sure to not 
 eat while playing your DS... could be damaging to both you and the system!
  
  This game rocks... very original concept. The gameplay is fairly easy; however, I seemed to have 
 trouble with getting the stylus to work with the peeling technique (potatoes and in hand to avoid 
 getting burned) . I'm constantly failing that skill because the darn stylus doesn't want to glide 
 down the potato (or could it be that I haven't yet learned this very important skill?? Hmm...) 
 Other than that, this game is very enjoyable and the colors/graphics are vivid and crisp. And for 
 $19.99 you can't beat the price for what you get. If Mama grades you with a bronze, silver or gold 
 medal you will unlock another recipe. Even when Mama fails you with her flame burning stare, you 
 can't help but try again. As for me, I started out only knowing how to boil water. Now I can make 
 rice!! Life is good. Go buy this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: final_cut_hugo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 2:43 pm PT
Review:  If you take equal parts mini game, bright vibrant colors, and tasty far-eastern recipes, and let 
 them simmer in your Nintendo DS for a good bit, youll end up with a heaping helping of fun with 
 Cooking Mama. Using the stylus to stir, chop, slice and otherwise prepare your food, Cooking Mama 
 will have you preparing loads of awesome food items in the form of quick and entertaining mini 
 games. With over 60 recipes to learn, its hard to keep from becoming addicted to the quick-paced 
 gameplay and bright colors, and youre guaranteed to be hungry when you are finished playing. Dont 
 forget to blow on the microphone to cool off your food! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axe_336
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 6, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps in one of the greater strides in Nintendo's continuing efforts to appeal to a non-gamer 
 crowd, Cooking Mama is a quick'n'quirky title that you can whip out in a gocery store line, play 
 for 2 or 3 minutes, and put away. The concept of the game seems to be that you are a child helping 
 your mama with the cooking (This is taken from the fact that in one mini-game you are asked to 
 plate a dish for mama, daddy, and yourself) , and the way you do this is through a variety of fun 
 and interesting mini-games that range from insanely easy (setting a microwave) , to rather difficult 
 (Sauteing) , to the seemingly impossible (Get on there faster you freakin' bread crumbs!!!) . However 
 there is only one game of the latter description, and that one is just very difficult to get perfect, 
 actually I don't know if you can.
  
  Another thing I like is that the dishes actually look good after you're done, so you can say to 
 someone Hey, I'm going to make some sushi for you. and they'll be like Huh? and then you show them 
 and they're like Whoa! What? . I've even gotten some non-gamer friends to play it and have fun 
 with it after showing them that. Usually I get people to try it by having them make the insanely 
 easy Instant Ramen (Yes, one of the dishes is a Cup-O-Noodles) and then if they aren't busy they'll 
 usually try at least one other dish, or at least try and get the instant ramen perfect.
  
  The only two things that can be drawbacks are these: 1. There are not really any American dishes 
 (I mean, there's Pizza, but thats international nowadays) so when I say to someone What do you 
 want me to make? and they're like A cheeseburger! I have to say Well, its actually more Asian dishes. 
 Which I don't have a problem with, since I like those kind of things, but maybe an American version 
 would be cool? It'd probably do well in Japan too. Maybe feature Rachel Ray or that guy from Good 
 Eats? 2. There isn't much long-term challenge. There are 76 dishes total, so its got good variety. 
 But each dish takes, at most, like 5 minutes to make. So supposing an average of... 4.5 minutes 
 thats going to take you about 5.7 hours to complete each dish once. Now, since you bought this 
 game you're probably going to want to ty and perfect each dish, so maybe double that number to 
 11.4. And maybe stretch it to 15 for novelty factor. Okay, 15 hours is about the time that you 
 start to realize Oh.... I've done pretty much everything in this game. So, its still fun to whip 
 out and play for brief spurts sometimes (Which is aided by the fact that DS loads up really fast 
 compared to PSP which takes, in my experience, about double the time to load up.) and to show off, 
 but not so much with the sitting there and playing it for a long time. And you don't really get 
 anything for your eventual completion.
  
  So, here's the run-down:
  
  Good stuff:
  Fun
  Easy (mostly)
  Only $20
  Great short term boredom killer
  Appeals to non-gamers.
 
  Its got Mama in it, and she rocks.
  
  Reasons you might not want it:
  You run out of novelty pretty quick.
  Lack of American dishes (I guess)
  Lack of long term 
 single player type challenges.
  
  Other:
  My one other thing is, when I saw previews and Mama had flaming eyes for your failure I was like 
 Oh sweet, she gets really pissed off at you for failing but all she says in the English is Don't 
 worry, Mama will fix it. and I was like What? That doesn't warrent flaming eyes at all! But, oh 
 well.
  
  So yeah, for $20 its definitely a good deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesszelda
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS is praised as an innovative handheld system because of its touch screen functionality. 
 There arent many games that fully take advantage of the touch screen, but Cooking Mama is definitely 
 one of those games.
  
  The concept is quite simple. Cooking Mama is composed of timed mini games for each dish. First 
 you pick a dish off of the menu. After the dish is picked that is when the mini games begin. Some 
 mini games include chopping vegetables (quickly tapping the knife with the stylus) , peeling carrots 
 and potatoes (quickly moving the stylus up and down over the vegetables) and pan frying ingredients 
 (adding ingredients into a pan and moving the stylus back and forth so that the ingredients dont 
 burn) . The ultimate goal is to complete each dish with a gold metal.
  
  The game play has several annoying flaws. For starters, some steps are hard to complete because 
 the game, at times, doesnt respond to your actions. So peeling potatoes and carrots can be difficult 
 to pull of in the allotted time period. Another problem is that the directions arent always clear, 
 especially in the beginning of the game where you have no clue what to do. Not to mention the fact 
 that if you mess up once on any steps for a dish, you will not receive a gold metal. One tiny mistake 
 can cause you not to progress. Even though the game play is repetitive at the same time it is very 
 addicting. The graphics arent phenomenal, but they arent terrible either. The colors are very 
 bright and vibrant. Cooking Mama has an anime/manga look to her. Of course the food doesnt look 
 realistic. It has more of a cartoon look to it which suits it fine.
  
  There isnt much sound to the game. In fact, Cooking Mama doesnt talk at all. The same music is 
 played throughout the entire game. This becomes both boring and annoying quickly.
  
  The replay value isnt very high considering there are 76 dishes in the game. Once you get the 
 hang of things and your skill heightens then you shouldnt have a problem unlocking everything. 
 Besides the main mode, Lets Cook, there are two other modes. There is Combination Mode, where 
 you can combine different foods together. This is where your creativity comes in. The other mode 
 is Use Skill, where you have to complete skills on different levels against the clock. It would 
 have been nice if there was some type of multiplayer mode in the game. This game could become even 
 more addicting if it supported WiFi.
  
  Cooking Mama brings to the table innovative and addicting game play, along with a really cool concept 
 all for a budget price of $19.99. Even with all of these good things there still seems like there 
 is something missing. This along with the repetitive mini games makes Cooking Mama one of those 
 games you play in small dosages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a99aSix
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Look past the cutesy look, and colorful cover. Even past the big eyes of Mama herself on the cover, 
 and the number of actual recipes this game comes with. For $19.99, Cooking Mama on the DS, is just 
 one of those gimmicks that ends up working well!
  
  To lay it straight, there is no game out there that has ventured into Cooking?! But since the debut 
 of the Nintendo DS and the way they are going now.... anything is possible. And well, this game 
 proves it.
  
  This is probably one of the easiest games to be entered into the DS library and one of the most 
 innovative and fun at the same time. Everything in the game is self explanatory and once you get 
 a hang of it... your a game chef in no time! The game comes with receipes from boiled rice, to Salsbery 
 Steak. The the actually in-game cook times are questionable, the ingredients to nearly all of the 
 recipes are real. I took a try at the Sweet Fried Egg, both in-game, and in the kitchen. It was 
 dead on.
  
  What this game does, is further expand the appeal of the Nintendo DS to the consumer, and attract 
 interest from other developers that have yet to bring a DS title to life, but are waiting for a 
 type of different game to the table. Well, Cooking Mama has set the table up, with Food!
  
  The controls are simple,  are the main necessary skills needed with 
 the stylus. And some occasional blowing into the mic to cool down your boiling pot of stew. (seriously, 
 not kidding)
  
  The graphics are good, give sharp detail to the foods used in the game, and the sounds are as good 
 or better in detail that is. You can hear the sizzle of your steak! And the difference of a low 
 or high burn off your stove fire. (I'm serious!)
  
  What makes this game what it is, is that you are required to do these receipes against a timer! 
 It's not really an edge of your seat type scenario, but you will occasionally feel a bit of a rush 
 to get that gold coin to perfecting your dish!
  
  Aside from the 70+ receipes you can make and unlock, you can combine receipes to make receipes 
 of your own!
  
  Too bad there is no multiplayer mode with this game. I would of looked forward to a Hell's Kitchen 
 scene at work when playing Cooking Mama with my friends.
  
  For $19.99, this is a gem in the DS library! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VincentVendetta
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  Well, we all know a game with a great concept. It's very easy. Now, Taito decide to create a game 
 with a great concept, Cooking Mama. And do you know what? It's not great at all.
  
  The gameplay of Cooking Mama is simple: you just cook things with mini-games. The mini-games look 
 good. You can cut meat, crack eggs, and... set the timer? Yeah I know this is crazy, but, I don't 
 care. Before do your recipes, you can practice. But the problem is that the mini-games are so repetitive 
 and too easy that you don't need this practice. There're also two others game modes: Let's combine 
 and Use skill. But they are useless. I don't care of test my skills or cooking two things at the 
 same time. It's useless.
  
  Cooking Mama doesn't have incredible graphics, but they still do the job. The game is in a good 
 2D, but in some mini-games and when you have you final score, the food is in a kind a 3D. I mean, 
 it's like they cut a picture of food and they put it in the game. Well, I know that's not a good 
 definition, but it's hard to tell how the 3D is. It's not really 3D, but it's not 2D also.
  
  Did I said that the mini-games are repetitive? Well, it's the same thing for the sound. But, 
 they can be also absolutely annoying. If you try the game, do the Saute! step with the sound at 
 the max. I will understand, it's so annoying to hear this sound &laquo; Tchhhhhhhh!&raquo;. Goodly, 
 the music is good... I mean the music is also repetitive, but it not annoying. After all, you hear 
 the food, not the music.
  
  Finish Cooking Mama is not a big challenge. You just do all recipes, the hidden ones (you do a 
 normal recipe, and sometimes, they ask you if you want to change for another one) , and it's end. 
 Well, not for me, I have only 62 cakes, and the game have 76. But the game is easy. So it will 
 never be a challenge to you. But there's another thing, maybe this game is easy...
  
  ... the game still have glitches. Well, the game doesn't recognize some actions that you do in specifics 
 mini-games. But don't worry, that's not enough to ruin your cake. Oh yeah, I forget something. 
 On the back of the box, there's something who said &laquo; Wireless DS Single-Card Download Play&raquo;. 
 Don't think that it's a multiplayer, that's not. It's only a demo that others DS owners can download.
 
  
  In the end, I think that Cooking Mama worth the 20$, but if it cost only 5$ more, it will doesn't. 
 Because this game is an Okay game, even if it look good. So my biggest recommendation is to buy 
 this game and another a better one at the same time. But if you never been interest by this game, 
 you're better looking for something other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neeker
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 23, 2006 7:21 am PT
Review:  I won't say that Cooking Mama is the best game I've played in recent months. Surely, there's something 
 more important than cooking - like, killing zombies on the X360, for example. However, it's certainly 
 the most innovative, especially when you consider how much you can do on the limited dimensions 
 of a Nintendo DS touch screen. In Cooking Mama, you're an apprentice in the fine art of cuisine 
 management. Your master, a certain Mama, will put you through a series of saliva-inducing recipes, 
 and will grill you through the preparation of each as if it's the only thing you live for. You 
 can choose to practise before hand, but when you go into the actual process of making a particular 
 food, you'll find that there's no room for error. A wrong move, and Mama will not hesitate to show 
 you her wrath. Making a food involves several steps. Some are short, while some may take forever. 
 For example, when preparing a pan-fried fish, you'll have to go through the coating of the fish 
 slices, the melting of the butter, the actual pan-frying and the arranging of the plate. Each process 
 in turn involves different ways of doing things. Coating the fish slices, for example, requires 
 you to drag your stylus in a left-right manner while touching the fish. Melting the butter requires 
 you to rapidly drag the butter in a circular motion when it's on a hot plate. Pan-frying involves 
 a following the command on-screen mini-game that requires you to perform whatever Mama tells you 
 to, and so on. The impressive thing here is that, even though you're just stroking your stylus 
 throughout the game's 70+ recipes, you're essentially doing different things. It's a bit like Trauma 
 Centre from last year, but instead of seeing body parts, you're looking at food. If you're more 
 adventurous, you can even combine recipes to form new ones, which adds depth to the gameplay. For 
 a game as quirky as this, it's understandable that it uses quirky graphics. The presentation of 
 Cooking Mama is light-hearted, and makes the hectic process of cooking (to me, at least) much more 
 enjoyable. The music is a little weak, even though it does have some nice variety. But seriously, 
 graphics and audios are not what you'd buy this game for. I mean, who cares about these things 
 when you've Fried Octopus Balls to make? For its sheer audacity in bringing the kitchen onto the 
 DS, I'd recommend Cooking Mama to every owner of the DS. Don't expect to see your DS in a few weeks, 
 however, if you bought this game, and have a missus in the house. Now, if only my wife can learn 
 a few tips out of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hianhwee
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 20, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  tried it for 15-20 mins for cooking 2 dishes and you will be on the way to be the new chef! it 
 is easy, even a 5 year old kid can play it well, boy or girl can cook virtually!
  
  it is a fun game to begin but as it proceed, one may feel repetitive. if you are waiting for someone 
 who is late for appointment - try to pick up a new recipe but flashing out your DS to start practising, 
 learning and cook (virtually) . there are times that you might be looking absurb by blowing into 
 the mic of your console as the cooking instructions indicate. (i experienced that when i was in 
 the public transport crowded with people to do that little stunt!)
  
  another fun part is the sound effects from the game, the sizzling, chopping, etc sounded so real 
 and one might think you are cooking if you are playing the game while talking on your phone. :)
 
  
  one more interesting aspect of the cooking game is that you get to see the food you cook turning 
 from raw to cook state, the progression makes one happy to play the game - it just seem so real 
 to actual cooking.
  
  this game maximise DS touch screen very much and you will not need to press any button or d-pad 
 controls. the only thing that it seemed not responsive is when you want to add ingredients into 
 the pot of soup/stew while cooking the dish. other than that, it is a breeze. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carbogo
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  For the $19.99 I saw the game at Best Buy I thought it was a steal, that was until 30 minutes after 
 playing it I realized that in the first 30 minutes I probably played through 75% of the game's 
 major mingame variants.
  
  Yes, it's creative in a market where every game is a clone of another game. Unfortunately with 
 repetive minigames variants ala chop a cucumber via tapping on the touchscreen, you can therefore 
 assume anything you chop has the exact same game mechanic (tap tap tap) . Same goes for mixing ingredients 
 into a pot (a timed guess what this is, or a psuedo rhythm game where you have to follow directions 
 such as heat control, blow, mix, add) . i can't see myself playing this for more than 5 hrs total. 
 I barely see any reason to get a perfect score.
  
  I'm confused as to what the purpose of me learning the recipe's was, i must have missed something. 
 Am I moving out and Mama is showing me how to cook? Am I taking a cooking class? Do I aspire to 
 better than Mama?
  
  What did I want?
  For $19.99 I should have waited til it was $9.99
  I almost wish there was a real recipe for each 
 game recipe so that I could try each recipe in real life. Mkaing a this game a dual purpose title.
 
  Maybe if I can shop for ingredients (picking the perfect pepper or freshest head of lettuce from 
 an in game market, heck , maybe if I grew my own herbs to make the recipe fresher...)
  Scoring solely based on timing of how fast / accurate you did something, what ever happened to 
 experimenting while you cook (yes i know about the combining of recipes) .
  
  Bottom line - borrow this game from a friend for a weekend.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidChamp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS is known for its quirky and unique games. Most of them do a pretty good job of 
 providing you with the kind of innovative, touch screen fun that the DS was designed for. Cooking 
 Mama delivers just that. The game is a simple, yet fun and charming way to spend an hour playing 
 a series of cooking mini games. The flow of gameplay may come across as aimless, or even pointless... but 
 it doesn't NEED to have a point, it's a freakin' cooking sim! If you get this game with that in 
 mind, you're garaunteed to have a good time with it. Each culinary dish is broken down into steps 
 that you follow. Each step is comprised of a mini game. For example, copping onions followed by 
 throwing them in the frying pan to sautee, followed by mixing ingredients in a bowl... and so on 
 and so forth. Each dish requires a different set of tasks completed in a certain order, and with 
 a certain precision. Some are quick and very easy to master, while others tend to challenge you 
 with meeting a time requirement while mastering the technique. This varies, from measuring the 
 exact amount of rice and water to bring to a boil, to folding dumplings and perforating their edges. 
 Completing these tasks in a precise and timely manner earns you either a Gold, Silver, or Bronze 
 medal. The score rates from 1-100, completing each task with a gold medal earns you a perfect score 
 of 100. But fail to complete just one of the tasks perfectly, and that'll be enough to drop your 
 score down to a silver medal. Thankfully, you can practise making any dish at any time, and more 
 specifically, any one step that seems to be giving you the most trouble.
  
  Now while this gameplay doesn't seem like much, thankfully the game throws in modifiers during 
 each recipe. At a certain point while creating a dish, while you're inbetween steps, the game brings 
 up a menu that allows you to alter the recipe halfway through. This could be a variation of anything... for 
 a simple example... instead of just making rice, you can alter the recipe and add steps to turn 
 it into chestnut rice, or bamboo chute rice. But many of the dishes throw these in, and sometimes 
 you'll have more than just 2 or 3 alterations to choose from. This isn't a huge leap in trying 
 to keep the gameplay fresh, but its definately a fun little option to play around with after you've 
 mastered the inital dish.
  
  The game is played entirely on the touch screen. The different touch screen challenges you're given 
 varies greatly from task to task. So while chopping a green onion will have you tapping the chopping 
 knife on the screen rapidly, others will have you throwing things into a pot with a timing meter, 
 stirring and adjusting the heat along the way. Flipping a meat paddy in a frying pan is also lots 
 of fun. If you're not someone who can see him/herself playing a game in this manner, this probably 
 isn't for you.
  
  It's not the deepest gaming experience to be had on the DS, but sometimes its the simple games 
 the provide the most fun. The game oozes charm, the look of the game is cutesy and cartoonish. 
 The sound effects and music compliment the simple gameplay and colorful look, nothing to write 
 home about. The game isn't going to provide you with any sort of goal to accomplish, other than 
 to master the different recipes and achieve that little gold medal, but I can almost garauntee 
 you that it will be a game that you'll continue to go back to from time to time, just to put a 
 grin on your face as you create your own salisbury steak plate. The game doesn't promise anything 
 other than what the title suggests, a cooking sim that's hugely enjoyable, simple and vibrant with 
 a cuteness factor of a thousand. If that sounds good to you, then trust me, you'll have no qualms 
 about buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StillWingless
Rating: 6.7
Date: Sep 18, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I initially picked up Cooking Mama as a light challenge for the weekend. There wasn't anything 
 else that i was jonesing to play, and it looked simple enough to blast through in a few days of 
 dedicated sitting.
  
  (Which was awesome. I had a cold.)
  
  It delivered on the simple aspect. I was able to finish in three days, no problem. The game looks 
 great, plays well... and you won't hear any one song long enough for it to get annoying.
  
  The game's instructions for each mini-game aren't always clear, however -- sauteeing and grilling 
 are real chores, even after some playtime -- and the mini-games are heavily repeated. You'll find 
 yourself practicing in the beginning to get used to the controls for each task, but eventually 
 find yourself only going to the practice screen to see if there's anything new you haven't done 
 before.
  
  Mastery of the game isn't hard, however, and it is painfully cute -- Mama's eyes light up when you 
 get something right -- but it's definitely not for everyone. It's good for those times when you only 
 have a few minutes to sit, play, and then move on with your day.
  
  I loved it though, and it made my cooking-inept self feel like a master chef... if only for a few 
 days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfilosophy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 18, 2006 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Finally a game that makes full use of the touch screen and the stylus that's a blast to play! Cooking 
 Mama plays out in cooking-based minigames, using your stylus as a mutli-purpose culinary tool. 
 You can chop, mince, mix, wash, measure, saute, and whatever else is called for in order to make 
 the perfect spaghetti neopolitan. Wanna combine two dishes? Make some gyoza with burgers if that's 
 your desire. The game'll teach you everything you need to know.
  
  It's very easy to get into and you're given instructions as you go, but the one true flaw of this 
 game is in its difficulty. For example, you're given a few seconds to cut fine pieces of tomato. 
 This is hard enough in real life, but you're expected to cut it perfectly if ever want to hold 
 onto at least a silver medal for that dish. However, if you're quick with your reading and stylus-slinging 
 style, you'll be able to get around it and unlock new recipes.
  
  This is what I love the most about it. Sure, the minigame presentation is great for quick plays 
 on the go or if I want to keep trying to make the perfect hamburg steak, but my love is the list 
 of recipes. Instead of simply picking ingredients and mashing 'em together, you undergo virtua 
 steps to actually make these dishes from fridge to kitchen plate. If you're at all interested in 
 cooking, you're probably alread going to get it, but it's useful even for people who burn water 
 or over cook toast. Hell, even if you don't care about cooking, pretend it's a cooking-themed Wario.
 
  
  Since Cooking Mama's a lot of fun, easy to learn the controls but with enough challenge that it'll 
 take a while to master, and educational as well, I can't recommend it enough. And, for the $20 
 price tag, there's really no reason not to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  Moooom! I'm hungry! Make me a sandwich! Does this scenario sound even slightly familiar to any 
 of you? If it does, then I am happy to announce that parents now have a way to get back at their 
 always hungry offspring, with the help of the newest unique offering available for the Nintendo 
 DS: Cooking Mama.
  
  Developed by Taito, Cooking Mama is a simplistic puzzle / mini-game title that places you in the 
 role of chef-in-training. You are left with the challenge of preparing 76 mostly Japanese dishes, 
 in step-by-step processes, with Mama as your guide. There are a few familiar dishes like your basic 
 sandwich and pizza, but for the most part, the meals in question contain elements that aren't considered 
 the norm in American cuisine. These add to the overall uniqueness of the title, in that most of 
 the dishes will be very new to players.
  
  In a way, Cooking Mama can be looked at as a quirky cooking simulation, with you having to literally 
 wash, cut, slice, chop and otherwise prepare most of your ingredients before you can ever put them 
 in the pan. Once you actually start to cook, you will have to change the temperature, mix, knead 
 and even blow into the mic to cool off food. All actions, from slicing to folding are performed 
 with the stylus, and offer a great opportunity to hone your skills with the innovative little pen. 
 There are a couple instances where the game doesn't register that the stylus is touching the food 
 (in the peeling scenarios especially) , but for the most part, the system works as it should.
  
  Each part of the cooking process is separated into its own timed section, and each section 
 earns you a piece of the meal's overall grade. For instance, when making fried rice, you have to 
 measure out both the water and the rice, to make sure you have enough of both. If you get too much 
 or too little of these ingredients, your overall grade will be affected, with bigger mistakes taking 
 off more points from the available 100 for each dish.
  
  When the meal has been prepared, either by you or by Mama if you fail, you will receive an overall 
 grade, and (if you did well enough) one of three medals: Bronze, Silver and Gold. The only way 
 to earn the coveted gold medal is by getting a score of 100, which is a lot easier said than done. 
 With certain dishes having 10 steps or more, each with varying difficulties, it is quite the task 
 to be perfect in each and every step. That statement alone makes the game have a massive degree 
 of replayability, in that you will probably have to do each meal at least twice in order to reach 
 the highest peak.
  
  With bright colors and fun designs, Cooking Mama looks just as fun as it plays. While the foods 
 you are preparing may not be represented with perfect realism, there is a certain cartoon-ish quality 
 that makes the entire package very appealing. The sound department, however, is the game's main 
 flaw.
  
  Where the action sounds are spot on, with sounds for chopping, mixing, frying, etc. the music itself 
 gets repetitive pretty quickly, as does the stage complete! tone, which there is no way of skipping 
 through. The music, however, is very lighthearted and fits the look of the game pretty well, so 
 not all is lost.
  
  If you get bored with simple preparation, there are other modes for your enjoyment. Let's Combine! 
 lets you take elements from different recipes and combine them into various unappetizing creations. 
 There is also a skill mode that lets you practice certain skills that you have picked up in the 
 other two modes. This mode is timed, and measures how much you can chop, peel, etc. in a certain 
 amount of time. DS Download Play rounds out the available modes of gameplay.
  
  Unfortunately, there is no Wi-Fi with this one. Maybe it's just me, but the thought of Iron Chef-ing 
 it on the Nintendo DS sounds very appealing. Who can chop onions the fastest? Who can make the 
 best spring rolls? While the idea of competitive cooking against other players virtually may sound 
 a bit odd, I do think that is one opportunity that the people at Taito should have jumped on, but 
 it's not too grand a disappointment when the single player modes hold up as well as they do.
  
  With meals being unlocked every few dishes, there is always something new to experience and 
 create. Completing all 76 dishes with a gold medal will definitely take some time, even for seasoned 
 veterans of the DS's stylus, and the gameplay is intuitive enough to let even rookies stand a chance 
 at making it big.
  
  Cooking Mama is one of those rare games that come along with an absurd theme that surprisingly 
 works. I would place it is in the league of Katamari Damacy - both sound ridiculous on paper, yet 
 amount to some of the most addictive gameplay one can have at a budget title price ($20) . In the 
 end, I think I can sum it up by saying that if cooking in the real world were this fun, I'd never 
 leave the kitchen!
  
  Review part of Grrlgamer. com Full review and screenshots at: http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=cookingmama 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake0457
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 15, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  Really, the one reason to buy a DS is for the rare, quirky, wtf? Japanese ports. Phoenix Wright 
 and Trauma Center being the two biggest, Cooking Mama is destined to join their ranks. Everything 
 is controlled with the stylus, using it as your universal kitchen tool. Mama will tell you to chop, 
 dice, stir, fry, sautee and a bunch of other things too. Even blowing into the mic to cool down 
 food. On paper, this may sound dull, especially to people who cook in real life (since this is 
 hardly a simulation) , but in practice it is great fun. Like Trauma Center, Mama is a series of 
 minigames designed to achieve different purposes. Tapping the knife will chop a fresh bell pepper, 
 while dragging the knife up and down will slice some tonkatsu for a soup. Once you have completed 
 all the minigames in a series, you are rated on your performance, and given a new dish to cook. 
 The controls all work well, with a few innaccuracies but nothing at all detrimental to the game 
 as a whole. Graphics are simple, like most DS games, and filled with quirky charm. As with all 
 Japanese ports, this is a very anime game... Mama will smile when you do things right, and her eyes 
 will shoot flames when you screw up. And worth mentioning is the price. This game sells for $20. 
 Considering the abundance of crappy, clearance 20 dollar games, Mama is a great choice when you're 
 running a bit short of money. In addition to cooking straightfoward recipies, you can also combine 
 recipies you've unlocked to make something new, or something Mama herself wouldn't eat. It's plain 
 fun to make absurd combinations. For 20 dollars, you will not find a more entertaining, quirkier, 
 or more stylish game than Cooking Mama. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryehngeocef
Rating: 8.1
Date: Sep 12, 2006 8:32 am PT
Review:  *This review was written at the time of the Japanese version's release in March of 2006*
  
  The Nintendo DS and Sony PSP seem to be breathing some new life into Taito. The legendary developer/publisher 
 has really taken to the handheld market as of late, and is quietly publishing some of the most 
 innovative, quirky and fun titles to take with you on the go. The PSP's puzzler Exit and the DS's 
 soon-to-be released Wi-Fi enabled RPG LostMagic are now joined by the overly cute and surprisingly 
 addictive cooking simulation, Cooking Mama.
  
  Actually, saying simulation would be a stretch. Cooking Mama fits quite well into the mini-game 
 genre, albeit with a unique twist. The main mode (or main course mode as I call it) starts with 
 10 meals to prepare, with another 66 waiting to be unlocked. Each meal is made up of a series of 
 tasks. Just like in real life, you'll have to prepare your dish's ingredients before you can cook. 
 The preparation tasks are quite varied and all are preformed exclusively with the stylus, and will 
 really test your prowess with the little plastic pen. 
  
  The game will have you doing basic things like chopping vegetables, slicing bread and mixing in 
 bowls in addition to more complex ones like assembling a series of stuffed sandwiches or shelling 
 shrimp.
  
  I should point out that other than soups and one time that you make a pizza, you probably won't 
 recognize most of the meals featured in this game, as they are decidedly Japanese dishes. The game 
 is quite intuitive and easy to pick-up though, and you shouldn't be afraid of not being able to 
 play it because of the language barrier or cultural differences. 
  
  The actual game play from task to task varies quite a bit. Some will have you simply slice an onion 
 in two within 10 seconds or crack an egg into a bowl without spilling it, while others can last 
 a minute or two.
  
  The longer tasks are definitely the highlight of the game. All your preparation hard work pays 
 off when you actually cook the meal. The focus of the cooking stages feels more like a slow rhythm 
 game, again... just like real life. The sequence will slowly (compared to other rhythm games) scroll 
 across the top screen while the bottom screen is where your pan, pot or wok is seen. In these sequences 
 you'll be adjusting the stove's temperature, stirring and flipping ingredients, and even blowing 
 on your soups to make sure they don't boil over. Other meals will simply have you assemble the 
 meal on a plate.
  
  At the end of each meal, you are judged with a raking out of 100. This is actually an average taken 
 from how well you did on the meal's individual tasks. One missed slice early on can make the difference 
 between getting a 97 (silver) or 100 points, the only "Gold Medal" score. 
  
  This instantly brings the game's value up high enough to warrant the import cost. While it's possible 
 to limp through the main mode getting bronze medal scores in a few hours, it definitely takes much 
 time and practice to get 100 on all of the levels. 
  
  As you progress, you'll also unlock what seems to be a challenge mode that will send the same type 
 of task at you over and over, becoming more difficult every time. For example, one starts you slicing 
 fresh bread, but ends up having you slice through a side of beef. There also seems to be a more 
 focused mode, in which you are only judged with a pass or fail. Completing these stages doesn't 
 seem to unlock anything though. There's also a DS to DS download play option that I haven't been 
 able to test.
  
  Cooking Mama had a distinctively fun, light-hearted Japanese look to it. Everything in the game 
 is clean and easy to see. All of the graphics and textures are done in 2D. At first glance I thought 
 it looked like something I could whip up in Flash, but after a while i noticed some photo-realistic 
 textures on things like fish and shrimp. A nice contrast to look at, and it keeps the game from 
 looking too cartoony. 
  
  All of the chops, stirs, bubbles and frying sounds are done well, and are dynamic also. when you 
 stir something in a pan with chopsticks, there's a variety of clicks and such, instead of one stock 
 "tool hits pan" sound. Definitely a nice touch, but the music gets to be quite repetitive after 
 only a short time. It really doesn't hurt the game too much, but a little more variety in the tunes 
 would have been nice.
  
  All in all, I'm very glad I took a chance and imported Cooking Mama with no information to go on. 
 It's a deceptively simple, surprisingly addictive and challenging game that would make a fine addition 
 to the library of anyone who enjoys offbeat Japanese titles. If you're looking for the next big 
 DS import after Jump Superstars! Ouendan! and Eyeshield 21, Cooking Mama will serve it up, hot 
 'n fresh.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
