-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cookie & Cream
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/cookiecream/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Meshes 3D action with 2D minigames in a refreshing way.
 Lush environments and cute characters are very charming.
 Two people can play through the story cooperatively.
 Plenty of fun minigames to play alone or against friends.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Level layouts are bland and recycle the same obstacles.
 Solving a minigame while moving Cream can be overwhelming.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.6, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 22 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Agetec Inc.
Developer: From Software
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Jul 2, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Cookie & Cream simultaneously blends 3D exploration with 2D minigames in a refreshing way, but the 
 level layouts are bland and repetitive. 

  Cookie &amp; Cream for the Nintendo DS is a sickeningly cute, somewhat challenging 3D adventure 
 that originally appeared on the PlayStation 2 many, many years back, but has been reworked significantly 
 in this version to make it handheld friendly. The game employs both of the system's screens to 
 simultaneously enlist players in a traditional platform jumper (on the top screen) and a series 
 of stylus-based minigames (on the bottom screen) . You can juggle the story mode's two unique play 
 styles yourself or convince one of your friends to get his or her own copy of the game to team 
 up so that one of you handles the platforming while the other tackles the minigames.  

           C is for Cookie. That's good enough for me.      

  As the story explains, two rabbits 
 named Cookie and Cream are searching for the moon on a remote tropical island. Yes, they're actually 
 trying to retrieve the moon. Cookie's job is to explore the island, pounce on monsters, and hop 
 onto the red buttons situated in front of the doorways or sunken platforms blocking his way. Meanwhile, 
 Cream is holed up in a tower full of traps that come in the form of minigames. Every time Cookie 
 stands on one of those red buttons, Cream has to solve the minigame that appears so that Cookie 
 can move forward.  

  The twist here is that you -- or you along with a friend -- control Cookie and Cream simultaneously. 
 Using the D pad and buttons, you guide Cookie's movements on the top screen. Using the stylus, 
 you have to complete minigames whenever Cookie steps on a red button, as well as tap any enemies 
 that appear in Cream's vicinity. Some minigames offer a simple puzzle that removes an obstruction 
 when solved. Others involve tapping or pulling tasks that cause platforms to rotate and air blowers 
 to blow only while you're tapping or pulling. As such, you'll frequently find yourself moving Cookie 
 and participating in a minigame at the same time. If either character takes damage, you'll lose 
 precious seconds off of a timer that's already ticking down uncomfortably fast. Playing through 
 the game with someone else is the best way to go because you can each focus on your individual 
 duties, but the controls are simple enough that one person can easily handle both characters without 
 much discomfort.  

  Going through all 40 levels spread throughout the eight worlds takes a long time. The level layouts 
 on the top screen are straightforward, but they feature some tricky jump sequences. Completing 
 the minigames that appear isn't too tough, once you know what to do. However, figuring out what 
 to do often requires multiple attempts, which can leave you with a dangerously low time clock. 
 On top of everything else, you have to contend with a boss at the end of each world that requires 
 you to move Cookie and interact with one of Cream's minigames at the same time. Throughout it all, 
 if the clock runs out, you have to start the current level over from the beginning.  

  The game's unique design and serious difficulty are refreshing. However, the level layouts on the 
 top screen are bland and tend to recycle the same obstacles. The look of the scenery and enemies 
 changes from world to world, but you're constantly dealing with the same obstacles in the same 
 ways. Cream's minigames, on the other hand, are usually rather engaging and fun. As you go through 
 each level, you'll use the stylus to do such things as spin wheels, cut ropes with a knife, place 
 gears into clocks, and guide marbles through mazes. Occasionally, you'll even have to blow into 
 the microphone to knock down trees or blow giant leaves up onto Cookie's screen.  

  Of course, the whole presentation is sugary sweet. The lush 3D environments on the upper screen 
 spring to life, thanks to swaying palm fronds, flowing rivers, and other dynamic details. Furthermore, 
 watching Cookie pounce on cherubic enemies and twirl his ears as he floats is almost (but not quite) 
 as cute as seeing a bed of puppies playing with Hello Kitty plush animals. The minigames on the 
 lower screen are primarily put together with 2D backdrops, and objects drawn in an exaggerated 
 cartoonlike style. As for the music and sound effects, there's a good variety of both. They're 
 generally upbeat and whimsical.  

           You're filthy cute -- and baby you know it. Come on, Cream, don't you stop!      

  Beyond 
 the story mode, the game includes a battle mode containing 20 different competitive minigames. 
 They're similar to the ones you'll find in the story mode, except that you share screen real estate 
 with as many as three other opponents. Two players, each with a DS, can compete in a limited set 
 of minigames using only a single game cartridge. Or you can link as many as four people together 
 and compete in the full range where everyone has his or her own cartridge. You can also go online 
 through Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connection service and challenge people head-to-head that way. Unfortunately, 
 there aren't many people playing the game online, so you'll really have to be patient or badger 
 your friends to find opponents. The minigames are a lot of fun when other people are involved. 
 They're not so much fun that your circle of friends should buy this game for that sole purpose, 
 but they're enjoyable enough to make them a genuine bonus.  

  It's rare nowadays for a video game to do something truly unique, and despite the fact that it's 
 based on a fairly old game, Cookie &amp; Cream definitely feels unique. It certainly deserves some 
 credit for uniting the platforming and minigame genres in a way that actually works. And these 
 rabbits sure are cute too! But because of the repetitive nature of the platforming levels, this 
 game is probably best suited for players who haven't yet graduated to more complicated gaming. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pastgamesrule
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Many gamers who've given this game a glance at local game stores may be unaware Cookie & Cream 
 is a follow-up to the PS2 sleeper hit The Adventures of Cookie & Cream. For those of you that have 
 had the pleasure of playing the original, you'll be pleased to know that the DS version is quite 
 similar. The amount of similarities between the two games is actually the largest flaw with C & 
 C so if you've never played the PS2 edition than you'll likely have the best experience from this 
 game...
  
  The Good: Distinctive gameplay; Pleasant 2-D and 3-D graphics; Innovative boss battles; allows 
 for Single Player Adventure, unlike its predecessor
  
  The Bad: Very compatible with the original, almost to the point of being considered a port; difficulty 
 of several levels may discourage young gamers
  
  Story/Gameplay: Help two likeable heroes recover the lost Moon before an annual festival held for 
 their rabbit clan. A mix between Warioware and your average platformer, C & C has players direct 
 Cookie through courses on the top screen while Cream clears obstacles and creates paths for her 
 partner on the bottom screen with stylus activities. (8)
  
  Graphics: With clear 3-D visuals, C & C is a fine looking game on the Nintendo DS. The 2-D artwork 
 and animations are also well done. (7)
  
  Sound: The background music blends in with the varying environments. The characters make somewhat 
 grating sound effects but are kept to a minimum thankfully. (7)
  
  Replay Value: With 9 enjoyable Mini-Games, Single and Co-Op Adventure Modes and 4 Player Battles 
 you'll get good mileage out of a game marked at $20. (8)
  
  Overall: B (7.6)
  
  _=pastgamesrule=_ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
