-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Cooking Mama 2: Dinner With Friends
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/cookingmama2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 80 new recipes to play through.
 &quot;Let's cook&quot; mode adds a bit of challenge.
 Mama sure is adorable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 It's every bit as a shallow as its predecessor.
 Multiplayer options are lackluster at best.
 Not much content you can really call &quot;new&quot;.
 Mama sure does make you insane with her incessant adorableness.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  7, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.1, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 288 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Office Create
Genre: Miscellaneous
Date: Nov 13, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dinner With Friends tastes like reheated leftovers. 

  A simple collection of cooking-themed minigames with a painfully cheery anime chef lady guiding 
 you through all the slicing, dicing, baking, boiling, or whatever else, Cooking Mama was precisely 
 the sort of simple game that just about anybody who needed a quick, thought-free distraction could 
 pick up and enjoy for a few minutes at a time. Now comes Cooking Mama 2, a game that microwaves 
 some of the leftovers from the first game, tosses some new ingredients on top, and presents itself 
 as a new meal. Little to nothing has been futzed with formulaically, with just a couple of half-baked 
 mode additions and some lame customization elements rounding out the package. The gameplay certainly 
 still has its moments of amusement, and as a quick distraction, it works, especially if you haven't 
 played, or if you haven't yet gotten your fill of, the original game's accessible, quirky gameplay. 
 But if you already played last year's game or just couldn't quite get into it, Cooking Mama 2 probably 
 isn't worth your while.  

           This is one meal that fails to satisfy.      

  Cooking Mama 2 follows the same basic gameplay formula as the last game, serving up about 80 new 
 recipes that consist of a series of culinary-themed minigames. Want to make a chili dog? Grind 
 up some meat, chop some vegetables, cook them up, and put together your dog. Want to make some 
 sweet sushi rolls? Pound out the rice, fillet whatever fish varieties you're presented with, and 
 roll it all up. Some of these include several minigames, whereas some only require a single one. 
 You're judged by Mama, the aforementioned anime chef, at the end of each game. You get a medal 
 for how well you performed each task, and at the end of the recipe, a score is tallied up showing 
 how well you did.  

  The only real challenge the game offers is trying to not screw up the tasks put in front of you. 
 In the main mode, it doesn't matter too much outside of scoring because Mama will simply fix whatever 
 you botched. There is also a "let's cook" mode where you cook the favorite recipes of several "friends," 
 but you aren't given the help from Mama. If you mess up one piece, the whole thing is ruined. That 
 mode does at least provide a bit more of a challenge than the standard mode, but not by a wide 
 margin.  

  The gameplay itself relies on the same stylus-based actions as the previous game. In fact, several 
 of the minigames are identical to ones found in the original Cooking Mama. Granted, a number of 
 those are for actions that it'd be difficult to really mess with, such as chopping or peeling and 
 whatnot. The newer minigames don't fall far from the same tree, however. All continue to involve 
 circles, scribbles, or slicing motions with the stylus over the touch screen, and some work better 
 than others. There are a few where the controls just don't seem to work quite right, but by and 
 large, the minigames are functional -- repetitive and generally shallow as well, but still functional. 

  Other modes include a customization mode where you can decorate your kitchen (as well as Mama herself) 
 with a bunch of little knickknacks that you unlock as you play, as well as a rather careless multiplayer 
 mode. It seems like there ought to be a lot of potential for some decent multiplayer competition 
 in Cooking Mama 2, whether it's competing or cooperating on recipes, but there's no such action 
 here. Instead, you and up to three friends can connect wirelessly (using a single copy of the game) 
 to compete in a bunch of stand-alone minigames with no recipe context to go along with them. Who 
 can ball together hamburger meat the fastest? Or grind meat? Or shuck corn? These are the only 
 answers this mode can give.  

           The minigames are all either rehashes of stuff from the last game, or new games that emulate 
 the same basic actions of last year's title.      

  Cooking Mama 2's presentation further adds to the reheated feel. The game uses all the same graphical 
 elements of the first game, throws in a few new characters to cook for, and calls it a day. Sure, 
 it's still a bright, cheery, colorful game, filled to the brim with bits of visual flair, but after 
 a while, the excessive use of all these color splashes and fanciful flower explosions just becomes 
 cloying. Likewise, Mama's hyper-cute voice tends to wear on the nerves as you play. We get it, 
 we did better than Mama; that's amazing, please stop telling everyone this fact before someone 
 puts their head in a meat grinder.  

  Again, there's nothing decidedly wrong with Cooking Mama 2. It's a solid, if entirely predictable 
 follow-up to its predecessor. Nothing that worked in the previous game is suddenly broken here, 
 but by the same token, none of what was problematic or missing from the first game is adjusted 
 or added. It's more Cooking Mama for people who just want more Cooking Mama. It'll be a decent 
 enough time-waster for the people who went nuts for the first game because this one delivers just 
 as much in the way of cutesey-wutsey charm and easy-to-pick-up minigames. But if you played last 
 year's game and prefer a bit more forward progress from your sequels, you can safely leave this 
 one alone.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Hazaal
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  Nothing really new here.
  
  The instant the COOKING MAMA 2 thing came up i had to watch two kids pop up before start appeared. 
 15 seconds of my life wasted. But i played through the game. The first minigame i played i got 
 a silver (the first thing i made was pizza) . I was totally shocked when i heard Mama's voice.
 
  
  "Grate! U gav it ur bes effor" was what mama said. she meant to say "Great! You gave it your best 
 effort". 
  
  Sure, there are some new minigames on it, but why pay 25 for a game that has already been realeased? 
 Yeah, thats right. 
  
  COOKING MAMA (one) , the game that started (and should of finished) it all.
  
  I admit is IS 
 fun (IN IT'S OWN LITTLE WAY) making food for the characters but one mistake and they'll treat it 
 like something that came out of my DOG'S BOWELS. Finishing the dog's bowels, it's too feminine, 
 guys like me would play COOKING MAMA (one!) coz it's more 'guyish' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darlene_vile
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Cooking Mama 2, and Cooking Mama 1 to a lesser degree, is one of those rare games that created 
 a big economic boom not only for the company that produced it, but for the video game industry 
 in general. It has turned many indifferent non-gamers into loyal customers by offering a different 
 kind of gameplay that doesn't involve hand-to-hand combat, complex role-playing, or gunfire. It's 
 controlled entirely by the stylus, which is much less intimidating to the inexperienced gamer who 
 dreads having to push a series of buttons, The vividly-colored main character Mama is so extremely 
 likeable and cute that we genuinely want to please her by cooking our butts off, hoping to get 
 the coveted praise, "Terrific! Even better than Mama!". The variety of the 75 recipes is fantastic, 
 though there is a large number of Asian dishes, but hey, it was a Japanese game originally. Each 
 recipe contains a series of minigames that represent each step in preparing the dish, like chopping 
 vegetables, flipping pancakes, mixing ingredients, etc., and it's super fun! In addition to cooking 
 for Mama, there's also a section in the game where you can cook for one of five other judges, each 
 with their own set of recipes and difficulty degree. I don't know of any other DS game that's pulled 
 in more female gamers, the majority of which are parent-age women. The money generated by these 
 new customers, plus the money generated by other DS games inspired by the Cooking Mama games, adds 
 up to a big financial windfall for video game companies. In fact, Majesco, the company that produces 
 the Cooking Mama games, has stated publicly that the popularity of Cooking Mama saved the company 
 from certain death. So, back to my review: I would recommend Cooking Mama 2 to everyone and anyone. 
 Put simply, it's just plain fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ms_nintendo
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who's played Cooking Mama at all, you've probably found it exciting, addictive, and 
 fun. I won't lie, it really is, especially for someone like me who couldn't ever hope to cook like 
 that in real life. XD
  
  You use the stylus to chop, peel, dice, mix, knead, grill, stir-fry... just about any cooking command 
 you can think of. The original Cooking Mama used the stylus quite primitively. However, in Dinner 
 With Friends, you'll find that pressure and speed are a lot more important. You have to find the 
 balance between finishing the step on time, and not spoiling the ingredients or sending them flying. 
 However, it's really not that challenging to find this balance, which is why I was a little disappointed 
 in the long-run.
  
  With the first Cooking Mama, once you unlocked and cooked all the recipes, you had yourself thinking, 
 "Well, now what?"
  In Cooking Mama 2, they basically just added a load of more recipes to make the game last longer. 
 However, they did add a few new game modes. Unfortunately, they're not so different from the first 
 one. You have an option to cook with different friends, which is essentially taking the entire 
 repertoire of recipes, dividing them amongst 9 or 10 people, and having no instructions screens 
 before each step. They also made it a little more tricky by not giving you much room for error- 
 else you'd be forced to retry.
  
  The game also gives you a lot of unlockables. There are accessories for Mama, including outfits, 
 and you can change the colours of the kitchen and the various utensils.
  The rest of the unlockables are seals for your cooking diary, where you can put in pictures of 
 the food you cooked. Lame.
  
  Over all, this game is decent. But it's only decent while you're still unlocking recipes and such. 
 After that, you won't find much reason to play it anymore. I wouldn't recommend spending money 
 on it, as that could be put to much better use in these dire economic times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersuperwario
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  i love this game
  it is one of the best cooking games for the ds
  their are lots of thing to make like pizza, cake, mama cookie
  lots of colour that make the game 
 bright and happy
  the cover is bight too some of the food you make are hard to master some are easy
  their are 
 lots of thing to unlock
  this game is really fun. i just can`t put it down
  you can get trophies
  you can decorate your diary you don`t use any buttons
  multiplayer is 
 not very good though
  once you have finished it
  gets a bit boring
  and it is kind of the same as cooking mama
  
  so i think you should buy this game if you are 
 NOT a hardcore gamer ,like me
  buy it for little kids or pre teens or if you like cooking and you don`t have to play cooking mama 
 
  
  overall my score i gave it 8.5/10
  
  thx for everbody who read my review
  hope it helped
  and have fun, bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Princess_Jill
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  Cooking Mama 2 is a sequel to one of my favorite DS games, why is that? cause It's yummy, cute 
 and EASY!! Yep! You can play it even when you're sleepy! I do mean that it a good way, I love easy 
 games!
  
  Cook with Mama is the mode where you cook! Simply do as you're told! Slash, cut, shred, mix, cop, 
 boil, fry, bake.. and everything you can think of!!!! You cook so many yummy stuffs, 80 recipes 
 of cute desserts to delicious meals! And you get ranked for each recipe, as you'll be given medals 
 after finishing the recipes depending on your performance, Gold medal (Given to you when your score 
 reaches 100) , Silver and Bronze. But sometimes you'll suck at one recipe so much that you'll receive 
 no medals, you'll get a broken coin lol =P no kidding.
  And if you liked how a certain recipe looks like, you can save it in an album to show your friends 
 (Bear with me =P this is what they told me in the game, alright?) Hehe! Yep~~! I saved the muffin 
 cause I was hungry at that time! =P
  
  Anyway, don't think this game is just a "piece of cake" well, it is, but that doesn't mean it doesn't 
 have a certain degree of challenge, as there's a mode called "Let's Cook" where you can either 
 cook with Mama or Chika, who is just as adorable =P LOL! What makes this a bit challenging is that 
 you CANNOT afford mistakes! Yep! Hehe
  
  You also have a Contest mode where you can either have a solo contest in which you can make hamburgers 
 and other stuff, and a friends contests where Wi-Fi kicks in. =D
  
  Over all, if you're not this kinda games, I still recommend to rent it, otherwise, It's a must-own, 
 seriously fun! and CUUTE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 4:33 am PT
Review:  Cooking Mama 2: Dinner with Friends is just as good as the first one (and better!) . You play a 
 certain number of minigames depending on each recipe to cook your food or drink to perfection. 
 You start off with only a few, but cooking each recipe earns you more things to cook. At the end 
 they rank you: Bronze, Silver or Gold, and the higher the rank, the more recipes you'll earn.
 
  Not only that, but you earn more people to cook with, too. Friends who seem to be Mama's "family" 
 join you in the "Let's Cook!" section, such as Papa, David, Grandma and Natalie, plus many, many 
 others too. Finishing a minigame before it reaches the half-way point earns you bonuses, and the 
 more bonuses you have, the more prizes your earn.
  These "prizes" are usually items so you can customise Mama and dress her in different clothes and 
 give her accessories. Also, you'll also win stickers to stick onto pictures of your favourite recipes. 
 You can make your pictures, the kitchen and Mama look just how you want.
  There are three stages for each recipe: Practice, Try Out and Let's Cook. Of course, each one of 
 these are optional, so if you feel you do not need to practise or try out a recipe in the "Cook 
 With Mama" section, simply move onto cooking with friends where you'll find the recipe you want 
 and you can cook it properly. This means no introductions, and getting just one thing wrong means 
 you have to start all over again. It can be annoying, but that's why it's better to practise beforehand.
 
  As I said earlier, finishing minigames properly before the half-way point earns you bonuses. These 
 bonuses are actually stars - you know, three stars, four stars, five stars. The trouble is that 
 the stars are repitive and easy to achieve, so once you've achieved five stars, which should happen 
 on an average of two to three recipes, you get a present and you start all over again. Big deal.
 
  The recipes found in Cooking Mama 2 are really good, because they can make you more knowledgable 
 and cultured about different recipes. There are really exoctic ones, like Korean Pancakes, Nori 
 Rolls and plenty more, but also there's the ones that you know well, like hotdogs, T-bone steaks 
 and even cake. Yes, sweet deserts are makable too; Chocolate, icecream, popcorn and the like. 
 
  Even drinks are makable, and really simple. So simple that some even only take one or two minigames, 
 and so easy to remember that after playing, you can pop into your kitchen and make it yourself. 
 Mind you, it's not too easy, otherwise that would be stupid.
  Cooking Mama 2 is overall an excellent game, and I reccomend it thouroughly! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverwind1012
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 9:15 am PT
Review:  Cooking Mama 2 made many changes from the first Cooking Mama. If you did play Cooking Mama, you 
 will know that it's the same thing! Well at least the cooking obviously. You will have more things 
 to do than you did before, making this a worth playing policy. And again, the touch screen will 
 be great, but talking about it will be a waste of time because we all know the touch screen is 
 unique! 
  
  The first thing you should obviously do is Cook with Mama! That way you can get more recipes at 
 be happier. I was really expecting more recipes from other countries, but that's really okay (we 
 don't want to overdo it) It's really hard to get all Gold metal's on your recipes, but most of 
 them you should in one day! So cooking should be really simple, especially when you played the 
 first Cooking Mama!
  
  I like the new recipes they had! I actually liked it because they had you do something different 
 from the first. For example, Corn, you had to "scrub" the corn with your stylus. The new ones were 
 very unique and more challenging! 
  
  The missions/challenges were more challenging too! Some of them were just the same as before. But 
 that couldn't blow you out because of the new feature! You could now have one game (of Cooking 
 Mama 2) and just have three other DS' for the challenges! It was really addicting, and you can 
 show of how good you are!
  
  There was something that really bothered me, that was collection Mama's accessories, clothes, etc 
 (wait, this time we are Mama' servants?!) I mean there is this bonus thing if you finished one 
 part of the recipe before maybe the 30 second line (on the clock) and it was like collecting things 
 for Mama endlessly (I mean when will it end?!) So now your not just getting all the recipes, but 
 you are getting accessories for Mama? The only great thing about this is you can use the cloths, 
 accessories, which you got, and that's just about it (what's the point?)
  
  I did like how you can collect Mama's family and show of how great of a cook you are, then after 
 that collect accessories for mama (Mama is a beauty queen now?!)
  
  Well over all it was a great game. I guess I could stop making fun of Mama because they had no 
 more features to add. Their main point for making this game was to add more features and recipes, 
 and I should actually say it was a success! Well if there is a Number 3 off Cooking Mama coming 
 out, we will see what the end result of this series will be!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amnesiac23
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  The first Cooking Mama game was a great handheld game that made great use of the DS stylus. But 
 the problem with it was, once you finished all those recipes there wasn't much to do. 
  Clearly they tried to fix this problem by adding bonus items. While earning bonus items by making 
 a great dish is fine and all, it just wasn't enough to keep this mini-game collection from being 
 far too short. 
  
  Another thing the game does wrong is that it automatically asumes that you played the first game 
 and thus skips the tutorial. So if you are new to this series, you are going to screw up many a 
 time on your first few trys. 
  The good thing is the game controls well. But I'm not so sure it controls as well as the first 
 game. In fact all the mini games control great except a few that completely fail in the control 
 department. And winning some of the mini games (just like the first game) is pure luck. I thought 
 this was supposed to be skill!
  
  So while this game may be fun for a short period of time, I wouldn't suggest buying it unless you 
 are a major fan of the series. While it's fun and all, there isn't enough here to make it purchase 
 worthy (especially when it's going for $29.99 new!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: croogix
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 7, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  Cooking Mama 2 was a short game that had you cook using the touch screen. you could play against 
 friends or by yourself in the cooking challenge mode, you could cook for Mama, and you could cook 
 for friends of Mama. Yes, the whole thing took me a while to complete 100%, but after that it lost 
 all its value. Here's why:
  
  As I said before, there was virtually no story besides the title suggesting you should cook for 
 Mama's friends. The whole game had 80 recipes, and once you cooked them all you received a trophy. 
 Then once you unlocked all of Mama's friends you got another trophy. Once you collected every bonus 
 prize there was to earn, you got yet ANOTHER trophy. However, that's that. Nothing more. All that's 
 left to do is cook the same recipes over again in hope of finding entertainment. That is pretty 
 pathetic.
  
  Next, the cooking challenge mode was short as well. There were about 16-20 different challenges 
 that took you no longer than a minute to complete each, and of course, after a while your score 
 can not be beat. Thus, this mode is useless except for practice. Even the mulitplayer was bad in 
 this mode. The same challenges again, playing merely to see who can get a higher score... that's 
 child's play. In simpler terms... BORING.
  
  Not only did I disapprove of the lack of gameplay, but I also disapprove the lack of sound. Mama 
 absolutely can NOT speak clearly. I usually turned the sound off to avoid hearing her crummy voice. 
 The music? No better. All midi, very cheesy, sounded like it had no depth, and it was as though 
 the compositions were rushed; not much content in the music, very repetitive, and there was very 
 little variation in music throughout. I think there were maybe 4 different songs, and maybe 3 jingles 
 that accounted for everything. They just got sooo annoying. 
  
  Onto graphics. Oh the horrible thought of looking at those graphics one more time. They were strictly 
 2D, chibi and round, a poor version of anime, people were like stock figures with no body proportions, 
 and it was so FAKE. The only things that looked vaguely nice were the finished result of the recipes. 
 Very disappointing....
  
  Now, as I previously mentioned, there are 80 recipes right? Too few. Period. There just wasn't 
 enough to keep me busy. And after completing them all for Mama and her friends, I also unlocked 
 all the collectibles, which basically means after I was done cooking I was done the game. It was 
 very fast and easy, which may not be the case for everyone such as young children, but for me this 
 was a very short-burst spree of cooking and then nothing. 
  
  Also, cooking for Mama's friend was annoying, because if you didn't do one thing right like correctly 
 remove a squid's legs you failed the whole recipe. That's ridiculous! This mode would be particularly 
 challenging for the younger players because they have to be near perfect if not perfect to get 
 to the end of the recipe without failing. That's stupid. You don't fail a recipe because you didn't 
 blow on the pot long enough or you put the cover over the pan 2 seconds after you were supposed 
 to. That's beyond unrealistic, even for a game.
  
  Overall, this game is not worth it, is highly overrated, and if you ever decide you want to try 
 it, please RENT it to save yourself money. This game, to me anyways, was not a success at all. 
 I'm almost ashamed of myself to have bought it in the first place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nulvix
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  To start off, this is obviously the sequel to Cooking Mama 1 on DS. This version has multiplayer 
 cooking challenges, cooking all 80 recipes for Mama's friends, and of course the old seal-collecting 
 for the diary. A good step up from the original right? Wrong.
  
  First off, this game is really 2D. The graphics are highly chibi-looking and don't provide much 
 of a sense of depth. The recipes are also short and easy to do, which means that even after you 
 beat the game 100%, it'll only have taken you at most maybe 20 hours of gameplay. In terms of replay 
 value, this game has very little. The only thing I would go back for would be to cook for fun (which 
 wouldn't last very long) , or try and beat my challenge scores on the challenge mode. And of course, 
 after a while that becomes impossible. 
  
  However, this game does have immersive recipes as well as being short. Some can even be quite fun 
 to cook. After completing all 80 though, there's not much left to do. The touch screen is very 
 responsive and correctly executes the exact motion you commanded, and is usually quite rapid in 
 doing so. So cooking was never really much of a challenge.
  
  The music is pretty cheesy though, and the voice acting of Mama is done very poorly. She can't 
 pronounce things clearly at all. 
  
  Overall, this game was short but kinda fun. I'd say just rent it, buying it is a waste of money 
 if you're only going to play it through once. There really isn't much else to say about this game. 
 It was so short, this review can't be much different. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frozenleaf
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  I have played Cooking Mama & Cooking Mama 2. I didn't had high expectations for version 2, because 
 I couldn't think of what they could improve. But I was surprised.
  
  I liked the idea of 'Dinner with friends' . Could have been dinner with friends & family too, since 
 it's not 'friends only', but that's besides the point.
  It was fun to see friends&family, enjoy your dish. I know it's not real, but I'd be happy if in 
 real life, people would compliment on my cooking like that. Happily eating it, smiling afterwards. 
 Anyways, the game gives you a good feeling. (Unless you are not good in CookingMama2, you'd feel 
 some pressure about them not liking your dish)
  
  The dishes were new, more fun & more to do. Also, if you get bonus, you get a present. (Don't get 
 bumped when it's an empty present, eventually you'll collect everything anyways) 
  
  It was a good idea to let the character to change outfits. Everything was really well thought. 
 (Kimono, glasses, crowns.)
  
  Eventhough it's really a girly-game, it's so fun you'll forget about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackTargetmark
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  The first Cooking Mama is already been a hype for early DS games. This sequel may get repetitive, 
 but the fun's still there.
  It's a bit hard to describe, but it's fun, you gotta try it yourself. Cooking with Mama might not 
 be practicable in the reality but the detail is there. Various cooking maneuvers are available, 
 from steam-cooking Chinese buns to peeling onions.
  Equipped with bright, well-colored graphics, Mama will make you try to cook over 40 recipes. And 
 that's not only for metallic medals but also bonuses, wich will lead you to gifts. Aside from cooking 
 alone, you may also cook for your friends, either in the real life or Mama's friends.
  Mama's friends will taste your dishes and give evaluation. If they think it's good, they may reccomend 
 you to (make appear) some friends. As more friends appear, you can cook to more AIs.
  There will be some new modes but I don't think it's well-worthwhile. The point of fun here is the 
 new cooking activities (such as setting the size of a yeasted dough) and the vast amount of new 
 recipes to try.
  Graphics are well-cool for a DS game, for the ingredients, semi-cooked foods, and finished cuisines. 
 The appearance of a finished recipe depends on how well you cooked it; overburnt doughnuts will 
 look darker than well-baked ones.
  Sounds are fun too. A bit hard to tell, just hear it yourselves. Mama spoke with a heavy Japanese 
 accent.
  This game is suitable either for shortbreaks or holidays, and have lots of fun to discover inside! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  I have the First Cooking Mamma that came out for the Ds and I also have the one for the WII so 
 I thought I might as well get this one as well. It plays a lot like the first one you chop and 
 wash and stir and boil and cook meals but there is a lot more that you can do on this one VS the 
 first one. They have a lot more things you can make and a lot of new ways of cooking that the first 
 one did not have. They have different modes of play and you can even play with someone friends 
 that have this game. I would say that this game is just good clean fun for the whole family and 
 not a bad way to pass the time. The graphics are good and so is the sound. Give it Try! you can 
 cook up some fun! If you like to cook and have ever played any of the other cooking games that 
 are out and liked them........ then you wiil like this one too! If you are insure rent it first 
 or take a chance. It's worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbox32
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Cooking mama 2 is a fun game that feels like it's recycled still. The primus of the game has'nt 
 changed you still play as mama trying make new food, accept this time your allowed to cook for 
 your friends. The good thing is , is that there are 80 brand new recipes to cook. The Bad thing 
 is that it just gets very very boring after a little bit. After you play it a few times you might 
 never want to pick it up again. The recipes are'nt extremly hard though so it will be easier for 
 the first time players. So if you have played cooking mama games before you might fine this game 
 a little boring but you'll probaly still like. If you have never played a cooking mama game before 
 i suggest you buy it and see how like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pik-ku
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  This 2nd game looks kinda like the first one, but with more add.
  Unlike the 1st, the 2nd one is totally.."girls". For example the menu is glittered and shimmered 
 (something like that) with rainbows, flowers, hearts as the arrow, and pastel colors.
  
  You could change mama's outfit (colors and type of dresses such as Chinese dress) , mama's accessories 
 (the bandanna's color, eyeglasses, and etc) , the color of cooking utensils, the background (from 
 plain house to castle) , and many more. But to do so, you have to collect them by cook for your 
 friends. Beside cooking for your friends you could practice cooking with Mama and earn bonus to 
 get presents. 
  
  The foods that you could make are not only centered in Japanese style but also western style, like 
 T-bone Steak, Waffle, Sea Bream Carrpacio, Pizza, Panna Cotta, Chili Dog, Bagel. Kimchi, and many 
 more that you could get as you progress.
  The process in making food too has expend with many innovative and addictive action like Roll out 
 the pizza (to make a nice crust) , Grinding, Mixing, Peel the peanuts, Arrange the fridge, Catch 
 the ingredients, and etc. 
  
  The only bad side about this game is... the layout!. Even though as I said before it's too 'girly', 
 but the 'pinky' and 'flowery' layout makes this game kinda ''hard to see''.
  
  Overall it's a very addictive game with a very innovative way to play DS. Some people might find 
 this game boring because of the layout, but the in-game challenges are interesting. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
