-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crash of the Titans
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/crashofthetitans/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Varied mix of platform-jumping, combat, and box breaking.
 Slalom levels provide nice break from the free-roam levels.
 Controlling enemies is fun and injects new energy into old Crash formula.
 Nice 3D graphics and goofy audio set the appropriate mood.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 After you beat the game in a few hours, you'll wish there were more levels.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.2, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 111 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Amaze
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Oct 25, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There's plenty to do, and controlling the enemy is a neat twist, but the adventure is over too soon. 
 

  Those of you who have been waiting patiently to play another traditional 3D adventure starring 
 Crash Bandicoot will want to check out Crash of the Titans for the Nintendo DS. It contains 23 
 levels' worth of platform-jumping, enemy thrashing, and box breaking. Basically, everything that 
 Crash fans crave is in here. However, there's also a nifty new twist: Crash can control his enemies. 

  Once again, Neo Cortex has come up with a plan to conquer the world. And, once again, the process 
 of undoing Cortex's scheme involves guiding Crash through different levels and collecting the required 
 allotment of mojo orbs, tiki masks, and purple crystals.  

           Riding on enemies can protect you from the bosses' attacks.      

  Some of those levels 
 involve short obstacle courses in which Crash is riding his skateboard or some hapless creature 
 down a mountain. Using the touch screen and buttons, you have to nudge Crash left and right in 
 order to avoid hazards and grab whatever orbs and masks you can reach. These brief slaloms have 
 multiple paths, which means it isn't possible to collect every single mask in one go. They last 
 only about a minute, though, so playing through them multiple times doesn't feel tedious.  

  The overwhelming majority of levels involve the usual sort of exploration and combat typically 
 found in a Crash Bandicoot game. Each lengthy level consists of multiple interconnected areas in 
 which you have to jump between platforms, break boxes to grab goodies, and beat up mutants using 
 Crash's punch-and-kick combos. There are plenty of different enemies, Crash has a good assortment 
 of attacks, and you'll find yourself constantly uncovering secret areas and shortcuts. Often, you'll 
 grab a ledge and move hand-over-hand sideways only to have the camera reveal a previously unseen 
 patch of solid ground.  

  In recent Crash Bandicoot games, beating on enemies turned tiresome rather quickly. Unleashing 
 the same combinations just isn't fun when you've seen them play out hundreds of times. For this 
 game, the developer made an effort to inject some energy into the combat by giving players the 
 ability to take control of Crash's enemies. Instead of delivering the finishing blow when an enemy 
 is dizzy, you can drag your finger across the touch screen, which causes Crash to climb onto the 
 stunned enemy's shoulders and place his mind-controlling Aku Aku mask over the enemy's face. You'll 
 then be able to control that enemy, use its attacks, and risk its health while Crash sits safely 
 out of harm's way. Some monsters have useful traits. Large creatures, for example, can smash the 
 big crates that Crash normally couldn't bust open. Others can walk across lava without taking damage. 
 Many monsters can unleash projectile attacks that are particularly useful against the super monsters 
 and bosses that occasionally appear at the end of a level.  

           Every island has a pachinko game that you can play in order to win cheats and power-ups. 

  All throughout, the presentation is slick and upbeat. Each of the different 3D environments is 
 colorful, detailed, and pulls off a specific theme (forest, caves, factory, and so on) . Crash and 
 his enemies look comical and have a good assortment of movements. The camera is worth mentioning, 
 not because of the traditional third-person viewpoint, but because it always seems to adjust exactly 
 when you need it to provide the best angle for jumps or to reveal secret paths hidden in the scenery. 
 Overall, the 3D visuals are impressive, despite a few instances of texture warping and the occasional 
 glitched character model. As for the audio, it consists of tropical music, whimsical sound effects, 
 and a healthy collection of creature noises. Crash frequently mutters gibberish and passes gas 
 while you're going through a level. The cinematic scenes also feature loads of recorded voice acting. 

  You'll feel as though you're constantly doing something different while playing Crash of the Titans -- whether 
 replaying the slalom and normal levels to find more masks, searching for new enemies to subjugate, 
 or just collecting more orbs to bulk up Crash's attacks and health. Unfortunately, though, the 
 game as a whole doesn't take very long to beat. Most people will reach the final showdown in about 
 four or five hours. Beyond that, you can keep collecting masks to unlock cheats, gallery images, 
 and a slightly longer ending. However, doing so will add only another two or three hours to your 
 overall playtime.  

  Short, but sweet. That's the Nintendo DS rendition of Crash of the Titans in a nutshell. Exploring 
 3D worlds and pummeling monsters as Crash is fun, especially when you get to take control of those 
 monsters. It's just a shame that there are only enough levels to allow the fun to last for one 
 or two sittings.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  My second Crash game ever, this is beat em up game, which is perfect. This game is really cool, 
 but has one major flaw, LACK OF LEVELS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Withy only eight levels the game is fairly 
 short. But still fun.
  
  Gameplay: Really fun, a classic beat em up. U can also jack the enemies which means ride them and 
 control them. The game is pretty challenging, but there are no lives so u cant get game over.
 
  
  Graphics: Really good for the DS. Nice and crisp.
  
  Sound: Pretty good, with alright voice acting.
  
  Multiplayer: None
  
  Unlockables and 
 Extra Content: Event minigames are fun, with hacks, but thats about it.
  
  Replay Value: Fairly Low
  
  Final Comments: Great game but very short. I come back to it occasionaly 
 to collect some of the crystals, but thats basiclly it. Hopefully Mind over Mutant will have more 
 levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myviewing
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 19, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  In ways like Spyro, Crash was a big hit during the Playstation era and saw a decline due to developers 
 who didn't take their job seriously in developing good games (In reference to Enter the Dragonfly 
 and A Hero's Tail) . With mediocre spin-offs and sequels to the series that weren't as well received 
 as the previous ones, many saw Crash on his last legs. Such a vision wasn't held by Sierra and 
 Amaze Entertainment though, as just like Spyro, companies were hoping to bring this once great 
 icon back to popularity. This was the case with the creation of the new Crash sequel, "Crash of 
 the Titans". Brought across just about every platform under the sun, Crash has come back to offer 
 players a new platforming experience. The version on hand now is the DS version.
  
  Unlike the Legend of Spyro series, using the series to bring the icon back to its roots and create 
 a deeper story, Crash has a simple story of "Neo Cortex is now attempting to take over the world 
 using his next greatest plot". There's not much to boast in terms of plot for Crash of the Titans, 
 but the characters keep the presentation from being boring. Neo Cortex, Nina, Aku-Aku, and the 
 rest of the gang are all here with fitting voice actors and an amount of humor that gives the game 
 a fitting personality.
  
  The first thing you'll notice about Crash when you start the game is how much the game pushes the 
 DS's graphical limits. The 3D world of Crash looks very good and the animations are very fluid 
 and the stages are wide and detailed. The character models are also well detailed and some characters 
 including Crash have some really cool new designs. The number of enemies also adds to the variety 
 with and each one with its own voice actor and individual design. Wasn't a needed feature, but 
 was a very good gesture on the part of the developers to prevent the game from feeling repetitive.
 
  
  In terms of sound, the sound is fitting to say the least, but not really that memorable or noteworthy 
 to add or subtract points. The music fits well with each scene and there is even a laugh track 
 in cutscenes that give them that sitcom feel. The voice acting is also well done, Neo Cortex sounds 
 like a stupid, but devious villain, Nina sounds like a teenager who wants to usurp her uncle, and 
 Crash sounds like a wild thing who wants to get through all danger in his way to defeat the final 
 boss, which is added to the feel because he only speaks in grunts and yelps.
  
  So you might wonder, how does the game play? Is it like a watered down version of the console game 
 itself? No, Crash of the Titans on the DS is a whole different experience in terms of gameplay, 
 and can be great fun to play on the go. Controlling the DS game is as follows: You use the control 
 pad to move around in 8 different directions, press the Y button to do a light attack, the X button 
 does a heavy attack, the A button does jump and pressing it twice lets you do a double jump, B 
 lets you interact with the environment, such as talking or activating something, and finally, the 
 L button lets you dismount an enemy you've jacked (more on that later) and R lets you block enemy 
 attacks. These are just the basic controls, and there are several advanced moves throughout the 
 game, but you need to purchase some of them in order to be used. They include the usual ones Crash 
 is famous for, the Board Smack (A then X) , the Hover Spin (A then Y repeatedly) , and the slide 
 (A then hold R) .
  
  The controls might sound long on paper, but in practice, they come quite naturally. The game also 
 makes sure to distinguish itself as a DS game by adding in many DS functionalities. You use the 
 stylus to flick Aku-Aku across the screen to jack a paralyzed enemy (once you've attacked it enough, 
 doesn't work for minor enemies though) and use it to your advantage with its abilities. There are 
 six different stylus and touch screen features, the first being flicking with the stylus, spinning 
 the crank by moving the stylus around in circles, blowing into the DS microphone, simply tapping 
 the large button, rolling the giant enemy across the area like a ball, and finally using the slider 
 to move from side to side.
  
  The controls are simple, and the game itself allows players to use these functions to a satisfying 
 degree. The level design consists of going from point A to point B while trying to meet certain 
 goals. The main stages require you to find Tiki masks, get a certain amount of mojo, and finding 
 one of the power crystals to gain access to the bosses. There are three points in the game where 
 you get the chance to play as Nina Cortex and turn cute fluffy animals into evil mutants, which 
 play much like Crash's stages, but with a ray gun that can be recharged by winding the crank. 
 
  
  There are also side quests that come in the form of rail grinding on Aku-Aku, sliding the Pandebra 
 across the stage, rolling the Armydillo through the turnpikes, which you can play to get more mojo, 
 and collect more masks, and just have fun playing. Collecting mojo allows Crash to purchase his 
 abilities at Crash's sister in between the levels, and he can improve his attacks, his health, 
 his defense, and other stats. You can also play a mini game called Pachinko with the mojo you earn, 
 which you do by flicking the lever and getting the mojo to enter a slot amidst many pegs to unlock 
 character art, concepts, items, etc., and try to earn back the mojo you used.
  
  There are only two problems with the game, the first being that the camera is fixed to one angle 
 and cannot be moved at all. When proceeding forward, there are no problems with the camera, but 
 if you want to backtrack to a certain area, you'll have to avoid accidentally walking or jumping 
 into pits. The only other complaint is that the game is fairly short, seeing that it only has a 
 grand total of 21 levels that can be completed quickly by experienced players (3 Nina levels, 8 
 platforming levels, 8 side stages (Really easy to beat) , and two final levels) and then there's 
 not much to do afterwards except try to get all of the items for completionists. Those complaints 
 aside, the game is very well done.
  
  Is this game worth getting? It depends overall on what you're looking for and if you're willing 
 to check it out of your own free will. If you're an old time Crash fan who can accept the evolution 
 of a series, there's a good chance you'll like this if you check it out. What's even better is 
 that it's a Crash experience on the go and just provides a great deal of fun. If you're just a 
 platforming fan in general who wants to try something new from New Super Mario Bros., there's a 
 great deal of fun to be had here with its variety and control schemes, and for a $19.99 price tag, 
 it's a pretty sweet deal. Look out, cause here comes the Crash of the Titans!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Crash of the Titans DS looks great but is too short.
  
  STORY
  Neo Cortex is trying to collect the power of the Mojo so he can destroy Crash island. But I wonder, 
 why? In Crash Twinsanity he lives on Crash's island. Everyone with me? Good. Anyway, Crash must 
 collect all the Mojo before Cortex does so he can save the island. Cortex has still got all the 
 classic bad guys with him including Tiny Tiger, Dingodile, N-Gin and Nina who has been asked by 
 Cortex to turn all the cute creatures of the island into horrible mutants.
  Eventually, Nina gets tired of this and wants to take over Cortex's plan, and then persuades Crash 
 for them to team up and stop Neo Cortex. The cutscenes have voice overs which is great because 
 you can just sit back and laugh at these funny cutscenes. It makes it even more great because it's 
 on the DS and you don't have to read it all. I've got to give it credit for that.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Atleast in this game it keeps up the classic Crash Bandicoot style because all levels 
 are just paths through jungles and forests instead of in Crash Twinsanity where you can go wherever 
 you want. But every step of the way you will come accrross the same sort of bad guy and it gets 
 kind of annoying. And even though I said it kept up the classic Crash style, you wish it didn't 
 and that the levels didn't have so much boundaries and you could take a secret exit that would 
 keep you excited, but it doesn't so we have to live with it. There are only very few levels and 
 it'll only be 2 days before you've finished it.
  
  GRAPHICS
  I have to rate this game 10 on the graphics. I didn't know a DS game could have such good graphics! 
 Sierra have really fixed up the damage they had left off with Crash Boom! Bang! which had the worst 
 possible graphics.
  
  SOUND
  Most of the levels have the same music that doesn't make you feel like you're playing something 
 new and makes you think "why do I bother playing this?" because most of the levels all look the 
 same.
  
  Overall, Crash of the Titans makes the DS look good but it's not worth playing.
  
  STORY ------------------7/10
  GAMEPLAY -------------6/10
  GRAPHICS -------------10/10
  SOUND ------------------6/10
 
  OVERALL ----------------7.0
  
  Check out my blog for other reviews on other great (and not so great!) DS games!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diggerboy36
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game I was really excited because it was a new Crash Bandicoot game, but when I 
 started playing it turned out to be really boring and that meant I had wasted my money.
  
  Crash of the Titans is still a Crash Bandicoot game, but it dosn't have all the things the other 
 Crash Bandicoot games have. But we all know that when Sierra had taken the job of Crash and Spyro 
 games from Naughty Dog, things haven't turned out very well. Like last year's Crash Boom Bang! 
 was a complete disaster, but still, I bought this game because of the great gameplay videos I found 
 on the internet. 
  
  Now I'm here to tell you that if you've seen a gameplay video for this game and say in your head, 
 "I want this game", then you're making the wrong decision. The game starts off well with a funny 
 opening movie with voice overs which is great for the DS but then when you're playing, the levels 
 are just stretched out paths in a jungle; like in the origanal Crash Bandicoot. The levels just 
 get boring and you see the same bad guys every five steps of the way.
  
  Overall, Crash of the Titans DS is just too short and is too easy.
  
  I hope this has been 
 helpful to anyone wanting to buy Crash of the Titans DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Who says a drought can't produce positive results? I've had Crash of the Titans in my collection 
 since it came out, but other games  not least of all Phantom Hourglass  distracted me from investing 
 any real time into it. However, things being slow, I went back to Crash here recently, and was 
 pleasantly surprised by just how much I enjoyed its platforming romp.
  
  Forget Super Mario 64 or Rayman 2: The Great Escape. Crash of the Titans offers something a little 
 different. The game actually seems to be a return to the Crash roots, and the original PS1 Crash 
 game was probably some of the more relevant competition for Mario's first 3D outing. To me, the 
 Crash of the Titans formula offers a wonderful contrast to Mario, and should make an excellent 
 addition to any DS-owning, platform lover.
  
  Upon starting the game, you'll run through a tutorial level, which instructs you on the game basics: 
 Crash's moves, mojo orbs (the game's currency) , and other "stuff." You are then taken to a hub 
 area (on the game's first of four islands) , which houses two platforming levels, along with a couple 
 of vendor stands. One of the vendors is Coco, who allows you to use collected mojo orbs to purchase 
 upgrades for Crash  attack upgrades, defense, health, etc. Then there's the pinball / slot machine, 
 which allows you to do a little gambling. It cost 100 mojo orbs a pop, and you get five balls to 
 fling. You can win various prizes, including treats, which replenish health; hacks you can use 
 to make things easier during a given platforming level; and concept art, as well as other trinkets.
 
  
  The levels, themselves, are made up of running, jumping, a bit of button-mashing combat, collecting, 
 and wall scaling. Through upgrades at Coco's shop, Crash will learn new attack combos. They don't 
 add a whole lot, since most of the combos aren't really necessary, but they're a nice addition, 
 all the same. One of the most unique gameplay aspects, however, is "jacking." When you stun a monster, 
 you can then use your talking-voodoo-mask buddy to take possession of the enemy's soul. This allows 
 you to piggyback on the creature, and use it to attack. It also allows you to conserve your own 
 health, since damage taken to jacked monsters doesn't affect Crash directly. Additionally, you'll 
 need the aid of larger, jacked monsters to open bigger boxes, which contain various things you'll 
 want to collect throughout a given level.
  
  Each level is quite sizable and features a nice variety of gameplay elements. The pacing and level 
 design are really well-thought out, and replaying levels is a ton of fun. After you complete the 
 first two levels, you then get to play as Neo Cortex's (the main villain of the game) niece, Nina. 
 The Nina levels offer a neat little change of pace, and you'll basically be running through a level, 
 using your Cortex-made ray gun to mutate the wildlife into a legion of evil monsters. The levels 
 are pretty simple and kind of short, but a lot of fun.
  
  In addition to the regular platforming gameplay, each level has an alternate option, which allows 
 you to do a quick, sort of  kind of thing. The alternate levels 
 are an inspired addition and allow you to collect a few extra orbs to spend at the vendors. There 
 are also masks and achievements throughout each level, and you'll gain gems for meeting various 
 goals. 
  
  Crash of the Titans consists of four island areas, with two levels and a Nina level per area, plus 
 a final boss level. It might not sound like a lot, but the overall package is quite impressive.
 
  
  On the production front, Crash of the Titans is one of the most polished games I've yet seen on 
 the DS. The system can't perform texture filtering, to the best of my knowledge, but Amaze  the 
 game's developer  does an "amazing" job of mimicking that technique through various other techniques. 
 I think the bottom line is, the game just uses a lot of polygons. There is none of the blockiness 
 inherent in games like Rayman DS or a host of other 3D DS games. Plus, the framerate runs fast 
 and smooth throughout. The cutscenes are all real-time and very cinematic. Every main character 
 has its own voice-over work, and the ambient sounds are very tastefully done, as is the music. 
 Overall, it's one of the nicest-looking and sounding games I've played on this system.
  
  Crash of the Titans isn't a terribly long game, however, but it's fun from start to finish. Going 
 back and redoing levels is no chore whatsoever. I think I've done each level about five or six 
 times, and they're still entertaining. Titans is one of those games I'll play until I'm sick of 
 it, and I only do that with games I truly adore. The trinkets you win from the slot machines make 
 going back to earn orbs well worth it, and playing the game is time and money well spent, in my 
 opinion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wicko92
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. So it's like Crash 2 and 3, because they have gems and crystals - so does this. 
 Except this game has 4 gems not 1 or 2 gems. The Box Gem (8) , The Tiki Mask Gem (8) , The Event 
 Gem (8) and The Mojo Goal Gem (8) , to get these gems you must...
  
  1. The Box Gem
  A: Break all the boxes in the level.
  
  2. The Tiki Mask Gem 
  A: Find all 12 bronze Tiki 
 Masks.
  B: Find all 6 sliver Tiki Masks.
  C: Find a gold Tiki Mask. (Found ONLY in bonus round)
  D: Collect all 19 Tiki Masks in the level.
 
  
  3. The Event Gem
  A: Finish the Event with out dying.
  
  4. The Mojo Goal Gem
  A: Reach the amount of Mojo for that level.
  B, NOTE: Every level has different mojo goal.
 
  
  Score so far: 6.7 (Fair) , then to the crystals one in every level (expect Cortexbot) as in all 
 Crash games. But some crystals like in N. Gin's Factory & Cortex's Lair have serect hiding places 
 for their crystals you must try and find else you won't go onto the next island. : (
  
  Levels List
  
  1. Wumpa Village
  2. Wumpa Jungle
  3. N. Sanity Jungle
  4. N. Gin's Factory
 
  5. N. Trapment Temple
  6. Tiny's Excavation
  7. N. Sanity Highlands
  8. Cortex's Lair
  9. Cortexbot
  
  Score so far: 8.4 (Great) , just that when you find the crystals for all of 
 these levels - game over. Collect the gems, watch the serect ending - total game over. Boo, : (. 
 But still there are some Upgrades & Pinballs Games in this game. You can choose the Upgrades youself 
 not like in the PS2, PSP, XBOX-360, WII or GBA. 
  
  The Pinball Games give you Evo-Wumpas, Wumpa Whips, Mojo Jackpots (1000+ Mojo) , Hacks/Cheats, Art, 
 Tiki Treats and lots more!
  
  End of the LONG review, score: 9.1 (Superb) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squidward1220
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  At first I was so excited to get this game and was disappointed as I played through it. There are 
 main levels and one side level for each one. There are 4 transition levels where you play as cortex's 
 niece. You spend mojo in order to upgrade your abilities like attack, defense or health. You can 
 also spend mojo in a machine that will give you items or mojo. I found it tough to transition between 
 using the stylus and fighting off the enemies; I ended up just using my fingernail. All in all, 
 if you're a Crash Bandicoot fan, go an buy it, but if you're looking for an in depth adventure, 
 look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killertrumpet92
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  I really liked this game. It has good controls and gameplay. It also has great graphics for the 
 DS. I think Crash fans will really enjoy this game and so will every one else but it is to short. 
 I mean seriusly it has 8 different level plus 4 alternete levels were you play as Cortexs niece. 
 As her you have to go through one of the levels and shoot the animals with your ray gun to turn 
 them into monsters they are ok and just serve as a transition between levels. The Crash levels 
 are basically the same as previus Crash games but with one special twist: JACK YOUR ENEMYS! All 
 you do to jack your enemy is hit him enough to confuse him and then flick the mask on the touch 
 screen at them. Then you can control them and all of their power It can get old after a wile. There 
 is alot of replay value though. You can go back and replay all of the levels. In all this is a 
 good game with a short story. I bought it and you shoud to. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
