-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Crash Boom Bang!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/crashboombang/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You can play as your favorite Crash characters.
 certain minigames are fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Crash license is largely cosmetic.
 most minigames are dull and uninspired.
 whole game feels slapped together.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.3
Critic Score: 4.2, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 5.5, 112 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Dimps Corporation
Genre: Party
Date: Oct 10, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Crash Boom Bang! is a Mario Party wannabe, ruined by crummy minigames. 

  When it comes to Mario Party knockoffs, the most important question is whether or not the minigames 
 are any good. A company can stockpile its game with minigames galore, slap on a familiar mascot, 
 and come up with a unique board game concept to organize everything around it, but no one is going 
 to want to play the thing if the minigame challenges are dull. That's the main problem with Crash 
 Boom Bang!. Although it lets you wander around a game board and participate in various multiplayer 
 challenges as your favorite Crash Bandicoot characters, the game ultimately crashes and burns because 
 the majority of its minigames are lifeless and uninteresting.  

          You can challenge the CPU or your friends in 40 different minigames.     

  Crash Boom 
 Bang! sticks close to the classic Mario Party formula. You can compete against CPU opponents or 
 link multiple DS systems and copies of the game together to compete against your friends in 40 
 different minigame challenges. Minigames can be played individually or as part of a larger board 
 game-style competition. While the overall goal for each of the six different game boards varies, 
 you generally want to roll the dice so that you land on squares that increase your point total. 
 Some squares add and subtract points; some squares give you items that can slow down your opponents 
 or move you to another spot on the board; and some squares initiate random minigames. Minigames 
 can involve as many as four participants, where the winner receives a hefty number of prize points 
 and the runners-up receive lesser amounts. When you're not personally involved in a minigame, you 
 can wager prize points on the outcome and increase your total that way. You can even pester other 
 players by covering their screens with pop-up chat messages. The flow of the board game is highly 
 dependent on how dice rolls and item pickups turn out, but it's usually a fair and tolerable method 
 of doling out the various minigame challenges.  

  Unfortunately, the minigames themselves tend to be crummy. They're all easy to grasp, and the stylus-oriented 
 controls make them just as easy to participate in, but only a few of them are genuinely fun. Many 
 minigames take simplicity to the dullest extreme, such as those that involve tracing lines, tapping 
 a moving target, or keeping a feather suspended midair. Others are just uninspired rehashes of 
 the same four card monte, memory, and maze tasks that we've seen countless times before. At most, 
 there are four or five noteworthy standouts that beg to be played over and over again. One in particular 
 is the free throw challenge, where you shoot basketballs into a moving hoop by dragging the stylus 
 across the screen. Another good example is the canoe challenge, where you have to paddle a canoe 
 and try to grab floating fruit by alternating strokes with the stylus. These examples work because 
 they're less simple and manage to present familiar concepts in ways that are interesting. Sadly, 
 standouts like these are the exception rather than the rule.  

          The minigames stink, and the Crash license is largely cosmetic.     

  The whole product 
 has a slapped-together feel and only incorporates the Crash Bandicoot license in a cursory fashion. 
 Some minigames employ fluid 3D graphics and have a healthy variety of sound effects. Others employ 
 simple 3D or 2D visuals and hardly have any audio at all. The different game boards feature generic 
 scenery, music, and sound effects that also range in quality from rudimentary to decent. Although 
 some backdrops are vaguely reminiscent of environments from earlier Crash Bandicoot games, there's 
 nothing about the scenery or audio that's uniquely identifiable as actually having been taken from 
 an earlier Crash game. The characters, at least, do look like they were ripped straight out of 
 a Crash Bandicoot adventure, and they're also highly detailed and smoothly animated. Their trademark 
 abilities, however, didn't make it into the game. So, while Crash, Coco, Neo-Cortex, and the rest 
 of the gang each have their own individual walks and gestures, they're all functionally the same. 
 Apart from the way the characters look and the way the nitro boxes explode, which can leech away 
 your points during minigames, there isn't a whole lot that's Crash-like about Crash Boom Bang!. 

  Even if the developers had done a better job of incorporating the Crash Bandicoot license, it wouldn't 
 have helped in the long run. It's the quality of the minigames that ultimately makes or breaks 
 a Mario Party wannabe, and the minigames in Crash Boom Bang! are generally lame.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ninjasock
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The review score this game got put me right off this game, I had lost all hope in the Crash Series 
 after Wrath of Cortex but after playing Crash Bash again it made me take a look at Crash Boom Bang. 
 There is a nice set of playable characters to choose from and game modes to keep you occupied for 
 a while. Graphically on the DS it is Average maybe even above. So i have no issue with the graphics. 
 Gameplay wise they have gone with a board game approach, You roll a dice and you move squares, 
 landing on different mini games to gain points. I have played Mario Party which is very similar 
 but theres something The Mario party games have that Crash Boom Bang does not. There is the option 
 to use items during the game giving it a nice, Twist. But there is a enormous amount of luck involved 
 when rolling the dice. I suppose it would keep me occupied if i were on the move but there is little 
 enthusiasim i have in this game that would keep me hooked to it for hours. The mini games are mixed. 
 There are a few good ones and a lot of terrible ones but theres a wide selection. Overall i was 
 very dissapointed but i wasn't expecting a Great game. I'l stick to the Classic Crash games. (5.2) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie_100
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  Crash Boom Bang Was Crashes First Nintendo DS Game It Was A Big Dissapointment The Party Games 
 Are Annoying And Fustrating Its Too Short I Completed It In A Week When I Completed It In A Week 
 I Was Like Thats It! And I Was Dissapointed And Also Other Charcters Send These Boom Things On 
 The Screen Even When Your Playing Minigames It Puts You Off And You Cant See Its So Annoying Especially 
 In A Mini Game On The Front Cover The Characters Look Good Quality But In The Game They Look Poor 
 They Look Like Japenese Very Bad Game I Still Own It On DS But I Rarely Play It
  
  
  Hmm Enough Of The Bad Reasons For This Short Game Lets Think Of The Good Ones If I Can
  
  
 
  Erm No 
  
  Very Very Very Very Very Bad Game 
  
  Overall Score 3/10 Bad
  
  I Hope The Next Time They Make A Party Game They Do A Better Job They Do Have Another Party Game 
 Called Crash Bash On Ps1 What Is Great I Suggest You Buy That Instead Of This Garbage
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAGM5000
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 30, 2008 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Crash Bandicoot is indeed a series built on a strange premise. Playing as a mute, mutated spining 
 rodent with a love for strange fruit (I'm starting to question if it was fruit or some strange 
 juciy form of crack cocain.) Had never been tried before, and Hasn't truly been tried since. Still, 
 Crash has seen better days of late, and this game is a testiment to his all time low.
  The story in this game involves a... something or other named Viscount, who's basicaly the wario 
 of the crash world, Ergo, a evil gready ass. Wanting... Something, Viscount desides to search for 
 the super big power crystal, (Yes, that is what it's called.) But, being too lazy to do it himself, 
 he desides to trick the inhabitants of... where-ever crash actualy lives. Soon enough, Coco get's 
 a letter, inviting her to "The great cannonball race," With the prize being $1,000,000. Coco, being 
 the brilliantly-minded girl she is, belives this letter that just randomly came into her letter 
 box, and Crash and Aku-Aku deside "Oh hell yes! we're coming too!" cue about 1 hour of runing about 
 on board mazes, trying to find objects and get used to the controls.
  Yes, you heard me, getting used to the contols. There is no instrucion on how to move about, the 
 most important part, but Aku will come EVERY SINGLE TURN to say "USE ITEMS NOW!" You'll just want 
 to chop the mask in half with an axe by the time it's done.
  So, after messing about with the controls for nearly half an hour, you'll finaly learn the contols, 
 or cave and try the manual, which isn't much help either. So, you finaly start playing the game 
 for real, and get to "enjoy" the minigames.
  And here's where EVERYTHING goes wrong. For a start, the games are ment to be randomly picked, 
 but there's so few per stage, you'll probably be playing the same game over and over and over again. 
 I'm not kidding; I once played THE SAME MINIGAME around seven turns IN A ROW. How can that happen? 
 Bad game design, that's how.
  Another thing: The minigames are insanly easy, but you'll still lose some of them. Why? because 
 the AI gets cheap sometimes. Also, the hit detection on some minigames, such as the tracing minigames, 
 feel a little suspect. You'll draw a line nearly perfectly in the middle of the drawing area, but 
 it will still say that you failed and promptly make you do it again. This gets annoying quickly.
 
  The smaller things aren't implamented well, either. Nearly everything has a time limit, meaning 
 that if you're not paying attention, you can miss on opitunities to get items. You have a limited 
 time to choose items, read instructions, pick a direction, and so on. The minigames cannot be paused, 
 which is a big mistake on a portable console. The motion pannels are constantly sent by the AI, 
 and in some minigames, they take away all control, forsing you to either wait, or blow them off, 
 probably getting shot or losing in the prossess. The music get's anoying and repetitive, Some of 
 the characters just look ugly, and the minigames range from "kinda fun" to "just plain stupid."
 
  Overall, this is, if anything else, an unfinished game. It's short lenth and annoyingly repetitive 
 gameplay, music and AI will annoy all but the most loyal Crash fans and the yongest kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Crash Boom! Bang! is a Crash Bandicoot version of Mario Party. I'm just going to get this out of 
 the way before I start my review - Don't get this game! It's for your own good!
  
  STORY
  The story for this game is totally stupid because because you have to see it 5 times to realize 
 what's going on. I still don't get it so don't totally believe me about the story. Well, there's 
 this evil guy called 'The Viscount' who wants a power crystal. He plans to trick Crash, Coco and 
 the gang into getting it for him. But at the end, the Viscount reaches for it, but Crash snatches 
 it from him just in time. Then Coco says "Bless the World" (very un-COCOish) . The story line is 
 hard to follow. What everyone is saying is written in writing, but you don't know who's saying 
 it! This is probably the worst Crash Bandicoot story line ever. I really like Crash Bandicoot, 
 but all my hopes for a fantastic Crash Bandicoot DS game (this is the whole reason I bought it) 
 was flushed down the toilet.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  This is the worst gameplay I've seen on the DS. There are only 6 places to go to with nothing interesting 
 to look at. Aku - aku won't stop saying annoying stuff like: "Use your items" and "Press the x 
 button". It makes you want to say "SHUT-UP" out loud. I can't say much about the gameplay so if 
 you've played Mario Party, it's just a bad version of that on the DS. The minigames are totally 
 stupid. All of them need your stylus in the worst possible way. I haven't found a fun minigame, 
 they're all just so boring. There is only one good thing a like about Crash Boom! Bang! That is 
 that if you've played Mario Party on the DS, you know that you have to wait your turn, but in this 
 game, you don't have to wait. All the players have their turn at the same time.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics are the worst I've ever seen on the DS. It makes me want to puke comparing 
 this to other DS game's graphics. Watch some Gamespot gameplay videos and you'll know what I mean.
 
  
  SOUND
  I guess the sound isn't too bad. But it's not the best. I wouldn't get this game just for the sound 
 (who would?) . I just think the gameplay, the graphics, the story just ruins it all.
  
  Overall, Crash Boom! Bang! is a game no one should get, even if you love Crash Bandicoot. Sierra 
 have disappointed us all. 
  
  
  GAMEPLAY -----------------2/10
  GRAPHICS -----------------1/10
  
 
  OVERALL --------------------3.5
  
  Check out my blog for other great Nintendo DS games reviews! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wicko92
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Not a bad game! Now below as you can see I've put a list of good and bad stuff - now before we 
 go onto that, I must say that this game is too short, took me 2 hours and 30 minutes to beat, boo 
 : (. Okay so back to the list of good and bad things is below.
  
  Good
  1. CBB! Has 40+ minigames and they are good.
  2. It's like a Championship to get the most points.
 
  
  Bad
  1. This game is way too short.
  2. The minigames have bad controls.
  3. It takes a while to even find the key item.
  
  So more bad things then good things but the 
 bad things don't drag the game down that much, because I think most people should be able to handle 
 them - if some people don't then this is what you do: Never play the game again!
  
  For people that can hope with the bad stuff keep playing it and have fun. Because this is a DS 
 Party Game and a Party should be fun!
  
  End of Review, Score: 6.2 (Fair) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dingodile555
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  Crash Boom Bang! is a party game where you roll a dice, move around the board, and play mini-games 
 against the other characters. First of all, you select your character. There is a good selection 
 of characters from previous Crash games, and later on in the game you can unlock more. The villain 
 in this game is a new character called Viscount. He is greedy, and tricks Crash, Coco and the gang 
 into finding for him a crystal that gives you whatever you want. So, you go through a couple of 
 boards including city, haunted tower and the beach to find the crystal. In each board, there is 
 some minigames you'll have to play about every few rolls; it's really annoying. The minigames are 
 boring, stupid and mostly hard. There is only about one enjoyable minigame in the entire game. 
 You can collect items to help you win. At the start of every roll, Aku Aku will tell you the rules 
 of the game. Isn't that dumb? We heard you the first freakin' time! This game will frustrate you 
 to insanity, its just terrible.
  
  There is another mode where you can decorate your room, replay minigames, draw pictures and more 
 silly stuff like that. You can also play against your friends, but I doubt they'll want to.
  
  The graphics are colourful but sickly and the characters are ugly. The music is very irritating, 
 as is the sound effects. This is one disaster of a game, I do not recommend it. Crash fans will 
 be disappointed, big time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesey11
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 3, 2007 3:36 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is very bad. It gets so boring after a while. This game is like a big board game where 
 you roll a dice and move the number of spaces you rolled. If you land on a certain spuare you have 
 to do a mini game. There is only 1 minigame i like, all the rest to me are pathetic. The most annoying 
 thing about this game is that random things come up on your screen, they badly get in the way. 
 Once you get on your file screen you see 3 different modes: adventure mode, festival mode and my 
 room. In adventure mode obviously you do adventure mode. In adventure mode there are only 8 levels. 
 In festival mode you can do any of the levels that you have completed in adventure mode. In my 
 room you have different things that you can do: stereo, chest, bookshelf, bulletin board, desk 
 and phone. The stereo adjusts the sound settings, bookshelf lets you play all the mini games you've 
 completed, the desk lets you make pictures that come up randomly on your opponents screen, the 
 bulletin board lets you change the colour of the picture that randomly comes up on your opponents 
 screen, the phone lets you talk to other players and the chest lets you trade items with other 
 players.
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty good. Still they could have been a lot better.
  The sound 
 in this game are alright it can get a bit reppetitive.
  
  This game is so short it is not funny It took me one hour to finish. The only reason why i rated 
 3 is because you can do adventure mode again.
  
  Overeall this game is no good at all. It should of been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joseph234
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 2, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  its good but its short and eazy i mean 7 levels????? but the mini games are not half bad they are 
 good i could say and lots of items to use on yourself and the other players but the story is bad 
 and some items are pointless but the story IS reasonable and lots of areas to explore the story 
 goes that some guy called viscount wants a super big Crystal and tricks crash coco crunch and others 
 into getting it for him so he can get 1 wish when he gets the Crystal (thats what it does the super 
 big crystal grants the finder 1 wish)
  the ending was funny as well the game ends with crash ( after viscount gets the crystal) wishes 
 for 1000 wampa fruit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrison91
Rating: 3.1
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:29 pm PT
Review:  crash has once again made a mini game title the last one wasnt as good as it could have been better 
 but this new one is a fair game at first you thingk its great then after the first stage if your 
 loseing most of the mini games you thingk oh no what have i just wasted my money on then you get 
 bored and wacth t. v then a some hours later you start to play it again and you and realize what 
 a good game it is i've never liked the japan virsion of crash characters but the graphics were 
 ok. Story mode only lasts for about 2 hours and some of the mini games dont seam like a crash like 
 makeing a pitzza you cant even see crash the sky battle games are the best you can get differnt 
 costumes for characters witch was a cool feature if your a big fan of crash like me one of the 
 mini games is to thay show you an arm and a leg of a caracters from crash and it is realy easy 
 to tell who is who.
  The game is good but dont spend over &pound;20.00 because some mini games are just not as fun as 
 thay could have been so the game is good but not great. some of the mini games are hard to get 
 the hang of but once you do it because to easy.
  Hopefully crash will go back and make a platform based game like crash Twinsanity that game was 
 perfect. crash boom bang is a very bad and i cant belive it took a year to make i dont see why 
 thay made so of the mini games thay were dum and were not fun at all like the card game why is 
 that in this game sure thay had cards in crash purple but that was ok and when you are playing 
 the game it is always timed ever between turns and the graphics are very bad look at cortex he 
 looks completey difernt in this game than what he did in the other crash games. this was the first 
 game i have bought for the DS and hopefully the last the touch screen controls arebad and i hate 
 the 2 screens i before the DS nintendo made great handheld games consoles but now thay suck the 
 Ds is a waste of time im never playing it again hopefully the will not bring out a new crash game 
 for DS i hate this console andwill never buy any more consoles from nintendo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simasgamelord
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  The game is a party game. It is the first Crash game that the Japanese made. Here you can play 
 as Crash, Coco, Crunch, Dr. N. Cortex, Fake Crash, Pura, Tawna and Pinstripe. In this game a guy 
 named the Viscount wants to get a wish and the only way he can get it is by obtaining the Super 
 Big Pwer Crystal. So he asked the world' s greatest treasure hunters to get it for him. And the 
 reward is 1 million dollars. Is Crash and his friends be able to obtain it ? Also in this game 
 Tawna and Pinstripe are dating. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
