-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Custom Robo Arena
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/customrobo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Robo battles are fast and exciting.
 Fully customizable robos.
 Likable characters and funny dialogue.
 Plenty of multiplayer options, including online play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Story mode is lengthy but too easy.
 Weapons are poorly balanced.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.9
Critic Score: 7.3, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 695 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Noise Inc.
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Mar 19, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Exciting action and great multiplayer make Custom Robo Arena a game well worth playing. 

  In the future there will be battling robots. Not like the ones assembled from scrapped power tools 
 by weekend engineers, either. Robots will be tiny, fully customizable, collectible machines that 
 fight in holographic arenas. There will be robots for everyone, from schoolchildren to police officers, 
 and robot battles will be a constant fixture in everyday life. At least, that's what the future 
 is like in Nintendo's latest DS game, Custom Robo Arena. This future looks bright, because Custom 
 Robo Arena is an addictive game that will keep you entertained for hours.  

          It might not look intimidating, but this little robo packs a lot of heat.     

  Custom 
 robos are fully customizable robots that are less than a foot tall but still pack plenty of firepower. 
 The robos are designed to engage in one-on-one battles in small holographic arenas called holosseums. 
 The robos are controlled by their human owners, who use mental energy to pilot the small robots 
 from outside the holosseum. It seems that just about everyone in the world has a custom robo, and 
 they frequently engage in battles for the sake of settling arguments, keeping the peace, or just 
 friendly competition. You play the game as a young boy who recently moved to a new town. In the 
 beginning of the game you receive a custom robo for your birthday and join a custom robo battling 
 team at the local school. From there the rest of the single-player story mode is a very long series 
 of battles that will take you through several tournaments until you eventually prove that you're 
 the best robo commander around.  

  There isn't much to the game other than the constant battles, but the battles are enjoyable enough 
 to excuse the shallow story. You can customize your robot with a wide variety of parts that you 
 can purchase or receive as gifts. There are several different robo models, each with unique strengths, 
 weaknesses, and abilities. Once you've chosen which robo you want to use, you can equip it with 
 a gun, a bomb, legs, and a pod, which is a type of dropped weapon similar to a mine. You can save 
 up to four different configurations so you can quickly choose the right setup for any given battle. 
 There are more than 150 different parts in the game, so you're given plenty of options when it 
 comes to outfitting your robo.  

  In most battles you simply fight it out until one robo is KO'd after losing all its hit points. 
 There are a variety of different holosseums to fight in, but most of them are small square maps 
 filled with low walls and other barriers. You run and jump around in these arenas, trading fire 
 with your opponent until one person loses. All of your weapons have infinite ammo but can fire 
 only in short bursts before needing to be reloaded. The trick is to use all three of your weapons 
 in conjunction to maximize the damage dealt to your opponent. For example, you can shoot your enemy 
 until he falls down, then fire a bomb to hit him again while he's on the ground, and then scatter 
 a couple of pods around the map to hit him when he gets back up. You can also use melee attacks, 
 but with all the firepower at your disposal, that's rarely necessary. At the end of each battle 
 you're given a letter grade based on your remaining hit points and the time it took you to finish 
 the battle. Based on this score, you earn money and stars, which raise your rank. The rank doesn't 
 serve much of a purpose in the game other than to act as a superficial progress indicator.  

  With the infinite ammo, constant explosions, and frantic robos jumping and dashing about, the 
 battles are usually extremely fast and chaotic. The excitement and quick pace make the battles 
 fun, but there's very little challenge to the fighting. In the beginning of the game you might 
 lose a match or two, but once you get the hang of the controls and find a workable setup for your 
 robot, you'll be able to breeze through just about any battle you fight. If you do have trouble 
 with a match, you can retry it as many times as necessary, and after a while the game will even 
 offer you a handicap by lowering your opponent's health by up to 75 percent. What makes the game 
 easy is that some of the weapons are overpowered, which also defeats the purpose of collecting 
 parts and customizing your robo. There's little reason to save up your cash and go shopping when 
 you can blast your way through any opponent with the basic equipment that you get at the beginning 
 of the game.  

  For more of a challenge you can pit your robo against others in a fully featured multiplayer game. 
 Custom Robo Arena supports game sharing, local multicard play, and online play to let two players 
 duke it out and trade collectible dioramas, which are small scenes in which you can pose your robots. 
 When playing online you can connect to people you know using friend codes, or you can try your 
 luck against a random stranger. The game lets you connect to any available player or limit your 
 opponents to those who are close to your level. If you play against a random person, you can choose 
 to add him or her to your rivals list to make it easy to connect for more battles later on. You 
 also have a friends list that you can fill out by entering friend codes. The online battles are 
 fast and lag-free, and it's nice that you don't have to dig through menu after menu to get connected 
 to an opponent. Custom Robo Arena also has a voice chat feature that lets you talk to people you're 
 playing against before and after battle, but only if those people are on your friends list. Online 
 matches are limited to best-of-three battles, and the time is set at three minutes per round, but 
 when playing local multicard games you can set rules for the number of matches, the time limit, 
 what types of parts can be used, and more. The game-sharing feature lets you engage in a multiplayer 
 battle with only one copy of the game. However, game sharing loses much of its appeal because it 
 limits you to just a handful of weapons and parts to customize your robo. Even with the limited 
 options, the battles in single-card play can be a lot of fun.  

          There are quite a few different arenas to fight in, and some have hazards such as magma, 
 water, or moving platforms.     

  The graphics in Custom Robo Arena are bright and colorful, with small 2D sprites running around 
 a flat but cheerful town full of cheerful people cheerfully battling one another with custom robos. 
 The saccharine look of Custom Robo Arena is charming, though, and it works just fine because the 
 game doesn't take itself too seriously. The story characters all have large 2D portraits that look 
 good, which helps make up for the lack of detail in the sprites and backgrounds in the town view. 
 The battles all take place in full 3D, and although the maps aren't especially detailed, they're 
 well designed, and it's always easy to see where you are and what you're doing. The 3D models of 
 the robos look a bit blocky and plain, and in battle the camera is usually pulled out so far that 
 any detail is lost. The robos still have that certain Japanese robot charm, though, and it's somewhat 
 entertaining to pose them in the various dioramas you've collected. The music in the game is all 
 high-energy, synthesized rock music that fits the futuristic battling robot theme perfectly.  

 
  The fast-paced action, accessible robo customization, and great multiplayer features make Custom 
 Robo Arena a well rounded package that just about anyone can enjoy. It's a bit unbalanced and too 
 easy in the single-player mode, but that doesn't take away from the fact that Custom Robo Arena 
 is just plain fun to play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (63 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: matwizard1
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Long story line, good graphics, fun, even addicting! Well I am kind of a cheater and I had just 
 bought Action Replay so I said what the heck and used Action Replay to help me but I had just beat 
 Hadron and was in the real Robo Cup. I put Action Replay in and put on Instant Win, Infinite Energy, 
 and Max Level on and pressed start and guess what happened it said Unknown code entered game data 
 will be deleted!!!!! I freaking out right now and I turn off the DS quickly. I start the game again 
 without Action Replay and it still says it so I just sat there and let it delete my game and I 
 try Action Replay again and this time I take off Infinite Energy and it works and I just got my 
 game deleted from cheating!!!!! But now I am fixed and better than ever in the game. The reason 
 why I don't give a good review here is because I want you to buy the game first and see what it 
 is like! It is a great game probably the best game I have played on the DS.
  
  Custom Robo ID and Friend Code:
  
  ID: RED_X
  Friend Code: 5370 5257 7220 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoppyfred
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  Custom Robo Arena follows previous Robo outings on N64 and Gamecube. Like previous titles, it tries 
 to emerge as a mixture of somewhat of an RPG and an action battler, like Pokemon.
  
  You are a new boy in your town and school, and have just received a custom robo for your birthday. 
 Your Dad and sister are both custom robo developers, and your mother, who looks younger than your 
 sister, appears to be a slave to the family, just staying in the house all day cooking.
  
  The game sorely needs a 'run' button  I wasted half my time just walking around. Movement is slow. 
 Also, the storyline is amazingly utterly crap. Luckily however, the game makes up for this with 
 its battles.
  
  In these battles, you command a personal custom robo and demolish the opponents with your guns, 
 bombs and 'pods'. This is where the sucky storyline comes in. You are roped into joining a girl 
 called Liv and her custom robo team, and have to face the school bully just a couple of 'days' 
 after starting at school. Not only this, but for some obscure reason which is explained later in 
 the story (I won't 'spoil' it for you) , Liv is captain of the team, even though she can't use custom 
 robos herself. Apparently, she makes it up with her support. Yeah right.
  
  Of course, you can also customize your own robo. After just your second or third battle, Liv, the 
 everlasting sucker, gives you a flamethrower for your robo. What a fool she is. That flamethrower, 
 along with another gun Liv gives to you one battle later, is all you really NEED to win the bulk 
 of battles.
  
  But in battling, the A. I is strange. Usually you can just batter your opponent into unconsciousness, 
 but on rare occasions when they beat YOU to a pulp, upon a rematch you can usually hammer them.
 
  
  The game's RPG bits also suffer from 'Pokemon Syndrome'  you are allowed to storm into almost 
 EVERY house or building without considering the consequences, and for some reason all houses apart 
 from yours seem to be only one room, which makes you feel unnecessarily sympathetic for them, not 
 being able to afford a two-storey house, like you. In terms of the graphics, the RPG bit is also 
 a bit muddled  you are about three-quarters of the height of your own two-storey house, but when 
 you go inside, it's like the Tardis  it is magically way bigger.
  
  The combat graphics aren't TOO bad... but to be honest, I do think it is slightly too pixelated 
 for my liking.
  
  Gameplay-wise, it is actually quite a lot: the story keeps coming up with stupid excuses to get 
 you into yet more robo tournaments.
  
  Overall, this is a very good game but has a very bad story.
  
  
  
 
  Nice bright menus and easy to pick up controls
  
  
  Too pixelated and not quite smooth in battle, 
 but cool effects at times
  
  
  Annoying bleeping of text but some good battle noises
  
  
 
  Almost perfect, amazing battle gameplay, but tedious storyline
  
  Lasting 
  Multiplayer is good fun, and a fairly lengthy 
 storyine  but not much point in replaying through the story
  
  
  If you can bear horrible storylines, a good 
 buy for all DS owners.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Golden -- Hawk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  This is my fav DS lite game i have ever played! this game is a high flying jumpstart to kids of 
 all ages that will knock your robo parts off. i just got it from a friend a little while ago so 
 i haven't got to put to many hours on it YET. 
  
  With tons of customizable parts to choose from, you can fully customise your robo with bombs, legs 
 guns, pods, theres just so much stuff!. plus with addicting story with tons of Robo warfare this 
 game is rock solid. a perfect 9.5 to my scales. 
  
  Now you may think other wise but to me what could be better then being able to have, mini robo's 
 clashing and bashing at each other, great story that provides not just talking like some games 
 have a tendensy to do but tons of action and then you have the multi player wifi mode which allows 
 you to go up against players from all over the globe in a robo rampagign battle!
  Custom Robo Arena Rulez! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhedgehog148
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  It seems like all the best games get left in the dust to the overrated ones that come out all the 
 time. Custom Robo Arena is certainly a game that got left in the dust, as I have seen few people 
 who've even heard of it. It's a real shame, too. This game is simply one of the best DS games ever 
 created! But enough rambling; let's get onto the review.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  For a DS game (or a portable game altogether) , the graphics are top-notch. Everything in the overworld 
 is drawn nicely and has a unique anime feel to it that adds to the overall charm of the game. In 
 the battles, the 3D is rendered almost flawlessly with a lot of graphical detail.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Oh, god. I ADORE the soundtrack of the game. Tons of catchy themes throughout the 
 game, well-implemented sounds, and awesome short clips make the soundtrack of the game very well 
 made.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  The most important aspect of the game... and probably the best. This game's gameplay is just addicting 
 and will suck you in for hours. As the name suggests, you fight with small customizable robots 
 in arenas called Holosseums. The robos are customizable with dozens of bodies, guns, bombs, pods, 
 and leg parts. It will take you a long time to finish the game and get everything there is to offer; 
 as of this writing I still haven't got everything, and I got this almost a month ago! There are 
 literally thousands of possible combonations for your robo, and there are no strongest parts. It 
 all depends on your personal preference. To end this section, the game has multiplayer through 
 Wi-Fi, so you can challenge friends from across the globe!
  
  Story: 10/10
  Before I begin, I must say that there are mixed opinions about the story. Some like it a lot, some 
 don't. Just keep that in mind while you read this section. Anyways, the story focuses on you, the 
 new kid in town, as you receive your first Custom Robo (the Ray MK II) , and your rise to fame as 
 you go through the other districts of your city with a lively cast of characters that you can really 
 feel attached to. During the story, there are also a few twists and turns that make it more exciting 
 to play.
  
  Replay Value: Very High
  With a great story, tons of things to do, and online multiplayer, there's tons of reasons to come 
 back for more of Custom Robo.
  
  Overall: 10/10
  This game is a definite must-own for all DS owners. It's really a shame the game doesn't get much 
 attention, because it's really a phenomenal game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebuckeye08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  OK here it goes, great game, great story, and most of all, great gameplay.
  
  first got it and it was amazing, you get to know all the characters, and goe around town, the game 
 will toke you 15 to 20 hours if you know where to go, and not rea the dialog. it was extremally 
 exiting fighting other robos.
  
  BEST PARTS: story gets you atached to all characters, and fun to convert to this life, to get away 
 from the reallity one.
  __
  fights are quick and exiting.
  ___
  wifi connection.
  ____
  WORST PARTS: one save per card.
  _______
  Every game must come to an end.
  
  All 
 In All must have for the DS
  and not to easy not too hard, and theres alot to do when the game is over.
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPGAssault
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the first and best games I've had for the DS, and I have a lot of games. It's 
 really an underhyped game that definately deserves more attention. The single player story is very 
 long and will keep you satisfied for a while, and after that you can duke it out in wi-fi which 
 is solid. My only complaint is that some of the weapons are pretty unbalanced (as gamespot mentioned) . 
 My robot has a knuckle gun and some pods that freeze people, and it is unbelievably cheap. I went 
 on wi-fi with this robot setup and completely devastated everyone. Basically I use the knuckle 
 gun on them and it does 400+ damage if i can get a hold of them, and knocks them to the ground. 
 I can dodge all of the enemy attacks by doing a tackle and knocking him to the ground then knuckling 
 him to death. Yeah.. its pretty cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brehndan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  a fun robotic story line and i think it needs a award for being a very well thought out game compared 
 to most games this game has a story line that continues after the credits is truly a wonder and 
 i think a second game should be made for the double screen but in full 3d know that would be cool 
 if your into the future type stuff then this is a game you will enjoy and have fun playing the 
 characters are neat as well as the robots you are able to use and not to mention Nintendo made 
 it so it is a really good game just by that and think what would you rather buy a cheap game that 
 is fun or an expensive game that you will beat in no time at all it starts as your main guy and 
 you get too name him he wants to be a police officer in the robot forces and help out just like 
 a hero and gets money and robots and stuff so yes get this game and check the prices and stuff 
 for it as well 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  This game is the bastard child of Armored Core and Pokemon? Still not interested? The battles are 
 full 3D mech fights with probably hundreds of different parts to customize your bot with.
  
  The story is about as cheezy as can be, but it's awesome because of that. Throughout the whole 
 game, everyone is always kissing your ass because you're some kind of Robo prodigy. The best part 
 is that you have the PERFECT family with the most "You go get 'em, M'boy!" sort of dialogue. The 
 Mom is a super-hot housewife who prepares breakfast for the wohle family every morning, and supper 
 every night. The Sister and Father work together as researchers at Neobrain, a Robo developing 
 plant, and are always encouraging you in everything you do, even when you say something negative 
 they brush it off and put on a happy face. Throughout the game everything just conveniently goes 
 your way and you win every tournament and eventually acheiev your ultimate goal even though you're 
 constantly being reminded you're just a rookie. Your dad and sister actually have you volunteer 
 as a research subject because you're such a genius.
  
  Anyway the RPG is fun and cute. Family friendly Robo-violence, too. Relatively simple gampelay, 
 but you'd better know your way around the controls.
  
  I can't say enough good things about the game. It does two things and it does them well: cheap 
 mech combat, and cheap top-down classic RPG.
  
  Pick this up, you'll really love it. If you don't, well, you have bad taste in things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yougotalcapwned
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  
 
  
  
  when the first custom robo came out in north America my friends and i couldn't wait. to our dismay 
 the story line in the first custom robo was long and at times boring. luckily Custom Robo gives 
 you the ability to battle more often in the story line. Also CRA has the WiFi function which lets 
 you battle people threw WiFI. Alas, if i could say anything bad about this new custom robo, is 
 that you dont get any new robo body pieces until later in the game. Over all custom robo is a great 
 action RPG that will love you long time. From the DS games iv played so far i would say this is 
 one of the best ones out and is defiantly worth your time. 
  
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Starting with the good old days of Robocop to Power Rangers, the immediate fascination with fancy 
 colorful robots blowing random explorable objects has gripped our civilization for years. It's 
 easy to blame Japan for this love, with new "Mech" manga TV Shows and comic books more common than 
 the Japanese themselves. but when the idea of small, little robots blowing the crap out of each 
 other in holographic arenas comes along, we're intrigued. I mean, there are still explosions, right?
 
  
  Fear not, for the Nintendo DS now has a new budget favorite known as Custom Robo Arena. It's not 
 excellent, and it won't make any other DS RPG run for their loincloth spawn, but at the end of 
 the day it's a joyous, exhilarating 3D fighter. It has its flaws, but when it's on the cheap these 
 days, DS owners will be satisfied.
  
  The RPG aspect of the game is full of talkative youngsters who really have nothing to say, considering 
 the large amount of text the game crams in to a single hour session of gameplay. It would be hard 
 to call the town garbage; it's not that bad. But for the impatient or illiterate gamer, it's a 
 headache and a half, and it's just the red curtain for the robot battles.
  
  Because yes, there are explosions. Those little robots are fun to control and battle with, giving 
 a nice combination of 2D fighter depth and 3D maneuvering strategy. By making sure the camera is 
 always centered on the enemy, the camera is smooth and non-existent, which is perfect for such 
 a fast and frenetic game such as this. The controls are odd at first but work perfectly, and the 
 game is silky smooth.
  
  But those fun battles are surrounded by either unfair battles that require massive changes to each 
 strategy, or the easiest cakewalk Nintendo has ever cranked out. There's so many issues with the 
 play balance and town segments that it's hard to really call it a GREAT game. It's between Great 
 and Average, and not worth over ten dollars.
  
  But, seriously. Robots. DS. Fighter. Win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8
Date: May 16, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Custom Robo DS is a game in which you 'dive' into Battle Robos and battle each other using Mental 
 Strength, though you get a chuckle at that you realise that this game is much different than using 
 the force.
  So you start as a young boy who has just moved to a new area, when you come down stairs you are 
 greeted by your parents who give you a custom robo, you go to school, get pulled into a robo team 
 called numero unos and it just gets better and better after that.
  The game doesnt just offer the 3 robos you'll automatically get in the storyline, at some point 
 you'll be able to buy robos, theres heeps of rockets, bombs, guns and legs to choose from, legs 
 might allow you to jump higher move faster etc. 
  The games graphics and storyline actually are decent, it isnt that easy, i wouldnt say its incredibly 
 short and the storyline is complicated enough to keep you interested, as if just as you want to 
 start putting it down, something really cool happens and you want to play for eternity.
  
  Custom Robo DS is a game that shouldnt be looked over because it sounds a bit out there and wierd, 
 I'm no veteran at 3-D fighting games but i can say with all my other gaming experiences that this 
 is quite the good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavalampbamboo
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 12, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  
  
  CRA is the spiritual sequel to Custom Robo, which was released on the N64 a million years ago. 
 It's a good game but it kinda slipped under the radar of most, being released just a few months 
 before Pokemon.
  
  Gameplay: CRA plays the way you'd expect a game about miniature fighting robots to play. There 
 are two elements to the game; customization and fighting, and surprisingly both are fairly equal. 
 Whereas some games have customisable weapons that simply go up in stages of power, CRA has a wide 
 range of weapons to choose from, each with a unique style. Because none has an advantage over the 
 next, you'll be switching between them often, to get the upper hand on your next enemy. You can 
 customise you body, legs, gun, bomb and pod, which is essentially a backpack that fires explosives. 
 With each giving a different effect in battle, you'll be spoilt for choice. When it comes to battling, 
 the whole thing works well. Moving around then stage is simple, but the camera can be a tad jumpy 
 at occasions. It's not going to ruin your gaming, but it can get annoying. The enemy AI has a slightly 
 bizarre difficulty rating. As the game moves on the scripted battles get progressively tougher, 
 but the side fights which you play to raise money will range from downright easy to the brick wall 
 of impossibility. It's a shame as otherwise the difficulty curve is perfect. 7/10
  
  Visuals: The game is split into two different art styles, the pixelated goodness of the top down 
 walkabout world, and the polygons which make up the fighting arenas. The walkabout world is nicely 
 designed, with no complex maps to navigate, making it impossible to get lost. About half way through 
 the game you travel to a new location, and the map becomes a little bland with tessellated forest 
 taking over. Of course the main visual prowess is in the battles. The game becomes fully 3D and 
 looks brilliant in motion. The fights often take place at an unrelenting speed, but the graphics 
 can cope with it and don't lag up. Whilst some of the arenas might have ugly textures, and the 
 characters occasionally blocky, all the polygons fit together well and don't do anything to cramp 
 the game-play. 7/10
  
  Story: Sigh. CRA is very much a story driven game, and as a result needs a good story. And I think 
 it's good when a developer invests lots of time into making a story work. But here... the story 
 goes a tad more than overboard. It's your stereotypical set-up; new boy in town, meets underdog 
 robo-battlers, helps them beat rival team, helps them beat rival school, eventually reaches championship 
 tournament, along way foils evil scheme. And there's nothing wrong with it, as storylines go there 
 are worse. But the most annoying part is the human factor. The game wants you to empathise with 
 the other characters and to do so, a day and night cycle is in place. In the morning, you get up 
 and have breakfast with your family. Go to school, chat with friends, battle, so on. Evening, go 
 home, talk to family. The whole system gets repetitive fast and the characters are too stereotyped 
 to empathise with. The story isn't awful, but loses marks for lack of originality and repetitiveness. 
 4/10
  
  Soundtrack: It's not bad. It's not good, but it's not bad. There's a lot of guitar work in there, 
 electro-metal, stuff that is deemed by developers as "cool". It's not that much of a vital part 
 of the game, because most of the time you'll be kicking the ever-loving crap out of another robot, 
 but it would have been nicer to hear a few more laid back tracks. 6/10
  
  Value: Lots of. It's Wi-Fi, and the Wi-Fi is good. It's a laugh to battle another human player, 
 one, cause it's better than the AI, and two, because you feel better if you win. The game lasts 
 twice as long with the Wi-Fi, because your character only gets items in the story mode, which you 
 then use online. It makes the whole thing much more competitive and once you and a friend get playing, 
 it's always fun for a grudge match. The story mode doesn't just finish after the credits though, 
 there's a whole new area waiting to be played; the illegal zone (or whatever) . This is a tougher 
 version of the rest of the game, where you battle illegally upgraded robos, which are hard as nails. 
 It's a great challenge. 8/10
  
  Overall: It's a fun game, maybe not for everyone. There's a lot of free will involved and customization 
 plays a key role, but once you've got down what works for you, you'll be away. The Wi-Fi adds much 
 replay value.
  
  6.5 out of 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Despiteless
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Incredible. This is what you would expect from a ps2 game. For people that enjoy grand theft auto, 
 dragon ball z budokai, tekken or even pc games lke GunZ online, Devil may cry.
  Try this game. Bloody Awsome!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja_Rebel
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Custom Robo comes back to the U. S. in an exclusive DS game. This is a game that everyone can love, 
 with all the combinations of weapons and parts, Wi-Fi and wireless, and robot fighting fun! This 
 game is based in the future when tiny robots (proberly named custom robos) have been created and 
 used for police work, surgery, fixes in small places, anything that something small and useful 
 can be used a custom robo has a job. The only problem is that criminals have these custom robos 
 too and use them to carry out their criminal acts and do illegal battles. You play a boy (who you 
 get to name anything you want) who has just recieved his first custom robo and has just moved to 
 town. You team up with a unlikly set of people in their custom robo gang. It draws out into you 
 getting caught up into police work and an illegal underground organization bent on ruling, what 
 else, the world. It is an awesome game the only problem there is for me, is that you can not get 
 a perfect record from the story mode from when I played and what people have said. This though 
 is game that many people can enjoy and play in an endless robotic fight to the end. This is a game 
 for all DS owners and something that everyone should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clone7294
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  My favorite part of the game was that you could customize pretty much everything on your robo but 
 i thought that the other robo guys that you could use were not so great. The only guy I used through 
 the whole game was the Ray Mach III and that's the one you start out with. There wasn't very many 
 good guns and other weapons to use ether. They were ether to hard to use for me or they weren't 
 very strong. But other than those things i thought the story was great, battle sequences were really 
 fun, and i thought it was just right and not too easy. The main character fits right in with his 
 two friends and the rest of the characters which helps you get into the game. It took me awhile 
 to beat the game because of how long it is which is good because of how easy it was. The online 
 play was ok but you don't usually find someone as good as you. Overall I gave the game an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xshadowolf
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good. It was my first one. First the good: I love the idea of the whole thing, 
 Custom Robos and stuff. I also like roaming around my school, its just fun. In my opinion, This 
 game is addicting, because you want to keep getting in further in the storyline. The battles are 
 very intense, but they are easy to get if you just change parts each time it asks you to try again. 
 I also like how you get money easily in battles. The videos are good too. Title screen is dramatic 
 for the first time, and you can change your name whenever you want too. The game does not use the 
 touch screen much, but it will on your menu and garage. The Bad: I wish they made the buildings 
 taller, because you look taller than them. I also didn't like how it kept letting you fight, even 
 when you lost. Its a good game, so i gave it a rating of 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stupidllama1
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I had played the Custom Robo Game for the Gamecube, and was taken by the childish charms, but intense 
 action sequences that this game had to offer. This game is living proof that a game doesnt need 
 to be incredibly gory or have "m"rated language in it to be a hit. This game has no blood or cursong, 
 and its very good. as a DS game though, it doesnt make much use of the stylus... which is kind of 
 a drawback, as being that its on the DS I'd like to see a little more incorporation of the stylus, 
 which is a great breakthrough in gaming technology. but overall the gameplay is solid, and it has 
 a lot to offer to any gamer, either a fan of the series, or just beginning, the difficulty is easy 
 to moderate, and the story is decent, althoguh the only reaason youll buy this game is to create 
 an awesome robo and battle it online, which to do that, you need to play the single player, and 
 get past all the lame lines. but its a small sacrifice for all that this game has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yohnazo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  This game I read some reveiws on, it sounded pretty good, so I decided to buy it, I started the 
 game with a cool battle although I hadn't read the instructions, I was just giving it a quick try 
 out, I then, after an interesting introduction to the story you have your first battle, it has 
 speed, action and sweet attacks, the battle graphics is quite cool, it suits the action well. The 
 game is very long and whats to stop it getting repetitive? The choice to customise your robo with 
 100's of different parts, leading a descent amount of sttatergy and planning into battles, the 
 different parts also give the game a lot of veriety. The have 8 different garages to save 8 of 
 your favourite customisations into which, in this game isn't really enough if you like experimenting. 
 The battles run smoothly all together the 3D battle areanas look quite nice and the game could 
 of had some cooler effects but if you like good, solid action that won't bother you but when you 
 first start the game you will most likely find the battles quite easy until half way through, where 
 they get a little harder but you'll take at most 2 trys to beat them, towards the end of the game 
 the battles get a bit harder and when you get to the last boss you will most likely lose because 
 the game has not prepared you for it, it can be quite frustrating, after you've seen the end credits 
 the next day starts. it's not that \uch harder but some of the battles are incredibly hard, all 
 together the difficulty of the game fells umbalanced although that doesn't ruin the fun.
  
  Enough about battles, onto the the main story, basically you start off as a normal school boy who's 
 just moved to a new town, you soon make new freinds at school and receive a robo of your own, the 
 Ray mark II, the story carries on from their, the story is very long and will take you a good 60+ 
 hours to clear it, after you've cleard the story you still have many things to collect and do making 
 the game last for at least another 20+ hours. It's a massive game with solid action and an involving 
 story.
  
  Summary: 
  Good Points:
  1. Will take you at least 100 hours to clear the entire game.
  2. Good, solid action, battles.
 
  3. 100's of parts to chose from.
  4. A good, involving story.
  5. Graphics help you see everything clearly in battle.
  
  Bad points:
  1. Difficulty seems 
 unbalanced.
  2. Attack effects look a bit boring.
  3. Some unfitting music in the main story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonOfloom
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:51 pm PT
Review:  I could crush all these Custom Robos with my feet, there so small. Thats my problem with the story, 
 why dont the big baddies just beat the robo and the commander to a pulp!
  
  Oh well, its not like anyone buys something that stinks of the japanese for a great story, which 
 this game hasn't got, its an anime with a silly story (so far) .
  
  Its fun, thats why you should buy this, you'll be playing it on a DS, so it needs to be fun and 
 fun fast! Who cares about deep meaninful storylines, i sure dont, i'd prefer it if there was less 
 text infact, it sucks when i need to put my DS away cos i'm getting travel sickness from it. So, 
 to summarise. Its story wont make you cry, but its fun, you have loads of parts to use and you 
 need tactics (sometimes cheap tactics) to beat opponents. Oh and the first thing that i noticed 
 was your female friend, she has perky boobs with two buttons quite close to the nipple area. I 
 found that amusing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philipxb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  It's about 5 months since i played, and completed this game 100%, but then now i just somehow wanted 
 to review this game. :)
  But luckily the battles are just awesome, and so colourful. The battles are basically a match between 
 2 robos, each robo has 3 different kind of weapons: Gun, Pod and bomb... 
  There are also other parts to collect, as legs and the robos themselves.
  There are 55 ROBOS 
 to, and about 50 of each part to collect, and my opinion is, that that is a good number of collectibles, 
 and there have to be at least one robo, that you would like as your favourite.
  The game takes good time to fully complete, but if i have to be honest, then the long and boring 
 dinner conversations, and some of the boring parts of the game (where you won't get in a battle 
 for very long time, and just have to skip a lot of talking, and talking, and talking,) just kinda 
 ruins the fun of the single player mode... (Unless the battles)
  At least i think mostly everyone would like this game, because it's a good game of it's genre, 
 and it's not like only a kids game, but also for the little older.
  Then there's the WiFi part of this game... I haven't played so many WiFi battles in this game, 
 but it's a nice part of the game, where you can choose to fight opponents on your level, or just 
 any level. And that's good, if you not are any very experienced player, and just don't wanna get 
 killed in the first 20 seconds.
  Basically i wanna say, that this is a good game, no really good story, good graphics, many things 
 to collect, good WiFi, and it's defiantly worth buying. And i'm glad that i bought and completed 
 this game, and now got it in my DS collection. :)
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1nick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  The Good: The game includes more than just fighting with 3 tall robots it has an elaborat storyline 
 that you be able to think of in a million years.
  It has about 30 new robos including like 8 illegal ones and 2 military ones.
  Being able to fight 
 even after beating the game and finding an opponent almost instantly with wifi. You also get to 
 buy the robots so you can choose witch ones you want you arent forced to take them like in the 
 GC custom robo.
  
  The Bad: The same annoying guitar solo at the end of every single battle is really getting on my 
 nerves. Basically the same storyline as the GC version.
  Thats all for the bad 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b36soldier
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 3, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I first played this game many years ago! later on i downloaded it onto my computer from a freeroms 
 site, now..... i can carry it around with me and enjoy this game wherever i am! I really love how 
 you can customize your robo, i mean there are litereraly hundreds of combinations for you to choose! 
 Obviously the best part of this game is the actual fighting! but the storyline isnt bad, ur just 
 on the road to becoming the greatest custom robo user the world has ever seen.
  Another thing that makes this game great is the use of the WIFI! how amazing is that! not only 
 do i get enjoy the game makin my robo the most powerful i can actually play people from around 
 the world and let them realise how great i am!!!! :D in all seriousness though this game is a definite 
 must buy for the DS, one of the best games that have been released for it!!! Something that would 
 be really good now is releasing a custom robo for the Wii, that would be special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamesey11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  In this game you get a robot and use it to battle other opponents wich i find is heaps of fun. 
 During battles the graphics are really good but when your not in battles they aren't as good. Battles 
 you do with your robot are called robo battles, they are the main point of the game. In robo battles 
 you battle an opponent useing special guns bomb and pods. You can also attack by charging into 
 your opponent. You can also do combos using some of these weapons. Your opponent always starts 
 of with 1000hp, and your robot always starts of with 1000hp aswell. 1000hp sounds like a lot but 
 you and your opponents health go down pretty quickly. In the game you meet some friends that you 
 form a robo team with, but you do most of the battles. The controls in the game are really good 
 and the music is really good aswell. Overall this is a great game that has great music, great graphics, great 
 gameplay and takes a pretty long time to finish , it is definitely worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trunksrg
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  first of all : the battles really-really fun, it's simple action, in 3d!
  second : the story mode is kind of long, took me over 50 hours of game play to finish! third : 
 there a lot of stuff to buy, over 150 parts to buy, you earn a few $ each battle that you win, 
 with that you go to a shop, there a few shops, in a neo brain (lab) ,
  in two towns, and in the robo cup ( world tournament ) .
  now for some info on the game : there 
 are 5 type of parts : a gun, use the B button to fire.
  a bomb, use the button R to use.
  a pod ( a slow rocket that fallows the enemy, if it don't get to it in some time it blows up) , 
 or of it doe's get to the enemy it blows on him, can be used in the button L.
  the robo it self.
  and a diodrama, when you use multi player the other players see your diodrama, 
 it's the background.
  the other buttons are : arrows : move your robo, A button : jump,
  X/Y button ( i dont remember) : force attack, the other ( X or Y) doe's nothing.
  and the touch 
 screen is for soul-boost ( some kind of super mode that last for about 20-40 seconds) , you will 
 earn it in some part of the game ( don't worry it isn't a secret mode) .
  and the saving is really easy and there almost no way you will have to do over some battle again 
 ( only if your nds will turn off) .
  there are good multi player : single card, multi card, wi-fi.
  and the gameplay is easy because 
 if you lose 3 times in a row you can make your enemy 25% less hp, 6 times a row 50% hp and 9 times 
 in a row 75% less hp, is in the end you will win!
  the map of the battle, is 3d and not big.
  and the story mode is a little like pokemon, you just 
 go in a world and talk to game people.
  it's the best game for the nds yet, and i think it would stay like it untill 1/4 of 2008.
  it's 
 a must buy game for nds!
  i hope my review help you people understand how this game work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MassiveKaos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Custom Robo Arena is the fourth game in the Custom Robo series and the first on the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  Custom Robo Arena has both a great single player and multiplayer component.
  
  The game stars an unamed child that has moved with his family to a new town. It has always been 
 his dream to battle custom robo and it is finally realised when his dad buys him a shiny new Ray 
 MK 2 for his birthday. The story starts there and sucks you in completely. Its pretty easy to uderstand 
 whats going on and its a simple yet long game with alot of extras.
  
  The game has great sound and the graphics are great for a DS game. The Guns sound nice and the 
 music in the game is kid friendly yet fun.
  
  The multiplayer side of the game is wifi and there are alot of options. Stats such as wins and 
 looses are recorded and you have a rank which is also i the single player that gives you stars 
 when you beat someone and a certain amount of stars increases your level in rank. There are 10 
 levels in each rank before you rank up to the next rank and start again at level one. It is simple 
 and fun.
  
  Custom Robo Arena is a great game that everyone should play. It has a great and very long story 
 and multiplayer and its worth every single dollar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anubaph
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Custom Robo Arena  Nintendo DS
  
  If you like little robots fighting each other, youll probably love Custom Robo Arena for the Nintendo 
 DS. Released in the US in March of 2007, this obviously Japanese robot combat game features some 
 very light RPG elements, as well as a Pokemon inspired overworld, well drawn anime characters, 
 and, regrettably, and long and predictable story featuring some rather two dimensional characters.
 
  
  The story begins when the protagonist awakes on his first day of school in a new town. As you receive 
 your first Custom Robo as a gift, we quickly learn that Custom Robos occupy a special place in 
 this society. They are used for entertainment, sport, crime, law enforcement, and even settling 
 arguments. As you go off to school and being your very pokemonesque quest to become the best commander 
 (a person who controls Custom Robos) in the world and win the Custom Robo championship, youll 
 make friends with a pushy girl and a rather annoying sidekick. Overall the story is very basic, 
 unimaginative, and predicable, and the characters dialogue just a distraction from the good parts 
 of the game.
  
  In the overworld, you will spend your day mostly wandering from mission to mission in a completely 
 linear fashion. Instead of simply playing the game, however, you must stop every mission or so 
 and go to school, which, once you sit at your desk, lasts about 10 seconds. The game never gives 
 you an incentive to go to school, other than the fact that you must in order to advance the story. 
 The same goes for going home, eating dinner, and going to sleep. You get nothing out of this other 
 than advancing the story.
  
  Though the missions are all fairly similar, this is where they game shines. Most missions involve 
 you finding someone and then fighting them with your Custom Robo in a special combat area known 
 as a holoseum. If you lose a battle there are no consequences, you can simply hit the retry button 
 and fight again, though you will almost never lose, since the game is very easy. Even if you do 
 find yourself losing a few times in a row, the game will soon offer to handicap the opponents 
 health by 25%, and then 50%. If you win a battle you receive some money that you can use to buy 
 Robos and Robo parts.
  
  In a Custom Robo battle, the player moves their Custom Robo around the small holoseum, firing their 
 weaponry at the opponent and dodging enemy shots, until one of them drops from 1000 health to 0. 
 Besides fighting with different Robos, most of which you can not get until halfway through the 
 story, you can customize your Robos gun, which fires straight ahead, pods, which operate like 
 homing missiles or mines, and bombs, which can be targeted anywhere in the holoseum and arc up 
 into the air and then land. You can also customize your Robos legs, giving them advantages like 
 higher jumps, or more speed. Most parts can be countered with other parts that use different strategies, 
 but since the game is so easy, you dont need to worry about changing parts for each battle.
  
  Once you complete the main story, which will take you about 14 or so hours, the game will immediately 
 start you on a short, mini story, which has you fighting in the Robo Championship. This will only 
 last you about one or two hours, but once completed will unlock another story that has you fighting 
 people in grudge matches. This is where the game can actually begin to be difficult, not only because 
 the Robo matches get harder, but also because youll spend a lot of time wandering around looking 
 for people to fight. A number of the grudge matches are hard to find and this serves only to make 
 the gameplay frustrating and tedious. If you are a completist, however, you could easily spend 
 10 hours collecting every Robo and part.
  
  Since youll be spending a long time with this game, its good to know that it looks fairly good. 
 Though the Robo fights 3D graphics dont quite stack up to other 3D DS games, the overworld looks 
 very good. Even better is how, when you talk with any main character, an anime picture of them 
 appears above the text. Though its not important to the gameplay, the anime is very well done 
 and, since it has some simple animations, help portray the characters moods.
  
  Overall, though the game is rather easy and the plot is paper thin, Custom Robo Arena offers a 
 lengthy and good looking game for those who enjoy robot combat games, and even more for those who 
 wish to collect every part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedimastr
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing, its prob the best game i've ever played on DS, and is also probubly 
 one of the best games i've ever played. You start out as a young kid entering the world of custom 
 robo, you get your first robo from your dad, and then your off! you start form a rookie trainer 
 and work your way up by fighting in local tournaments and helping out the cops. Next thing you 
 know your the the worlds best robo fighter! this game is lengthy and you'll love every minute of 
 it. As you fight your way to the top, you'll earn money and by hundreds of different parts that 
 will make your robo unique from others. Their also many differnet robo types you can buy, so you're 
 not just sticking to one through out the game, thier are ariel types, defensive types, and brawler 
 types. Theirs gotta be thousands of differnet combinations through this game. The quests in this 
 game ar fair and fun most of the time, and as you do them you earn more money, powers, and your 
 skill lvl goes up. You'll meet interesting characters in this game, and the story will keep on 
 the edge all the way through, this game has awesome game play and the replay value is great.
  
  The Multi-player aspect of this game is also ver y good, you can go up against anyone online, 
 or offline, and with the ridiculous amount of parts you can make the robo that best fits your style 
 and look, and go head to head in the arena against others! woot woot!
  
  Anyways all in all this game is fantastic, this is a must buy, and an addictive game, I recommend 
 this game to all ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wigglebutt32
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  Well, you star of as a regular kid that always wanted to be a professional at Custom Robo. But, 
 your father and older sister work at a new custom robo manufacturing lab, and you recieve the Ray 
 Mk II a shining fighter model on your first day at a new school. You almost immediately make two 
 new friends named Liv and Dennis. For the rest of the game you go through tournaments and fight 
 your way through an evil gang with a super robo made of solide gold. In the end you save the day, 
 and there's another half of the game just when you think you're done. I give this game a thumbs 
 up, although this game is like all the others, you can still have fun with some new weapons and 
 never before seen robo. Also you meet some interesting characters along the way. I would like to 
 tell you more, but I don't wanna give away the storyline. If you're interested go buy the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcadisX
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of the best yet, if your looking for a game that let's you customize a toy and 
 then fight with it, this is your game! The levels you fight on are all different and provide some 
 level of difficulty, whether that be easy or plain just plain out ridiculous, they still made the 
 levels fun and worth playing over and over again! The guns, bombs, pods or jetpacks , and the model 
 choices were just unbelieveble, that was one of the main aspects of the game that blew me away! 
 Now for the Wi-fi, it is AWESOME, the Wi-fi alone gives this game more replay value than it already 
 has, the ability to play on WI-Fi alone makes this game worth having!!! The only thing about this 
 game that needed work was the story line, but it was still a great story, and in my opinion it 
 just needed more depth! So, after saying all of this, I'm going to give it a 10 out of 10!!! It 
 really is an AWESOME game!!!
  
  -ArcadisX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jkranzler
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  This game is really, fun. It is disguised as a RPG, but all you do is really battle, battle, and 
 battle with your robos. It's pretty cool because you can customize your robos, from guns, bombs, 
 and leg upgrades. There are massive robos and there are small robos but if you use them effectively 
 they can be equally powerful. The best part is the handicap setting. You can put it in to effect 
 after losing around three consecutive games in the same battle, they progress down from no handicap, 
 25%, 50%, and eventually 75%. It can really help on bosses and hard fights if you are just getting 
 killed. It is a great purchase and i hope you enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 2, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  Custom Robo Arena
  Too good for the word Robot Presentation (10%) - 8
  Controls (17.5%) - 9
  Variety (25%) - 7.5
  Audio (7.5%) - 7.5
  Depth (15%) - 9
  Value &amp; 
 Fun (w/o online) (25%) - 8
  Value &amp; Fun (w/online) (25%) - 7.5
  
  OVERALL - 8.16
  
  My Review Policy:
  http://www. gamespot. com/pages/profile/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-24801077&amp; user=yodariquo
 
  
  Previously played game in the series: Custom Robo (GameCube) .
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay Outline
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Custom Robo Arena is an action game in which you fight battles using a robot (robo) with which 
 you choose which parts to use from a continually expanding arsenal. You can choose your gun, which 
 is your main weapon; bombs which explode on contact; pods which temporary stay on the map and explode 
 if a robo comes in contact with it; body which determines the speed, power and other attributes; 
 and feet which affects your movement.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dedication 
 Meter - 30%
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The gameplay 
 is relatively simple and easy to get into, but exploring the city and getting into the little sidequests 
 make the game much more enjoyable.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Presentation 
 - 8
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Custom Robo Arena isn't out to dazzle, but present a nice crisp look and leave it up to the gameplay. 
 The overworld follows the theme with a very nice style and solid colours, almost reminiscent of 
 a Pok&eacute; mon world. The character sprites have an small animation that plays which really livens 
 things up well.
  
  Once you dive into battle, the game goes into 3D. The 3D is rather rudimentary, but befitting the 
 game. Things are actually a bit easier to follow compared to the prior GameCube Custom Robo game, 
 partially because of this simplification. The animations are solid, though, and there's no slowdown 
 whatsoever. Overall, the 3D works, but is a bit ugly.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Controls - 
 9
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  While in the overworld, you move around with the D-pad (quite quickly, which is a plus) and talk 
 or check physical object with 'A'. As for in battle, you jump with 'A', your gun is fired with 
 'B', bombs are mapped to 'R', pods are used with 'L' and you dash with 'Y', all while moving with 
 the D-pad. There's nothing overly complicated to do, and the other problem is knowing when you 
 can refire your bombs and pods, which you have to look down to the bottom screen to see (which 
 is impractical) .
  
  What's most important about the controls is the aspect that is out of your control -- how you move. 
 How fast, how far, and how high. These have all been refined over the GameCube iteration to get 
 the most out of the strategic value of the different parts. Now all kinds of robos have distinct 
 advantages and disadvantages.
  
  There's never going to be an instance where controls determine the outcome of a match, and that's 
 a good benchmark for good controls.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variety - 7.5
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  When it comes to the Robos, there are plenty of parts to go around. Over 50 Robos, about the same 
 for Guns and Bombs, if not as many Pods, and about 20 legs. There are some obvious dud parts, though, 
 such as the thoroughly useless Gravity Gun, but there are certainly enough parts to make for many 
 different kinds of strategic combinations.
  
  The story has some sidequests such as catching criminals, and doing battles with limitations, such 
 as having to use a certain gun or winning within a time limit. The gun restrictions can be rather 
 frustrating given the said useless nature of some, and those quests seem to be made so you have 
 to use all the worst parts. These quests, aside from criminal catching, are a bit too difficult 
 to search out, though, and aren't particularly rewarding or interesting, so they'll likely be put 
 off.
  
  As for the actual main storyline of the game, the gameplay is objectively quite repetitive as you 
 are essentially just battling over and over, which makes the story and characters far more important 
 than they'd typically be, because it has to make you want to battle as well as spread them out. 
 In this regard, the game does an excellent job. The plotline is rather thin, but you have a lot 
 of characters with lots of personality and generally well-written dialogue.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Audio - 7.5
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The music doesn't tend to stand out, but has a slightly catchy nature and doesn't come across as 
 annoying. Sound effects are minimal.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Depth - 9
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The design of Custom Robo really makes you use different part combinations, because one set of 
 parts isn't going to get you through every battle. Some weapons are just too slow against speedy 
 bots, and some are completely useless against robos that move via ground rather than air. It's 
 all a balance.
  
  All the parts have strategic impact, but the main parts are the body and gun. The body determines 
 the type of the robo, which varies from being good in the air, to high defense, very fast or slow 
 or high power and so forth. This is obviously a cornerstone of the strategy. The gun is the most 
 effective offensive tool, so is naturally very important. The legs, pods and bombs merely accent 
 those other two parts.
  
  The arenas (called holosseums) also manage to play a role in the strategy. While there are the 
 a-typical clich&eacute; d fire and ice levels, size and amount of obstruction can significantly 
 alter the effectiveness of part combinations.
  
  The battles themselves are very much about timing and distancing yourself properly from your opponent. 
 It doesn't work like a fighting game in which you can continually pound your opponent in close. 
 The mechanics of the battle mean that hitting your opponent stuns him (varies by gun/bomb/pod) 
 and after enough damage, knocks him down (also varies by gun/bomb/pod) . Hitting your opponent while 
 he is down causes less damage. Once up, your opponent has a period of invulnerability to keep you 
 from trapping him.
  
  The differences in the distance of different guns combined with the downing aspect combines for 
 a very tactical battle that is more about technique than finesse.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value &amp; 
 Fun (without online) - 8
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The game 
 is a bit short, has a thin story and is generally repetitive -- but it is just plain fun. The battles 
 are simply great. Everything's well balanced, they control excellently, you're put up against many 
 different robo combinations as well as environments. Battles are spread just far enough apart between 
 little puzzles and plotpoints that you don't feel like you're battling ad-nauseum and losses come 
 just often enough to keep you on your toes but not get you frustrated.
  
  The developers try to offset the lack of length, much like the GameCube iteration, but having an 
 additional non-story-driven section to play through after you've finished the game. You need to 
 play through this section, called Grudge Battles, to collect all the parts. In this section, you 
 have to complete various tasks in order to fight these Grudge Battles , such as using 20 different 
 kinds of guns overall (which parts you have used are coloured in white on the menu screen, and 
 haven't in gold, which was a nice organizational feature) . It's a much slower (and consequently 
 less fun) process and illustrates how important the story pacing was to the enjoyment of the game.
 
  
  There is some frustration, though, in the fact that the main challenges in the game are in fact 
 the game, by its own admission, cheating. In the Custom Robo world, there are parts that are illegally 
 powerful, which you'll be placed against. Basically, your opponents will use the same weapons you 
 have available, only more powerful. It can definitely be aggrevating to be fighting a battle, both 
 essentially using the same parts, hit your opponent more often, and lose. Ultimately, though, it's 
 better to have these frustrations than less challenge.
  
  The biggest hindrance to the value of this game is actually the fact that there is only one save 
 file. In order to play through the story again, you have to wipe the system information, which 
 means losing all your parts, which if you want to collect them all, you have to go through the 
 said slow and not-so-fun Grudge Matches. Basically you have to choose, after beating the game, 
 between multiplayer and single-player because of this.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value &amp; 
 Fun (with online) - 7.5
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Yes, I 
 am in fact taking points off for online. I'll repeat what I said in the without online section -- the 
 biggest hindrance to the value of this game is actually the fact that there is only one save file. 
 Since having online gives a reason not to want to clear the save file, it is actually detrimental.
 
  
  As for the online mode itself, there is the option to play against random opponents, similarly 
 ranked opponents, or rivals (you can add people to this list after playing them) . Additionally, 
 you can choose whether to play with or without illegal parts. Finding an opponent with a similar 
 rank can be difficult, though, so you'll probably have to bite-the-bullet and play against anyone.
 
  
  The game plays as it should, and has little lag. In fact, you probably won't notice it right away 
 if you battle with slow robos. However, when there is a Little Raider (the fastest type of robo 
 on land) then lag can be a serious issue as a split second can make an apparent direct hit miss 
 entirely, and that is basically a game-breaking glitch. It can create its own kind of strategy, 
 but it's just not as fun.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall (without 
 online) - 8.16
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Don't expect 
 to be amazed. Custom Robo Arena is basically the videogame equivalent to a great B-movie. Nothing 
 special, a little repetitive but a ton of fun. If you like customizing and you don't hate robos, 
 be sure to dive into this one.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall (with 
 online) - 8.01
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Online 
 creates a much more difficult decision if you want to play through the single-player campaign more 
 than once, and I can't say that the extra gameplay option is worth the hassle. Still, the game 
 remains recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak_2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  I was rather reluctant to pick up this title but I am sure glad I got this game. I'm just going 
 to view a few aspects of the game. First, the game play. Overall, the game play is amazing. Battles 
 are fast paced and action packed. Jumping around the levels dodging enemy fire while trying to 
 scrap your opponent gets the adrenaline pumping. Fully customizable robots make each battle different 
 so your never going to see someone play exactly like you. Also having to clean them for better 
 performance adds some realism to the game, although it can be tedious. The only problem is that 
 the weapons are incredibly unbalanced. Even someone with a better leg equipped could easily defeat 
 you if you were on the same skill level and had the same robo (without the leg of course) . Online 
 makes this game playable for months. Also, don't worry about cheaters online, it's impossible to 
 hack and if you disconnect, you automatically get 5 losses added to your record. One of the best 
 parts of online is the matching system. In the game, you get a rank for how many stars you get. 
 Stars are acquired by winning battles; the better you do, the more stars you get. Who you face 
 is based on the rank of you and your opponent.
  
  The story is not exactly amazing however. I'll try not to spoiler it. Basically, you start out 
 by going to a new school because your dad got a job at a robo lab. The school is crawling with 
 robo fanatics who are itching for battles. Naturally, there is a bully who is the best robo battler 
 until you show up and challenge him by joining a small robo club of only two members. The challenge 
 seems insignificant but there is actually a tournament in which you must battle through to challenge 
 the bully. The winner of the tournament gets to challenge other schools and eventually will move 
 onto larger scaled tournament for a global basis. Of course there are villains too, but I'm not 
 going to get into who. After you beat the main story, there are many challenges you can do to get 
 better robos and weapons. These challenges are difficult and some are hard enough to find. You 
 can also buy other illegal parts for a hefty price however.
  
  Next, the graphics. The graphics of this game are excellent. The graphics style is very easy to 
 look at and doesn't slow the game down with high polygon counts in battles a saving grace for online 
 battles. The robos and guns are detailed fairly well, but it seems like some got more attention 
 then others. Some robos are more detailed than others. Some of the effects are pretty ugly though, 
 but most move so fast you aren't going to realize it. The world map takes a 2D look. The character 
 models on the map are nothing special to look at, especially in this day and age, but they get 
 the job done. Besides, you'll spend more time talking than anything else. Each character (other 
 than you and random NPC's) have anime style drawings. There a few for each character depicting 
 a certain emotion, much like any other game using the same method.
  
  Next, is the sound. The sound quality in this game is great. It sounds like it came directly from 
 the Gamecube Custom Robo, which is definitely a good thing. The sound effects are pretty nice, 
 but you really can not simulate a gun that shoots a dragon head, can you.
  
  To continue, value. When I got this game a few weeks after it launched ( I would have gotten it 
 on launch day but my Wal mart is awful, I bought it for $35 USD. I'd say it was well worth it. 
 The game has not really sold well so I'd guess it would have a slight price drop by now. Not really 
 much else to say about that.
  
  Finally, the tilt. I think this is an amazing game. You really cannot describe how good it is by 
 just talking about. The battles are just pure fun. The game provides a challenge to anyone but 
 is easy enough for most people to beat.
  
  To conclude, Custom Robo is a game every DS owner should check out. It's battles are fun and intense. 
 Online is competitive and is always a plus. The story is pretty long, but not very satisfying because 
 everything happens in the end, making you feel like your being rushed. The graphics are top-of-the-line 
 for the DS. Sound quality is surprising and sounds almost as good the Gamecube Custom Robo. The 
 game is worth your purchase and will not disappoint you. It's got robots blowing each other up. 
 What's better than that? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thepsychox247
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  arena is a better game then the gamecube version mostly because it can go online, and can battle 
 online and trade dioramas. dioramas and posing robos are new to the custom robo franchise which 
 make the game more enjoyable. obviously this is one of the better games that are out for the ds. 
 this game is probably my 4th favorite game of all time. and i have played probably hundreds of 
 games so that is very good. i would reccomend this game for anyone that enjoys fast paced shooting 
 games. i enjpyed this game and probably you will too. since it has been out for a while the price 
 is probably around $30, which is a great price for a great game. my score, 8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 15, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Custom Robo has been released for the N64 and the Game Cube, but finally it makes a jump to the 
 portable. Robo Arena is an rpg but instead of random battles there robot fights. You play as a 
 new kid in school, you meet up with some other kids and they force you into their school robo fighting 
 team You slowly get better and rise though the ranks. The storey is not much and feels more like 
 an after thought. As you go on you get money and money buys parts for your little robot. You can 
 buy a body, guns, missals, and legs . Theres basically 2 fighting styles you can go with, all power, 
 or study your enamey and go with a stragity. Battles take place in a small arena. You can jump, 
 shoot, and even attack. The camera sometimes has trouble focusing on you so some times it gets 
 in an awkward place. Nothing bad it's just not how you'd want to see it. The story mode last a 
 good leanth, and online and wireless battles add more to the package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Timeboy_05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  This is actually a pretty decent game. I really enjoyed this one. The storyline, I found was not 
 as bad as everyone said but sometimes you just skip it which also you cant skip. The storyline 
 Ill admit is a bit shallow but it mostly about the kicking other peoples a** with robos. Thats 
 pretty much all you do is fight with a foot tall robot. Which is fun. You are able to cusimize 
 them with hundreds parts and different combos. Which makes your robo unique. The graphics for the 
 story is kinda cheap but the fights graphics are some of the best on the DS. The online play I 
 say is the best feature on this game. It is awsome until you start a losing streak but thats ok. 
 This game is a must have for people who just like to brawl out with robots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklinuxmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  ok, so you are a young robo-comander and you get a robot for your birthday and the basic weapons. 
 The really cool thing about this game is that you can fight most of the people as many times as 
 you want and you can get lots of weapons for your robo, and legs, bodys, pods, bombs, ect. you 
 are a good robo commander and you fight. but some of the battles are really easy, well most are, 
 but once in a while you will fight a super hard guy. and check out all of my (darklinuxmaster's) 
 reviews, they are good ones! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solar-Nix
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 8, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Awesome! Easliy one of the funnest DS games out right now. The graphics are clean and precise. 
 The gameplay is fast and addictive; the music is pretty good too, kind of mixing rock with techno 
 music. There are many different guns and Robos you can buy, altough in my opion they are underpriced. 
 All the Robos cost the same (exept illegal ones) ,even though some are much better than the others. 
 The pod and bomb parts are pretty fun to mess around with too. The game basically throws you into 
 a new, futuristic city where your father gives you your first robo. Later in the game, more shops 
 are unlocked accross the city that stock different robos. The graphics are very Pokemon GBA-ish 
 but cleans up trememdously during the Robo battles. The game is not without flaws, however. The 
 grafics outside of battles arent very good, as already mentioned. The story is bland and mediocre 
 at many parts, but it picks up a little bit towards the end. The story/CPU's Robos arent very good 
 either. Theres only 5-10 that are extremely challenging. Overall: a great game worth the money. 
 If your considering buying it, spluge if you have to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerfreak13
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Custom Robo is a fun action/rpg game with exciting online.
  
  The graphics are great. Fantastic 3-D graphics without the suffering from a messy and cluttered 
 screen like a lot of 3-D DS games do.
  
  Sound is ok. Nothing special. It gets pretty repetitive.
  
  The story is long. Very long, but 
 easy. A lot of the game repeats itself. You carry out the same day-to-day tasks. And something 
 that is quite funny, and that also kind of bugs me, is the fact that every dinner/breakfast scene 
 includes the exact same dialogue. By a few days in, you can recite what they say. The story does 
 get kind of repetitive, but it does move along by meeting new people and participating in challenges.
 
  
  The customization is fantastic. You can spend hours creating a bot that perfectly suits your style.
 
  
  The online is fun as well. It features normal bot deathmatch.
  
  So, If you are looking for a fun action game to play online, or looking for a lengthy game, you 
 should definitely check out Custom Robo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgehog_bhoy
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 25, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I heard people from America talking about this game and as soon as I heard about it I said, That 
 game sounds s*@# . But when I was in Spain about a week ago I saw it and bought it, and surprisingly 
 it was really fun! The storyline is ok, but what really gets to me is every night when you go in 
 home your mum, dad and sis all say the same thing... EVERY NIGHT!!! But apart from that the game 
 is really cool. As I said, the storyline is ok, but not great, the graphics are quite good, and 
 when you're walking around it's like a Pokemon sort of thing. The fighting with your Robo is obviously 
 the best part! I love the fighting and the way you get to customise your Robo. You even get to 
 polish it! The game is great and I really enjoy playing it. Another pro about this game was the 
 Wi-Fi which I thought was cool. I didn't expect this game to have Wi-Fi!
  
  Although I do feel as if Custom Robo Arena hasn't had it's fair share of success. I mean Pokemon 
 Diamond and Pearl came out round about the same time as Custom Robo so it drown out Custom Robo 
 and everyone obviously went for Diamond and Pearl.
  
  I thought Custom Robo was a great game, I really enjoyed it, and I hope they make another game 
 of it in the future! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 23, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has many well known franchises in the videogame industry. When you hear Nintendo you think 
 of Mario, The Legend of Zelda, Metroid, pokemon, etc. Yet, they are series like Star Fox, Earthbound 
 and Custom Robo that even if they are well known, they are sometimes forgotten. The series started 
 has Japan only in the Nintendo 64, but where Custom Robo made his grand debut was in the Gamecube 
 with Custom Robo the first US release. It had a great story, excellent multiplayer and the reason 
 why the series is famous, robot customization. There was a Gameboy Advance game released only in 
 Japan. It tried its best to recreate the 3-D battles, but the Gameboy Advance does not have the 
 amount of powerful graphics required to make it the right way. Finally, after waiting for a sequel 
 in the US Nintendo brings back the series on the Nintendo DS with Custom Robo Arena, offering 
 one of the most requested features to the game, online play. But, is the robot customization fun 
 on the Nintendo DS? Read on and find out.
  
  The story takes place years after the first game on the Gamecube. Robots are now something normally 
 use in the world. In the school mostly everyone has a Custom Robo and they do tournaments in it. 
 You must become champion by winning various tournaments held on various schools. You are part of 
 Team Numero Uno which is the team of friends that compete. But, there are only 3 members: you, 
 Liv and Dennis. Only you can help them make the team become champion and represent youre school. 
 However, has you progress through the game many new plots and mysteries will rise and you will 
 soon find out its not all just winning tournaments. Do you what it takes to represent youre team?
 
  
  The gameplay of Custom Robo Arena in the DS remains the same like previous titles. This time around 
 its a 2-D RPG that shares various similarities to Pokemon Rpgs like Pokemon Diamond. But, there 
 are no dungeons, its more exploration and just reaching the next area you need to go and search 
 for people you need to see or battle. And its not a big world like pokemon but its still pretty 
 big to explore. Sometimes, you might get lost because the game doesnt explain very well where 
 is the next area you need to go, but you will figure it out. The game has a system that after certain 
 amount of events its time for you to return home, dinner, sleep and then wake up again. Which 
 is nice because it gives some reality elements to the game, unfortunately the dialogue gets very 
 repetitive during the house scenes.
  
  The big idea behind Custom Robo Arena and all of his previous installments its the robot customization. 
 The game lets you customize the legs, body, guns, missiles and jetpack of your robot with various 
 parts. Each part offers different unique styles, and you simply choose which style fits the best 
 for you. A new feature added is the ability to polish youre robot when is pretty dirty, and when 
 you polish it turns back to normal shiny. Unfortunately, those that dont like to go through story, 
 they must do in order to receive new parts has you progress throughout the story of the game. There 
 are also the illegal parts which are used by thieves in the story, but you can use them once you 
 get some of them. However, in online play its divided in rooms of allowed use of illegal parts 
 and not allowed use of illegal parts. After you customize youre robot is time to go to the battlefield 
 and battle youre opponents. The controls are very easy to use and provide great ability for special 
 techniques and strategies. Before the battle, youre opponent will be shown with a background that 
 you can buy on the story mode in a store. You can be presented on a beach with a bikini girl (I 
 swear, I am not kidding) , with a dinosaur, on the city, etc. The battle begins with your robots 
 inside cubes that are going to be shot by a tube. However, unlike the Gamecube game this time its 
 not by time but by the way you appear from cube. You may appear stuck on the floor or ready to 
 battle. It all depends how the cube falls. The battle consists of taking all the hp in your opponents 
 robot by shooting with your guns, bomb traps and missiles. You also have an ability to do a very 
 quick boost that when you hit youre foe it takes quite some damage. All robots start with 1,000 
 of hp. There is a new ability called the soulboost in which turns youre robot in gold and makes 
 him more powerful but for a short time. You do not need to wait to learn it on the story mode to 
 use in online play, but in story you need to wait until you reach the person who will teach it 
 to you.
  
  The graphics during exploration its all 2-D with a similar look to Pokemon Rpgs in handhelds. 
 The map could still look a bit better has sometimes it was barely detailed in some areas. And inside 
 houses and buildings there should be a bit more interesting decoration to make each place different. 
 The characters have their anime style with spiky hair as usual and weirdoes included. The battles 
 are in 3-D and so are the robots. It certainly looks impressive and very similar to the Gamecube 
 version which is great. There are a few blurry textures and a little bit of blockyness but it looks 
 great has a Nintendo DS game.
  
  In the audio department Custom Robo Arena is neither good nor bad. The music is not impressive 
 or very memorable, but it never gets annoying or in the way of the game. It just simply fits and 
 its there. There is no voiceovers in the dialogue which is a shame because there is a quite a 
 lot of dialogue, but handheld titles usually dont have voiceovers. The sound effects were nicely 
 done adapt in this sequel and sound really great on the speakers of the Nintendo DS. Not much complains, 
 but nothing over the top either in the audio.
  
  Custom Robo Arena does not last really long has the previous Gamecube installments but offers enough 
 play time and a story that gets more and more interesting has you progress throughout the game. 
 While the story mode is good, its not nearly good enough to go and replay it too much. Once you 
 finish it, you may not want to go back and do it all over again. Specially, doing the repetitive 
 shore of waking up, saying hi to your parents then go back for dinner and have a family reunion 
 and talk about stuff and then see again the repetitive dialogue over and over again. Of course, 
 that doesnt mean once you finish it you must sell it. Because Custom Robo Arena offers for the 
 first time in the franchise online play with friend codes or random people online! You will be 
 able to challenge people all over the world with your specially customized robot and see if youre 
 robot is truly the best out there. What disappoints is that you only 2 players can play online. 
 Its still great to see what strategies other people do, how they customize their robot and even 
 see their background because maybe its new for you. There is not much problems with lag during 
 online play either, which is good because it always annoys in online games.
  
  Overall, Custom Robo Arena is another great addition to the Custom Robo franchise, keeping the 
 same style of gameplay but adding a few things here and there. The series has still not reached 
 a game thats completely amazing but there is definitely potential in it. If you like robots and 
 would like to customize robots and battle opponents online, this is definitely the game you must 
 pick up. If you are afraid of the story mode, then try at least renting it and you will see if 
 you can like it, strong enough to play through it or simply hate it. But is a game that its still 
 worth at least trying it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAZZOR
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I never liked Custom Robo on the Gamecube. I always felt it was lacking something. 
 Custom Robo Arena on the other hand fits perfectly onto the DS. The game feels perfectly designed 
 for the system with it's quick bouts of robotic mayhem. The game bouts a roster of numberous robos 
 and varitey of guns, legs, bombs, and pods you can equip them with. Local and Wi-Fi multiplayer 
 support, and excellent 3D robo action. The story on the other hand is lacking because when your 
 not fighting your in a 2D world stuck in a lame story about whatever I wasn't paying attention. 
 The developers did get the combat right. It's fast and exciting and never gets dull and ontop of 
 that with the amount of customization avalible you'll be playing this one for a long time.
  
  A great game for the DS go pick it up now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilrd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  graphics: The walk around graphics look like emerald version .The battle graphics are great even 
 if you can't see the tinyest deatails .
  
  gameplay: The battles are fast and fun.
  
  other: The custmizeation is one of the funest parts. the story board is long but fun.
  
  In 
 my own opion this is the best game with good graphics for the DS. It's a good game but it's but 
 it's hard to find in stores and over shadowed by pokemon. This makes it hard to link and the singal 
 card muiltplayer isn't that great but I haven't tried to do multiplayer with more than one card. 
 The singal card mode sucks 4robos,5guns,4pods,5bombs I think,3 legs, and the loading time sucks. 
 The only good thing is that the parts are good. Other than that this game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gra_ham_man5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Custom Robo Arena for the DS is a great achievement for the series, and anyone looking for a fun 
 game where you can customize and battle your own robo, look no further! The game play is fantastic, 
 instantly entering you into the fun and exciting world of Custom Robo's. Although the actual story 
 is a bit bland and simple, the overall experience is still there and tends to pull you in tighter 
 with every battle. The graphics are somewhat GBA-ish in the non-battle situations such as running 
 around the world, but the battle graphics are clean, crisp, and basically just plain awesome. For 
 such a fast paced game to fit on such a small hand-held like the DS really blows you away and makes 
 you wonder how they got the frame rate to run so smoothly. The sound-effects are great, consisting 
 of crashes, clangs, booms, and bangs. The games music is good as well, giving you that in the future 
 kind of feel. All in all, Custom Robo DS is the perfect game for any fans of the series and is 
 a must-buy, even for anyone looking for a fun, long-lasting game with a good appeal and great multi-player, 
 whether on-line or off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  One of Nintendo's Franchises that has been under the radar here in America is The Custom Robo Series. 
 Basically its all about tiny robots that you customize for battling. The newest installment of 
 this franchise is Custom Robo Arena for the Nintendo DS. In this game you are a young boy who moves 
 into a new town. Your dad and sister make custom robos your school is crazy about them and they 
 even close school for them. lets just say that Custom Robo's is all anyone ever thinks, plays, or 
 talks about. Even your school principle is opposed with the little robots. During the game you 
 are hit with Really crappy visuals that look even bad for a GBA game. you also must sit though 
 very boring dinner conversations and other dialog that you could care less about. so you end up 
 mostly just skipping though the Talking. The story overall is really bad and does not pull you 
 into it like pokemon does and many other RPG style games. So the only thing that keeps you playing 
 this game is the great battle system. In the Game you are hit with frequent battles where you use 
 your Robo vs various other people's Robots. When you go into a battle you can edit your robo (clean, Equip, 
 etc..) you can look at your opponents Robo or you can look at the stage. This is def. Where the 
 game gets good. You have a great 3-D battling system where you can either Shoot a bomb, shoot a 
 homing kinda bomb. your gun. You can even do close range attacks that is great for combos. This 
 part of the game looks great. The robos have good detail and there is no slow down of any kind 
 in this game. The gameplay is very addicting and when your playing wether it be a computer, friend 
 or stranger on Wifi you see that each player has a natural technique of playing this game.. i guess 
 what i am saying is that you will never find 2 people that have the same exact method of diving 
 simular maybe but never the same.. You can even take this game and play it Multi card or single 
 card play where you can battle with a friend near by. Also this has Wifi battles. this game you 
 need no long friend code and you can just get a fight with a random person and play! it also features 
 a Rival list. after you battle with your oppent if you think you had a great match and went down 
 to the wire or if you just want to play them agian you can add them to your rival list so you don't 
 need the long friend code.. i like how Metroid is not the only game that did this...
  
  Its nice how Nintendo got this game right with the really fun Customization and Battling parts. 
 but it really lacked in the story and how the game look when your not battling. Even though the 
 storyline is Bland the characters and the robo's have very likeable characters witch is always 
 good for a terrible story. but hey Take the storyline aside this game is by far my favorite Custom 
 Robo game and one of my favorite DS games.. The Customization is so cool there is literally thousands 
 upon thousands of combinations you can choose from. If you need your doze of Robot battles this 
 game is for you!
  
  Breakdown
  
  Gameplay: The battles are great but the storyline is bad. The good out weighs the bad though
 
  Graphics: Robots themself look really good for a DS game. good amount of details.. outside the 
 battles are not so good but after a little you start to like the overworld animations.. plus the 
 cut scenes look great
  Sound: some catchy tones but nothing to get too excited about Value: it can last you a long time. 
 A long story and great Wifi extends the Shelf live of this game a lot
  Overall: This game is just so fun and addictive even with those minor flaws when i play this game 
 all i see is the greatness of this game.. prob. the most underratted Nintendo Franchises ever made! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cousinwalt
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 2, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  I just beat this game and had an amazingly fun time. There's some parts that could have been fixed 
 (i. e. the loooong, drawn out conversations) . It feels like I was reading more than I was fighting, 
 but as the game gets near the end, all the pieces start to come together and I started to enjoy 
 all the story elements.
  
  The hardest part of this game is finding your flow. Finding a Robo, Gun, Bomb, Pod and Leg combo 
 that really destroys the opponents. You're going to get your ass kicked a few times while you're 
 still learning the button config and how to throw out combos. Once you get your head around that, 
 you'll be able to rip right through people pretty well. With that said, there's going to be a few 
 people you encounter will beat you hard. There was one battle at the end that I lost almost 100 
 times which was a pretty hard blow to my Battle Data.
  
  Also, you have to attend school in the game and in proper school fashion, there's two POP QUIZZES 
 in the game. 20 questions of all things Custom Robo. That kinda slows down the game, but I can 
 see what role it plays in the actual story and education about Robos, so if you have a higher attention 
 span than me, you'll be fine with these.
  
  Generally, I am 100% happy with this game and enjoyed playing it. It's a game you can really play 
 for hours at a time and still enjoy it. There was many times I only turned off the game because 
 my battery was dying. You lose track of time which is a good sign for any game. The real questions 
 I pose to those of you who have played it is this:
  
  1.) Why is security so lax at all these events that Marv can keep sneaking in? He has a **** giant, 
 talking bird! No one hears him sneaking in?
  
  2.) Should we be concerned that in the future, the most important thing in everyone's life is Custom 
 Robo? It's like a drug to these people. I am scared.
  
  I will now close with a line from Shipley in the woods:
  Everyday I am reborn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windofawe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 28, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game is addicting and will grow on you. If you love one-on-one battles, this is the 
 game for you. I, personaly, loved it and tried to compete on who can complete story first! I won, 
 of course - ~ Anyway it's a good game to play. Great graphics for a DS game. Though the story is 
 long and can get a little boring after awhile, I always love a good battle! I also always love 
 good music and this game has got it good! There are also some bad parts too... :* ( Yup, of course. 
 Always the bad sticks out. Not in this game. It's just the story is long and the weapons are not 
 as well balenced as they should be. You will love it, well, I did! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Custom Robo Arena is a fighting game for the DS. You play as a random character who just moved 
 into a new town. You very soon meet 2 kids and join a robo team. Gotta give Noise/Nintendo credit 
 for trying to make a storyline, but it is basically battle after battle. Luckily, the battles are 
 a blast. Each robo has a gun, bomb, and pod (missile) weapons which can be switched by parts you 
 buy or receive from others. The battles are indeed button mashing, however, there is still some 
 strategy. Throughout the arena, there are obstacles everywhere. So you will have to jump and move 
 your way around the obstacles to get a clean shot at your enemy. There is one slight problem though. 
 The whole games, while long, far too easy. But it's still fun. Multiplayer is alright, but it is 
 just some tougher battles than the story mode. Graphics, at least in my opinion, suck. The battles, 
 the characters, all failed on miserable levels. Sound was no better. The music was really bad, 
 so bad it made me turn of the sound altogether. If you just want some random game, having to preference 
 of genre or ratings, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lennex2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 22, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  It was a sketchy decision to buy this game. I was in the need for a new DS game and wanted something 
 with robots. And since this is the only robot game that was on the shelf I took a look. It looked 
 cheesy, and maybe gave me doubts about fun... however I wanted a WI-FI game as well... so it seemed 
 to fit my goals for buying that day last week.
  
  I loaded it up, and played a bit... then put it down out of boredom... the game was cheesy... I 
 didn't like the robot designs at all! I picked it up again the other day... and got hooked! I ended 
 up getting past the whole robot designs (which I still find cheesy being a fan of Battletech, Mechwarrior, 
 and Starsiege) but was blown away by the gameplay and story.
  
  I'm not that far in as of this writing, maybe three hours into the game... of who knows how long 
 as I haven't read the GS review yet... but I love it! I can't put it down... the only reason I can 
 write this review is because my DS is charging!!!
  
  The story is grand, and very interesting, which surprises me because stories nowadays really don't 
 interest me like they used to when I got my original Gameboy... The action is hot and heavy, and 
 can be pretty difficult. It's not always who has the better gun, but there is some strategy involved. 
 And the ability to customize a robot to your specs and style is great too! I can't wait to unlock 
 more bodies!!!
  
  Music sucks, and the sound effects have their moments... and I'd change them if I could in a heart 
 beat... yet I still can't play without the sound off... go figure
  
  Overall this game is very addiciting, and look, plays, and feels just plain good! go get it now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alchemy111
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  what can i say, its a great game ive beat it and still kept playing with wi-fi or just with a friend 
 multi-player is great you dont even need a friend code to find an oppenent. It still has flaws 
 but still very fun. After a while it slowly becomes repetative, but with a wide selection of parts 
 and battles, it continues to be one of my favorite games. Though I have played for over 40 hours, 
 i still have not unlocked everything. Not because its hard, its just there are so many things to 
 get. If you have wi-fi I highly recommend battling online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sword-Hunter277
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Let's be completely honest: You did NOT buy the game for the single-player campaign. It is highly 
 repetitive, and although there is a storyline, you will be unaware about what is ACTUALLY going 
 on for about 75% of the game. It leaves you lacking most of the time, and you will tend to only 
 be playing it to unlock the Robos/Weapons/Etc, From the shops.
  
  Now why should you buy this game? One word: Wi-Fi. If you have never played an online game before, 
 especially on the DS, you are missing out. In this game, you can find a match in seconds, being 
 that the matchmaking system Nintendo uses is highly evolved from earlier games (Metroid Prime: 
 Hunters, Mario Kart DS, etc.) You will be within a game with someone around your skill level within 
 30 seconds or so. Due to short waiting times, you will be playing more matches, thus allowing you 
 to immerse yourself within the multi-player modes more. However, you should be aware that you will 
 HAVE to buy Robos and Parts within the Single Player Mode before you can use them against other 
 players.
  
  As pertaining to other topics, the graphics are great for a DS game, and the controls are easy 
 to learn. However, due to the repetitive nature of the game, you have a chance of being bored, 
 ESPECIALLY if you don't have a Wi-Fi connection. Just note that you will be hearing the SAME song 
 over and over again during the battle sequences; that being an irritating electric guitar piece. 
 Overall, this game truly shines with its multiplayer value. However, if you do NOT have a Wi-Fi 
 connection, you should pass over this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigEz21
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 18, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Custom Robo for game cube came out in 2004. The game was very addicting and nothing like I had 
 ever seen before. But it was too easy to gather parts for your Robo. Basically it was like, Start 
 a match, beat the match, get a part. But now in the new Custom Robo called Custom Robo Arena 
 its not anything close to that.
  This game has a great story line and the best part is you dont always just when part. But you 
 can just go to the town store and buy parts. The basic story of the Story Mode is that a kid moves 
 to town and on his first day of school his dad gives him a Robo. He goes to school and meets to 
 kids which end up being his friends. They find out his good at the custom robo battles and he joins 
 there school team. The only down to this story line is that there is a bunch of talking. But other 
 than that its great. This game also has Nintendo Wi-Fi. Its not as addicting online as other games 
 like Metroid Prime Hunters, but its still is really fun. This game is very addicting and I would 
 highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FenrirX1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is one that everyone can enjoy without too much difficulty in the story and a 
 straightforward storyline. However, it is a great game despite this, with loads of customization 
 and great fun all around.
  
  The graphics are decent enough, with the world being anime-like and the battle scenes are good 
 enough to recognize what's going on, but it's not the most amazing thing you've ever seen on a 
 DS. Pretty good though.
  
  The sound in battles are well done, except the music itself. The SAME songs over and over in battles 
 and even in the environment when exploring the world. Good thing it's actually not that bad or 
 else I would have had to throw myself out of a window. :)
  
  The online mode is also great with the exception of nagging lag which sometimes impedes the momentum 
 of the battle.
  
  Overall, a good game that's worth checking out, especially to a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: togo2828
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  After i played Custom Robo for the N64 and for the GameCube i was worried when i found out that 
 the next instalment would be for the DS. I wondered like i did for any DS game, how is the game 
 going to use the stylus, will it be a load of crap, How are the Dual Screens going to work. I am 
 really really happy to say that this game does the Series proud. It looks great and the gameplay 
 is near Perfect. The sound Track to the game is Great, i found myself Rocking out as i was kicking 
 some serious but. It is easy to pick up the game and just play, it also didnt hurt that i am an 
 Experienced player of the series either. On the Slight Down Side, the length of the game was a 
 little short, i kinda wanted more fromm the story. Other than that really no problem with the game. 
 Its a must buy for any DS owner, it is in my top five at No. 1. ( (till pokemon comes out, then we'll 
 see) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GiftedSlayer
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of Robo Fighter games. This game is enhanced even more by the fact that you can choose 
 pretty much every aspect of your Robo. The story line is a little weak to be honest, and some fights 
 a little tedious. Other then those couple quirks the game is great.
  
  WIFI! WIFI rocks this game. Think your good, WTFPWNING all the CPUs? go online. Some peeps are 
 a little cheap. Most are like me an enjoy a good fight though, not just winning. Find a person 
 you like to play with, add them to your Friends list, and talk to them... Thats right, you can talk 
 to them. Lag is usually even at a minimum when fighting.
  
  Great game. It's insanely addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mininudu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 4:30 am PT
Review:  O jogo trata-se de um mestre dos rob&ocirc; s .
  Sua hist&oacute; ria assemelha-se bastante com a de pok&eacute; mon, portanto, algumas pessoas ir&atilde; o 
 ficar um pouco desapontadas com isso pela falta de criatividade!!!
  
  Mas o jogo em si &eacute; bastante divertido pois, diferentemente de pok&eacute; mon, as batalhas 
 n&atilde; o s&atilde; o no estilo tradicional de RPG, s&atilde; o como em zelda!!
  
  As combina&ccedil;&otilde; es para montar os rob&ocirc; s s&atilde; o muitas! Tende aos milh&otilde; es. 
 Cada tipo de rob&ocirc; tem uma arma que melhor o ataque mas &eacute; poss&iacute; vel ganhar sem 
 escolher as armas certas. As batalhas multiplayer s&atilde; o divertidas porque todos montam seus 
 rob&ocirc; s e depois botam pra quebrar o pau v&eacute; i!
  
  O jogo &eacute; bastante divertido. Pra quem &eacute; f&atilde; de pok&eacute; mon mas gosta de 
 ver uma luta ao inv&eacute; s de toma l&aacute; e da c&aacute; e um atrativo!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoveStaindRed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  The story is nice and fits in well with the robo fighting aspect of it. The graphics during the 
 RPGish part of the game aren't exactly the best but they get the job done and don't take away from 
 the rest of the game. The graphics during the robo battles are really nice looking. The battles 
 are really engaging and the amount of customization you can put into your robo allow for the battles 
 to never get dull. The music in the game sounds nice and fits well but it can start to be repetitive 
 after a while, and the main overworld music definitely has started to annoy me but it doesn't make 
 me want to turn the sound off or anything. The sound effects for the battles sound nice.
  The gameplay in this is great and allows for hours of fun battles that never get old, and playing 
 on wi-fi makes it a game that you can never truly master because you will always find an opponent 
 who can spank you which will make you want to get better. Because of the wi-fi this game is definitely 
 worth the money, if you don't have wi-fi it is still a fun game but it will eventually get old, 
 but not until you are fnished with the long story mode, but if your friends have DS' then it is 
 a fun game to sit around and battles each other in. So if you are a fan of fighting robots like 
 Gundam Wing or Robotech this is a really great game to have. Or if you are only interested in this 
 game, I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XXXRaiderXXX
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  Even back when Custom Robo was only in Japanese on the N64, it was an extremely fun game, even 
 if you had no idea where the story was going. Custom Robo Arena for the DS is the second custom 
 robo to his the US and an amazing game I must add!
  
  The game has a great story that will draw you in and make you want more and more. Even after the 
 story is finished, there's still more great battles and fun tasks to do.
  
  With all the RPG elements, Custom Robo Arena provides all the action you could want with the great 
 battles you must fight. There are tons of robos and parts to customize them to your liking and 
 find a robo you can utilize to defeat all your opponents!
  
  The wifi is great! With friend tracking and rival tracking, you can battle people you know or you 
 can simply take on anyone else who is on at the moment.
  
  The 2D sprites in the world are great and just classic for an RPG. The 3D graphics for the battles 
 are superb as well.
  
  The music, while the game doesn't provide a very wide variety of tracks, is good and actually doesn't 
 get boring.
  
  The story mode is usually easy, but some battles can provide a good challenge. It depends on what 
 kind of robo you have. Different robo combinations are better or worse against others. The game 
 forces you to use a variety of different robos and fighting styles with them. The wifi battles 
 are much more challenging than the game's AI if you are playing someone with any skill.
  
  Custom Robo is very addictive. I've spent quite a good amount of time playing because I couldn't 
 put it down! I found myself waking up in one morning with my DS in my hand realizing i fell asleep 
 playing!
  
  The only thing that might be bad about the game is the repetitive breakfast and dinner scenes which 
 seem quite pointless even though they are very short, they are boring and stupid. Beyond that, 
 this game is perfect for all RPG, action, fighting, and robot fans alike! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianmacfarlane14
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, its very addictive,. This game has the same game play and same to the same graphics 
 (in battle) as the gamecube custom robo, very impressive for a DS game. The battles are just as 
 fun as they were on the gamecube, except now it's free roaming, and you can battle tons of people, 
 this time you actually get money from it depending on how well you did. Also a ranking that goes 
 up with the money which as it goes up, your opponents get harder. Also no more one (you) against 
 2 (bad guys) battles, but the battle style of the opponents makes up for that by being pretty difficult 
 and making you glad you don't have to face 2 people at once. Also with the money you get from battles, 
 you get to buy your own robo parts! Which for me was a big problem with the last game (that you 
 can't buy your own parts, you have to receive them in the gamecube custom robo) . The music is still 
 awesome, and the conversation's are still text based, but at least the characters don't just have 
 a still avatar that changes to around 3 different emotions, now the mouths move, eyes blink, and 
 there is about 5 different movements for a normal character (something like 8 for a main one) . 
 So I recommend picking it up, experience it yourself since I can't quite describe it. Hopefully 
 you'll love it as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulse34
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  i love this game so much its awesome. iv been waaiting for three months for it to come and im pleased. 
 you play as a boy new to custom robo. u can custumiz your robo with loads of guns and bombs it 
 is great highly recomended. im just trying to make 100 words sdfgh asdfgvb asdf asdfg as asdf dfgsb 
 sdfgh dsfg dxcfvg sdfgh dfgh dfgh dfgh dfgh fcgvb cvbn dfgh dfgbn fgh cvbndfghjk fgh dfgh sdfgh 
 fghs fghk gfg fgh fgh fgh rfgh csd sdgh sdfgh swdfgh sdfgh wsdfgh er fg cbn cvbnm dfbn dfgh sdfg 
 awsd wdefgh dsfhn dfgh dfgn fghj fghj drfghjchjm dfghjcvbnm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ariolander
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This ain't your usual mech on mech action. Rather than pilots and mechs instead we have commanders 
 and robos. Instead of jumping into a mech to do battle commanders 'dive' into these tiny robos 
 projecting their mind into them to control them and do battle. Don't judge them by their size either 
 despite their ability to compress into a cube that can fit into your pocket these little guys pack 
 quite the punch. So much so that with that power of course some nefarious people would plan to 
 use them for their evil deeds and it looks like the local Police Squad is going to have their hands 
 full... You being the hero you are will of course lend your own helping hand but when the story 
 starts you don't even have a robo yet. Despite this you still have your dream of winning the Robo 
 Cup and eventually joining the International Police Force when you grow up. After getting that 
 robo you always wanted and running into your two new friends Liv and Dennis at school you find 
 yourself on Team Numero Unos and diving head first into the game's story. The story itself is quite 
 lengthy but as you might expect it a series of battles one after another when you find yourself 
 having to fight be it for your team, a school rivalry, or for your very life as you get caught 
 up in the world around you. It may not be more than an excuse to fight and not the deepest thing 
 in the world but the story is long enough to provide a couple dozen hours of fun.
  
  Thankfully with all this fighting the game has an extensive customization system to keep things 
 fresh. As you fight opponents start using new parts and equipment and with each battle you find 
 yourself earning money to get your own parts you can make your robo your very own equipping it 
 with different frames, legs, bombs, pods, and weapons. With over 100 parts in the game how your 
 robo plays is up to you and with each frame comes noticeably different combat characteristics. 
 Beyond customizing your robos the battles themselves are pretty fun and action packed with your 
 robos packed to the teeth with weapons you will find yourself jumping and dashing around dozens 
 of different battlefields blasting your gun, setting off explosions, launching your pods, and if 
 it comes down to it your melee attack leading into awesome combos. You dont have ammo restrictions 
 so you will be raining down fire on each other in these action packed battles.
  
  The graphics are brilliant with 3D battlefields and 2D sprite based overworld. While the sprites 
 arent especially beautiful the characters all have nice portraits that liven up the screen a bit. 
 Your mechs are modular so and changes made to your mechs equipment reflect on your robot but this 
 does lead them to look to look a bit blocky but when you battle with the camera out and all the 
 fire and explosions on screen I doubt you will notice. Music adds some spice with everything catchy 
 and high energy and all in all it is all wrapped up with a certain charm that only the Japanese 
 can do.
  
  If that is not enough for you then you can take your game into multiplayer with download play, 
 multicard play, and the glorious online. The game does have some issues as the story being somewhat 
 easy and some opponents downright cheap as they use illegal parts (I guess thats why they are 
 illegal) . Beyond that there are some serious balancing issues as you will find some equipments 
 a lot better than others but all in all they dont detract too much from the game.
  
  Bottom Line: A great transition of a series from console to DS this is a definite must play for 
 the DS. A lot of game in a portable package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_smoove
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, I was a bit hesitant about this purchase. Now I've discovered a hidden little jem 
 in the DS's library.
  
  The game's main aspect is the Robo Battles. These are fast-paced, action filled, and even strategic 
 fights between two robos. These robos are completely customizable, and deciding on the right balance 
 of parts is a key part of success. The other part of the game is the RPG story mode, which is kind 
 of boring, but I kinda liked it. The story is mainly there to serve as an excuse as to why you're 
 killing other robots. The battles become more interesting as you get further along in the story, 
 you get an upgraded version of the Ray MK II, and later get more robos to customize.
  The game also features WiFi battles for 2 players with voice chat for friends only.
  
  Breakdown:
 
  Gameplay: 9/10- The robo battles are fast and intense, but the RPG parts are kind of slow.
  
  Graphics: 8/10- The 3D robo battles have some of the best 3D visuals on the DS, the RPG part 
 has graphics that are worse than some GBA titles, but still have some strange charm to them.
  
  Sound: 7/10- I'm not into metal, so I keep the volume low. The metal tracks do fit the mood 
 of the battles, though. I kind of like the overworld themes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sebtko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Custom Robo Arena does have a storyline but it can be lame at times. There is a **** load of reading 
 u hv to do but i can alwz skip that by pressing (A) !!! I like the fact that you can enter ur characters 
 school and the fact that u can go into anyones house, but the fighting is insane. The new feature 
 they added which was the fact that u can clean ur robo is neat!! Also the 1vs1 online battle is 
 really fun but be prepared before u battle.
  
  pros: Online battle is great, storyline is lame but graphics somewhat make up for it!!
  
  cons: 
 storyline sucks and it might lag online due to ur bombs.
  
  Overall its a great game!!! and a must have for the ds 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the best games for DS. This game allows you to customize your robo by 
 a variety of leg, pods, bomb, gun, and body parts. There are thousands of combinations you can 
 do, to make your robo the best it can be and go head to head against story players, and against 
 other players world wide via wi-fi. Unlike other Custom Robo games, this game has some new features. 
 For example diorama mode where you position your robo the way you want it, on some amazing backgrounds. 
 These are seen in the menu where you customize your robo, and players via wi-fi see your diorama. 
 Another new feature is cleaning your robo. With the use of the touchscreen, you wipe some parts 
 on the robo if they get dirty during a battle. Now you may think What's the point of cleaning my 
 robo? It's a waste of my time! but if your robo is dirty, some weapons may hurt you more than if 
 your robo was clean. Another new feature, which I've said before, and many of you probably are 
 excited about is wi-fi. Wi-fi is 1vs1 battling. There is also voice chat if you have anyone on 
 your friends list. The story of this game is a bit disappointing, but the overall gameplay makes 
 up for it. Some parts of the game are confusing and will take you a while to figure out, while 
 others are easy. If you fight someone and lose, you can try again. If you fight that person too 
 many times and still lose, the game offers you to have the other player, start off with 25% less 
 health, of keep on fighting the normal way. The only downside to this game though, is some of the 
 graphics, and the lag if there is a lot of bombs, pods, and guns being in use at one time. Other 
 than that, the game is perfect and I would recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
