-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Death, Jr. and the Science Fair of Doom
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/deathjrandthesciencefairofdoom/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid graphics engine.
 Multiplayer modes are a marginally decent distraction.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Controls feel off in multiple spots.
 Upgraded combat moves aren't really necessary in most situations.
 Hunting around for souls is obnoxious.
 Devoid of personality or humor.
 Bland art style and audio.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 22, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.9
Critic Score: 5.0, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 6.2, 45 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: Foundation 9
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: May 22, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Imprecise controls, shoddy level design, and bland characters spell doom for Death Jr.'s latest 
 adventure. 

  Somebody up there must really like Death Jr., though it's anyone's guess as to why that might be. 
 As Konami and developer Backbone's attempt to create a platformer franchise for the PlayStation 
 Portable with a morbid mascot hero (he's the son of the Grim Reaper, you see) , Death Jr. has been 
 anything but a success up to this point, with only two thoroughly unremarkable adventures to its 
 name. Now the Death Jr. series has made its way to the DS, and most DS owners are likely to wish 
 it had stayed on Sony's handheld system after playing though the mess that is the Science Fair 
 of Doom. This new Death Jr. adventure includes the bulk of the flaws found in its predecessors, 
 and adds a few critical new ones to the mix. The result is a platformer that veers wildly between 
 dull and angering, but never toward fun.  

          The son of Death returns for yet another mediocre platforming adventure in the Science 
 Fair of Doom.     

  If you're unfamiliar with the previous exploits of the son of Death, all you really need to know 
 is that Death Jr. is an awkward, skeletal child that goes to school just like any kid -- except that 
 because he is a supernatural being, he goes to school with a bunch of other creepy creatures, like 
 his ghostly white crush Pandora, the shy, unassuming, frequently bloody Stigmartha, the brainiac 
 conjoined twins Smith and Wesson, and the snarky, quadriplegic foreign exchange student who lives 
 in a jar, Seep. In this latest tale, Death Jr. and his buddies are off to the school science fair. 
 Each of their projects is appropriately weird, and Smith and Wesson's combo project -- a rabbit with 
 demon parts stitched to it, and a miniature nuclear power plant -- combines to open a portal to some 
 fashion of a demonic realm. Everything goes haywire, the school gets transformed into a demon-realm 
 iteration of itself, friends get kidnapped, monsters show up, and it's once again up to Death Jr. 
 to save the day.  

  The premise sounds like perfect platformer fodder, but it doesn't hold up, mainly because the game 
 is totally devoid of personality. As neat as all the characters in this creepy kids' tale sound 
 on paper, they never come across in the actual game. The dialogue is bereft of humor, and the characters 
 just play the boilerplate cartoon kid roles to the hilt. All the weird gimmicks for each character 
 are just that: gimmicks. And Death Jr. (or DJ, as he's referred to often in the game) has zero 
 personality to speak of. This same personality problem has plagued the previous Death Jr. games, 
 but it's even more apparent here due to the lack of voice acting and the aimless plot. It's a charmless 
 kill-all-the-monsters romp that won't hold your attention for long -- especially once you dive into 
 the gameplay.  

  Whereas earlier Death Jr. games featured fully 3D worlds to hop and swing around, Science Fair 
 of Doom changes things up, retaining the 3D models and environments, but often relegating movement 
 through the world to pure side-scrolling. Things open up in certain areas where you need to fight 
 bad guys, but generally you're running to the right, and in some cases, the left, though the left 
 is typically run toward only when you're forced to backtrack through a level, which happens a little 
 too often for the game's own good. Granted, there aren't a ton of worlds to play through, but each 
 individual world tends to be overly long and forces you to slog through a lot of the same scenery 
 again and again.  

  That might be more tolerable if the activities you had to participate in while you move through 
 the world were actually fun, but no such luck here. Mechanically, this is a pretty basic platformer. 
 DJ uses a scythe as his primary weapon, and has a few basic attacks that go along with it. Combat 
 has a bit more depth to it than the average game of this type, as you're offered some combos that 
 upgrade over time, as well as a few additional weapons, like guns and C4 hamsters. Still, combat 
 doesn't require much effort, and, in fact, most of the combo moves can be altogether ignored. You'll 
 need the weapons for enemies that occupy particularly treacherous areas, or to bypass certain level 
 obstacles, but otherwise you'll just hammer on the A button or tap on an enemy via the stylus and 
 touch screen repeatedly and bang your way through the enemies with relatively little effort.  

 
  What requires far more effort, patience, and a slightly masochistic side to tolerate is the game's 
 platforming elements. DJ has most of the typical platforming abilities (jumping, double-jumping, 
 hovering, and the like) , and, appropriately, the level designs require lots and lots of carefully 
 timed jumping. The problem? The controls aren't built for careful anything. To begin with, moving 
 DJ is an imprecise process. A simple tap of the D pad left or right jerks him forward a good distance, 
 so if you're trying to navigate a short platform, you're more likely to miss. It also makes controlling 
 the distances of DJ's jumps that much more infuriating a process. The actual act of jumping works 
 fine, except for any situation where you need to hook onto a ledge. DJ can use his scythe to grab 
 onto a nearby ledge if you can't jump quite high enough to just land on it, but this mechanic is 
 wildly inconsistent. There's no predictability about when DJ will or won't hook on, meaning you 
 may screw up a lot of jumps just because the game can't decide which way it wants to go.  

  Making things more infuriating is that you'll sometimes find yourself losing chunks of progress 
 because of this and other little quirks in the game design. Lengthy jumping sequences can sometimes 
 see you plummeting to the ground just because you didn't hook onto a ledge, or because some enemy 
 you killed lands on top of you when he dies and thus pushes you off the ledge. Sometimes you even 
 have to go back a little ways to find an enemy to kill to progress. Enemies drop souls when they 
 die, and these souls can be kept with you as you play. You have to keep several with you at once, 
 as sometimes you'll find slingshot targets that have to be hit to progress. They're color coded 
 to the same colors that the souls use, and you have to have a soul of the right color to make the 
 target go. If you happen to run into one and don't have the correct color, you've got to go back 
 and find an enemy to kill, and hope they drop the right soul. Though you can carry up to three 
 souls at a time, this backtracking still happens far, far too often.  

  If you can suffer your way through the whole game, there are some multiplayer modes available once 
 you're finished. One is just a bad breakout clone that has you moving a paddle back and forth and 
 launching C4 hamsters at various graveyard set pieces. The other is a combat-oriented mode that 
 has up to four players blasting away at one another in either standard or team-based modes. Neither 
 mode is very good, but if nothing else, they're more entertaining than the main game. Actually, 
 that's just kind of sad.  

          Combat is completely mindless, and yet it still ends up being one of the more appealing 
 aspects of the game.     

  Science Fair of Doom does have one thing going for it in its graphics engine. Though the art style 
 is as bland as bread and water, the core graphics look decent. All the 2D/3D hybrid stuff is neat 
 looking, and the game runs fairly well. Animation is relatively smooth, as well. But again, the 
 art just isn't up to snuff. All the environments are loosely modeled to be demonic versions of 
 typical public school rooms and areas, but that theme rarely translates well. Audio is also unmemorable. 
 The soundtrack is mindless, the sound effects are tinny, and there's no voice work at all, not 
 even an occasional voice-over for good measure.  

  Death Jr. and the Science Fair of Doom had a modicum of potential to be an enjoyable platformer, 
 but it repeatedly squanders that potential with lazy, uninspired design choices and off-kilter 
 mechanics. It's basically playable, but why would you want to when the DS offers plenty of other, 
 better choices in this genre?     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
