-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Deep Labyrinth
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/deeplabyrinth/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Basic first-person controls and touch-screen mechanics work well.
 Two different storylines to play through.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Fairly clunky, simplistic combat.
 Highly repetitive environments and level design.
 Convoluted magic system is difficult to use in battle.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.3
Critic Score: 5.5, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 170 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Interactive Brains
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Aug 15, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This 3D role-playing game lets you explore many mazelike levels through the eyes of a sword-wielding 
 hero, but crawling through its corridors often isn't much fun. 

  It's hard to get too immersed in Deep Labyrinth, a first-person-perspective role-playing game in 
 which you must navigate mazelike levels while fighting monsters with swords and magic. You control 
 the game primarily with the DS's touch screen, and you may even guide your character's sword slashes 
 by drawing across the screen in different directions. The magic system also involves drawing arcane 
 symbols using the touch screen, but elements like these aren't fully baked, and the rather dull 
 environments and clunky combat don't help matters either. Deep Labyrinth does have two separate 
 stories in it and each one is reasonably interesting, but the underlying game feels like a grind. 

          Deep Labyrinth is a fitting name for a game in which you'll mostly trudge through one same-looking 
 corridor after another.     

  The game's two different chapters may be played in any order, though the first one is the focus. 
 It casts you as a boy named Shawn, who's on a road trip with his parents and his pet dog when the 
 car suddenly blows a tire. Shawn's parents disappear when they go off in search of help, his dog 
 runs off, and soon enough, Shawn himself gets dragged into some strange portal that dumps him in 
 a fantasy world filled with smart-alecky mice, a purple platypus that saves your progress for you, 
 and a bunch of weird foes. Apparently this is a place where old memories go to get erased, and 
 it's where Shawn's parents wound up. This is a game about a dysfunctional family, and that's at 
 least a little more imaginative than the typically generic role-playing game storyline.  

  The second chapter is based on the original version of Deep Labyrinth, which, as the preface to 
 this chapter explains, first appeared on Japanese cell phones. The idea in this one is that you 
 somehow get sucked into your own cell phone and find yourself about to get skewered by a sword-wielding 
 skeleton. You manage to survive the encounter, and soon find an image of a young woman in a crystal... someone 
 who your character seems to know. You're left with no choice but to fight your way through this 
 gloomy prison, attempting to figure out what's going on. Neither of the two storylines figures 
 into the game very prominently once you start playing. But they give context to the action, and 
 help make the two chapters feel rather different in tone, even though they're very similar in both 
 their presentation and gameplay. The second chapter is also substantially tougher from the get-go 
 than the first one, which is mired down by too many basics and expository sequences.  

  While the visuals are fully 3D, they're still pretty crude by current standards. Most of the areas 
 you'll explore are simple boxlike corridors with the same textures repeated over and over every 
 few steps. There are some outdoor areas, but they're boxed in just like the subterranean ones. 
 Some of the enemies do look good, at least. There are a few rather imposing boss opponents you'll 
 go toe-to-toe with, and these are sometimes introduced with a bit of dramatic flair, as both the 
 DS's screens are used to show how much bigger they are compared to you. Normally, the DS's top 
 screen is used to show both a map of the immediate surroundings and the entire map you're currently 
 exploring. This map system isn't clear at first, but it works well once you get used to it. The 
 game's audio is pleasant enough, but unremarkable, save for a couple of standout music tracks that 
 evoke a high-fantasy vibe very well.  

  You control the action on the bottom screen by using the D pad to move and the stylus to attack, 
 defend, cast spells, and use items. When you get close to an enemy, you automatically lock on to 
 it, which causes left and right motions on the D pad to make you circle around the foe rather than 
 turn in place. Circling while swinging is the tactic you'll need to defeat 95 percent of the foes 
 in the game, including most of the boss opponents. Overall, the control system seems fairly good 
 in theory, since there's a row of icons along the side of the screen that lets you instantly switch 
 between your sword, shield, magic, and your inventory. In the middle of a fight, though, this proves 
 surprisingly hectic and difficult... especially since spellcasting involves drawing precise patterns 
 on the screen. In the end, sticking with your sword is the safest, easiest way to go, while tougher 
 fights that force you to use magic or healing items can get frustrating. What's more, since you 
 can swing your sword quickly and easily just by tapping on the screen, there's little point to 
 dragging the stylus across the screen to perform different swings.  

  For a rather simplistic hack-and-slash dungeon crawl, Deep Labyrinth sure has a lot of different 
 magic spells in it. You learn fire, ice, thunder, and death spells, spells that heal and cure poison, 
 spells that grant you resistances to different elements, spells that magically imbue your sword, 
 and more. Ironically, this isn't a good thing, because each spell has its own special symbol that 
 must be drawn on the touch screen each time you want to cast it. So unless you have a photographic 
 memory, you'll be frequently fumbling in your menu, reminding yourself of the pattern for the particular 
 spell that's needed at that moment. Given that the combat happens in real time and is fairly fast-paced, 
 the process of spellcasting just ends up feeling like more trouble than it's worth most of the 
 time. In actuality, the magic system is mostly there to add a key-hunt mechanic to the game, since 
 you'll often find locked doors that require you to learn a certain spell before you can open them. 
 You learn spells by finding special tablets, or sometimes by leveling up.  

          Some unusual characters and touch-screen gimmicks don't add enough excitement to this one. 
     

  Deep Labyrinth performs a few other basic tricks using the touch screen. You'll find walls that 
 can be knocked down by poking at them a few times, or a hard-of-hearing old man who you're supposed 
 to yell at using the microphone (you can just blow into it, though) . Gimmicks like these seem to 
 crop up just often enough to keep the game from being too tedious. It can still feel like a slog, 
 though, especially in later stages when the combat gets tough and death can come swiftly. While 
 save points are fairly frequent, the repetitive nature of the action means that having to replay 
 even short portions of the mazes can seem oddly discouraging. This is the type of game you want 
 to stop playing for a while whenever you die.  

  Between the two chapters, there's a good amount of dungeon-crawling to be done in Deep Labyrinth, 
 a game that's best played in relatively short bursts and that could keep you busy with casual play 
 for a few days or weeks. However, since neither the combat nor the exploration aspects of the game 
 are particularly good, neither is the overall experience. Nevertheless, if you enjoyed old first-person 
 RPGs like the King's Field series, you'll find some things to like about Deep Labyrinth.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (23 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NardBasket
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Deep Labyrinth is definitely strange. I purchased this for $6.99 used at a Gamestop, and to be 
 honest, i was pleasantly surprised. Though, had i paid $30, that would have been a different story. 
 
  The game is a fairly basic first-person RPG, but the magic system really sets it apart from others 
 in a bad way. Throughout the game you learn countless spells, all of which require drawing very 
 precise lines across a grid to cast. The symbols you form to do this get complicated later on, 
 and not only that but you must also combine symbols to achieve spells needed to advance later on. 
 There is a spell book to reference, though you'll end up doing it so often that using magic at 
 all gets very, very tedious. 
  Some interesting gameplay mechanics that utilize the microphone are used, such as blowing into 
 it to blow dust off something in the game, whistling to your dog, yelling at someone, etc. Some 
 of these are required at obvious times, although sometimes i was stumped as to what to say or do 
 to progress in a place where microphone interaction was required.
  Most of the characters (in the first chapter anyway) are mice, with self-aware dialogue that can 
 be pretty humorous at times, though some of them aren't self-aware or inspired at all, so it kind 
 of feels like multiple people of varying dialogue-writing competency wrote text for the characters. 
 
  While there are a lot of negatives that come to mind while reviewing this, I will say that I am 
 still playing it, so something keeps me coming back. I guess if you appreciate the feel of low-budget 
 games that still have a lot of heart, you'll dig Deep Labyrinth. Though I do suggest finding it 
 used, like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KTGamer1986
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  One day, I was at a local GameStop trying to look for another game for my DS. I actually saw this 
 game on the shelf and the main reason why I actually purchased this game is the fact that it cost 
 me about $10. That night when I got it, I started to become very addicted to it and I really was 
 surprised about playing this game. Though, a few days later, the game itself does get a bit too 
 easy for me and I needed a challenging RPG game for my DS. But at any rate, I don't think that 
 this game is bad, but at the same time, it should've done better than what it has been.
  
  Now, before I actually bought the game myself, I asked the store clerks at GameStop about how good 
 the game is. They did tell me that it is pretty good, but according to my eyes, it basically stands 
 at the "fair rate" of games. 
  
  In the game, where the players would have to use the microphone, I was getting a bit embarrassed 
 at the part where I have to yell at the microphone at some parts of the game. I ended up getting 
 spit on my DS and I started to get a bit mad about it. . .but I guess that it needs to better up 
 the game mechanism and the game granted could've been better. It's pretty good at some points, 
 but later on, the player would notice it would become repetitive and it may end up boring them 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starduke
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  Deep Labyrinth is is a cool game, but it gets repetitive after a while. I can kill the same bad 
 guy only just so many times. The combat does get progressivly harder. But, that just means the 
 bad guys do more damage. You still kill them in basically the same way. I geuss you could call it 
 strafe and slash. You can run around the bad dudes in circles whil hacking at them with your sword. 
 It even works with the bosses! The bad guys do have some interesting models. There are even some 
 great looking dragons in the game. One of the charaters is even a giant pink elephant! This game 
 isn't recommended for gamers who actully want to play a challenging game. It does have some great 
 music in it. You don't even have to unlock it, like you would have to in a Final Fantasy game. 
 But, if you're looking for a game thats good and hard, stick with Final Fantasy. It is a much better 
 game in that area. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark77778
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  FIRST IMPRESSIONS:
  
  Deep Labyrinth is a fantastic game of dungeon crawling proportions... if you even want to call it 
 dungeon crawling. The game uses a brilliant touch screen mechanic which allows you to smite your 
 foes with ease and makes the game feel like an old school maze with RPG elements incorporated. 
 Leveling up is smooth so there's no real grind, and you really just want to swing your sword around 
 at stuff anyways. This is a much better change of pace than something like Etrian Oddessy and Phantasy 
 Star 1 where it's a pain to grind around these impossible mazes and just mash the Fight button 
 until you can get out of the dungeon and on with the story.
  
  Instead, you basically wander around these complex mazes unveiling a story at every boss, save 
 point, and giant talking mouse. These random story bits really drive you to get to the next room 
 to hear more and more of what's going to happen next, and the mazes are sized just right that you'll 
 be at a boss or plot point before you know it. Not to mention the fact that almost every save point 
 has plot information, and there's one per room, so you're always either learning something about 
 the labyrinth, or hearing a funny philosophical line from the talking platypus.
  
  Also, it's not like you're just stuck within a single architecture of a maze. The labyrinths consist 
 of many different geoforms such as grasslands and hills, a spooky forest with death knights, a 
 large palace and an underground labyrinth. However, despite all of these locations and changes 
 of scenery, they're still formed in a labyrinth style and theres' little to no free range exploration 
 to be done.
  
  To top the whole thing off, there are TWO full length adventures to plow through, leaving a HUGE 
 amount of game play time, and a great value to the buyer. The first quest is with Shawn, which 
 is the new DS quest and has a nice appeal and a story about a slowly breaking family, which I found 
 to be very gutsy on the writer's part, as it's a very deep topic to base a story on.
  
  The other story is the original Deep Labyrinth, which was a game for the mobile phone, with new 
 DS touch screen controls and is about 'you' a man and this girl in a crystal who you somehow know 
 from somewhere, but you can't remember where. You then quest in order to try and escape the labyrinth, 
 and find the girl and find out who she is.
  
  BREAKDOWN:
  
  Graphics:
  
  Deep Labyrinth is, unfortunately one of those DS games that tries and sorta fails to get 3D graphics 
 out of the engine. Mind you, this was how the original Deep Labyrinth looked on the mobile, so 
 from the mobile game to the DS the graphics ARE an improvement, and honestly, the graphics could 
 be a lot worse. The 3D effect doesn't work to well on the slimes and regular monsters, but on the 
 larger things like the pink elephant and the dragons, you couldn't have it any other way. Besides, 
 the game itself works within the 3D realm, so it follows that one would have to have 3D graphics. 
 However, the opening cinematic for Shawn's story is in a manga style a la Phoenix Write, and that 
 works in its storytelling context. Still... an Ice spell should look like ice... not like I'm throwing 
 a blue toy construction block at somebody.
  
  For forced graphic choice, and an attempt to do it well, which works in the large scheme of things: 
 7.5/10 Sound F/X: The sound FX sound like cheesy medieval sounds with corny RPG level up sound 
 effects. This works perfectly for the game's context, but one would figure that slashing a slime 
 would sound differently than slashing a butterfly. 7/10
  
  Music: *whistles the Deep Labyrinth theme* Yeah, if you've even put this game into your DS and 
 turned it on, you probably spent a good few minutes not even pressing the TOUCH feather just to 
 listen to the opening song. Deep Labyrinth has some of the best music on the DS and it's an amazing 
 touch for the atmosphere of the game. If you take the Chrono Trigger soundtrack and make it a little 
 more cutesy and cut it down to only a handful of songs just being repeated over and over again 
 you get a BIT of an idea of how the soundtrack in Deep Labyrinth is. It's catchy, but you really 
 wish that there were actually more songs... like one per maze *bricked* 9.5/10
  
  Gameplay and Mechanics:
  
  To start with the mechanics, I just have to say THANK YOU DEEP LABYRINTH 
 FOR MAKING THIS GAME LEFT HANDED ACCESSIBLE! 
  
  Honestly, not enough games do that, and I don't think I would've been able to enjoy the game as 
 much without it. The movement and combat controls are really tight, to a point. Sometimes the game 
 doesn't register the contact made with some of the smaller targets, but usually they don't pose 
 as much damage, or they're nothing that a little fireball spell won't fix anyways.
  
  The spell system is complicated and unique, which means it's great. If you take the time, you can 
 go through the whole game mage style, but it takes a lot of time and memorization like a real spell 
 caster. Me, I just do the occasional spell and swing my sword around because it's easier and faster, 
 but if you like magic you CAN do it. The problem is again though, the spell graphics look kinda 
 odd.
  
  There's then the shield button. I'm sorry, but nobody uses the shield, it's like pressing DEFEND 
 in Final Fantasy... you've gotta be crazy to do it.
  
  Then there's the item slot. The game is smart where it has a very complicated heal spell to pull 
 off, and gives you only so many item slots for heal potions, which you can only use a small number 
 of during combat, but unlimited during exploration. It's brilliant during boss fights and makes 
 it so that you WILL die occasionally.
  
  A final gameplay mechanic though are the traps and death spells. I'm sorry, but holy cheap shot 
 much? It's good, but a pain when you're at the end of pne of the mazes and a death statue shoots 
 a death sphere at you. You can't even kill the statues so it feels like something out of Indiana 
 Jones. These aspects really though are one of the only things that really adds difficulty to the 
 game so as cheap as it is, it's a nessesity to add difficulty.
  
  Nothing new, but everything old done brilliantly save for the cheap death spells that like to come 
 flying at your face every so often: 8.5/10 Story, Content, Characters and Appeal:
  
  This game appeals to the RPGer in me. If you've never been able to get into old school RPGs because 
 they made you dizzy and were boring, or want a simple Oblivion combat style game with great music 
 that you can bust out on those long trips, that you can certainly do worse than Deep Labyrinth. 
 If you just have the urge to play, but don't want anything that's incredibly complicated that you 
 won't be able to get a bit done in the 10 minutes that you have before you have to do something, 
 or need to take a study break, Deep Labyrinth is perfect for that.
  
  Deep Labyrinth also has charm, intrigue and adventure by the bucketload. You'll learn to love all 
 the characters in the game, as you plow through the labyrinth in solitude, you'll find that a giant 
 platypus save point is your best friend when your dog runs off, and the mice become too scared 
 or whiny. Also, be prepared to do some crazy things for those stupid mice in public just to open 
 a door, but it's things like that which makes the game more interesting than your normal dungeon 
 crawler.
  
  The one thing that you shouldn't expect from Deep Labyrinth though, is epciness. Sure, it's deep, 
 but it's also repetitive... very very repetitive. If you can get past repetitiveness and can learn 
 to play the game in moderation, you'll have fun. If you take the game too seriously and don't realize 
 that Hey, this game is all just one big labyrinth and there really isn't an overworld map you'll 
 get angry at this game much too quickly. The thing is though, that the feeling of solitute really 
 does get to you, and makes you wish that there was some sort of interaction hub or cafe to hang 
 out in when you needed to take a crawling break... but then you realize that that's what real life 
 is for, and you put the game down for a bit before getting back to it. I don't know if this is 
 a good thing mind you because it doesn't suck you in as much, but it's not really a bad thing because 
 you WILL pick the game up again afterwards. So this catagory gets a 7/10
  
  So, overall if I average this all out the final score for Atlus's Deep Labyrinth is: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_wadsy
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 6, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This game copped a bashing, and that's because it's very targeted for 'old-school' gamers. We're 
 talking Wizardry/Eye of the Beholder/Dungeon Hack kind of old school here, not someone who thinks 
 old-school means Final Fantasy VII. (Don't get me wrong, I love the FF series, but this isn't anything 
 like it :) )
  
  The story exists purely as motivation for running through the labyrinth, and is much darker and 
 more compelling in Chapter 2. The game does feel a bit short, but if you do the full exploration 
 thing, finding all items/sets etc then it gets much bulkier. Battle never really get difficult, 
 with the exception of a couple of boss battles.
  
  Graphics are nothing special, but they suit the game well. Controls are fun, magic system is good 
 (i had no problems casting during combat) , map is incredibly useful.
  
  My only criticism of any weight is how keys are used. You can only use a key once, and some keys 
 are more useful if you hold onto them, but if you tap a door that need a key it just gets used, 
 with no warning. Slightly annoying.
  
  All in all, good fun dungeon hack, worth the time and money if you enjoy simple hack 'n slash combat. 
 If you want the next Final Fantasy, this isn't it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: two different story modes to play {first chapter: shawn and ace, second chapter: wandering 
 soul} , many magic to get, good controles and duel screen funcion, to 20 hours to play chapter one: shawn 
 and ace, many bosses to fight in your adventure {like BRUNDAL: the two headed guard dog and VIRALL: 
 a monster with a snakes head on a humans body, fun story, many sword and armor upgrades to get. THE 
 BAD POINTS: the levels in second chapter: WANDERING SOUL are most the same, most bosses are looking 
 the same but than with a other color {like dragon bosses and bird bosses, all the bosses are easy 
 to beat {except THETA THE END BOSS of first chapter: shawn and ace, this game is only released in 
 AMERIKA AND JAPAN, many enemy are looking the same to but then with a other color {like slime enemys} , the 
 magic attack dont looking so good. [CONCLUSION] a fun hack and slash dungeon crawler for the ds 
 but a bit to easy at my opinion and second chapter is much bader than first chapter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gammagoat
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This game I thought was O. K. It didn't have the same feel as a true RPG. The game's monsters are 
 repetitive, chests are easy to find and they contain the same things over and over again. It isn't 
 fun with the control style and the way the kirie are supposed to be drawn in reverse of what is 
 expected. This game is not the best on the shelf. If you haven't bought it, don't. If you have, 
 it isn't a total waste. In my opinion, spend an hour trying to beat it, then sell it back to EB 
 games or Game Stop if you made the mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 12, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  I hate to admit that I played this game for way longer than I should have because I kept hoping 
 it would get better, but after 5 hours it never did and I gave up on it.
  
  The gameplay was so easy and simplistic that there was a kind of addicting quality to it, but after 
 several gamepIay sessions I started to realize I was avoiding to use my DS because I didn't want 
 to play it any more, so I knew it was time to stop and give up.
  
  Other than the updated sound and graphics, it reminded me of a game I would program in Basic on 
 my computer 25 years ago. Not really what I want to play on my DS now. Its even too boring just 
 as a simple time-waster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 5.1
Date: Sep 21, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Y'know, this is one of the first times I have to agree with the official review. Deep Labyrinth, 
 while being a decent-looking, smooth-running first-person slasher game for the DS, ends up getting 
 really boring, tedious, and sometimes frustrating, within a few hours of turning it on.
  Finding out how the story ends is pretty much all there is to keep you going, as there are very 
 repetitious dungeons, the same monsters over and over and over, and a battle mechanic completely 
 biased toward swordplay, leaving the potentially interesting magic system in the dust entirely.
 
  I actually tried to play this game as a magic-user, and found myself dying again and again.... pick 
 up the sword, and I sailed through it.
  
  Then again, one could pretty much say the same for Diablo II, and that was a truly magnificent 
 specimen of a game..... its not the mechanics that is the main problem.
  Rather, the problem here is that, although the idea of a first-person fantasy RPG can be found 
 in this game, the execution comes off as though you are going from one little box to another, without 
 any immersion into the world at all. The repetitive wall and floor patterns, combined with the 
 near-absence of interaction with others (besides a few mice standing around who tell you stuff 
 you basically already know) , and it feels a lot like you are running around in a Disney ride lopping 
 the heads off the animatronic characters therein. It is a slogfest through and through, with nothing 
 to look forward to except the next bit of story script after defeating the next boss exactly the 
 same way you defeated the last thousand or so enemies.....
  Top that off with some floors and enemies capable of killing you with one stroke (with some sort 
 of dumb death spell that, even if you cast the counter-spell for, will still kill you once in a 
 while) , and you have yourself a game that is both boring and frustrating at the same time. I didn't 
 really think that was possible, but there you have it.
  If you have seen my other reviews, you know I am usually a total sucker for this type of game, 
 liking ones that nobody else seemed to, simply because the first-person fantasy RPG is my true 
 love as a gamer. This one, though, was just so dull, boring, repetitive, and work-like, that I 
 cannot recommend it unless you absolutely cannot find anything else to play..... frankly, the Pokemon 
 RPG looks to be more fun than this one, despite the inferior graphics.
  About the only things I can say this game has going for it are:
  1) the music is quite good in 
 places, and
  2) there are two rather longish storylines to play through, meaning if you like the tedium this 
 game offers, then you will get your money's worth.
  
  If you are like me, then despite the warnings, you will still want to try this game, seeing as 
 how it *is* a FPS dungeon hack on the DS, after all. Don't say you weren't warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taggerung66
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  I was first very skeptical about this game. The reviews on the game werent looking so hot. Not 
 to mention this game was getting ripped by various Nsiders. By chance I was able to come upon a 
 used copy at EB Games three days after its release. I use Quotation marks because while helping 
 a friend pick out a game for his brothers birthday, I overheard a kid telling an employee that 
 he wanted to trade in a game because it was horrible. Apparently the kid said he played the game 
 for about 10 minutes and decided he had hated it. (Talk about not giving a game a chance!) It turned 
 out the game was Deep Labyrinth so I inquired how much it was used only to find out it was only 
 20 bucks! All the doubt I had about the game seemed to disappear at this point and I decided to 
 jump on the great opportunity to get a gently used game!
  
  Story:
  Deep Labyrinth is actually two games in one. The first chapter is about a young boy named Shawn 
 who is in the car with his parents and his dog Ace. His parents have been arguing a lot lately 
 and are in the midst of a fight when you come into the story. Suddenly the car blows a tire and 
 Shawns dad gets out to access the situation. While they are examining the extent of the tire damage, 
 Ace begins to growl at something coming from a mysterious house which is across the street from 
 where their car has been stalled. Ace begins to run off towards the house then disappears. Shawns 
 parents tell him to stay put and follow Ace up to the house. After a few minutes he begins to worry 
 because his parents have not comeback and decides to go look for them. He walks up to the house 
 and opens the door (This part really got me because who just opens a strangers door!?!?) only to 
 be sucked into a vortex. Shawn opens his eyes and finds himself in a lush steppe and staring at 
 a giant talking mouse. It turns out the labyrinth is actually the place that the un-needed memories 
 of humans go after a person decides the memory is no longer needed. He soon finds out from a giant 
 pink elephant named Vogalt that in order to save his parents he must fight his way through the 
 labyrinth defeating various enemies to save his parents memories from getting erased.
  .
  The Second story is not as complex by any means. It first appeared on Japanese cell phones and 
 is more advanced than the first chapter. The main character in the second story has been sucked 
 into his cell phone somehow and must fight his way through the labyrinth, much like Shawn, in order 
 to escape. Along the way he encounters a young girl who he seems to faintly find familiar. This 
 was one of the major areas the game was criticized on by various reviewers from the game websites. 
 I for one loved the story for some reason. The intrigue of knowing what was going to be revealed 
 next about how the labyrinth worked really kept me going with this game. I was very curious to 
 know how the memory disposal worked. After the midway point I had pretty much been won over by 
 the pink platypus Moccho. I found his comments hilarious and looked forward to seeing him in each 
 area of the labyrinth. Gameplay: This is the area that un-doubtly makes Deep Labyrinth the game 
 it is. The game is primarily touch screen but utilizes the D-Pad as well. The game uses a unique 
 touch screen based attack system. Basically in order to swing your weapon you drag the stylus in 
 the direction you want to swing. You can vary the way you swing the sword my going in different 
 directions. For example for flying enemies you would move the stylus in an upward motion causing 
 Shawn to do sort of an uppercut with the sword. In order to defend you can click the shield icon 
 on the touch screen and go into defensive mode. Now instead of attacking, Shawn will use his shield 
 when you tap the touch screen. Movement left, right, back, and forward is done with the D-pad. 
 If you double tap in any of the directions you can jump left and right. This technique is very 
 handy in battle. Many reviews said this mad playing feel very clunky and reported getting stuck 
 in some places. I never encountered these problems and found the controls very intuitive once you 
 got use to them. Not only do you use the touch screen to control the sword, but to also cast magic 
 spells. I couldnt have thought of a better way of using spells in this game and give the developers 
 props for such a unique but solid design. Basically in order to bring up the spell casting screen 
 you click an icon on the right side of the touch screen to bring up a grid. You then draw various 
 symbols which are known as krike. The spell system will be very familiar to people who have played 
 LostMagic, Taos Adventure: Curse of the Demon Seal, or even Castlevania: Dawn of Sorrow because 
 it uses a drawing system where you will have to draw a symbol in order to cast certain spells. 
 It, however, could learn from those games because it is often very difficult to draw the spells 
 correctly and there is very little room for error. Ive noticed that in other reviews it was brought 
 up that it was sometimes hard to aim the spells. I found this was never a problem. Other than the 
 occasional frustration of not drawing a spell to the perfection the game wanted, I had no complaints 
 with the spell system. Throughout the game youll learn new spells with various elements. (Light, 
 Fire, Ice, etc.)
  . The Touch Screen is also used to access the main menu which shows the spells youve learned and 
 your stats. Its also used to access your pocket which allows you to put 5 items in it for easy 
 access during battle. You cant use items during battle unless they are in your pocket. Graphics:
 
  
  The graphics of Deep Labyrinth are in full 3-D and look very nice for the most part. There are 
 some very impressive full motion videos at the beginning that are top notch. The mice within the 
 labyrinth, along with Moccho, are very detailed and look very nice. The environments at first are 
 pretty nice but after spending some time with the game they begin to get repetitive and plain. 
 They kind of reminded me of a screen saver I use to have on my old PC back in 1997. Probably my 
 biggest gripe with this game is the seemingly lack of effort to improve the environments from the 
 cell phone version. Overall though, the graphics werent a big factor in the experience with the 
 game.
  
  Sound:
  
  One of the best aspects of the game was its awesome music. The music was done by renowned composer 
 Yasunori Mitsuda who is known for composing the music for Chrono Trigger, Chrono Cross, Xenosaga, 
 and Mario Party. Each environment had a unique, catchy music that never seem to get tiresome. In 
 fact, I enjoyed entering certain areas because of the music. Overall the music is hands down the 
 greatest accomplishment of this game. Top notch.
  
  Replay Value/Tilt:
  
  With two chapters to complete, Deep Labyrinth will give you plenty to do. It took me over 13 hours 
 to complete the first and about 18 to complete the second chapter. Altogether, there is about 30 
 hours of solid labyrinth wandering fun. After beating each chapter once it really doesnt give 
 you much incentive to play it again. Your file just clears and you are taken to the beginning of 
 the labyrinth once again.
  
  Summary:
  
  Deep Labyrinth is an overlooked game which, like a lot of the smaller budget games, got the shaft 
 by various reviewers. The touch screen controls work very fluently and shows why they made this 
 for the DS. It really is an enjoyable experience for those willing to give it time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QuErKy1231
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 11, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  this game is really good and even though its a DS game. while it isnt a true rpg like morrowind 
 where u can do whatever u want to it still provides a good sense of self coontrol. mainly what 
 caught my eye was the control scheme, most games u mash buttons as fast as u can but in Deep Labirynth 
 most of the combat magic and item use is all stylus. this allows for way more variety and the cool 
 spells that u draw. i also liked the story line although ch 1 was a beat weak in terms of drama 
 it had action. then ch 2 had tons of drama hrouded in mystery and even more action. plus all of 
 the items weapons armor shields and spells make for some sweet comebos like the falcon armor and 
 shield with the lvl 90 cursed sword u can walk through a dungeon 1 hitting everything and take 
 maybe 5 pts of damage, then toss on the moon pilnus in ch 1 and ur healed in 5 sec. pretty sweet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Knight6
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Deep Labyrinth is definetley one of those unapreciated games. There are two stories two play through. 
 The main one is Shawn & Ace. Which focuses on a boy who gets pulled into a mansion after his parents 
 disappear. He finds out that he is in a world were unwanted memories are erased. Shawn ventures 
 to find his parents and dog and return home. The Second stories, Wandering Sould, Focuses on a 
 boy who was pulled into his cell-phone. He fights off a skeleton with a sowrd he found stuck in 
 a stone platform. He finds a crystal and girl appears in it. He recognizies her but she cant remember 
 who he is. He ventures to find answers and also make his way home.
  
  The gameplay in both stories is exacley identical. There are five small squares on the right of 
 the screen that allow to enter menues and select sword, magic, shield, or items. You use the touch 
 screen to fight with the sword. You also use it to draw runes on a gride and cast magic. The magic 
 is oversensitve and requires you to be very presice to cast spells. The biggest flaw in Deep Labyrinth 
 is the controls. It is very hard to turn while walking. And the turning is very slow, leaving you 
 open to attack. The lock-on system was also flawed. As soon as you lock on to something, you swing 
 in a cricle to direcley face it. This causes you to become disoriented and leaves to be attacked. 
 Deep Labyrinth had the potenial to be and AAA game but its few flaws stoped it. Maybe next time, 
 Atlus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 27, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is getting a lot of bad press, and while it isn't the best DS game out there, it tries 
 something that no one else had done yet; putting you into a first person slasher.
  The story follows a character whose family is going out for a drive. The parents are really at 
 their wits' ends with eachother, and they always argue (according to the narrator) . Then, the car 
 engine stalls in front of a creepy mansion. As the father and son get out to fix it, the dog, Ace, 
 runs off into the house. The parents go to look for him, and eventually the narrator goes to look 
 for them. He gets sucked into a world where humans don't exist, but their memories that aren't 
 important are disposed of. After a talk with a floating, pink elephant, you start your journey.
 
  The game features repetitve, maze like levels with poorly easy bosses at the end. For the most 
 part, you can just run circles around them and slash. The magic system is painful to use, and (thankfully) 
 needn't be used often. Most of the time, your sword will work just fine against fair amounts of 
 enemies. The movement is similar to an RE game, in that the controls call for forward to mean forward, 
 and back to mean backward. Left and right control turning in their repective directions.
  While the game is pretty repetitive, it does so in a fun way. Enemies are dumb as doorknobs, though, 
 and are more appropriately called "obstacles" than enemies. The game's graphics look unpolished, 
 but it is ok. The story is the truly compelling part to this underchallenging game.
  On a final note, this game is just too easy. There is no real challenge until much later in the 
 game. Still, this is more fun than you are led to believe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carl326
Rating: 1.7
Date: Aug 26, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Terrible game that was thought to be promising but instead it's just some lame first person view 
 game and the battle system is the worst action rpg system ever. The battle system is quite different 
 but annoying since when you're fighting with your sword against a monster you use your touch screen 
 stylus in order to swing the sword in a certain direction which seems good but than again it's 
 kind of stuffed up cause even when your not hitting the monster it still gets damaged and when 
 the monster suddenly dies you can't really tell until you see the monster shrink and die or just 
 fall a few seconds later. The music is alright but a bit unique in a good way. The style of art 
 of this game is just really old like. Story line of the game is just REPETITIVE and gets really 
 annoying the npc's don't even give you much clues to what your suppose to do and it just gets boring.
 
  
  This game was just a waste of time and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle360
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 29, 2006 12:23 am PT
Review:  First, to give this game the rating it deserves, you must play the whole game so you can see how 
 good it actually is. Because if you only play like the first 3 hour, you might think is should've 
 been an 8 or 9 like I use to think. I think the game got what it deserves because it just too repetitive. 
 Besides being too repetitive, you get a bunch of un-useful treasures and items. Every dungeon you 
 enter looks the same all the way through: huge, long, narrow and exactly the same. That pretty annoying 
 and boring. Casting spells aren't fun. The monsters aren't that great of a challenge and the bosses 
 are extremely easy. No challenge at all. The story is pretty weak and the ending sucks. The music 
 was ok. The graphics were the nice part about this game, but could've been a lot better. Just look 
 at metroid ds. This game could've been way better, like an 8/10, if the dungons weren't narrow, 
 but open, like a cave were you can move around with more freedom. Also making the game with a little 
 or more darker colors might have improve the resolution by a lot. They could've also made the controls 
 better, like moving with the d-pad and aiming with the buttons and the sword button could be on 
 the right shoulder button and the shield on the left shoulder button. They should've emit the way 
 you cast the spells because its sore of hard and lame. Instead, you should simply choose the attacks 
 from the touch screen. And about the monsters, they could've made some sick looking ones, not lame 
 ones that you don't even know what the hell they are. Over all, i'm very glad that they try, but 
 they could've done a lot better. So 6.3 sounds right to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Deep Labyrinth may not be original, it may not have an elegant user interface, and it may not win 
 any awards for story telling. What it does have is the purity of a dungeon hack. It's a game that 
 gives you area after area to clear with the incentive of leveling your weapons and character and 
 of gaining new stuff: Weapons, potions, and armor. One peculiar thing about Deep Labyrinth is that 
 it's one of those games where you have to switch modes a lot. Want to block: Switch modes. Want 
 to use your sword: Switch modes. Oh, want to case a spell: Switch modes. All this mode switching 
 means you sometimes are in the middle of one thing, like whacking away at an enemy with your sword, 
 but if you now want to cast a spell, you have to switch modes, draw the spell with your pen, then 
 click the Attack button to cast it. To say this is cumbersome is an understatement. It's really 
 just pure stupidity.
  
  You can play Deep Labyrinth without using magic or potions if you wish. You can really just whack 
 away at every enemy with your sword and wait to be healed when you character levels or when you 
 save. That approach seems to work just fine.
  
  You won't find random encounters in Deep Labyrinth although enemies do regenerate when you leave 
 and return an area. The game is pretty repetitive and there's not much story to it. Also, NPCs 
 are boring and generally not very interesting to talk to.
  
  Why buy Deep Labyrinth then? There's no good RPGs on the DS and this is the best we have right 
 now. It makes good use of both screens, has decent mapping, has good graphics, and is relatively 
 fun. I recommend it although there's probably a better use of your $35.00.
  
  Gord_Mose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kilikfire
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  Like the heading says, there's so much creativity in this game, it spews out like diarrhea and 
 it's extremely fun. 
  You start the game driving in a car with your bickering parents and your beloved Husky, Ace. You 
 are Shawn, an ordinary sixth-grader. Soon, however, the car gets a flat tire. Ace runs out of the 
 car and goes into a huge mansion. Your parents tell you to stay put and go after Ace. After a while 
 of waiting, you follow them. As soon as you step indoors, you're sucked into a vortex and end up 
 on a floating island. You see Ace and begin to follow him. Ace dissapears out of sight and you 
 are stopped by a giant pink elephant that stands erect on two legs. He tells you that this is Eden, 
 a place where all memories are stored and purged. He also imforms you that you are not welcome 
 and that you must leave. He then flies away. You are determined to find Ace and your parents, so 
 you keep on walking. You then step into a portal and are transported to a large grassy plain. The 
 rest is up to you.
  Graphics wise, this game is pure eye-candy. I honestly can't find anything wrong with them. The 
 enemies are detailed and the environments are huge and colorful. Bosses take up two screens and 
 require your upmost attention and skill.
  Controls are a bit wonky at first, but you can get used to them really fast. Up is to walk forward, 
 down is to walk back, and left and right trun you side to side. (there's also a setting for lefties) 
 The rest is completely controlled by the touch-screen.
  The music is awesome, ranging from peaceful melodies to heart-stopping action music. You can also 
 hear your own footsteps and magic as you cast it.
  This game will last you an enormously long time, as there are two chapters in it. I've been describing 
 chapter one, but chapter two is more mature and much harder. (It's a port of the Japanese cell 
 phone game with enhanced controls and better graphics)
  Labyrinths in this game are HUGE, often taking hours at a time. Luckily, there is a save point 
 on every floor of the labyrinth, so you won't be caught turning the system off without saving. 
 
  Shawn levels up as he battles, and he also learns new spells along the way. His weapons also upgrade 
 themselves, become more and more powerful. One cool feature is being able to cast a speel on your 
 sword, making it much stronger. (Example: Casting Kludos (Ice) on your Sword will envelop your sword 
 in a brilliant blue light) 
  This game's difficuly is perfect, making it easily accesible from all ages. This game won't appeal 
 to everyone, but if you like dungeon-crawlers, look no further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitman_killer7
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Deep Labyrinth is a true hack n' slash game. Ill start quick with the problems; first and most 
 important, the controls, the controls arent actually all that bad, the only lil bad part is when 
 you are trying to move diagonly, it sometimes gets hard or kinda buggish i really dont know how 
 to explain it, and sometimes you have to go through an area, and there is a person to the side, 
 and then you cant go through because that person on the side is there, and you have to try like 
 5 times and then you finally make it. And the second is the graphics, DS could have done better 
 with graphics, but over all, its still fine, and you can tell whats what. Overall though, the game 
 is fun and exciting, and also, there are 2 scenerios :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jessman1988
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 23, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  Presentation
  Very polished except for the first video (choppy) . America got a bonus second quest which adds 
 much to the game. It actually feels like the developers TRIED while making this title. Graphics
 
  Lush, beautiful, vivid. In-game cutscenes tend to get a bit choppy frame-rate wise, but this is 
 a better looking game on the DS. Some models look PSP quality! The GFX aren't too grainy and look 
 nice.
  Sound
  Nice soundtrack made by composer from Chrono Cross and Xenosaga. Voice-acting kinda missing after 
 intro, but sound is decent and music is memorable. Kinda repetitive in spots, but it works.
  Gameplay
  Clunky in parts, but supports left-handed control so I'm happy. Hack n'slash, touch-screen 
 spells, collect treasure, level up, get weapons, explore plains and dungeons. Great if you like 
 classic RPGs.
  Lasting Appeal
  Long, hidden paths, 2nd quest, classic gameplay with unique twists. Not as bad as IGN says. Completely 
 worth your while if you have a DS a feel the need for a GOOD RPG. Just dive into it!
  
  Anyways, read up on the game if you want all of the info. I just wanted to share my personal thoughts 
 on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValKilmerStyle
Rating: 7.4
Date: Aug 26, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I think it's worth noting before anything else that I've never played any other first-person RPG's 
 (King's Field, Wizardry, etc.) , so I'm not going to be comparing this game with any of those. Instead 
 I'm going to say this: any opinions you had or have formed about Deep Labyrinth are not going to 
 change upon playing it. If you think it looks cool then you'll probably have a good time with it, 
 and if you think it looks lame then just stay away. There's nothing in this game that's going to 
 sway you one way or another. Basically, it boils down to this: if you've ever played and loved 
 a Gauntlet or Baldur's Gate game, this one's worth picking up.
  
  The game starts you out with a short cutscene (which actually looks pretty good) depicting you 
 and your family getting sucked into a portal hidden away within a mansion. Shortly thereafter you 
 get a sword and begin your quest to find your parents and your dog inside the 'labyrinth' you've 
 landed in. Each floor of the labyrinth has its own theme to it, and after defeating a boss you'll 
 descend to a different floor.
  
  This is pretty much your typical dungeon crawler. You kill monsters to level up, you find new armor 
 and spells, you proceed to new areas of the labyrinth. Again, for fans of the genre this is perfectly 
 OK, but to everyone else this is going to seem boring. Your character levels up based on how you 
 play as well, meaning that if you're a tank your HP will increase more and if you're a magic user 
 your MP will increase more. You're probably not going to go through the game five times just to 
 create different characters, but it does add little replay value. Most of the levels in the labyrinth 
 are laid out pretty well. Each has its own set of rooms, and by the time you've seen all there 
 is to see in one area you've picked up a key or a new spell that will lead you to a new one. Most 
 of the music in the game is pretty good too, even if the quality isn't that great. The soundtrack 
 is diverse and epic, and even though the tracks are all repeated too often they still work well. 
 
  
  The interface also works well. You're given icons on the screen to toggle between your sword, magic, 
 and shield, and its actually very easy to switch between any of these quickly. The magic system 
 is simplistic, but very effective. While in your magic mode you draw shapes to cast spells and 
 press an attack icon to use them. After a little practice you will become pretty adept at using 
 the game's numerous magics. A few parts of the game also have you blowing/shouting into the microphone, 
 and although this isn't all that relevant to the gameplay, its still fun. There's also a second 
 quest in the game that's a little harder, but the same basic rules apply.
  
  Getting your character around takes some getting used to. Controlling with the D-pad and attacking 
 with the stylus is too reminiscent of the FPS's of old. That scheme was great a decade ago, but 
 now it feels clunky. The lock-on system is weird too, since you can only lock-on to an enemy at 
 very close range, and if you back up too far you'll lose your lock. This mostly presents a problem 
 while casting spells, since many spells will miss without being locked-on to a target. However, 
 while maintaining a lock your control switches and allows you to strafe around your enemy. This 
 seems whole scheme seems broken at first, but after about an hour you should have it down and movement/combat 
 won't be a problem.
  
  The game's graphics are very much like those you would expect from a cell phone port. The textures 
 and environments all look a little sad and repetitive, and many of your enemies are simply recycled 
 with new colors. Fortunately the character models have been touched up and look nice, and the FMV 
 sequences are easy on the eyes. The sound effects are also a pain to listen to, and take away from 
 an enjoyable musical score. I should mention, although it really makes no difference to me, that 
 the story in the game is stupid, although it won't ruin your experience with the game.
  
  When you put everything together, Deep Labyrinth really comes out to be pretty fun. There's nothing 
 original here, except that it's the first first-person RPG on the DS, but it brings all the elements 
 of a good RPG together and makes it entertaining. Anyone out there who's a sucker for games that 
 take advantage of the DS's unique features (like me) might be interested in this. People who are 
 looking for a straight up dungeon crawler are going to be able to look past all of its flaws and 
 have a great time with it. Everyone else just isn't going to get it, but that's fine. Deep Labyrinth 
 is obviously geared towards fans of the genre, and in that respect, it doesn't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runboy81
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  Yes it is true. This was ported from a mobile cellphone game to the nds. This has the same graphics. 
 However, compared to the cellphone version, some added enviroment graphics has been added to give 
 it more of a 'DS' game standard graphics. Not to mention it pretty much lagged more on the cellphone 
 version than it does on the DS. Anyways, back to the actual game.
  
  First impression I got of the game was 'old pc rpgs'. It's basically an fps view with hack n slash 
 with a hard to reach quick item slots and useless spells. You will 90% of the game just be doing 
 the same attack movements over and over again on all the enemies. But yet it fits to my liking 
 precisely. Im having tons of fun exploring (in the beginning very linear world) and killing monsters. 
 You will not be killing the same monsters over and over again for endless hours. So encountering 
 a new enemy rather quickly as you do here, gives a nice fresh feeling to it rather than killing 
 the same slime over and over again.
  
  As for game play, it has the same movement as 'doom'. You won't be able to have the fully 3d view 
 such as you would have in a game like mph. The controllers are a bit 'muddy', as it will 'stick' 
 and acceleration of the char is not the best. But it works. As for attacks, you are able to perform 
 different sword attacks depending on your char movement or stylus movement. But you won't even 
 care about that after the first 10min as you will just hack hack hack everything mostly doing the 
 same movement over and over again.
  There is a shield and well... you will most likely never use it more than a few times during the 
 entire game and just be doing random dodge moves instead. Spell casting might be similiar to a 
 game like lost magic you would think, as you will have to draw a particular pattern to perform 
 a spell. But it is really ineffective to change to spells, draw the spell and then click on attack 
 to actually perform the spell during a attack. So spells is pretty much out of the question as 
 well other than for opening doors, defense spells and healing.
  It may sound more negative than positive in the end, but really. It's basic but lots of fun.
 
  
  Not much to say about the music, it's wonderful and composed by the same that did chrono trigger. 
 It has it's weak points but overall wonderful and fits the game nicely.
  
  As final, I would def recommend this to people that did enjoy oldstyle pc rpgs and is open minded. 
 It even get's better after about an hour into the game and really now. Don't let those other reviews 
 intimidate you. Im from the old pc rpg era and i've played alot worse games than this. This will 
 def keep you entertained if you want it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I now relized how bad this game is after playing it after a long time of not playing it. DL has 
 ambiton but that only gets you so far. The leavles are limted and coated in fog. Sword fighting 
 is often slow and clunkey. Spell casting is trublesome. it seemed more like your being tested than 
 any thing else. Atlus wants to know how long can one person put up with clunky gamepaly, boring 
 fogey leavels, dumb AI, and door opening. Sounds like fun? The storey unfolds at such a slwo pace 
 you have to put up with a lot just to get it going any were good. The music is alright but loops 
 way to often. Boss fights are huge and can be some what fun at times. Puzzels are quarkey and use 
 the touch screen and mic. There are two games and last a good leanth. But how much punishment can 
 you handel? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linksdeity
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This game does perfectly what any great adventure game should do. It crams a butt load of knowledge 
 into your head, and than lets you lose to explore, battle, and uncover the plentiful mysteries 
 which lie in... Deep Labyrinth!
  
  Anyone who has played games like Elder Scrolls, Eternal Ring, or even Wizardry will feel right 
 at home with this games style of play. Tack on some touch screen controls, mic. use, and an extra 
 screen, and there you have it.
  
  The controls themselves are the only negative in this adventure, namely attacking. The Lock-On 
 system could've been a little more refined, and the swings can be difficult to "layer" one after 
 another. If these minor issues don't bother you, (and honestly they shouldn't) , than your good 
 to go.
  
  The games environments are beautiful, especially for the DS. Everything is highly detailed, from 
 characters, enemies, right down to your own weapons. Though the game starts off in a series of 
 repetitive fields, in which you must pass simple tasks in order to proceed, anyone with at least 
 a small idea of what they are doing will get past this minor inconvenience in no time at all, and 
 enter the labyrinth itself.
  
  One of the best parts of this game is the music. Composed by legendary video game music producer 
 Yasunori Mitsuda, you can rest assured that every song in the game sounds natural, beautiful, and 
 conveys exactly what emotion the game developers had in mind.
  
  What starts out as a slow, and seemingly cumbersome learning experience will undoubtedly turn into 
 an addictive and fun adventure for anyone who picks up this title, which i highly recommend.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
