-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dementium: The Ward
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/dementiumtheward/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incredible, atmospheric sound design.
 Fantastic graphics with no slowdown.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dull, repetitive level design.
 Poorly implemented save system.
 Short and has absolutely no replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 470 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Gamecock Media Group
Developer: Renegade Kid
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Oct 26, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dementium is a handheld mixture of Doom and Silent Hill that is about as scary as a game played 
 on a 3-inch screen on the bus can be. 

  Is it possible to be legitimately spooked by a handheld game? Console games have been designed 
 to make use of the home field advantages of having a large screen and complete control over lighting 
 to enhance the experience for years, but when you're playing on a tiny screen on the bus, can the 
 experience compare? The answer, as proven by FPS-with-a-dash-of-survival horror Dementium: The 
 Ward, is a resounding yes, though its inherent flaws prevent it from truly becoming that which 
 it aspires to be.  

  Dementium tells the twisted tale of a man who wakes up in the bed of a monster-infested hospital 
 after taking a wheelchair trip from hell. You will navigate him through the worn halls of the massive 
 building and try to piece together who he is and why he's there as you battle zombies, parasitic 
 worms that wail like babies, and the occasional cleaver-wielding demon. The game is divided into 
 a series of chapters that for the most part correlate to the various floors of the hospital. Chapters 
 vary greatly in length -- some are as short as a minute or two and others last as long as half an 
 hour -- and are often punctuated by short, tightly directed cutscenes that introduce new enemies 
 or shed new light on the protagonist's identity and past. At several points in your journey you 
 will encounter a powerful boss, such as the aforementioned cleaver-wielding demon, that will tax 
 your skill and supply of ammo in a climactic battle.  

           Apparently, creepy little girls are still a staple of modern horror.      

  The gameplay 
 itself is very much a mixture of Doom and Silent Hill that combines some of the best elements of 
 each for a fairly straightforward horror experience. Early on, you will find a flashlight to light 
 your way through the pitch-black corridors, and as you navigate through the twisted hospital two 
 melee weapons and five guns will become available. Dementium is essentially a traditional FPS in 
 terms of action and control, but thanks to the sparse placement of ammo, combat becomes more of 
 a fight-or-flight scenario than a matter of deciding which of your weapons are going to splatter 
 your enemy. Unfortunately, while you apparently have the physical dexterity to use larger weapons 
 with both hands, you lack the rudimentary skill to use the flashlight simultaneously with a weapon, 
 leading to situations in which you must quickly toggle back and forth between your guns and your 
 flashlight to see what you're shooting at.  

  In addition to running and gunning, a number of puzzles are thrown in that range from a simple 
 substitution cipher to a complex treasure hunt for three pieces of a photograph to learn a door 
 code. You have access to a notepad to scrawl clues or hints in, but the various maps you find inexplicably 
 don't allow this. While the map system borrows a page from Silent Hill's playbook and keeps track 
 of doors that are locked or broken (which is nearly all of them, also like Silent Hill) , it does 
 not keep track of the many blocked-off corridors you will encounter, and the ability to self-notate 
 these would have been welcome.  

  Dementium shines the most in terms of presentation, most notably in the area of sound design. It 
 is imperative that you play it with headphones, because listening to the audio clues provided by 
 the 3D sound system is essential in determining what is around the corner. Each enemy makes a unique 
 sound, and often, as is the case with the flying Medusa heads, a brief audio warning is all you'll 
 get before you're attacked. In addition to enemy sound effects, certain rooms are filled with intensely 
 creepy noises such as children's singing and phrases spoken backward. An appropriately moody and 
 ambient soundtrack composed of mostly piano pieces rounds out the audio front and contributes greatly 
 to the sense of isolation and desperation that wandering around in a darkened hospital will produce. 

  Graphically speaking, Dementium runs at a crisp frame rate that never dips despite the number of 
 enemies or atmospheric effects that may show up simultaneously. Textures are incredibly high-quality 
 given the DS hardware, and the flashlight produces a realistic effect, even flickering occasionally, 
 and is appropriately useless in fog to help heighten the mood.  

           It's close to midnight, and something evil's lurking in the dark...      

  Unfortunately, 
 for every step that Dementium takes in the right direction toward producing an excellent horror 
 experience on a handheld system, it is held back by a series of flaws that undermine its achievements. 
 Level design is incredibly repetitive, and it's not uncommon to find several completely identical 
 storerooms down the same hallway; enemies respawn the moment you exit a room, and so that zombie 
 on the other side of the door that scared you the first time will be there every time, minimizing 
 the fear factor in subsequent visits; and the poorly implemented save system, which forces you 
 to restart at the beginning of the chapter upon death despite saving each time you open a door, 
 is counterproductive given that forced replays through lengthy chapters all but eliminates the 
 horror and replaces it with frustration.  

  Ultimately, Dementium: The Ward is an entertaining shooter that makes great strides in creating 
 a portable horror experience but holds itself back from really accomplishing what it set out to 
 do. Easily beatable in four to five hours by an accomplished player, its static puzzles and enemy 
 placement leave no reason to run through it again, but its memorable sound design and creepy ambience 
 make it well worth a play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (51 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Faithbringer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:25 pm PT
Review:  For many times, consoles and portables have been trying to apply the First Person Shooter Genre 
 in pair with the PC, some have managed to get closer, others not that far, but neverless Dementium: 
 The Ward arrives on DS makes such exclusive title worthwhile for the plataform:
  
  Graphics 9/10: I will be honest to you reader when i say that so far, i NEVER saw such hardware 
 use on DS on any title (even Metroid Prime Hunters wouldn't got so far) . The Graphics are creepy, 
 giving the small feeling that indeed you are in a gloomy place, having many blood splattered on 
 the wall, corpses and remains on the background, and a solid 3D visuals with descent effects and 
 stuff. The monsters design are amazing and well animated, looking indeed like many horror CG's 
 that you see in PSX early games, showing off what truly the DS can handle without the loadtimes 
 that would like to be present in such game. So far the only bad thing in this concept is that the 
 scenarios still show some pixels even at a reasonable distance, not that it breaks the game in, 
 but since the designers cared for a horror blurry experience they could have refined a bit, but 
 that's minor for the game overall picture.
  
  Sound 9/10: Despite sometimes feels repetitive, the soundtrack is very suitable for the atmosphere 
 of the game, not only it's oriented to give the player the sense of being indeed trapped inside 
 a hellhole but also makes the tension going up allied with the sound effects. These one's by the 
 way are realistic at the point that you just by hearing the most insignificant "screech" makes 
 you take out you weapon to check you surrondings fearing somehow for a backstab, since the most 
 unworthy zombie to the most massive ogrelike butcher you met so far. Pitty that you are in a handheld 
 to receive a truly shock, but still impresses for it's design.
  
  Gameplay 8/10: Using a combination of both Stylus and the D-Pad, the game makes a good mix of both, 
 relying on the first to make the look on the surrondings and interact with your status window and 
 the last for the walking/strafe/Shoot. It takes a bit time for starters to adapt, expecially given 
 to the game circunstances. Dementium counts with a standard FPS arsenal of weapons that cames with 
 pistols, shotguns, and feel more "no fictional" stuff that might please those who seek something 
 "possible". There's some meachanisms and puzzles through the game that makes you need not only 
 to use a good stylus interaction but also a memory to any details in the level that could help 
 you pass throught locks and misteries as you go deeper in your "quest".
  
  Replay 7/10: This is the only flaw that you can get for the title. The game is somehow short (you 
 can finish it in less than 6 hours) , also the enemies rooster is somewhat limited, as you face 
 many of the same throught the first couple of levels untill it expands reasonable. Since is a linear 
 story with no unlockable content neither multiplayer support you have to stick with the main plot 
 that looks vague at first but soon as you manage to get the pieces together it becomes more clear 
 and deep showing what's truly happening.
  
  Overall 8,5/10: Dementium: The Ward is really an impressive game given the DS limitations, giving 
 a decent linear story and good gameplay. Despite it lacks of extra content, still makes a great 
 pick for those who seek to evade the "family friendly" DS clich and plunging in something more 
 mature and tense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeShatteredSky
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Dementium: The Ward is (as everybody just loves to put it) like a mixture of Doom 3 and Silent 
 Hill. While definitely not as scary as those said games, this tries something a bit different that 
 we don't usually see on the DS. Mixing good atmosphere and even better sound design, players are 
 treated to a unique horror adventure through a hellish hospital.
  
  Okay. The whole "hospital" setting has been done many times before, but here it fits and gets the 
 job done. You start off waking up inside this place with no memory of who you are or why you're 
 being held. Leaving the room shortly after regaining consciousness, you are greeted by a big, nasty 
 beast dragging a hopeless human being away. Immediately after witnessing the bloody scene you obtain 
 a flashlight. From there things begin to escalate as you try to shoot your way out using an abundance 
 of weapons, as well as solving the occasional puzzle along the way. The game controls as you would 
 expect: touchscreen to aim and interact with the environment, control pad for moving, and shoulder 
 buttons for shooting. Overall, good stuff!
  
  Looks are a high point for this title! Everything moves at a very smooth clip, and no matter how 
 many enemies are displayed at once the game maintains a nice framerate. Though halls begin to repeat, 
 this is still one good lookin' game!
  
  Sound is yet another high point. Erie sounds can be heard all throughout the hospital, and each 
 monster you encounter has a different moan or groan that sets them apart. Sound effects for the 
 weapons are also good, and there's some good voice acting here and there. The musical score is 
 creepy and fits the overall tone. If sound in a game is a big deal to you, then this will not disappoint!
 
  
  Now even though it's got alot going for it, this game isn't without it's flaws. First of all, the 
 save points. Their too few and far between. And the rise in difficulty at the later portions of 
 the game can make things quite frustrating, especially towards the end.
  
  Another problem is the constant respawning of monsters. Where as in some other games if you dispatch 
 an enemy and leave the room, then come back, chances are that foe you crossed earlier isn't gonna 
 be there. Not the case here. If you wipe out a whole room of monsters, then leave the room and 
 forget an important item and have to backtrack, all that ammo you spent previously will have been 
 for nothing. The enemies automaticly spawn every time you enter or exit a room, and this can make 
 deaths feel a little cheap at times.
  
  And the last chink in the armor is the plot. This game had so much potential for a great storyline, 
 and what were left with is a couple cutscenes that don't explain much. Also the ending was kind 
 of a let down after having to endure so much in hope of getting some answers. Unfortunately, you're 
 just left with a "that's it?" sort of reaction once every thing is said and done.
  
  Even with these flaws though, this is still a game worth trying out if you're into the whole survivor 
 horror thing. It won't spook you, and there's not much in the way of replay value, but if you're 
 on the lookout for a shooter with some great sound design backed up with some solid atmosphere, 
 then Dementium: The Ward will be more than happy to take you in as one of their patients!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoombiemaster93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Dementium the Ward... A scary title for a little machine. It is scary, and does what few games 
 do. Scares you. Many people think no no this schtuff ain't scary but you'd be surprised. The first 
 time I heard, not saw, heard the banshees, i almost crapped myself. My advice is rent this bad 
 boy and if you like it, buy it for the meager 5 bucks its selling for these days. And seriously, 
 who doesn't want to pwn the frickin insano zombie in a wheelchair with a gattling cannon on his 
 arm? That boss fight is totally worth it. Anywho, the story spans a path of a mad mans experiment 
 and has many explanations for the ending. It has pretty cool graphics, but fails to deliver multiple 
 enemies. Also, there are some parts in the story that just don't add up. Fortunately no cheesy 
 resident evil lines here like i'm sorry but it appears that your party has been cancelled. In fact, 
 no talking at all really. But sound is the key part in this game, and it packs a punch. Hearing 
 those blasted worms before seeing them is pretty frightening and the half zombies are pretty gruesome. 
 So please, read this, play the game, try to understand. The ending isn't self explanatory so you'll 
 need to use that brain of yours to figure it out. I have, so can you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FelisLeo1980
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 28, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  Dementium is a first person survival horror game on the DS and it's actually quite a nice effort 
 in bringing some horror on a hand-held form.
  
  Something terrible has happened and you wake up in a mental institution. Supposedly there's been 
 a mutiny or something, since there seems to be no one around. It's now up to you to start exploring 
 and trying to stay alive. Story is very typical in this genre of games, but on a hand-held it's 
 not so common. Story is told through text and in-game cutscenes: it works quite well.
  
  Graphics are about the same quality as in Metroid Prime: Hunters, which is to say functional 3D 
 environments. But since the game takes place in a mental institution almost everything looks grey 
 and dark. Sound design has seen some effort in creating a scary mood and in a way it succeeds to 
 do just that. It's very advisable to play Dementium with headphones on.
  
  Controls are slow and clunky, but that's not a problem as long as you're doing the best aspect 
 in this game: exploring. It's fun and interesting to just look around and find some old newspapers 
 and wall writings while listening the different sound effects and music. Unfortunately combat is 
 a big part of Dementium and this is where the fun stops. Control scheme is not suitable for fast-paced 
 first person combat and it's just frustrating.
  
  In summary Dementium is a nice effort to bring survival horror to a hand-held gaming console, but 
 they should have focused on the exploring aspect or change the control scheme to something similar 
 as in Metroid Prime: Hunters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Amazing graphical feat for the DS, spooky atmosphere, creepy enemies, horrifying bosses, 
 great control scheme
  
  The Bad: Weird lighting effects, terrible map, maze like hallways, scarce ammo and health make 
 things harder, respawning enemies, confusing puzzles, confusing story, brutal save system
  
  Boy do I love this game... actually I hate this game and love it at the same time. This is probably 
 one of the best looking DS games out there right now with this FPS survival horror running at 60 
 FPS it's fast, smooth, and very creepy. Yes, the game is actually creepy kind of like Silent Hill 
 creepy. The game is full of weird monsters, mind boggling puzzles, and creepy atmosphere and ambiance.
 
  
  The game controls really well, but the actual size of the DS makes your wrists cramp up and go 
 numb all the time. If you've played Metroid Prime: Hunters then you know the whole set up, but 
 if you haven't then I'll tell you. You move your reticule around with the stylus so this feels 
 real and also makes things a lot easier (yeah PSP!) while you move around with the A, B, X, Y (if 
 you're left handed) or the D-pad (if you're right handed) . You have your inventory right under 
 your health bar (which is your heart monitor) so you can just touch the weapons you want on the 
 fly and this makes combat easy and fast.
  
  While the game play is pretty straight forward (double tap B or Up to run) you just run around 
 shooting the weird monsters and solve the annoying puzzles. Yes I said annoying because the hallways 
 all look the same and it's easy to get lost in the labyrinthine buildings and hallways with a terrible 
 map and no sense of direction. This is not good since your wrists are cramping and going numb while 
 you hold it in 20 different positions. The map is just a bunch of lines with yellow dots for doors 
 and there's no way to tell where you have been. You can write on your notepad and leave notes, 
 but this proves useless for the map and only good to jot down clues and codes for keypads.
  
  The whole level design is just stupidly annoying with fallen over vending machines, desks, 
 chairs and anything else a hospital has blocking hallways and doors so you have to find your way 
 around EVERYTHING. Since you lose track of where you were last you'll tear your hair out because 
 of the retarded save system and this kills the whole game. You'll spend a good 20 minutes on one 
 level and then die because there are 10 enemies coming after you and you only have 3 bullets. Dying 
 forces you to restart the ENTIRE chapter all over again even when you at the boss fight at the 
 end of the chapter. I really tried loving this game since I absolutely adore survival horror games 
 and I'm very very forgiving with them (read my Alone in the Dark review) so I suffered through 
 5/16 chapters. The thing is it wasn't so bad until I picked up the game again 4 months later and 
 realized why I stopped playing... the retarded save system.
  
  I also really hate how ammo is so scarce in the game when there are so many enemies to fight off; 
 this and the fact that enemies respawn when you re-enter a room so all the ammo you saved up for 
 the boss are now spend on enemies you killed 4 times already. I don't know what Gamecock was thinking, 
 but they must not play survival horror games much. Survival horror games need to have really good 
 maps, a way to save clues, no respawning enemies, and a good save system. The whole point is to 
 "survive" so you have to scrounge what you have around you. This game really shows how to NOT make 
 a survival horror game, so please just consider this before even renting this game.
  
  What made me actually want to like the game is that it looks so amazing and plays so damn well. 
 The game is very creepy with eerie music, spooky sound effects such as babies crying, water dripping, 
 doors creaking, lightning, thunder, rain pounding on roofs. The game is also very dark so you need 
 your trusty flashlight and this is where the "Doom 3 meets Silent Hill" aspect comes in since you 
 can only either use your flashlight or your gun. Since the DS isn't very powerful there's a black 
 "fog of war" all around you so when you turn your flashlight off for some reason you can only see 
 2 steps in front of you, but your flashlight can illuminate a 30 foot hall. This is actually a 
 hardware fault and nothing on the developers, but you really don't ever notice it. The game's monsters 
 are very creepy with zombies that have their chests open up an shoot poison at you, weird creepy 
 things that crawl around the ceilings, nasty slugs that give out high pitched sonic screams, really 
 freaky bosses that I can't even being to describe, there's blood all over the halls, broken windows, 
 papers, books, and whatever you can think of thrown everywhere so the whole place feels deserted 
 and you feel like your all alone.
  
  I don't remember much about the story, but I do remember that you wake up in a hospital and you 
 are trying to find your way out so it has a Silent Hill feel there. The game also has highly detailed 
 textures and great lighting effects (as I've described) like lights (and your flashlight) flickering 
 on and off, and there's lots of detail in everything. Puzzles are solved by finding papers and 
 clues as to where to find keys, codes, and even solving certain random puzzles to open boxes, doors, 
 etc. If you want an idea on what the puzzles are like they are exactly like the Silent Hill puzzles 
 we have all grown to hate so you know what to expect. Overall, the game looks and plays great, 
 but the punishing save system, scarce ammo and health, maze like hallways, and terrible map ruin 
 this otherwise great survival horror experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  'The enviornment is spine chilling
  'Puzzles are interesting
  'Combat works and is fun
  'Good weapon selection
  'Great graphics (for DS)
  'Good in the 
 adventure sense
  
  Cons:
  'Fails to be "that" scary
  'Sound effects are kiddish and are literally "Are you f*cking kidding me?" bad
  'Controls can 
 sometimes not work
  'Difficult
  'The Ds just wasn't the system for this game
  
  This is the first review ive written in some time now and i have good reason to. I borrowed this 
 game from one of my closest friends Amy. She told me it was so scary she couldn't finish it. In 
 enxchange i let her borrow a game i thought was pretty scary, Resident Evil 4. So as im playing 
 this im thinking "Wow, i wonder if this game will really be able to scare me?". Unfortunately if 
 your wondering, no it didn't. ITS NOT SCARY. I don't know why, but my friends get so kreeped out 
 so easily. Sure theres blood on the walls, and i'll admit its chilling. But where's the horror 
 from the creatures i fight? Its not there either because they act so stupid that i literally laughed 
 when i saw them running towards me. The sound effect are awful, especially those worm-like creatures 
 which sound like babies crying into a staticy microphone. The running will just randomly not work, 
 and its hard to keep all fingers on the buttons while turning the stylus. But its not bad, its 
 good in some ways, just not in the intended ones. Dementium: The Ward actually makes for a better 
 adventure game then horror (at least on the DS) , and the graphics are great for DS standards. I 
 guess its ass good as horror gets on the DS, and ill say GameCock and Renegade Kid but forth good 
 effort, but the results turned up in another catagory. A good rental, but you might want to stay 
 away from buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Player94
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 8, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The game is fun the first few chapters, like seeing the first freak. But the thrills are more annoying 
 than scary. Like Gamespot said on how frustrating the game gets after you do a long chapter to end 
 up dying from a screaming head or getting whiplashed by a freak (the main zombie) . Other than that 
 the gameplay is hard and easy and fun at the same time. You use the touch screen to look around 
 and the D-pad is used to move, L is to shoot or hit. The annoying part his having to the the screen 
 to pick 1 out of your 7-8 weapons. So why is it annoying? Well when you run out of ammo and zombies 
 corner you, you can say good luck and go back to the beginning of the chapter. On top of that the 
 zombies reappear in the location they so call "scare you". Moving on It's not that long you'll beat 
 it in 6-8 hours tops if your an noob, and has absolutely no replay value you beat it and there's 
 nothing to do. There's 6 bosses and puzzles. That's all to say about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Now when I first heard of this game I thought it was gonna suck because 1. It's a survival horror 
 game on a Nintendo system 2. It's on the DS. But, I decided to give it a try and it turns out that 
 the game is really good. The game starts you out getting rushed through a hospital full of creatures 
 you'd see in Silent Hill game. The game-play focuses on using the touch screen to look around and 
 to pretty much do everything, so if your looking for a game that really uses the stylus then this 
 is one of them. For people who have played Doom 3 then this next part might piss you off. The big 
 flaw in this game is the flashlight. See instead of just having a headlamp or a pocket light you 
 have to hold the flashlight. This causes constant switching between flashlight and weapon, and 
 since there isn't much light in this game to begin with it becomes quite annoying when your trying 
 to see your surroundings while fighting. Also, I've decided that if your out of ammo that your 
 better off running through a room and not fighting anything then you are trying to take them on 
 with the nightstick. For whatever reason it's very difficult to hit a enemy with a melee attack 
 until you get the electric buzz-saw. The game has a few puzzles that you would expect to see in 
 a survival horror game so prepare to be challenged. All and all Dementium The Ward is a pretty 
 good game and worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Dementium the Ward sure is a game to bring in mixed reactions. It's one of those games that will 
 be fun one minute but a total chore the next. Here you play as some unlucky guy who wakes up in 
 mental hospital with no memory and no idea whats going on. So you set out to get out of there before 
 being killed by the monsters the dwell with in. You'll start the game off with a trusty flashlight 
 and a notepad and quickly get a gun. Controlling the first person view is nice, easy, sharp, and 
 responsive. It just suffers some problems that are one other DS FPS like turning. The game looks 
 great really adding to the experience. Everything. has a nice detail to it and the monsters look 
 nice and scary. Most of the game is about exploring the hospital seeing the blood stained walls, 
 gathering notes, and solving puzzles. Puzzles can be creative like playing "Dead" on a piano. The 
 hospital however repeats way to often. Besides some certain rooms it's all made up of hallways, 
 drab rooms, and closets. It can be easy to get lost even with a map, and monsters respawing after 
 leaving a room doesn't help. Encounters with monsters can be really annoying. It can take many 
 bullets to take them down later in the game, they can get into blind spots you can't see at first 
 and damage you. Running away should be more help but can just lead to taking a lot of damage. There 
 are also a few flaws keeping this game back. Your gun can't hold much ammo leaving you out to dry 
 at some points. Health can be not enough of not being able to take the healing item. or ammo and 
 store it is questionable choice of design. The game also trys to creepy and scary at points but 
 doesn't cut it. Overall the Ward has a lot of moments that will just frustrate more than entertain. 
 Exploring the hospital is suppose to be scary but can be more boring. It has it's moments, but 
 they are to far and between. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: APOWDEREDDONUT1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to first person shooters, survival horror, or mature rated games, your choices on 
 the DS are pretty limited. Besides Metroid Prime: Hunters and Resident Evil: Deadly Silence, there 
 isn't a whole lot that Nintendo's smash hit handheld offers in terms of either genre, but Dementium: 
 The Ward more than makes up for that, and ends up being a surprisingly good, atmospheric, and very 
 creepy game. 
  
  This game was one of the main reasons i got a DS, but when the time came to actually get it i was 
 hesitant. how good can survival horror be done with the power of N64 in this day and age? Pretty 
 well actually. This game doesnt set quite as strong of an atmosphere as its console relatives like 
 FEAR, but theres plenty of "holy s---!" kind of moments and twisted looking places to explore. 
 
  
  The gameplay is similar to Doom 3 in that you can only see about 3 feet in front of you without 
 a flashlight due to extreme darkness. You use the touch screen to turn, switch weapons, and look 
 at your inventory/notebook/map. You walk with the directional buttons and shoot/turn off your flashlight 
 with L. There's some other control schemes but that one works for me. There's also one set up for 
 the left-handed. All the controls work really well. Precise aiming can take some getting used to 
 but after an hour or so its no problem. 
  
  Wow! this is deffinitely one of the best looking games on the DS. Pitch black corridors and some 
 of the best textures on the system produce a tense atmosphere. If this game wouldlve been released 
 on the 64 it would've turned the survival horror genre upside down. 
  
  The sound is a coupling of brooding organ sounds behind mournful piano most of the time, and that 
 does a good job contributing to the overall atmosphere. I wish the sound effects of the guns were 
 a little better though. 
  
  The story, though somewhat nonexistant for a while, picks up later. And there are some interesting 
 twists and revelations. It starts out, when you wake up in a seemingly abandoned hospital. There's 
 blood everywhere, and you dont know who you are or where you're at. But it doesnt take long to 
 realize your not alone. 
  
  Oh, and everyone whining about the save feature.. just keep an eye on your health. If it gets to 
 1 just turn the game off then back on. It saves as you enter each room, so if you dont actually 
 let yourself die, its really convenient. That might be too tough though. So you can decide for 
 yourself.
  
  Overall, if you like survival horror games, and FPS games, then you should definitely pick this 
 one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxShadowTongyxX
Rating: 3
Date: Jul 17, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This title is great, its actually the best of game of its kind that I have played for this system. 
 It has some pretty unique monsters, guns, and environments. Though it has sooooo many problems. 
 
  
  First of all all areas look so much a like that it is easy to get lost, and end up going in circles, 
 than dieing, and having to restart the chapter from the beginning, as well as losing all guns, 
 keys, parts of the puzzle or anything else you have gained. The save system is no better. Every 
 time you open a door, the game saves, which is alright I suppose, but regardless of how many doors 
 you open, if you die, look forward to restarting the game.
  
  The story line is pretty complicated, and leaves a bunch of questions unanswered, resulting in 
 hopes of a squeal. Unfortunately there is none announced to come. Guns are easy to over look, and 
 this could actually come to a disadvantage on certain bosses in which the game was designed to 
 fight against. Life drains quickly with very few amounts of life kits hanging around. The game 
 is dark, there are hardly any lights in the entire game, which forces you to use a flashlight, 
 than in order to fight a monster, you must change from your flashlight to a weapon, than back again 
 in order to see whats in front of you.
  
  Most of the puzzles are very difficult, and will have you circling an area for hours before finding 
 what you are supposed to be doing. Like for example there is a puzzle where you are supposed to 
 count the eyes of the dead corpses, but you count them and they really do not add up, forcing you 
 to look up a walk through. The first boss is the hardest that I have faced in the game, everyone 
 after had just seemed to get easier, and easier. 
  
  Though the graphics are nice, and there is quit a bit of blood all over the walls, and the floors, 
 and it does have a scare factor in the game, even more so for those who hate hospitals. The game 
 only depicts the story line at the start of the game, and at the end of the game, with only stupid 
 inappropriate parts in the middle, than it concludes the story line at the end of the game.
  
  Despite all of these inconveniences the game is still worth playing, and is actually still 
 a great first person horror adventure game. I would not really recommend this game, but for the 
 system, this is really an only option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comet_65cali
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  This game reminded me of the old good days of FPS on the PC. It is especially true to compare it 
 to Wolfenstein 3D. It is a maze shooter mostly, you can only go certain ways throughout the compound, 
 no jumping or crouching (which is fine.) Most Levels consist of you trying to get from one story 
 to the next, or cross the walkways to the other wing. Some have puzzles, but those happen very 
 early on in the game.
  
  First off, I don't have any issues with the control, I actually think it works great. I never used 
 the R-button, only switched with the stylus. I works great and I can't wait for the next game that 
 will be coming out with the same engine.
  
  The Graphics are amazing, the game ran so fluid I was surprised when I first started playing. While 
 the textures weren't ground breaking by modern standards, it had the same resolution (and reminded 
 me of) as one of my all time favorites, "Blood" for the PC I especially enjoyed the lightning effects 
 when near a window that would bring light to the whole room.
  
  Switching between the flashlight and weapons in this game works better than in Doom 3, as the enemies 
 are a bit slow in the game. So you have time.
  
  And for those complaining about the save system, I just "Save and Quit" in the menu, and I would 
 appear in the room I was previously in, I had no issue.
  
  The major problem with this game, is the hospital is very devoid of variety: There are about 4 
 enemies that you can fight effectively, two which are common, and two which aren't seen much. Two 
 enemies are a swarm of insects that can be avoided by running and are just annoying. As for weapons, 
 There were too many different weapons for so few enemies, that I found myself only using 2-3 most 
 of the time. This game could have been much better if they had a difficulty setting with more enemies. 
 
  
  The boss fights were boss fights, nothing spectacular, and two of them return so you use the same 
 tactics over and over.
  
  This game also could have been saved if it had more story related puzzles than were in the game 
 with the action it had. again, most levels were just trying to get from one place to the other. 
 While had a puzzle on a level, there was only the "Saw" chapter had a level wide puzzle, which 
 made it a highlight.
  
  I really enjoyed the game, but I feel genuinely sad that it could have been so much more. I like 
 the story and hope that Renegade Kids will do a sequel soon. (and I can't wait for Moon now)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikemetroid5565
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Dementium is the smoothest FPS on the DS (60 frames per sec) . The controls are great. They are 
 highly simple. I have had no trouble getting to know the controls. You wake up in a hospital and 
 its currently abandoned filled with monsters... not really a good story but anyway.. Enemies are 
 as Follows, Zombies, Poison Zombies, Beetles, Flying beetles, Angry Screaming Flying Hornet Clowns 
 (THESE GUYS SUCK!!) , and torso zombies (poison) . Since your in a hospital HEALTH is EVERYWHERE. 
 But anyway.. the game is very very easy once you get the buzz saw. But of course it took a huge 
 load of walking around ( It sounds like he runs but.. he moves so damn slow ) and exploring to 
 get it.
  
  The Bosses are just like Metroid Prime hunters.. well 2 of them are.
  the Cleaver and the Wheelchair Gunner.
  
  Both are much more harder bosses than they are at 
 first.
  
  One thing about the fighting is that.. using the nightstick or buzz saw can be a pain because you 
 cant tell where your actually hitting...
  
  
  Overall Dementium is a Must buy for FPS fans/ Horror fans. 8/10
  
  
  please mind my grammar. 
 its 1 50 in the morning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reeper42
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  i was really happy when i got the game but then it kind of disappointed me. there was a lack of 
 story but the game play was fun and just the right difficulty. the level design was not bad but 
 there easy obstcales that you could not over come. but it does stick with its name of survival 
 horror. there blood every on door and there could be an enemy in a closet that will pop out if 
 your not careful. all the enemies are great. They look scary and sound scary. Theres not much dialoge 
 but when there is it sounds pretty good. There alot of  rifle, 
 and a sniper rifle.) the are 2 close qaurter wepons. there is a night stick and a bone saw which 
 really comes in handy. the games ending is very disapointing but the last level boss was fun. there 
 was actually one sign that there might a sqeual even though you find out at the end all that is 
 happening is that you are being operated on your brain. but this is one of the best shooter on 
 the ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireboost11
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 8, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I wouldnt really call it a horror game but rather a frustrating never ending game, but you cant 
 get away from it.
  
  graphics are not that bad although the monsters are really funny sometimes. i dont know why but 
 sometimes it seems as if the zombies are dancing and the bosses are just loafing around. something 
 about it just doesnt match a horror game. but all the blood and all is kinda cool.
  
  the story is painful and frustratingmostly because the riddles usually make no sense at all andif 
 you die you have to restart the whole chapter again. it makes me want to quit, but i just cant 
 pulll myself away from it.
  
  the controls are average. nothing bad but nothing really unique or special either.
  
  basically 
 the supposed horror game is almost as scary as a flying bunny game but defintely as frustrating 
 as dynasty warriors or somethjing like that that is bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CptObvious1031
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  Dementium, sweet Dementiun! The game's story line is that of your typical survival horror game 
 "you've awoke in a freaky hospital that's over run with monsters and you have no clue why"... and 
 thus begins the nightmare of the ward. 
  
  Gameplay is solid and probably takes advantage of all the DS's controls more so than any game I've 
 played on it yet. The sound is frighteningly eerie especially if your playing with a good set of 
 ear phones on. The graphics are okay, but could be better. The story, as I already stated is a 
 cookie cutter type plot that can be seen in a plethora of other games from this genre.
  
  The worst part of the game, and the thing that will have you chucking your DS against the closest 
 hard surface is the save feature. Sure you can save your game at any time, turn the game off and 
 then pick up from that point when you turn it back on. HOWEVER, if you die in the game. It auto-saves 
 and starts you at the very begining of whatever level you were currently on. So guess what, you 
 just spent 2 hours exploring the level, fighting the zombies and finally get to the boss... then 
 die. Back to square 1 you are, do not pass Go do not collect $200.
  
  Still, if you are a fan of Horror Survival and need a good game to get your scare fix while on 
 the go, Dementium is a great buy for the price. It'll keep ya up at night for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironbat25
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:38 pm PT
Review:  This game is a very good shooter game for the psp. It has a good story and some of the best graphics 
 on the ds. The also have good sound effects. The game sounds best when you play with headphons. The 
 gameplay is similar to the gameplay to metriod prime hunters. There are great boss battle in this 
 games. The monsters look great and the A. I. is good for an hanheld game. This is sometime consider 
 scary the only time I find it scary is when you play it in the dark at night with headphones. After 
 you beat the game it makes you want to come back for more but to bad there is no replay value. The 
 only mode you can play is story mode. Although its a great game it is very short about 5-8 hours 
 of gamplay considering if you can figure out the puzzle fast enough. If you have not played metriod 
 prime hunters but want to get a game simmilar to it you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eltendo-Reviews
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 27, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Renegade kid's "The Ward" is a sinister FPS that has the potential to loosen your bowls somewhat 
 and maybe even excite you. In all honesty the game relies on its atmosphere to make itself an enjoyable 
 addition to the DS/FPS franchise, so if you want the best out of this game, which I'm pretty sure 
 you would have paid a fair amount for (or will do) , then it's a good idea if you plug your DS into 
 quality speakers of some kind and sit in the dark. I may sound crazy but if you are not willing 
 to go this far to enjoy yourself then The Ward will turn out to be merely a short, repetitive addition 
 to your mounting "DS disappointment collection".
  
  Don't get me wrong, this first time production for the Renegade Kid may just have you on the edge 
 of your computer chair, wishing with all your might that grandma's foot bath can wait till later, 
 but with due respect we can all agree some aspects of the game stink!
  
  Too name a few, the save system is irritating and lacks common sense, the hall ways and level layout 
 are repetitive, 80% of the games doors are locked, and the enemies are as inspiring as your grandma's 
 comments about your slowly increasing weight and lack of breathing ability. In addition we have 
 the storyline, which let me tell you, is far from complimentary and you will be asking more questions 
 at the end than at the start, I can guarantee that at least. 
  
  But HEY!! Its not all bad and too be honest I enjoyed myself greatly with this game, and as much 
 I would never play it again in my life, the sound and atmosphere made for a fantastic 'rentable' 
 game. Indeed, 'rentable' is the key word: buy this game and you will most probably feel robbed.
 
  
  Overall score I would say is boosted greatly from 6.1 by the graphics and atmosphere. Sound compensates 
 for 0.8 and I'd say as a first person shooter it really does deserve credit. 
  
  Stats:
  
  Buy/Rent/Shoplift: Rent
  Visual: 8.9
  Sound: 8.5
  Story: 4.5
  Level Layout: 6.6
  
 As an FPS: 8.0
  As a horror: 7.7
  Replay value: 44% (almost equal chance of you enjoying a second visit)
  
  "THE WARD" as a whole: 
 7.5
  A neat game that, almost, sets the stage for "MOON" 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amphibiouskille
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  I hate to sound like an old man, but its amazing to me to play a game on a system so small that 
 less than 20 years ago I would have needed a full PC to play (anyone else remember the original 
 DOOM?) . 
  
  Alright, enough waxing on like a romantic -- Dementium: The Ward provides the DS Player a solid FPS 
 with a compelling story and immersive atmosphere. Outside of your running and gunning, there are 
 enough puzzles to keep this a thinking mans' (or womans') game. This definitely is not a game to 
 pass along to the kids, and is not one to be played in small doses... you need to complete a level 
 in order to feel the satisfaction from this game.
  
  The mechanics and control scheme (utilizing the stylus in the traditional role of a mouse for the 
 free-look mechanic) are solid, and while the utilizing the stylus concurrent with the buttons on 
 the DS has never been easy for me, I didn't feel handicapped by these controls in any way.
  
  The graphics are solid and really lend to the atmosphere (I remember raving about Duke Nuke'ms 
 graphics, and these are definitely on par with that) ; yes its not HD on your 360, but for the size 
 of the screen, the pixels blend nicely into one eerie image.
  
  The story has already gotten me hooked; who am I? Why did I kill my wife? How did I end up in this 
 horrible hospital and what are those nasty roaches?
  
  If you are looking for a mature/dark FPS on the DS, this is definitely worth a buy, or at least 
 a rent. I don't know of any other game on the DS right now that offers this genre of experience. 
 Well designed, well executed with good production values... definitely worth my time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junior_AIN
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Right from the start the message "This game contains scenes of explicit violence and gore" lures 
 the attention, somethings tell that the your you're about to get in is no picnic in the park, and 
 it is surely not!
  
  The game is very violent, right from the star you'll find yourself in a very hostile place, a hospital, 
 dark and tenebrous. Soon enough you'll get yourself a flashlight, which helps a lot, because it's 
 pretty dark without it, there's blood everywhere! I mean there's absolutely no place in the entire 
 hospital where you'll encounter a light bloodless room, it's all disturbingly destroyed, chaotic 
 atmospheric madness!
  
  The game is divided in chapters, and it's not bad, there's 16 of them and the aspects of the rooms 
 you find in the first one, are the same you'll find in the last ones, the rooms are different, 
 with different ways and things to do, but the patterns are the same, they could've changed, even 
 slightly, the patterns throughout the game, but that's ok, since you'll hardly think about it.
 
  
  Lots of weapons can be found during the game, and they're the usual weapons you would find in a 
 game like this, first a melee weapon, then handgun, shotgun, machine gun, magnum and so on, the 
 design of the weapons are pretty good.
  
  The game mechanics are from a first person game, you'll control the character movements with the 
 d-pad, and the sighting with the stylus, works perfectly well. There's not much variety of enemies 
 in the game, zombies are a must have, as well as some others creepy looking beasts, huge or small, 
 all here!
  
  The game can be considered easy, there's some intriguingly challenging puzzles, but the problem 
 is that there's just too few of them, it's not even a puzzle per chapter, some chapters don't even 
 have one, then you'll be riding through rooms, killing enemies and trying to find which door you 
 are or not able to open, fun nonetheless.
  
  The sound was nicely made, but to extract the best of it, you absolutely need a headphone, no discussion, 
 it sets a pretty good link with the disorder of the place, creating an even better atmosphere!
 
  
  The bad aspects are the game length, it lasted mere 4 hours for me, the paucity of puzzles and 
 the high repetition of graphics patterns, still a great game though.
  
  There you go, you have blood, gore, mutilation, chaos, torture, violence, strange creepy blood-seeking 
 creatures and zombies, everything in a handheld Nintendo console, if you're after some game without 
 the stereotype of a "kid" game, what more could you ask for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidsnake13_2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Dementium: The Ward.... WOW must I say that this game is like by far one of the scariest horror 
 survial games I have ever played & enjoyed. Till this day I still play it. The story is like this, 
 you play as a guy who is lost in huge Hopstial that is completey covered with zombies, horrorfing 
 creatures, monstors and what not. Everything about this game is dark. Every turn you make is dark 
 to the left, right, up, down, foward and behind only where you stand what you see. So expect no 
 light around. The only really light you can get is either your flashlight or the lighting that 
 flashes down sometimes during the whole game. Like gamespot said, this game it does have a good 
 start. Which it is true, I mean you wake up in horrible horrofing hopstial and its dark and you 
 have no idea how'd you get there. But this game really does have a story to it, as your character 
 you have to be able to find out the secrets of the hopistal at the sametime getting out of it as 
 well. 
  The graphics I must say are really good. The mapping in the level is very well designed and the 
 enemies are well put together as well. So graphics to me are is a plus. Sound is very well done. 
 When the monstors come and creep up on you, you can probally get a sense of feel that someone is 
 doing that to you in reality, but thats just me. No there are somethings I really didn't like in 
 the game. One is that you can die very easily in the game. More to say is that it is short. You 
 can get to chapter 5 in a matter of minutes. Next if you die in the game you have to start the 
 entire chapter over and start from the beginning of that chapter. Also last thing it may be short 
 but it can be frustracting as hell to play this game. So if only they would've fixed those things 
 the game would've probally been better. But other than that this game is really great to get. If 
 your into surival horror games then come and pick this up. Good to play in the dark as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aerisol
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  ok good stuff first. great graphics, this game is fully in 3d and has great lighting effects, the 
 blood stains on the walls floor and every thing else help add to the creepyness of the game. no 
 lag, this is pretty good considering the graphics and 3d enemys in the game and the DS's limited 
 capabilitys. great sound, each creature has a different scream cry thing, and the sound track is 
 appropriately creepy, there is only one sound effect in this game and it is that of a certain weapon (youl 
 know when you hear it) nice cutscenes the story is told through multiple 3d cutscenes with awesome 
 camera angles to add to the chaos of some of the scenes. something that i always like in games, 
 a little realism, like when you shoot a zombie in the heart it dies in one hit.
  now for the bad stuff, some are less major than others. repedative levels, not so bad considering 
 your in a hospital and incase you havent noticed their floors are all more or less the same. enemies 
 respawning, anything you kill respawns as soon as you leave the room, killing something isnt as 
 fun or suprising when it pops up the 2nd 3rd and 4th times. save system, the save system isnt so 
 bad, if you die you have to restart the level from the beginning, i mean you get killed there should 
 be some kind of penalty rite? replay value, there is little to no replay value in this game because 
 the game is the same and the monsters will be in the same as the 1st time you bet the game, not 
 really scary when you know whats about to pop up and how to kill it.
  still a good game that i think every one should play at least once. but i wouldnt go out of my 
 way to get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokefan12345678
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Dementium is a fun game but it also has you wandering around for way too long. Take into consideration 
 that the game is olny about 5 hours long. All these elements make the game only O. K. The gameplay 
 is fun but like I said has you wandering way too much. The map is only accessible throught the 
 pause screen. It isn't on the game screen so every time you want to check your map you have to 
 go to the map screen. The game is however fun combat wise. You get a wide variety of guns and a 
 buzzsaw yah. There are a few hard bosses which are repeated multiple times. The game gets old after 
 awhile. If you can handle playing this with these flaws great if not don't buy it. The game is 
 not really worth 40 bucks. It is pretty scary escpecially if you have headphones plugged into your 
 DS and your playing it at night. If you love horror games definately go and buy it if not oh well 
 your not missing out on a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonSeal-Curse
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  You awake in a abandoned room in an abandoned hosipatal that appears to be frozen in time only 
 to meet the monstrosities that await you within Redmoor Hospitals walls, WELCOME TO DEMENTIUM THE 
 WARD.
  
  
  
  Storyline: 7/10
  Dementium has a very good story line about a man (you) trying to figure why your in such a place 
 as you try to get your memory back with all the clues that await you
  
  
  Graphics: 10/10
  Dementium has some of the best graphics on the DS so if you want to show off 
 your DS i highly reccomend this game for that
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Different mix of piano keys for the music which sounds really good, all of the monsters have their 
 own uniqe sounds they make and with the game in surround sound you can tell which side of you the 
 monsters on. You can even hear your own bare feet slapping on the floors of the building!
  
  Replay Value: (idk i havent beaten the game yet)
  but form what i hear there really isnt 
 much replay value but after i beat it i probably will play it again to get a good scare
  
  Difficulty: 9/10
  this game is honestly for hardcore gamers its difficulty is challenging most 
 of the time but its mainly easy during some parts of the game
  
  Addictiveness: 10/10
  this game truly draws you in when your not playing it i reccomend playing it in a dark room at 
 night with headphones on
  
  Overall Gameplay: 9.5/10
  this game truly makes it onto my top five favorite games list and im a pretty big gamer so its 
 hard for games to make it there, i love the weapon choice other than the bone saw made me deaf 
 lol and i cant stop playing it because i just love roaming the empty bloody halls and fighting 
 Chest Maws. i highly reccomend this game to any hardcore gamer who loves games like Doom, Silent 
 Hill, Resident Evil, or House of the Dead because once you have this game you wont be able to set 
 it down, and its a truly scary experiance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafis7575
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Answer the following questions in a yes or no manner:
  
  -Do you like Silent Hill?
  -Do you liked Doom?
  -Do you like survival/horror games?
  -Do you like First Person Shooters? 
 
  -Do you want any of the above on a DS?
  
  If you answered yes on most of these, there is no other question, go out and buy this game.
  
 
  Now for my review.
  
  First of all, this game isn't as scary as Silent Hill or Doom 3. And thats not because its on a 
 handheld, its because Silent Hill and Doom 3 were on consoles and they were just, scarier. Thats 
 not to say this game isn't scary, there are some scary moments but there more like "BOO!" not like 
 silent hill where your constantly scared. This game does have a unique desolated atmosphere complemented 
 by its soundtrack. You will be however disgusted by the amount of blood in this game. Its everywhere, 
 and I liked it. Gameplay is very solid. Touch screen points, shoulder buttons shoots. Cycling through 
 the 7 weapons the game has (not including the flashlight) is a matter of touching them. Graphics 
 wise, its good, very good, it has a grainy dark feel to it. WAY better than RE: DS. How long was 
 it? Not very long, it will take you anywhere from 3 to 6 hours the first time, even less the second, 
 depending on how well you play. I didn't think it was TOO short, this game was a developer's first 
 game, made by nine people. It was an amazing feat for that many people. The story kinda confused 
 me but its there. Its no Silent Hill Story but its not bad either. I've heard a lot of complaint 
 about the save system. If you die in a level, you start over. If you can't handle that, I'm sorry 
 to say, you're not a true gamer veteran. If you were almost done and then died, the next time around, 
 you should know where to go and it should be easier. If you're not gonna get this game because 
 of its save system, your an idiot (and a wuss) . If you have it and you don't like it, I can't say 
 much except stop whining, its no Contra or Gradius.
  
  My only complaint of this game is that its short, I would have liked it longer but it was still 
 fun while it lasted. I do however go back and do speedruns/challenges (no flashlight etc.) 
  
  Overall, this game is a really nice game, you'll enjoy it if like horror games like SIlent 
 Hill or Doom. I choose this over RE: DS because if you TRULY want to experience the first Resident 
 Evil, play REmake for the Gamecube.
  
  DEMENTIUM THE WARD rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  Over the last few weeks I've been faced with a bit of a conundrum: How do you classify a survival 
 horror game completely devoid of scares? I've had the misfortune to play one such game this month: 
 Dementium: The Ward for the Nintendo DS, a game that tries to be mature and hardcore on the system 
 best known for simpler, more casual games. Unfortunately, it has failed in that aspect as well 
 as numerous others. Shall we begin?
  
  First off, let me clarify what I meant about the whole horror part of the game. It actually starts 
 out pretty good, with a full-motion scene depicting your nameless character being wheeled into 
 a hospital where things are going... horribly wrong. Throngs of vaguely humanoid creatures walk 
 the halls; blood is strewn over the walls. You're left in a room, you wake up, and you start the 
 game. This here is one of the game's main problems with the scares: you have no idea where you 
 are, who you are, or why you are there. There is virtually no story to the game, and thus, the 
 game has no way of setting up any atmosphere. You simply walk the halls trying to find out what 
 happened, but since everyone else is dead or incapable of human speech, you never really get anywhere 
 with the search.
  
  Unfortunately, the art direction doesn't help much either. Pretty much every hall and every room 
 you're going to encounter looks exactly the same, so you'll actually be accidentally backtracking 
 countless times, and it won't be until you find a large room that can actually be recognized that 
 you'll realize this and drudge back from wherever you came. The only distinguishing feature of 
 the halls is the amount of blood on the walls, which ranges from copious to insane; often so much 
 so that any scares it could have created is removed. The amount of carnage crosses the invisible 
 line between 'atmospheric' and 'over-the-top', any scares that could have been had are lost by 
 the sheer ridiculousness of it all.
  
  The sound doesn't fare much better, with each area's music consisting of a ten-second loop of piano, 
 which succeeds in setting the mood but gets annoying once you've heard it seven million times. 
 The sound effects, for the most part, are decent; but unfortunately the enemy cries bring down 
 everything that's good in the sound category. The second enemy you encounter in the game (and you'll 
 see them till the very end) is some weird worm that continually cries like a human child. If they 
 would only do this once or twice it would be fine, maybe even adding to the atmosphere a bit, but 
 they -never- shut up. It's actually a real mood-killer, and seeing as these things swarm you, chances 
 are their cries will be stuck with you for a long time to come. This applies to pretty much every 
 enemy; think Resident Evil 4's villagers having -only- one one-liner and repeating it every two 
 seconds. It makes the game even less scary by taking the game even further away from reality.
 
  
  So, as a horror game, Dementium is a flop. From a gameplay standpoint, it's a fairly average first-person 
 shooter that does nothing to distinguish itself. If you've played Metroid Prime Hunters, the experience 
 isn't all that different; except for the flashlight ripped straight from Doom 3. Just like in Doom, 
 you get a flashlight with inexplicably infinite power which you'll use to light up the dark hallways. 
 This would be a decent gameplay addition, but it suffers for the same reason it did in Doom 3; 
 you can't wield a flashlight and a gun at the same time. This means you may spot an enemy in the 
 hall in front of you, but when you take out your gun you can't see it and - even though you're 
 aiming right at it - you can't shoot it. Almost all the game's gunplay takes place in confined 
 spaces which doesn't really make much sense.
  
  Once in a while the game remembers it's supposed to be a survival horror game and sends you 'adventuring', 
 although that seldom amounts to more than some stupid fetch quest. You may have to count the dead 
 people in the morgue, or find keys to open a chest. Either way it amounts to the same thing; lots 
 and lots of backtracking. It's hard enough to figure out how to move forward; not only are the 
 hallways so drab you can't tell which way you came, but pretty much every map you find is worthless. 
 The maps fail to show obstructions which are found at nearly every junction, and since you can't 
 draw on the map a la Phantom Hourglass, you'll guessing which way you need to go back and often 
 frustrating you when you realize you're being blocked by an overturned wheelchair.
  
  There's numerous other issues that hold Dementium back; for instance, the absolutely broken save 
 system. The game auto-saves for you ever time you enter a room, which is nice, but when you die 
 you start back from the beginning of the chapter. This can be quite annoying when you're on one 
 of those chapters with the ridiculous fetch quests, and it makes the entire game rather tedious 
 to play. Also notable is the lack of any sort of multiplayer. We've seen how great online FPS work 
 on the DS, so why not include it in Dementium as well? With the weird lighting from the flashlights, 
 it could be the next big thing on Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connection. There's absolutely no reason to 
 replay the game at all.
  
  Overall, Dementium the Ward comes as a disappointment. I was not expecting huge things from the 
 game, but I thought I'd get at least a fun FPS that'd take my attention off Metroid Prime for a 
 while. Admittedly, the game has its moments near the end, but they are outweighed by the number 
 of unsavory ones you'll experience getting there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  Dementium: The Ward begins as the protagonist wakes up in a seemingly abandoned hospital, with 
 no idea who he is or why he's there. The purpose is to get out of there, preferably alive, but 
 as you soon find out, there is much to be feared in these neglected and bloody hallways and rooms. 
 The results of some strange experiences now roam the place in the dark, waiting for a fresh prey.
 
  
  Dementium could be described as Silent Hill meets FPS. The game is rendered entirely in 3D and 
 played in a first-person view. The action takes place on the top screen, while the touch screen 
 serves as your health indicator, menu and camera control.
  
  The control system is fairly unique: sliding the stylus on the touch screen makes you look around, 
 pressing the D-pad makes you walk or run (if you tap the direction twice) , and the L trigger is 
 used to attack or turn the flashlight on or off. If an interaction with an object is available, 
 it will also show in the touch screen (such as opening a door or examining a piece of paper) and 
 requires a tap to be executed. It works, but I must say my left hand fell asleep countless times 
 from the moving and shooting while holding the system.
  
  The game is split into chapters of variable lengths. While some are very short and easy to complete, 
 others will probably take you up to 45 minutes. There is no save feature, so your progress is only 
 saved at the beginning of each chapter. I actually thought there were checkpoints, since I kept 
 seeing all those "saving" messages. Unfortunately, they aren't, and you are still forced to restart 
 from the beginning of the chapter if you die. Not very convenient for gaming on the go.
  
  Dementium mixes exploration, some puzzle solving and plenty of shooting or beating up things. The 
 puzzles aren't too difficult, and you are given a notepad where you can actually write and erase 
 your notes as needed with the stylus, just as if you were using pencil and paper. 
  
  Combat can be done in melee (you will have a faithful nightstick) or by shooting when you find 
 a gun and ammo. Those are your initial defense, but you will come across more weapons. You also 
 have a flashlight, but you can hold the flashlight and gun at the same time. This is pretty inconvenient, 
 since you can't shoot things in the dark (especially those damn worms) , you must wait for them 
 to come dangerously near to see them. 
  
  Ammo can also be an issue, since you're only allowed 24 rounds in your gun. You can't pick up extra 
 ammo or health items and carry them on your inventory like in Resident Evil, which increases the 
 game's difficulty. It results in backtracking to find more, and that's an issue, because creatures 
 respawn even if you've already killed them.
  
  The presentation is what makes the game. It's dark, a bit grainy, pretty scary, just like in Silent 
 Hill. You're always wondering what the heck is going to come out at you from around the corner. 
 And the details like blood trails or the beeps from incubators catch your attention. One that I 
 found particularly interesting was how Jools (producer) and Gregg (art director) had their names 
 placed in patient's charts outside certain rooms of The Ward.
  
  Sound plays a very important role, since by listening you can tell what type of monsters lurk in 
 the dark, and every creature makes a distinct sound. There are these banshee heads that come screaming 
 at you, the Chest Maws that look like zombies with huge mouths on their chests, sharp teeth chomping 
 away in your direction, some creepy worms that sound like high-pitched baby cries, the light pitter-patter 
 of bugs crawling on the walls and floor. Add to that the constant sound of your heartbeat and breathing 
 plus some ominous music, and you have the perfect atmosphere.
  
  Although a few aspects of gameplay could have been tweaked a little, Dementium: The Ward is as 
 creepy as it gets on your DS. 
  
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text, screenshots and trailers at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=dementium 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getfreaky
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 9, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Dementium is your typical survival FPS. You run around the many rooms and floors of the hospital, 
 shooting down zombies and monsters with hopes of staying alive. You can find ammunition for a variety 
 of weapons, including handguns, shotguns, and a sniper rifle. You can also find health to recover 
 damage, but health and ammo cannot be stored, so make sure to grab them when you really need them 
 and keep track of where they are. As the game progresses you will also find some puzzles blocking 
 your way, such as having to find a key or entering a code on a keypad. Gameplay is fun, and the 
 overall dark tone of the environments will keep you guessing what's ahead. Unfortunately, most 
 of the game is very similar in design, with rooms and corridors all seemingly identical with little 
 variation. Not a huge deal, but after a few hours of play the game feels just a bit repetitive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Dementium: The Ward puts you in the shoes of a nameless guy who wakes up in a zombie & monster 
 infested hospital or mental ward of sorts. As the game moves forward, it is revealed to the player 
 that you are in this ward or whatever for a very tragic reason..
  
  You use the stylus to control where you look, the D-Pad to move in directions, the left button 
 to shoot, and right button to switch between flashlight and a weapon of your choice. Speaking of 
 weapons, this game allows you to collect a few different types of guns and melees such as a handgun, 
 a shotgun, a nightstick, a sniper rifle, an M16, a buzzsaw, and more. Sounds all good, but for 
 the bulk of the game you'll wind up using the pistol and buzz saw (once you find it that is)
  
  For enemies, you fight a few. To start you fight different kinds of zombies, these slug/leech 
 things that are not only the most annoying things to defend yourself from but they make this hideous 
 squealing noise, you fight these banshee-yelling heads that come flying at you, the "Cleaver" who 
 is this big fat, faceless monster who shoots this liquid goo at you with his syringe needle hand 
 and tries to hack you in half with his cleaver arm. You also fight some weird guy in a wheelchair 
 who has a gattling gun and finally some sort of doctor with telekinesis powers at the end.
  
  The music is trash... at first it helps create the atmosphere, but when its repeated in EVERY 
 stage it tends to hinder, not help, the game. Also, there are some hit detection issues with this 
 title. Another flaw is the atrocious save system. Dementium is broken into chapters, and lets say 
 you run through an entire chapter only to die at the VERY end... you have to start all over again. 
 The only thing this game does is save your health and ammo status every time you walk through a 
 door. Oh yeah thats another thing, every room and corridor look almost identical. Oh! Haha, also 
 you can beat this game in less than 2.5 hours.
  
  The story isn't fleshed out, and neither is the ending. Somewhere down the line, your character 
 finds out he murdered his wife and his daughter witnessed it. Its never explained why or what exactly 
 happened, but you find yourself in this ward most likely because of this action. At the end after 
 the final boss fight, you find yourself laying on an operating table in the middle of brain surgery 
 or something... the camera pans out, and the last boss you fought stands upright and says "He survived 
 Phase One, proceed to Phase Two." Thats it.
  
  Dementium: The Ward may not be as scary as it tried to be, the story may fall flat on it's face, 
 and it may be plauged with a hundred other problems, but I can say that the atmosphere of the game 
 was fun & interesting and the shooting aspect was pretty fun. Additionally, its one of the only 
 FPS on the Nintendo DS so it earns itself a few more points, and it also uses the touch screen 
 fairly well unlike many other DS titles. Overall, I give it a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBF9304
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Dementium is one game that has definately fallen into the cracks where you can only use the stylus 
 to move left and right. 
  
  Plus the save system is bad. It saves every time you enter a door and start a new chapter. But 
 if you get a game over you must start the chapter over again. And if you missed something from 
 a previous chapter this makes things more difficult. Plus it doesn't save in the final chapter.
 
  
  But the good is that it has wonderful music and sound effects. Plus the graphics are really great. 
 
  
  Throughout the game you move through a hospital trying to figure out why you're there. You collect 
 things and get weapons to defend yourself against mutant creatures like GORHs (gorey mutants or 
 Ghosts of Redmoor Hospital) .
  
  Without a map and a game guide the game can get really difficult after awhile. You don't always 
 get a map right away at the start of a new chapter and there's two levels you don't get a map (2nd 
 and last, although you really don't need one there) .
  
  Basically this is a game where Doom meets Silent Hill, although I like to think of it more like 
 Doom meeting SAW or Room 6 meeting SAW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  http://www. projectcoe. com/nintendo/games/dementium. html? var1=sc3
  
  Imagine my excitement when I found out that an independent game developer was going through the 
 rigors of licensed platform development. If you don't know, shame on you, but I also happen to 
 be an indie game developer, as I'm the Lead Producer of a four-man team. When I discovered that 
 Renegade Kid was creating not only a horror game for Nintendo's booming handheld, but an M-rated 
 one at that, I was giddy to the max. The cool thing is, since I recognize the limitations of being 
 an indie company that allowed me to fully understand the shortcomings that arise while playing 
 Dementium: The Ward. While this Halloween release would've blown me away had it seen more development 
 time, in the short time required to finish the game, I saw my own future, and it's looking pretty 
 bright.
  
  First thing's first, if you're expecting a mind screw plot with Dementium along the lines of Resident 
 Evil or Silent Hill, stop reading now and avoid the disappointment. While there is something that 
 resembles a plot in Gamecock's game publication, it could be easily summed up in two sentences. 
 You're some dude that wakes up in an asylum with no knowledge of how you ended up there and no 
 memory regarding who you are. If nothing else, the game tries to have you believe that you're a 
 convicted murderer, but to avoid any kind of relevant spoilers, I'll just stop there. You have 
 one goal, and that is to escape with your life. Nothing Emmy-worthy for sure. Still, that doesn't 
 stop Dementium from being incredibly creepy and absolutely gripping you with a sense of dread.
 
  
  If you're at all familiar with Metroid Prime Hunters, you would have no problem gaining a knack 
 for how to play this game. It's identical to be frank, as you use the D-Pad or face buttons to 
 move, the touch screen to control your aim/view, and the two triggers for weapon use and switching 
 between the aforementioned and your flashlight. Your arms could become tired depending on how you're 
 playing the game, but if you rest properly, it doesn't really end up an issue. When that PTS (potential 
 trouble source) is overcome, it feels great to experience Dementium. If you're an experienced shooter 
 player, you'll have little if any trouble maintaining an advantageous position to take down the 
 game's enemies. The only slight annoyance I encountered was using my right pinky to tap the DS' 
 right shoulder button to switch between flashlight and weapon. When you have to do it quickly, 
 you might find yourself accidentally selecting something on the touch screen or missing the button 
 altogether, which sort of breaks the flow. But that's only if you do that of course. Still, even 
 the touch screen serves as a clean interface for options such as your Notepad, which you can doodle/write 
 in however and whenever you please, access the map if you have it for your current area, enter 
 the game's options or directly choose a weapon in your inventory. RK did a great job mapping all 
 the game's functions to the DS hardware.
  
  Even the save system, something I've often seen complained about, isn't much of a problem if you 
 know how to play games of this nature. I died five times total during my play through. Dementium 
 leans towards the easy side in terms of difficulty, especially when you find the Buzz-saw (if you 
 do) , because that device can absolutely rip through most of the game's enemies. I had to restart 
 a chapter only three times, and I where I died wasn't even all that far, so it didn't bother me 
 much. Sure it seems like the game needed a better save function, but if that ended up the case, 
 it would've been even more of a cakewalk. Of course I know some gamers would have a more difficult 
 time with Dementium, but to me that just means those people aren't skilled shooter players to begin 
 with.
  What is it that you do exactly though? Well, Dementium isn't very complicated task-wise, as you 
 do any of two things at a given time: kill enemies or solve puzzles. When doing the former, you're 
 looking at having anything from a simple nightstick or pistol to the more sinister assault and 
 sniper rifles in hand. All the equipment feels plenty comfortable to use and enjoyable when you 
 score each monster death. The puzzles aren't particularly analytical, but aren't just mere afterthoughts. 
 Each one is linked to an extremely obvious clue for its solving nearby; you simply have to find 
 it. Once you do, it's simply a matter of inputting the solution with the stylus, and grabbing the 
 valuable item that was locked away for whatever reason. Seriously folks, RK and Gamecock wanted 
 to give DS owners who crave horror a simple system, and that's exactly what we received, and it 
 works wonderfully.
  
  Visually, Dementium is certainly a feat, and for those that think it's just an N64-caliber game 
 on a portable, allow me to inform you otherwise. Not only is RK's game incredibly smooth, not suffering 
 from a single drop in framerate, but the little things they employed only serve to up the ante 
 for software of this nature. I fully acknowledge that Dementium could've used a lot more variety 
 in the level designs and layouts, along with enemies, but these are forgivable slip-ups when you 
 consider what the game achieves from a technical standpoint. The flashlight element alone is beyond 
 cool, as the illumination dynamically casts on the environment, showing you what it enshrouds, 
 and not revealing a damn thing otherwise. When you're in pitch black, the flashlight proves to 
 be a godsend. Not to mention the thunderstorm effects. If lightning flashes and you don't have 
 the flashlight drawn, you see everything around you light up for a couple seconds, and then go 
 right back to total darkness. Then of course the rain and thunder just add to the atmospheric ambience 
 which is coupled with bloodstained everything and borderline disturbing audio.
  
  The music in Dementium: The Ward is very strong, and while it may not be capable of spooking the 
 most hardened of horror vets, it's perfectly able of making your heart race here and there. The 
 game is most definitely best played at night with a pair of headphones handy. Especially at the 
 beginning of the campaign, when you just don't know what to expect, Dementium forces you to inch 
 along carefully in the hopes that you don't run into anything that takes advantage of your vulnerability. 
 It's a bit unfortunate that there are only a few unique themes played throughout, but you do encounter 
 a couple areas that have their own incredibly spine-chilling tunes. Just wait until you step inside 
 the church and you'll see what I mean, and hope that your heartbeat is running at a normal pace 
 (the volume for that can be muffled too, which adds more realism than the normal setting) . If anything 
 disappoints here, it's the effects that grate your ears when you run into the game's many similar 
 enemies. The Freaks (ribcage-less zombies) actually sound freaky, especially if they're standing 
 in a nearby closet, breathing heavily and awaiting your arrival, but the rest of the game's monsters 
 are beyond annoying. The screeching and high-pitched squeals seem appropriate at the start of the 
 game, but when you hear them at an almost constant rate, you could be prompted to take a break 
 for a little while so as to avoid a major headache. Thankfully that's my only gripe, because the 
 weapons sound great too, especially the whirring of the Buzz-saw blade that would strike stone-cold 
 fear into any horror movie actor or actress of today. It's rather strange how the sniper rifle 
 and pistol share identical blasts, but you won't care much if you don't pay attention to it.
  
  Ok, so while $29.99 is probably too much to ask for when it comes to experiencing what Dementium 
 has to offer, I still encourage it because it's such an excellent showcase of what independent 
 developer talent can put out. I managed to beat the game in exactly 3:48, which I obviously see 
 as unacceptable to most due to the financial pressures of this hobby, but again, it's not often 
 when companies such as the ones responsible for this product come around to deliver a game that 
 is wholly different than your typical Nintendo, EA, Ubisoft and Activision fare. While I can't 
 say that Dementium: The Ward would scare the pants off anyone who plays it, because it won't, I 
 can say that this is worth checking out for the sheer creepiness and fun factor brought by the 
 shooter gameplay. If you want to wait for a price drop or cheaper used game, by all means do so, 
 but I can't emphasize supporting indie development enough, and Dementium is just that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexeyValentine
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 5:16 am PT
Review:  I as quite thrilled when i heard about this game, a first person shooter horror for the ds and 
 when i got it it didn't disappoint me.
  The story is about a man that wakes up in a hospital and you have to get him out of it alive before 
 he gets killed by zombies and demons, im not going you go throught the story (experience that yourselves) .
 
  
  The Gameplay i have to say it's amazingly good and very fluid you look around with the stylus and 
 it ins't static you can feel the movement with the weapons (or flashlight) following the direction 
 of the stylus and it's really easy to use. The L button combines well with the stylus movement 
 to shoot at the monsters allowing for a very good control (4 minutes playing and your able to dodge 
 and move around well) .
  
  The Horror element is very well placed with blood everywhere, wellplaced sounds like backward phrases 
 and children voices (can't get enough of creepy voices of the children) and writings in the walls 
 and mirrors. Oh and
  the monsters can scare too (try not using the flashlight and you'll jump to the ceiling) .
  
 
  The only bad aspect of the game - It's short.
  
  Overall, i myself think it is a very good game with all the objectives established realized, it 
 has the horror, the good gameplay and the fun.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DocJohnson92
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 1, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  okay, i bought this game when i bought my ds, 29.99 new at gamestop, im a long time fan of doom 
 and silent hill so i was rather excited hearing this game was a combination. after about a week, 
 i sold it back for a third of the price when a decided to cut my losses, the game was just not 
 fun... the attemts at making the game scary border-lined on comedy and annoyance, the enemies were 
 not threatening (though to be fair the graphics had a lot to do with this) the amount of ammo you 
 could carry was retarded, i could carry more in my left front pocket, and when you die you have 
 to start each chapter off from the beggining... thats just cruel and aggravating, playing the game 
 turns more into a chore as you get to the point of wanting to atleast beat it before you pawn it 
 or sell it on ebay. and like in doom you can hold a weapon and a flashlight, but you can use the 
 flashlight as a weapon and you cant really see without the flashlight... youre stuck switching 
 back and forth adjusting your ain in the dark, and the low ammo capacity just makes things worse. 
 its just not a fun game, if you do feel the need to buy it, i wouldnt spend more than 7 to 12 dollars 
 on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mao6542
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game due to all of the pre-release reviews and pictures displaying unbelievable graphics 
 (for a handheld) . However, after reading the actual reviews and then playing it myself, I experienced 
 what most were complaining about. 
  I loved the graphics and sound, they were truly amazing which is where most of the points from 
 my score are coming from. However to me, the cons outweighed the pros. Some of my biggest problems 
 I had with it were the completely ridiculous save system, how repetitive the levels were, and how 
 the enemies re-spawned despite killing them. 
  I didn't care to go back through rooms where I had already killed all of the zombies/worms... etc. 
 Secondly, the save system was entirely broken. The games play and puzzles were fun for sure, however 
 if you happened to die, you had to go back and complete the whole level again including puzzles 
 and defeating enemies, which got quite old, real fast. Lastly, the games levels indeed were fun 
 and impressive as far as looks and sound, but you did start to know what to expect chapter after 
 chapter. Unless your totally hardcore and enjoyed it a lot, there is next to no replay value. 
 
  My whole review probably seemed very negative and totally against it, and I felt all of my comments 
 were justified. However, it did have its positives which got it the 6 I gave it. There are many 
 other games out there I would recommend over this, so unless you've played everything else, look 
 elsewhere.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: red_sovereign
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  to be frank there hasnt been alot of fps on the ds console... and to be even more frank... there 
 hasnt been a single horror/survival fps on the ds. until now that is. we have DEMENTIUM!!! a "true" 
 fps w/ some freaky music and visuals that may force you to play this game during daylight!!!
  
  graphically speaking this game whoops some serious @55. no matter how heavy the action is on 
 the top screen the game never lags or suffers any type of sulleness!! the game just clocks along 
 fluidly as if its being powered by TWO ds's. and not only does the game flow smoothly it also looks 
 amazing. alot of detail went into making this game visually appealing. theres a flashlight that 
 you will need to weild throughtout the entire span of the game. and its not just there b/c its 
 a horror game... but damn, you really need it. the flashlight actually produces true lighting effects 
 so if you turn this object off, your gonna be smothered in thick darkness. its wonderful to see 
 these "advanced" features take effect on the ds console b/c it makes it see waaaay more capable 
 of just silly pOkemon graphics. but a flashlight is just a flashlight right... the artwork of the 
 monsters and zombies is the real icing. they truly look like they feel out of some resident evil 
 experiment gone even more array!!! flying medusa heads, cleaver weilding behemoths, chestless zombies, 
 are all but a few of what you will encounter within the dark corridors of the derelict redmoor 
 hospital. A+ from a graphical standpoint, but is that all of what a game is about!?!? nope!!
  
  plug in your headphoes and experience some of the most atmospheric and blood curlding music 
 ever produced out of a nintendo ds. this stuff will have you freakin' out at every corner. not 
 only is the music ominous and errie it also sets the correct tone for the game. you wont hear any 
 cheerful mario completion markers in this game... only a dark and slow soundtrack thats truly apt. 
 the game doesnt stop there though.. it would be a safe assumption to say that they gamecock wanted 
 the game to sound as good as it looks. with that said you really have to listen. there are clues 
 laid all around the unknown protagonist. you will never know what truly inside a doorway unless 
 you wanna poke a head in and risk getting is clawed off by a ravenous demon zombie! but by listening 
 you can set a better strategy to overcome the tyrannical monster, providing that there was a monster 
 there in the first place O_O!! sound get a superb rank for unbelieveable execution on the portable.
 
  
  gameplay is probably where hiccups are gonna occur. the movement is done with the d-pad ofcourse, 
 and the aming is done on the bottom screen. all these are executed succesfully. but the one true 
 pain of dementium is the level design. its painful to navigave and its somewhat repetitive. the 
 map sux but it does mark room that are locked by either a code , or key, or other apparatus. and 
 the save system!!! THE WORST THING I HAVE EVER WITNESSED IN A GAME PERIOD!! the game saves each 
 time you enter a room. so automatically you think safe right.... wrong.... is you just so happened 
 to get killed by one of the beautifully ugly monster, you have to start the ENTIRE chapter over. 
 thats right, from the beginning. skipping all those senseless saves the game hit for and just teleports 
 you back to grid one. a pain indeed. this feature actually made me put the game down for some time 
 b/c i couldnt stand getting to the boss, dying, and starting from the beginning, without a fu**** 
 map... totally sux!!! this one feature can easily lose value for players who dont have a patiencefor 
 such idiocracy. i dont know what the hell development was thinking when they created this abyssmal 
 save system... just as ugly as the demented creatures that lurk the hallways
  
  all in all, its a pretty cool game. offering something more oriented torwards older ds players 
 which is cool b/c i dont do pokemon. the sound and graphics are top notch, but a few short-comings 
 with the save system and level design kinda retract from what could have been an awesome ds title. 
 the game has no replay value or multiplater functions... so when your done, your done... until a 
 continuation comes out. and if that happens maybe the wrinkles can iron out for what i believe 
 will be the best horror game on the ds... final words... great game, terrible save, BUY IT, then 
 sell it back!!! lol
  
  Red Sovereign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NikR08
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Seriously... what's up with the 7.5 score? It deserves at least 8.5.
  
  Firstly, it must be the greatest graphical achievement for the ds to date. Brilliant real-time 
 lighting for the flashlight really shows off the ds' power. There are also lovely blood stains 
 on the walls, doors and floors. And all though a lot of the hospital and environments are very 
 similar in texture design, it doesn't really matter since the rest of the game is so awesome.
 
  
  Many people seem to be SO damned concerned about the save system. It is true that if you die then 
 you restart the chapter, but you don't actually have to. Since it saves on the entry of every room, 
 if you quit the game or turn the power off and load your data again, you should be near the location 
 of your death next to the last door you opened. So really, this isn't a problem at all.
  
  The game is about just right in difficulty and will take a decent amount of time the first time 
 through as long as it isn't rushed. If you run through every area and try to complete everything 
 as fast as you can, you won't get a proper feel for the atmosphere and so won't enjoy the game 
 as much. But if you slowly traverse the labyrinth-like dak hallways of the building and listen 
 to the brilliant audio sound effects and music, you really will get the best gaming experience 
 for the hand-held.
  
  Overall.... I give it a 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgisforme
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up truly not expecting much besides disappointment, but much to my surprise 
 it was actually really good. The visuals I think are the highest you're ever gonna see on the D. S. 
 The sound was great. Very creepy, and the ambient noises like children crying in the infant ward 
 was just perfect. Gameplay was very good. If you like the Silent Hill or Resident Evil style game 
 of looking for scraps of paper and handwritten notes, you'll find that here. Only bad things I 
 can say about this game is the same thing every review says and that is the completely broken save 
 system. Makes the game incredibly tedious to play. I know chapter six off by heart, every room 
 and every hall because I had to play through it from the very beginning every time I died. There 
 are no checkpoints. The only other thing I personally didn't like was the bad guys re spawn as 
 soon as you leave the room. So if you check a door thinking it will be locked just to get it to 
 show on the map but it isn't when you turn around to go back all the bad guys are there again which 
 stinks because the ammo is so limited. Would have been nice to be able to go back through areas 
 you had cleared previously to see if you had missed a door or something without hassle. All in 
 all though, it still is a very good game. Very creepy. Well worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: massconquer
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Dementium: The Ward. I've always wondered what it means. Ward means a section in a hospital that 
 is specifically used for a purpose.
  During the game, you go through different parts of the hospital trying to solve the mystery of 
 the hospital and to get out of there alive. In the begining, it's very linear with no point in 
 back tracking, but after lets say, you need to get the three keys, you need to travel almost everywhere 
 in the hospital. I've never died so far, but i heard people saying that when u die, you need to 
 start from scratch. I don't know for sure, but I'm not risking it! There are pros, and there are 
 cons of this game.
  Pros:
  1) Excellent graphics with textured weapons and rooms.
  2) Audio of the game is amazing (take the beginning part of the game as an example)
  3) The eeriness 
 of the place makes you think about it all night.
  4) A masterpiece that actually made it scarier than Doom 3.
  Cons:
  1) Flashlight has unlimited 
 range.
  2) Once you kill a zombie and exit the room then enter back, they are ALIVE again!
  3) For a few minutes, you are in a hospital, then it turns into a labyrinth!
  4) Very hard to 
 solve puzzles.
  Overall, it is a good game having some cons. Enjoy, for you will never pick it back up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sierramist33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Dementium: The Ward works extremely well with the DS and I find that what many people find as a 
 negative actually a positive. I gave this game a great score of 8.5/10 and this is why...
  
  Graphics -- The graphics are actually quite impressive and are some of the best graphics/visuals 
 that I have seen on the DS. The characters and enemies are nicely done and look very sweet and 
 move like you think a zombie or creature of the sort would. The world is mainly 3D with very small 
 2D sprite aspects such as a doorknob on a door but it really has no affect on the game. I find 
 the graphics almost pushing the DS to the limits so I give the graphics an inspiring 8.8/10.
  
  Story -- What story line is there? Well in the beginning and mainly through the whole game there 
 is a very limited amount given to you other than you must survive and you were placed in this creepy 
 place for something you did but you have no clue what it is. So basically it allows you to let 
 your mind explore and come up with its own reason for why you must survive. But, sometimes I just 
 have no imagination and hate not being told why so the story line is almost not present and recieves 
 a 7/10 (at least it wasn't a stupid story line) .
  
  Gameplay -- I have seen some complaints about the gameplay and I really can't find out why. It is 
 simple, easy, and quick to use. Some people are complaining about no quick turn, well if your telling 
 me you can't slide the stylus fast enough to turn around then you might want to get something checked 
 out, I don't know what but you just might have to. I can admit that sometimes I seem lost due to 
 gameplay such as when I'm backing up but its no biggy and switching between weapons, your notebook, 
 and options are quite simple and easily used. The only problem with the gameplay I see is the lack 
 of dead zombie bodies after you kill them which I liked alot in the Resident Evil games instead 
 of them disapearing right away and there is a lack of blood but there is enough on the walls and 
 the bed already but thats mainly a graphics problem so it really doesn't matter. Many people are 
 also complaing about the save system but believe me its the way it should be. If you die you need 
 to be punished and if you don't like punishment just watch your health and turn off the DS when 
 your almost dead so there problem fixed. I give the gameplay an 8.5/10
  
  Replay Value -- Ya once I beat it I might play it again but there is no extra stuff so I was kind 
 of disapointed. Its not part of the real game but stil it would have been a nice touch. This value 
 recieves a 7.5/10
  
  Difficulty -- nothing too hard, at least nothing to the extreme except some boss levels, but definitely 
 nothing easy. It recieves a just right from me and a 8.9/10 for scoring.
  
  Sound -- Very nicely done, is really quite beautiful with the storm and background music plus zombie 
 sounds. It scores a nice 9.0/10
  
  The need to play -- It grabs me in and I can't wait to play it at night, it is just great and since 
 it has become my guily pleasure I must so that this is a necesary purchase and the need to play 
 earns a 9.2/10
  
  Overall -- Dementium: The Ward is a great thriller that leaves my mind and body with a tingling 
 fealing after playing. I feel that this is probably the best new title for the DS so far and was 
 brilliantly created by Renegade Kid. This is why I believe that Dementium is misrated by many people 
 and deserves at least an 8.5/10. Can't wait for Renegade Kid's new game or a new publication from 
 Gamecock (mushroommen) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIOJECT
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2007 2:04 am PT
Review:  I haven't beaten this game yet and while this may discredit my review, I think I have some good 
 reasons for why I give this game a six out of ten. Dementium: The Ward is Doom 3, Silent hill, 
 and The Ring combined into a single package. It has the signature flashlight that forces you to 
 constantly switch between it and firearms as well as enemies that vaporize coincidently in a similar 
 way to doom 3, a hospital setting and puzzles (including a piano puzzle) from Silent hill, and 
 a stereotypical girl with long hair in a white gown that looks evil like the one in The Ring . 
 This isn't actually the reason for the low score, but it doesn't help it either. In other words, 
 the story is a bore.
  
  The games biggest fault is its gameplay and controls. You control your character with the stylus, 
 which works nicely, but the controls for moving around are really lame. You can strafe left and 
 right, slowly move backwards by holding the bottom button, and if you press the top button twice, 
 you will sprint. The choice of pressing the button twice to sprint is one of the biggest faults 
 in the game. Sometimes I needed to sprint away only to be stuck walking at a crawl because I didn't 
 double tap the top button correctly. Other problems include turning in a tight situation. There 
 is no quick turn so if you get attacked by an enemy; it's very difficult to flee. The other problem 
 is the gameplay. There are two enemies in the game that cannot be killed with a melee attack because 
 your character is too tall and the enemy is too short. This means if you run out of bullets, you 
 can't kill these enemies. Did I mention enemies usually respawn if you reenter the room?
  
  The worst feature of the game overall is the fact that if you die, you begin at the beginning of 
 the chapter. If you get stuck on a boss, expect to spend an extra 10-15 minutes running back to 
 him every time you die. Fortunately I discovered a trick to this. Because the game saves normally 
 after every room, you can reset the game right before you die to avoid having to repeat all of 
 the areas. I don't know what the creators where thinking with this one. Saving after every room 
 is convenient especially since it's a portable game, but forcing you to begin the level when you 
 die is completely ridiculous. Would I have purchased this game if I could go back in time? Probably 
 not. Dementium is a game that had the potential to be really good. Unfortunately the controls, 
 combat, and save system destroyed all hopes of it being good. I have no idea why so many gamers 
 are giving this game high reviews for having so many major faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankand007
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 12:59 am PT
Review:  Besides, returning to the begining after dying was common sense back in the day, so the old school 
 touch is much aprreciated. I was expecting much more (at least 3 more times...2 times would be 
 appreciated!) from such a beautiful game. I just hope they dont get rid of such an engine, because 
 it sure suck me in the only 3 nights i spended beating the game.
  
  After all the running, cause i sure wasnt up for wasting ammo and health on a lousy geodude looking 
 parasite spitting its guts at me, i was dissapointing by the amount of repeated texture, but noticed 
 they could have done some other places, not outdoors necesarrily, like underground labs, warehouses, 
 dispossal, etc, not just... a building, a church and a patio split in two.
  
  So overall, games are toys, apperantly this one for mature audience, and i had a lot of fun, but 
 it is a videogame industry, so please get it together next time renage kid, cause u got the best 
 of potential, and a big aplausse for ur independent efforts and nice start into the industry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plaxz2007
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  i have played some horror games on the ds but none of them actually scared me. Resident Evil ds 
 is just the same as the psx version, while Touch the Dead isn't scary at all. And then I played 
 Dementium: the ward came and I played it with a headphone and in the middle of the night... and 
 guess what it actually game me some goosebumps... but don't get me wrong the game is not THAT scary. 
 And the story is a bit confussing.
  
  Graphics = the graphics is actually good for a ds game
  
  Gameplay = the controls are a bit 
 frustrating at first but if you have played some FPS on ds before, you should have no trouble at 
 all. the major flaw about this game is the save system. if you die you start again at the beginning 
 of the chapter. Sound = trust me, you must have a headphone to be able to enjoy the game great 
 audio.
  
  Replay = there's nothing to do at all other than to play it all over again. there's no unlockables, 
 secret stuff of other hidden things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  I was worried about this title from the very beginning. I tried out Resident Evil: Deadly Silence, 
 but it didn't have enough to set it apart from the original PS1 version. Touch the Dead managed 
 to get my attention for a brief second, but only because of the title. So naturally, I picked this 
 one up thinking it could only fall into the same category as all the rest. I was plesantly surprised, 
 but this was still far being a high-polished game. I'll break it down by topic for you...
  
  Concept - Main character wakes up in the hospital from hell. Sounds good so far, right? I think 
 it was a GREAT concept to begin with... but there needed to be something to set it apart from all 
 the rest of the survival horror games out there. Ok, how about putting it out exclusively for the 
 Nintendo DS. Perfect! Now what? Piece together a cool storyline that will really capture the audience? 
 Nah, don't worry too much about that...
  
  Gameplay / Controls - This actually was MUCH easier to play than GoldenEye: Rouge Agent and Metroid 
 Prime: Hunters, yet seemed to take the control scheme directly from both games. The entire game 
 is played on the touch screen, d-pad, and L button (unless you use the lefty set up) with the touch 
 screen being utilized for weapon select, map, options, and item access, and to look/aim. The d-pad 
 is there for movement and the L button to fire weapons or switch on and off the flashlight. Quite 
 surprisingy, the touch screen is very responsive with the only problems I encountered being when 
 trying to access different pages of the map and turning 180 degrees can be a problem when you get 
 surrounded by enemies.
  
  Graphics - It's the hospital from hell... you can't expect it to be colorful and happy. Most of 
 the floors are going to look alike because that's just the way hospitals are. However, the developers 
 did a fairly good job of making things look how they should. We're not talking about a Picasso 
 here, but they really did make it look creepy and run down with the blood splatters and scattered 
 trash and debris. The real problem I had was the monsters. There were 2 particularly good-looking 
 bosses in the game, there were only a handful of standard creatures to fight, and they were quite 
 boxy in design. Difficulty - I've heard so many people complaining about the save feature being 
 the downfall of this game. For those who don't know, the game saves everytime you go through a 
 door. But that's only in case you turn your DS off in the middle of the level. If you should happen 
 to die, you go to the beginning of the chapter you were just in and fight your way back through. 
 This SEEMS irritating enough, but once you've died 2 or 3 times, you'll have the area figured out 
 and you can blaze through the chapter in minutes. The entire game consists of 16 chapters and could 
 be run through in as little as 3 to 5 hours. There are puzzles to solve in order to advance, but 
 they leave clues that take only a little thought to decipher and the puzzles actually make some 
 sense! It's not like Resident Evil where you combine a red and blue gem on a statue in a modern 
 police office to reveal a hidden door. Some can be a little tricky, but aren't so difficult you 
 can't figure it out without a little effort. As for the enemy AI, they can see you run past and 
 hear you when you make a noise, but most can be avoided or taken down with a well-placed shot to 
 the weakspot. Boss battles come down to figuring the best strategy to a well-placed shot and exploiting 
 it until said-baddie falls. The real difficulty lies in ammo and health management and replaying 
 levels when you die.
  
  Sound - A good mix of ambient piano score, background noise and weapon effects. The rain and thunder 
 really add to the forboding atmosphere. The downside of this is that some of the sound effects 
 will make you want to gag on a slotted spoon... there are a few enemies (and a particular weapon) 
 that sent chills dow my spine, not because the game was scary, but because of the shrill effects 
 attached to the creature. Entertainment - The shallow story and monotonous levels and enemies might 
 turn a few people off from this, but it's just pure fun. It's got a certain ammount of creep-out 
 factor to it and it's one of the very few 'M' rated titles on the system (which adds to the novelty 
 of the game) , but when it's all said and done, is it worth the $30? Which leads me to my final 
 point...
  
  Value - I'm not going to tell you to go buy it just because I had a good experience. This game 
 is definately not for everyone. Sure there are some flaws, but this is a stepping stone for the 
 DS and the developer, and there could be some great improvements in subsequent titles. For those 
 who are not ready to lay down the entire price of the game; rent it first. If you can't rent, wait 
 for the price to drop or buy it used. Just don't go in expecting this will be the title to revolutionize 
 gaming.
  
  Last words - Taking into account that there were some minor design flaws and a lack of real replayability 
 and storyline, I had to reduce my score a bit. I would have rated higher but some things I can't 
 overlook. It was, however, a game that captured my interest and kept me playing to completion. 
 I look forward to seeing more from Renegade Kid, but I hope they look back and see where they could 
 make some improvements. Some want to hate the game; others want to herald it as the greatest thing 
 to come to the DS. I just say it's a nice change of pace and a taste of things to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nincsen
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  Its End of 2007 (!!!) and still some of the games are coming out without proper save function. 
 This sucks. They make a good game with good grafix, fast framerate, nice sounds, and at the end 
 they skip the save function. How is this possible? The grafix are great, the feeling is okay (its 
 not scary) . This could have been the best DS title. Shame on the makers.. Damn i still need a few 
 words:) SO: After this game, i dont wanna see no low framerate 3d games on the ds, if they (and 
 the makers of Metroid) can do it, the others should be able to do that too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Dementium. I had high hopes for this game, and by Gamespot's preview it looked and played really 
 nice. So I picked up an early copy of this game, and it confirmed my assumptions, but there is 
 some hidden stuff which I don't like.
  
  Graphics - Awesome. It's practically one of the best looking games on the DS, and not just by polygon 
 count. The graphics are well designed, full 3D is present, and its linear and good frame-rate make 
 this a top notch designed game, graphic-wise, that is. 9/10 here.
  
  Sound - The heartbeat and music are just eerie and give a sense realism that only is present in 
 (good) horror games. It is advised to play with headphones for the full experience, as once a zombie 
 appeared just in front of me and because I was with headphones, I got a real fright. 8/10 here.
 
  
  Gameplay - Great! I loved the way they made the levels, with enemies technically getting harder 
 as you progress, and the life bar is just right. You'll frequently find yourself going back for 
 more health or trying endlessly to find some ammo clips for your gun, as it proves very useful 
 and essential to killing zombies and other creatures. The bosses are quite difficult, and many 
 people will find themselves getting owned by them in a flash. Nevertheless, this section is good...7/10
 
  
  Replay Value - .... until we talk about the save system. Yes, and if you don't know about it, it's 
 basically the following: you are nearing the end of the chapter, you have ammo, and health. Then 
 suddenly an enemy appears, you try to kill him but he gets the better of you, and you die. Okay, 
 no problem, I saw those Saving messages when I passed a section of the levels, so I'll just go 
 back to the last one, right? , you say. Wrong. You go back to the BEGINNING of the chapter, and 
 that's what makes this game so broken and tedious to play. Every time you die, it's back to the 
 start for you. There should AT LEAST be a checkpoint or something to record your progress, but 
 sadly, the developers failed here, lowering this section's score to a mediocre 5/10.
  
  Resuming, Dementium the Ward is a good and well-designed game in nearly all aspects, but it's broken 
 save system kinda puts you off from playing the whole game. Some levels are short, but you'll find 
 yourself replaying the later ones to boredom. Recommended only for masochists or for this game 
 genre lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azajabbar666
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Ok basicly the graphics and sounds are great, the story is nothing much but it is no bad, Game 
 play is the best FPS/Horror u may see on hand Held but WHAT ABOUT THE CRAPPY-CREEPY Save game system??? 
 i mean Rengade Kid did a great job with this game and i honestly think that they could do alot 
 better like creating a cast of characters and stuff like that but the save game has ruin every 
 thing so far my be lots of players wont finish it because of that. the game offers 16 chapters 
 some of them are pretty short and some of them are long and treffiying, Puzzles are NO-BAD but 
 easy though but if ur looking for a GAME that will bring the expirence of the 90's horror games 
 Dementium: The Ward is a good place to start if ur not then RUN-WITH-UR-Money mate ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salter
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  Silent Hill is my favorite game, so I was throughly primed to love Dementium, which in many respects 
 plays like a portable FPS version of Silent Hill. Upon beginning the game, I was immediately reassured 
 by the "saving" text that pops up every time you enter a room. Ahh, I thought, no matter what happens, 
 I'll never have to replay more than one room or so.
  
  Turns out the joke was on me (and on anyone else who detests retracing his steps repeatedly) , and 
 a cruel joke it is: each time you die, you're sent back to the very beginning of the level, which 
 can mean half an hour or more of going through the same motions. Again and again and again. I have 
 no idea what those "saving" messages were all about.
  
  Yes, I realize there are self-styled "hardcore" gamers out there who enjoy repeating the same actions 
 ad nauseum until they get past a stopping point, but I am not one of them. (Of course, there are 
 also masochists out there who enjoy beating themselves repeatedly on the head with a large mallet. 
 I'm not one of those either.)
  
  What a shame. If not for the frustration inherent in the sadistic save implementation, this could 
 have been a great one. If only DS games could be patched like those on the 360 and PS3.
  
  (FWIW, my ratings reflect my frustration with the save system more than anything else. The difficulty 
 level of "very hard" is entirely due to the save system. If the game actually saved more regularly, 
 I'd have rated it "just right." Similarly, I would have set the classification at "surprisingly 
 good", and the score at maybe 7.5 or 8.0) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBrainSquid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  I've been watching Dementium: The Ward since I've heard about it and knew from the start that it 
 wasn't going to provide any scares, that is unless they were the BOO! Ha! I scared ya moments that 
 seems to be the only thing most Horror games (with a few obvious exceptions) provide. But despite 
 that mentality, it looked fun. Really fun, and I wasn't disappointed.
  
  The controls work really well. They're almost perfect and I say almost because they are only almost. 
 The problem comes when you need a precisions shot, like at the heart of a zombie. The aiming is 
 great for larger entities but when you need a heart shot so you don't waste ammo, it seems like 
 the only time you'll get the perfect shot is luck. This is because your cross-hair isn't very steady, 
 it jumps and sways just enough pixels out of the way to get you to miss. Other than something like 
 that, the controls are great. Aiming is neither too slow or fast, your characters running is at 
 an almost perfect pace for the game, and walking, while slow, seems right for it as well. Doing 
 various tasks like reading notes and taking weapons is quick, seamless, and easy. And it doesn't 
 offer you the annoyingly obvious question Will you take the Shotgun? that pretty much every game 
 delivers, to end the description screen you just hit the take button.
  
  Story, I've only gotten four levels in for a certain problem that will be addressed later, but 
 so far there is almost no story. You mysteriously wake up in a hospital that seems a little less 
 than sanitary and you make your way through it, battling creatures who I can only assume are malpractice 
 lawyers and their offspring. But no matter how oblivious your character is, it becomes apparent 
 within the first five minutes of the game you had murdered someone, or somebody else certainly 
 thinks you have. Aside from that, the only other bits of what I could think of to be a story here 
 are random medical records of other people who's problems are schizophrenia and other darker illnesses.
 
  
  The difficulty in this game is perfect. You'll loose health, find health, and sometimes die. But 
 when you die you're only dying because you didn't know that you had to run from that enemy, or 
 they came at you from behind, or whatever. But there is a problem with that in this game. After 
 chapters one and two (the combined length of them is about 15 minutes long) , the chapters start 
 to become around 20 minutes to half an hours length. If you die, you have to start at the very 
 beginning of the chapter. No checkpoints, no second chances, you start over. I have yet to beat 
 chapter four because I get to the boss and I die from the fact he's not only stronger than you, 
 but also faster. I've found what I assume is the right way to kill him and I'll get back to that 
 soon. But it is kind of annoying to have to restart the entire chapter, no matter how far in you 
 made it. To make things even more confusing, every time you enter a door you see saving appear 
 on one of the screens... so what is it saving if you, no matter what, restart the chapter? I can't 
 complain completely though. This keeps you afraid of dying, and with virtually no death penalty 
 (like in BioShock) the game would seem too easy.
  
  All in all, I give this game an 8.5 because it is fun, but it tries too hard to be scary when it 
 just isn't and restarting an entire chapter, while an effective death penalty, is just plain annoying 
 if you've made it to the end of the level and just die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MamaMiia
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Initially, the atmosphere is superb and the setting is eerie and suspenseful. Some think a mental 
 hospital has been overused as a horror setting, but I disagree. Using the stylus like a flashlight 
 is a great use of the DS\\\'s capabilities, but similarly, one can't really expect next-gen graphics 
 from this platform. Little touches like left-handed controls and the ability to turn down/off sounds 
 and music are also much-appreciated. On the negative side, the save system could be a LOT more 
 user-friendly, and the levels, monsters, and even bosses get repetitive after a while. There\\\'s 
 a dearth of M-rated games for the DS, but this one was worth the wait and hopefully its success 
 will spawn more. If you like horror movies like \\\ Session 9,\\\ you should love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dosu178
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:23 am PT
Review:  I got this game expecting a game that couldn't be scary even if I had just watched the scariest 
 movie on the planet. But I was wrong this game is the very element of scary and thats a good thing. 
 The game has suprisingly good view for a handheld FPS. The games story is nice and mysterious and 
 the monsters you fight in the hospital are so hard to kill it feels real and the true gem is when 
 your gun is out of bullets and the hall is dark ahead and you are extremely scared out of your 
 mind. So overall this game is a gritty survival horror game that is the perfect rated mature game 
 with plenty of scares and good controls it is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJDarkViper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  When i first fired up Dementium i was expecting vanilla. What i got was smooth chocolate mouse 
 with whipping cream and a cherry on top. The game opens up with the protagonist waking up in a 
 hospital ward and seeing a book on the ground with a key. The books first page reads Why did you 
 do it? . Now your effectively trying to just get the hell out.
  Simple? Yes, effective? Yes. Creepy? Definitely.
  
  Lets start with the games atmosphere. Ever 
 wanted to play Silent Hill 1 in First Person mode? Thats essentially the experience were getting 
 here. Chock full of young kids creepy stuff, zombies, and weird monsters that might make you jump 
 a little. Its an incredibly creepy and involving atmosphere, which is definitely saying something 
 being as its a DS game. As for the games presentation, can be wrapped up simply: PS2 Production 
 Values in what appears to be a PSX Engine. The game is fully 3d for the most part. For objects 
 that aren't given the 3d treatment, they are given 2D sprite appearances, which do nothing to detract 
 from the overall presentation at all. Example would be a telephone, the body of the phone is 3d 
 but because of the receivers overly complex geometry, its instead drawn out and attached to each 
 phone. It actually works out rather nicely. The animation is top grade and the interaction is spotless. 
 It also supports some standard DS fare, that notebook you find in the game, will allow you to jot 
 down notes with your stylus. VERY handy when it comes to remembering those clues. However, its 
 only good for reminders. Ill provide a small hint here though: Don't over think Dementiums puzzles, 
 they are actually quite simple ones, but its easy to over analyze.
  
  You control the game like Metroid is a way. Use the bottom screen with your stylus to aim, and 
 the camera will follow closely but loosely. The object in your hand is actually whats controlled 
 by the stylus, and the camera does a good job at keeping up and making it feel like your looking 
 through a head, instead of the weapon in front of you being attached to your visor.
  The Left Trigger is what uses the item in your hand. If its the flashlight, it'll toggle it on 
 and off. If its a gun it'll fire it, if its your police baton, it'll swing it. You move with the 
 DPad and to run is a simple double tap in any direction. Its a really simple interaction model 
 but its engrossing. I think my biggest complaint with the controls are, i don't find pressing the 
 left trigger all that comfortable on the DS, and this game will really make you wish the DPad was 
 a Joystick like the PSPs as unless you used to pressing down on the thing quite a bit, it going 
 to wear our your left thumb quite easily. Neither of these issues is Dementiums fault however, 
 and unfortunately is just a fact of life we must live with, especially to play a game of this caliber. 
 I do wish your character spoke, if its a pet peeve of mine, is a mute protagonist. And anybody 
 you meet within the game, usually ends up leaving you in some way or another and your always alone. 
 Which helps maintain the feeling of helplessness, but you know, would have been nice to see a half 
 decent conversation to play out the story a little bit. There are indeed cutscenes in this game. 
 Yes, fully 3d, real-time rendered cutscenes. The game rips the camera out of your head and does 
 some really great camera shots of of whatever its going to be playing. And the delivery of the 
 NPCs in terms of voice acting is so far, top notch, and the animation is top grade quality. This 
 is seriously the kind of game experience you would expect out of a next-generation console. However, 
 its on a Handheld, and looks fantastic. For ALL of its 3D glory, it runs as smooth as glass too, 
 not a single framerate hit. And that my friends, is rather impressive if you ask me. Its also worth 
 mentioning, that this game also deserves its M rating. Blood cakes the walls everywhere, and generally 
 this game really COULD scare some people! Its the perfect gamer to play with headphones blastic, 
 in the dark, at 2AM. Its an experience, you will not regret.
  
  There is no multiplayer though, but then again, does it really need it? Its nearly an unheard of 
 thing to see a game in this day and age without the ability to connect to anyone. Let me rest your 
 soul in saying: You wont care. Its a fantastic game all by itself, and demands your attention without 
 some random person yelling PWNED! in your ear.
  
  I highly recommend this to anyone who owns a DS, and looking for a good freaky time. Especially 
 around Halloween!
  You'll be hard pressed to find a more awesome game on your DS this holiday. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
