-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Diddy Kong Racing DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/driving/diddykongracing/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Staggering number of activities.
 fun and addictive touch-screen collection stages.
 neat customization features.
 Online multiplayer is fun and works well, despite some minor flaws.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some of the touch-screen controls are stupid.
 unlocking content gets tedious.
 No multiplayer chat makes it difficult to set up races.
 Driving around the island looking for things to do gets old .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.7, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 882 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Rare Ltd.
Genre: Kart Racing
Date: Feb 5, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Diddy Kong Racing DS is an OK racer with plenty to do, but the ridiculous number of tasks you have 
 to do to enjoy all of it may irritate those who just want to race. 

  Many of Rare's fans were deeply saddened when Microsoft purchased the company in 2002, thinking 
 that no more Rare games would ever find their way onto a Nintendo system again. While Rare hasn't 
 been making any games for Nintendo's home consoles, it has released a handful of games for the 
 Game Boy Advance, and now, the Nintendo DS, as well. Diddy Kong Racing was released to mixed reviews 
 on the Nintendo 64 in 1997. Almost 10 years later, the game is back, having gotten a touch-up similar 
 to what Nintendo did with Super Mario 64 DS. The core game is mostly unchanged, but there are new 
 race modes, new characters, touch-screen controls, and even online multiplayer. If you didn't like 
 the original game, there's nothing here that's going to change your mind, and it's certainly no 
 threat to the Mario Kart series, but it is a solid racing game that, good or bad, has enough content 
 to keep you busy for a very long time.  

          But I don't want to spin the wheel to boost!     

  There are eight characters playable 
 from the outset: Diddy Kong, Pipsy, TipTup, Dixie Kong, Timber, Tiny Kong, Bumper, and Krunch; 
 Banjo and Conker, who were in the original, are nowhere to be found. Unlike most racing games, 
 Diddy Kong Racing has a story to explain why you're racing. It seems that a giant evil pig named 
 Wizpig has taken control of an island that is inhabited by cute little talking animals. Because 
 living on an island ruled by an evil giant pig stinks, the animals send a letter to Diddy Kong, 
 who quickly rounds up his friends so that they can race each other and then race and defeat Wizpig. 
 Nobody tells Diddy his plan doesn't make any sense, so they head off to save the day. Once you're 
 on the island, a flamboyant purple elephant-genie named Taj guides you through the basics and sends 
 you on your racing quest. Now you know why most racing games don't have a story. The premise is 
 completely absurd and doesn't make a lick of sense, but outside of the opening cutscene, there's 
 thankfully very little story exposition.  

  Rather than letting you choose a series of races from a menu, Diddy Kong's races are located in 
 themed hubs (snow, dinosaur, beach, volcano...) , which are spread across the island. The island 
 is large, but it's mostly devoid of things to do, and it gets tedious driving from one hub to the 
 next. Upon entering a hub, you'll see large doors with a numbered balloon on them. This number 
 indicates how many balloons you need to have acquired before you can enter that specific race. 
 Balloons are earned mostly by winning races, but there are a few loose balloons around the island, 
 and you can also earn some by winning Taj's challenges. If you don't have enough balloons to enter 
 a race or you're stuck on one particular race, you can drive to another hub where there's usually 
 something else you can do. There's no prize for second place, so you'll have to win to earn a balloon. 

  Upon entering a door, you're taken to a race where you'll have to pilot a kart, hovercraft, or 
 plane to victory. Each vehicle has its own distinct handling, and for the most part, they handle 
 well, though the kart and plane are much more fun than the hovercraft. One of the lamest new features 
 is the prerace boost. You'll need to blow into the microphone if you're driving the hovercraft 
 to get a little extra speed. To boost your kart, you rapidly move the stylus or your finger downward, 
 as if you're spinning a tire. You move your finger or stylus in a circular motion to simulate spinning 
 a propeller when you're piloting the plane. It's a pain to transition from holding the stylus to 
 driving, and it doesn't work all that well anyway, so the feature adds absolutely nothing to the 
 game. Once the race starts, you'll find that Diddy Kong plays like most other kart racers. You 
 can drive over pads to get a boost, as well as fire missiles and drop mines and oil slicks. Rather 
 than rewarding the last-place driver with the best weapons, anyone can get the good power-ups by 
 collecting multiple power-up balloons of the same color or by collecting upgrade tokens. The races 
 are generally close, and they're rarely frustrating, thanks to the limited use of catch-up artificial 
 intelligence. Every once in awhile, a race will be difficult, but it usually doesn't take more 
 than a few tries to beat it.  

          Popping balloons is more fun than you'd think.     

  Once you've cleared each of the 
 races in the hub, you can take on a boss, like a dragon or an octopus, in a head-to-head race. 
 Your reward for beating the boss is to do each course again. But this time, you'll be riding on 
 a self-guided magic carpet, and all you need to do is pop dozens of balloons that are placed along 
 the course by tapping the screen with your stylus. You can also collect coins by dragging them 
 into your wallet in the corner of the screen. These challenges are quite simple, but they're fun 
 and very addicting, especially if you're trying to pop every single balloon. Hopefully you enjoy 
 the balloon challenges, because the game gets tedious after that.  

  After popping balloons, you'll have to take on that area's boss again. This time it'll be a little 
 harder, but still not overly difficult. Once you've won, you have to race all of that hub's races 
 again, but this time you'll do it back-to-back in a tournament format. Your reward for winning? 
 You race the boss again. It would be bad enough if you were to just race, but on the third go-around, 
 you view the action from above and race with your stylus. You have to spin a small wheel in the 
 corner to get some speed and then draw a path for your driver to follow. This doesn't sound so 
 bad at first, but when your kart slows down, the tire appears again and you have to spin it some 
 more. While you're doing this, you can't drive your kart, so you'll end up driving off the course 
 or ramming obstacles while you're spinning the tire. To make matters worse, your kart doesn't seem 
 to follow your path very well. Suffice it to say, the whole process is a complete and utter mess 
 and totally not fun.     

  Over the course of the adventure, you'll receive a few mildly amusing challenges from Taj, such 
 as racing around the island collecting tokens. These help break up some of the game's monotony; 
 however, one of his challenges is noteworthy because of its absurdity. There are some lit torches 
 in two of the island's caves, and for some reason you must drive to each torch and blow it out. 
 You're placed at the starting line (facing the wrong direction) and have only 60 seconds to blow 
 out the torches. This is where it gets bad. You've got to drive up to each torch, get really close, 
 and blow into the DS's microphone. Sometimes the torch goes out and sometimes it doesn't, which 
 means you're guaranteed to have to make several attempts, looking like a fool and spitting on your 
 screen each time. This doesn't feel like 10 years of progress.  

          Ugh. Just leave me alone Taj.     

  Fortunately, Taj does more than make you blow on 
 your DS like a moron. He'll also let you spend your acquired coins to upgrade and customize your 
 vehicles, as well as unlock bonus features. The process for upgrading your vehicles is somewhat 
 confusing, and neither the game nor the manual do much to make your life any easier. In fact, many 
 of the game's newer features are explained poorly, if at all. It costs a fortune to upgrade your 
 vehicle (to negligible results) and unlock new content. You have to repeat races more than enough 
 already if you chose to ignore all of the upgrades and extra content, but the game really gets 
 mind numbing when you have to race over and over simply to earn more money. There are some cool 
 unlockables, such as the custom track editor, but you've got to jump through so many convoluted 
 hoops to get them that many can only be earned with the help of a game guide. For example, there 
 are four keys hidden in four of the game's races. You have no way of knowing where, though, and 
 unless you've got a guide, you would have to drive around every nook and cranny of every race to 
 find them. Certainly you get something awesome for your troubles, right? Well, for each key you 
 find, you get to race a clock named T. T. But, the reward for beating him makes it all worthwhile, 
 correct? After you beat T. T. four times, he tells you that you can unlock him if you are able to 
 beat his lap time on  every single course in the game . Rare was often maligned in the '90s for 
 their tendency to make you collect and unlock a lot of stuff, but this is ridiculous. Even the 
 last two levels have to be unlocked, with the final area subject to the same race-everything-three-times 
 formula as the rest of the game.  

  One of Diddy Kong Racing's strengths is its multiplayer. Up to eight people can play in a single 
 race or tournament, even if only one person has a copy of the game. Unlike many other games that 
 support download play, you can pick from plenty of tracks and all of the drivers. Best of all, 
 you can head online where six people can race each other via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection. Online 
 racing is surprisingly smooth, and there was no lag to speak of. Even if you don't have any friend 
 codes, you can still race online, which is nice for those people who find the whole friend-code 
 system tedious. The experience isn't without problems, however. There's no way to communicate with 
 other players, so it's hard to coordinate matches with friends. Something that may be a detriment 
 to the online experience is that the game awards one point to the person who finishes first and 
 no points to anyone else. You also don't appear to get penalized when you drop from a race, so 
 it's not unreasonable to expect a lot of people quitting midrace when they realize they aren't 
 going to win.  

  Diddy Kong Racing was a nice-looking game when it was first released on the Nintendo 64. The frame 
 rate isn't particularly fast, which hurts the game's sense of speed, but it is solid and almost 
 never slows down. The textures aren't all that well done, but the DS isn't exactly a texture powerhouse, 
 so it's hard to knock the game for it. Diddy Kong still looks good from a technical standpoint, 
 but there's very little creativity to be found in the art. The game uses bright colors to create 
 the almost cartoon-like world, but course and character designs feel dated. None of the course 
 settings are very original, nor are the characters, as they reek of someone trying desperately 
 to make their cute animals catch on as mascots.  

          It wouldn't be a 1990s Rare game without a ton of junk to collect.     

  The same sort 
 of thing can be said for the audio. There are plenty of different tunes that play throughout the 
 game, and they're neither particularly good nor are they offensive. Per article 5b, section two 
 of the Kart Racing Treaty of 1996, each racer spouts a short phrase when chosen, when they get 
 hit by something, or when they hit someone else. You can record your own voice for your character, 
 which is pretty neat. Taj seems to have a different voice than he did in the old game, and it's 
 probably one of the worst video game character voices ever. Thankfully, he doesn't talk much.  
 

  At its core, Diddy Kong Racing DS isn't a bad kart-racing game, but its best feature, the racing, 
 is buried underneath so much unnecessary garbage that some people will find it nearly impossible 
 to enjoy. Had Rare stripped the island setting, toned down the tedious collecting, and tweaked 
 some other minor issues, the game would have been better with less. Instead, it chose to add more 
 and more content, and the game suffers for it. Some of the new additions, such as online multiplayer 
 and the various customization features, make the game more enjoyable, but many of them, particularly 
 the touch-screen controls, make it worse. If you don't mind that the game sometimes feels more 
 like Donkey Kong 64 than a racing game, then you'll probably enjoy all that Diddy Kong Racing DS 
 has to offer. But if you just want to race, there are better options.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (121 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Negemite
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 7:16 pm PT
Review:  *Unfinished!*
  
  Back in 1997 when Rare and Nintendo where partners and made some games for the Nintendo 64, one 
 of them is Diddy Kong Racing. It's a kart racing game mixed with some adventure elements. With 
 other games that came out during that time, this is something original. Around 2001 a sequel was 
 planned for the Nintendo Gamecube called Donkey Kong Racing, but that game got cancelled because 
 Microsoft bought Rare in 2002. Now ten years later we have finally gotten the remake of the original.
 
  
  Diddy Kong Racing has some stuff returned from the original like the Adventure Mode where you follow 
 the story of all the little critters living on an island, and Muiltiplayer Mode where you play 
 against your friends with or without a Game Card, but there is some new stuff like Nintendo WiFi 
 Connection Mode where you play online with friends or find a person to play with, and Create A 
 Track Mode where you customize your own tracks and race on them. 
  
  Diddy Kong Racing has some returning characters and some new characters. Well Banjo and Conker 
 are out of the picture because Microsoft bought these characters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:00 pm PT
Review:  As a kid Diddy Kong Racing was that Nintendo 64 game that your mom simply would not buy because 
 you already had Mario Kart 64 and Nintendo 64 games were like $70. I always longed to own DK Racing, 
 with its planes and hover crafts, and I could not imagine what could possibly suck about the experience. 
 
  
  Well, this could suck. At its core, DKR is a solid racing game that has little gameplay flaws, 
 the only problems come from the game built around those game mechanics. The overworld structure 
 is clumsy and most of the tracks are very boring. Traveling from race to race seems pointless and 
 tacked on. You drive to an area simply to be given what is essentially a race menu lobby. You race 
 in races that have preset vehicles. You compete with a cart, plane or hover craft. In story mode 
 you cannot switch between the types of vehicles for the vehicle specific races, which is all of 
 them. IE, not planes vs carts, only karts vs karts and planes vs planes. Once you beat a track 
 you get to replay it as a touch screen mini-game, collecting balloons and coins. The coins are 
 used to level up your kart, hover craft and plane. 
  
  Here is where Diddy loses me. It is not made abundantly clear that to beat the second and third 
 tier levels you HAVE to upgrade your vehicle. I found this out the hard way. Also, the amount of 
 coins that it takes to achieve many/most of the upgrades is insane for the amount of time you will 
 put into the single player mode. I don't see how Rare expects players to obtain hundreds of coins 
 per vehicle to get certain upgrades. On top of that, you don't get the the coins that you collect 
 in a race unless you actually WIN the race. I found myself just replaying the first 4 levels over 
 and over again to to get enough coins to level up my vehicles. 
  
  The lack of more true Donkey Kong characters, Banjo or Conker, really makes the character line 
 up dull. Not to mention the way the skill sets are made up, there are some characters with reason 
 to ever be picked. Finally, and I know this will sound stupid, but DKR feels like you are playing 
 a Nintendo 64 game. Mario Kart DS doesn't FEEL like a N64 game, it feels like a DS game. Maybe 
 a graphical update or texture reworking would have fixed this, but overall it just feels old. 
 
  
  If you have Mario Kart DS, stick with it. DKR shows some interesting ideas in the upgrade areas 
 and its fun to fly around in the plane, but you will find yourself drifting back to the wonderful 
 and nearly flawless Mario Kart DS when done with DKR.
  
  As a child I would have probably loved DKR, but I can see its faults now and wish that it had been 
 tweaked a bit more before release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foomf11
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Although I thought at first that this was the best game I had for DS at the time, it [the game] 
 started to get pretty boring. At first your starting in a lush, exotic location, and the next thing 
 you know your racing a big fat pig. I recommend you buy this if your a die-hard Donkey kong or 
 Mario fan, but if you are not, leave this one to collect dust on the old game shelf in EB games. 
 oh BTW there are a lot of glitches in this game, so take warning. (Hint: If you ask the cashier 
 at Gamespot to get you a good copy, he will still give you a lousy copy, believe me  
 Bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye 
 bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerTron0
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  Back on the N64 mario kart was released and soon after diddy kong racing was released. Years later 
 on the DS mario kart DS is released and soon after that Diddy kong racing is released. Rip-off 
 or not Diddy kong racing is here and will not completely disappoint you. Unlike mario kart the 
 game has a story mode but the story is lame, the story is that a evil pig guy starts a racing thing. 
 A magic elephant helps you out to stop the pig guy. The gameplay is all about racing to get to 
 the finish line in 1st place. Before the race starts you can use the boost to get a head start, 
 you use the stylis pen to get the head start but it can be awkward when you instantly move to D-pad 
 and buttons after using the pen and mostly get behind because the other computer characters can 
 do it too. The story mode is boring and hard but in the wrong ways. Like mario kart there are different 
 vehicles like the normal kart racer and a plane and the worst ever, the hover boat. The kart racer 
 controls normally like you would expect. The plane controls good but it has slight learning cerve 
 to it. The hover boat is awful! Going strait is almost impossible and it controls horrible. There 
 is also a multiplayer available, it's either DS to DS or wi-fi online play. Diddy kong racing is 
 a good racing game but does have faults that prevent some from getting it.
  
  Story: 4.7
  Gameplay: 7.8
  Controls: 5.6
  Graphics: 8.4
  Re-Play Value: 6.5
  Overall: 7.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vivian24
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Diddy's back and better than ever! The N64 version of Diddy Kong Racing was highly overlooked because 
 it was launched along side the notorious Mario Kart 64. Diddy Kong Racing was easily overshadowed 
 because of Mario, however, many gamers enjoyed the N64 version of the game because it gave spice 
 to the regular racing tradition, allowing you to race in the traditional kart, airplane or hovercraft.
 
  
  The story is nothing to die for, but is alright. It generally follows the same feel of the N64 
 version, but it adds something different. Also, during races this time, instead of collecting banana's 
 you collect coins. Some levels have many, while others don't. In the story once you complete all 
 the races in one world, you must go back and collect a set number of balloons to pass that portion 
 of the level. There are three levels bronze, silver, and gold adding some minimal replay value 
 in that section. 
  
  If you compared Mario Kart DS and Diddy Kong Racing DS you could clearly see the difference in 
 graphics. The game has very blocky graphics bringing down its overall appeal. The character models 
 and karts are especially blocky, while the worlds are alright, but have only been slightly touched 
 up from the N64 version. In truth, I was expecting a lot more than what I got in terms of graphics.
 
  
  Replay value often makes and breaks the game. In this game's case it has moderate replay value. 
 Unlock able characters and medals add some replay value. The online and multiplayer aspect help 
 in the replay value as well giving it a moderate replay value.
  
  Multiplayer in both the N64 and DS versions of the game are extremely alike, and are good natured 
 fun with friends. Sadly, some aspects of the multiplayer require you to unlock battle modes and 
 things of that nature. The game seems as if it merely copied of Mario Kart DS at parts.
  
  The game is a lot of fun to play, especially since it is not grounded as Mario Kart DS is, but 
 the game is extremely short. The game is simply a port from the N64, with not a lot added in, but 
 it is a breath of something from the N64 age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ramzes64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing DS to odwieona wersja gry z przed dziesiciu lat, ktra w tamtym 
 czasie ukazaa si na Nintendo 64. Tym razem modszy mapiszon skonwertowany 
 zosta na przenon konsol Nintendo DS. Diddy Kong pod koniec lat  
 mocno konkurowa z Mario Kart 64, a po tylu latach mona miao powiedzie, 
 e gra nadal trzyma poziom, wcale si nie zestarzaa i wrcz przeciwnie  troszk 
 j nawet odmodzono.
  
  ADVENTURE
  Akcja gry odbywa si na wyspie, na ktr przylecia wielki kosmiczny prosiak Wizpig 
 przejmujc nad ni kontrol. Wystraszeni jej mieszkacy zwrcili si do 
 Diddy Konga z prob o pomoc w wypdzeniu najedcy. Dzielny may 
 mapiszon zjawia si na zawoanie i w trybie przygody pomoe wygoni nieproszonego 
 prosiaka.
  
  Na pocztku musimy zdecydowa kim, z pord omiu dostpnych postaci bdziemy 
 gra. Do wyboru jest myszka Pipsy, wik Tiptup, mapy Diddy Kong, Dixie Kong 
 i Tiny Kong, tygrysek Timber, borsuk Bumper oraz krokodyl Krunch. Kad posta okrelaj 
 trzy podstawowe parametry (prdko, przyspieszenie, sterowno) . Po wyborze 
 zwierzaka pojawi si din Taj (niebieski so) , ktry bdzie prowadzi 
 nas przez gr. To u niego moemy zamieni i ulepszy pojazd (samochodzik, samolot, 
 poduszkowiec) , wej do menu gry, to on po kadym zwycistwie wrcza nam 
 nagrod  balona (odpowiednik gwiazdek z Super Mario 64) .
  
  Zdobyte balony otwieraj bramy do wiatw, a pniej take i drzwi do torw 
 na ktrych bdziemy si ciga. Wycigi odbywaj si na tej 
 samej zasadzie jak w Mario Kart, na trasie znajdujemy rne przeszkadzajki, ( usunem 
 text zbdne w sumie) jednak zamiast boxw, zbieramy rnokolorowe balony: czerwony  
 rakieta, niebieski  przyspieszenie, zielony  plama oleju s jeszcze magnes, ktry przyciga 
 nas do zawodnika z przodu i osonka chronica nas przed ostrzaem. Aby byo 
 ciekawiej zastosowano trjstopniow moliwo wzmacniania zdobytych przeszkadzajek" 
 , ( usunem text zbdne w sumie) Gdy dojedziemy do mety pierwsi na kadym 
 z torw, w danym wiecie, to bdziemy mogli zmierzy si z bossem tam panujcym. 
 Po wygraniu z nim otrzymamy cz amuletu, ktra sprawia e skalista podobizna 
 gowy Wizpiga (znajdujca si w centrum wyspy) oywa. Pokonanie bossa w danym 
 wiecie jednak nie koczy naszej zabawy, gdy mamy moliwo ponownej 
 gry na tych samych torach w wyzwaniu z balonami. Gra ju nie jest zwyk cigak, 
 a raczej shooter'em na szynach z cakiem innej perspektywy (widok z oczu na poruszajcym 
 si latajcym dywanie) . Naszym celem jest rozbicie jak najwikszej iloci balonw 
 i przy okazji zebranie kilkunastu monet do sakiewki umieszczonej w prawym dolnym rogu touch screen'a. 
 W balony wystarczy uderzy stylusem, monety natomiast przecigamy po ekranie. Gdy uda 
 nam si rozbi ich okrelon ilo na kadym torze, ponownie 
 wracamy do bossa (tym razem wycig jest trudniejszy) . Istnieje te moliwo 
 trzeciego spotkania z szefem kadego ze wiatw, ale tam pojazdem sterujemy tylko za 
 pomoc stylusa (wycig jest bardzo trudny) , a za wygran dostaniemy sto monet.
 
  
  Gdy pokonamy wszystkich bossw z czterech wiatw i zbierzemy wszystkie czci amuletu 
 Wizpiga, jego skalista podobizna oyje, a my bdziemy mogli wlecie do jego ryja 
 (jaskini) , by zmierzy si z kosmicznym prosiakiem w walce finaowej. Wygrana z 
 nim to jednak nie koniec - po obejrzeniu napisw pojawia si scenka, w ktrej witujcym 
 zwierzakom ponownie przeszkadza wielki winiak. Latarnia morska znajdujca si na 
 play zamienia si w rakiet i  i musicie zagra aby dowiedzie si 
 co dalej.
  
  To jeszcze nie wszystko co oferuje tryb przygody. W kadym wiecie ukryty jest jeden 
 klucz otwierajcy drzwi ycze". Za nimi czeka zegar T. T. z ktrym oczywicie 
 si cigamy, ale na trasach, ktre sami rysujemy stylusem (na pocztku nie mamy 
 duego pola do popisu, gdy jestemy uczeni co i jak si wykonuje w tym prostym 
 kreatorze torw, ale pniej mamy ju woln rk) . Po zwycistwie 
 dostajemy rwnie kawaek amuletu, ktrego cao odblokuje w menu gwnym 
 opcj kreatora tras.
  
  Tryb przygody oferuje rwnie wycig o trofeum z kadego wiata. Zasada jest 
 podobna jak w serii Mario Kart  cztery punktowane wycigi pod rzd, z ktrych w klasyfikacji 
 oglnej wyania si zwycizc.
  
  Podczas gry w trybie przygody moemy, a nawet i musimy zbiera monetki znajdujce 
 si na trasie  za ktre u Taj'a wykupuje si rne rzeczy do pojazdw (dodatkowy 
 spojler, skrzydo poprawiajce sterowno poduszkowca lub samolotu, albo tylny 
 wydech  zwikszajcy prdko) . Moliwo tuningowania 
 jest nowoci w DKR, w wersji na N64 nie byo to moliwe. Ten dodatek w stosunku 
 do pierwowzoru jest bardzo przydatny i uatwia gr. Monety su rwnie 
 do wykupywania i odblokowania dodatkowych tras w trybie dla jednego gracza, jakich dodatkowych 
 opcji i funkcji jak np. sound recorder" dziki ktremu istnieje moliwo 
 nagrania kilkusekundowych sekwencji dwikowych do podstawowych etapw rozgrywki (wygrana, 
 przegrana, wysunicie si na prowadzenie, gdy wystrzelimy rakiet, lub gdy oberwiemy 
 od innego gracza) .
  
  Midzy zdobywaniem balonw i odkrywaniem nowych tras Taj zaproponuje nam wyzwania: wycig 
 dookoa wyspy w kadym z pojazdw, zbieranie tokenw albo ugaszenie wszystkich pochodni 
 znajdujcych si w tunelach. Jest to jedno z ciekawszych zada bo wykorzystuje mikrofon 
 w DSie. W okrelonym limicie czasu musimy dojecha do kadej z pochodni i dmuchn 
 w mikrofon aby j ugasi  niby nic, a sprawia frajd.
  
  Cakowite ukoczenie przygody odblokowuje Wizpig'a jako grywan posta oraz 
 MIRROR ADVENTURE, czyli wszystko w odbiciu lustrzanym.
  
  SINGLE RACE
  Tryb dla jednego gracza bez wczuwania si w przygod oferuje zwyke wycigi 
  wybieramy zwierzaka, tras, pojazd i gramy. Moemy jeszcze wczy opcj 
 time trial w ktrej naley pokona wszystkie czasy ustanowione przez T. T.  jeli 
 uda nam si go pokona na kadym torze i w kadym pojedzie to zostanie 
 on odblokowany jako grywalna posta.
  
  Za monetki zebrane w trybie przygody odblokowa moemy coin challenge"  na trasach 
 porozrzucanych jest osiem miedziakw, ktre nie do e musimy zebra to jeszcze 
 musimy by pierwsi na linii mety. Jest to kolejna dodatkowa opcja dla wymiataczy i chccych 
 ukoczy gr w stu procentach, stanowica kolejne wyzwanie. Oczywicie 
 mirror coin challenge" rwnie jest dostpny, zreszt tak samo jak i mirror w czaswkach 
 z T. T.
  
  Podsumowujc naley podkreli, e poza podstawowym trybem przygody po 
 przejciu gry mamy jeszcze wiele moliwoci, no i odbicie lustrzane do kadego 
 trybu - co podwaja czas spdzony z gr  ja spdziem z ni ponad trzydzieci 
 siedem godzin lic wszystkie ciany, trasy i tryby gry.
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  W Diddy Kong Racing DS moemy gra nawet do omiu osb korzystajc z jednego 
 kartrida, lub gdy kady z grajcych posiada wasny. Uprzyjemniajc sobie 
 czas w ten sposb mona ciga si na jednym torze w zwykym wycigu, 
 lub w trophy race" na czterech trasach jak w Mario Kart. Dostpny jest te tryb battle, 
 zbieranie tokenw oraz zabawa na narysowanych przez siebie torach. Gracze mog rwnie 
 wymienia si ghost data (swoimi czaswkami) .
  
  Online wykorzystujcy usug Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection pozwala na gr do szeciu 
 osb, a oferowane tryby gry to single race, battle tracks, trophy race i token tussle. Niestety 
 Diddy Kong Racing DS to nie Mario Kart i jest mniej popularny, przez co trudniej i duej 
 wyszukuje si tylu graczy ilu by si chciao (mamy moliwo wyboru 
 z iloma przeciwnikami chcemy gra: 2 / 4 / 6) . Pojedynczych zawodnikw zawsze znajdziemy, 
 trzeba by tylko bardziej cierpliwym ni przy MK DS.
  
  Personalizujc gr moemy stworzy wasne emblematy, ktre niestety nie 
 s widoczne podczas grania w sieci z losowo dobranymi przeciwnikami. Emblematy widz 
 tylko nasi znajomi, z ktrymi wymienilimy si wczeniej Friend Code.
  
  Mniejsza popularno gry i brak snakingu (obecnego w Mario Kart DS) sprawiaj, e 
 o oszustwa nie musimy si martwi, jedynie umiejtnoci przeciwnika i jego 
 znajomo tras mog przeszkodzi nam w wygranej. Do gry z kim trzeba 
 podej te z gow, a nie tylko brn do przodu  gdy dwch 
 graczy jest na tym samym poziomie. Fajne jest te to, e w DKR moemy trbi 
 na przeciwnika, co w grze online ze znajomym daje niesamowit frajd.
  
  RNICE
  Diddy Kong Racing DS w porwnaniu ze swoim pierwowzorem z przed dziesiciu 
 lat wypada bardzo dobrze. Gra zachowaa swj klimat, dodano wiele elementw ktre wykorzystuje 
 nowa konsola. Jest te co o czym nie wspomniaem, a dotyczy kadego wycigu 
 - przed startem zamiast odliczania mamy kilka sekund aby na dotykowym ekranie stylusem lub palcem 
 rozkrci koa przy jedzie samochodzikami (przecigajc po ekranie 
 w d) , rozkrci migo w samolocie (krcc kka) i rozpdzi 
 dmuchaw poduszkowca (dmuchajc w mikrofon) . 
  
  Kierowanie samochodami nie sprawia adnych problemw. Poduszkowiec ju z natury jest 
 sabo sterowalny, ale dokupujc skrzyda" atwiej bdzie nam si 
 grao. Sterowanie samolotem rwnie nie stwarza kopotw, ale osoby pamitajce 
 oryginaln wersj na pocztku zatskni za analogiem z N64, a pniej 
 dopiero przyzwyczaj si do krzyaka.
  
  Graficznie gra prezentuje bardzo wysoki poziom, w kocu za wszystko odpowiada Rare. Otoczenie 
 jest w penym 3D, bujnie kolorowe i identyczne jak wersja z Nintendo 64. Kilka detali zostao 
 zmienionych, ale zarys oglny zosta w peni zachowany. Kady kto gra w DKR 
 pod koniec lat  teraz mio wspomni starsze czasy. Klucze 
 otwierajce drzwi ycze" umieszczone zostay w troch innych miejscach, 
 ale nadal znajduj si na tych samych trasach co kiedy. Co wane z gry usunito 
 dwie postacie, ktre na Nintendo 64 byy do wyboru - Banjo i Conker s teraz w rkach 
 Microsoftu.
  
  cieka dwikowa nie zmienia si, te same przyjemne melodyjki przygrywaj 
 nam podczas jazdy, a okrzyki i piski zwierzakw gdy wpadn na jak min brzmi 
 bardzo dobrze. Uznanie naley si opcji sound recorder" umoliwiajcej nagrywanie 
 kilkusekundowych sekwencji dwikowych, wczeniej z czym takim si nie 
 spotkaem, a spisuje si to bardzo wietnie  np. jaka fajna koleanka 
 moe dogra kilka okrzykw wygrae!", buu przegrae", prowadzisz!", 
 strzelaj!" i co chwila sycha ten gosik  ciekawe, nowe i fajne.
  
  PODSUMOWANIE
  Wycigi z maym Kongiem prezentuj si rewelacyjnie, wcale 
 nie wida tych dziesiciu lat, ktre ju miny, a raczej odwrotnie, dodane 
 elementy odmodziy t pozycje. Niestety dzisiejsi gracze nie zauwa 
 tych rnic, jeli w ogle trafi na t gr, bo z gokartw znany jest 
 przecie tylko Mario Kart. No c, z sentymentu do DKR z N64 postanowiem rozoy 
 DKR DS na czci pierwsze i z gr spdziem dugi czas. Mionik 
 zwariowanych cigaek znajdzie tu z pewnoci co dla siebie, a znudzeni 
 cigym graniem w Mario - kolejnego racer'a z tego samego gatunku.
  
  grafika: 9
  dwik: 8
  grywalno: 8
  
  Oglna: 8,3
  
  ----------------------------------------
 
  recenzja ukazaa si w portalu:
  www. retroage. net
  www. mario. er. pl
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nd4spdviper
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 13, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo has been launching quite good games since the release of the Nintendo DS. One would expect 
 to play a real nice thing after playing New Super Mario Bros and Mario Kart DS, and now when we 
 see Diddy Kong Racing DS the definetely went below the bar. The game must have been aimed for 7-year-olders 
 since you always win. It is not a challenge in any way, the graphics are below Mario Kart DS and 
 the voiceovers... oh dear!
  
  Rareware developed great things like DKC series en SNES and 007 in N64 but this game is really 
 disapointing, just as much as DK Jungle Climber. They are not paying respect for DKC series nor 
 Nintendo fans.
  
  If you want a real nice racing game for the DS go get Mario Kart DS. I think is even better than 
 Mario Kart Wii and is what you would expect. Don't waste your time or money on Diddy Kong Racing. 
 They should have made an effort to port Donkey Kong Country to the DS instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 3.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I played this game last year when it was released. Let me tell you, DO NOT play this game! This 
 is a disastorous re-make to a great classic that I enjoyed. The controls are bad, The vehicles 
 are all yellow  : (, the difficulty is a tad too easy, and some of the awesome features from the 
 original are not in this. First off, the controls are bad. I don't like it when you have to twist 
 the propeller on the plane with the stylus, and blowing into the mic area to start the hovercraft 
 to get a rocket start. What if someone has a cold? they would just cough into the mic instead of 
 blow, eventually not getting a good start. What if someone can't move the stylus too fast? they 
 would eventually get furious, and not get a good start : (. I liked it alot more in the original. 
 Just press, and hold A for a second just right before the start, and you will get a rocket start 
 :) . Another bad thing is the vehicles are all yellow. Wth? why aren't they the colorful ones from 
 the original? Maybe the creators were too lazy or something? I don't know. The third bad thing 
 is that the difficulty is a tad too easy. I was able to win every race that I did with a commanding 
 lead. There just was no competition : (. The last bad thing is some of the features from the original 
 are not in this game. I liked the multiplayer stages alot. They are not in this game  : (. That 
 I do not like. Overall, really disastorous remake to a great classic, too easy gameplay, bad controls, 
 just all flash, no substance : (. Whatever happens, DO NOT play this game people! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: courageslasher
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  For the sake of all Donkey Kong fans, LEAVE THE RACING TO MARIO!!!!!!!!!!!!!! PLEASE!!!!!!!!! Don't 
 waste your money. Diddy Kong racing was short and quite boring. Diddy Kong should just stay with 
 Donkey Kong and keep doing what he does best: helping out Donkey Kong. I beg you not to waste your 
 money. If you have Gamefly and you don't believe me, go ahead and rent it to see for yourself. 
 With only 3 cars per person, lame paint jobs, and an obscure sequence of events, don't bother. 
 Did I mention that there are only 4 characters to chose from. For such hype, Diddy Kong Racing 
 is absolutly nothing to get excited about. The bosses were way too easy and really boring. The 
 up-side to this game? Some of the characters are kind of cute. That is pretty much it. Anyone who 
 knows videogames will believe me. Buy Mario Kart, instead. The DS version wasn't too shabby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  Here's the thing with Diddy Kong Racing DS. When it was originally released way back in 1997 for 
 the Nintendo 64 it was hands down better than Mario Kart 64. But it's not going against Mario Kart 
 64, it's going against the fantastic Mario Kart DS. Diddy Kong Racing DS sticks too close to the 
 64 structure that the DS features feel and genuinely are shoe horned in. I admit the game does 
 boast a better in depth single player than Mario Kart DS, but Diddy Kong Racing DS takes so long 
 into getting to a race. I just want to race, but I have to sit through cut scenes, reams of text 
 and then travel all the way to a track to start a race that it becomes cumbersome. Speaking of 
 tracks, they're vividly portrayed but designed? Not so. I admit Walrus Cove does have its moments, 
 but racing through the same track with a kart, then plane and the awful hovercraft and you start 
 to see where the longevity comes from. Add in the horrendously bad stylus popping balloon marathon 
 and all things come to a head.
  
  What destroys DKRDS is the attempt at the DS functionality. Mario Kart DS delibrately left those 
 features alone and it was all the more better for it. Not so here. The start up for a race for 
 example doesn't work. You either rotate a tyre for the kart, spin the propeller around for the 
 plane or blow for the hovercraft. It's awkward and YOU have to master it in order to keep up with 
 the race pack who always boost off the start line. There's also several new DS specific puzzles 
 that don't really fit into the context of the game. This game would have been great if they left 
 all this stuff out. But no, they didn't.
  
  The visuals are as bright and as colourful as you expect. There's no slowdown and everything is 
 solid. It is generally pleasing to the eye and the music is just as cool as it was back in '97. 
 A real eye and ear candy treat.
  
  So okay, Diddky Kong Racing DS is not a bad game. In fact, it's a great game. But it has all these 
 unnecessary features that dilute the pure racing that made Mario Kart DS a treat. There's content 
 in DKRDS but you have to do a Lord Of The Ring style quest to get it all. There's the cool multiplayer 
 Wi-Fi and local, a decent track editor (though all tracks must have this bland looking cloud background) , 
 a time trial and single race and a whole new adventure mode once you've beaten the first one. So 
 yeah, the game is mind boggingly big but it's just not as fun as Mario Kart DS. Also, with the 
 exception of Diddy, none of the other characters feel comfortable to race with.
  
  I would say get this if you had your fill of Mario Kart DS. But if you have yet to play Mario Kart 
 DS, make that title the priority. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  The controls, not very good. the game, not fun. I mean, I just want to race! Damn! I mean, how the hell 
 am I even gonna enjoy racing with all these stupid challenges in the middle! It's just annoying! The 
 controls are sometimes confusing, and why add the challenges anyways? It doesn't make any sense. The 
 game is clearly labeled "RACING"!!!! It makse no sense to me. Also, you have to unlock keys, get coins, and 
 race. It's just to much at once. Diddy Kong DS gets very boring and repetitive quick. Some of the 
 challenges are too hard. This game really could've been a lot better. The create a track sucks. All 
 you can do is add up hills and down hills. This game SUCKS!! I'm cutting this review short because 
 there isn't anything left to say really. All that's left to say is, if you're looking for a go out 
 and race game with no challenges whatsoever, then get Mario Kart DS (I reviewed this game, also) . 
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Zora
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing, in my opinion, is a terribly underappreaciated game. The graphics are great, 
 and the racing is fun and slightly diffrent then Mario Kart. Game is never repetitive unlike some 
 ratings say, because you can play diffrent people, courses, AND veichles --- major difference, 
 and greatness, to Mario Kart.
  
  The charactors are cute and fun, and I love trying out diffrent ones. Unlockables are also great.
 
  
  In 1 Player mode, the only disadvantige is sometimes you have to drive/fly around the island looking 
 for things to do and levels in enter, but that's only minor. It's fun, the bosses are cool (I love 
 that Dino guy!) , and it's sweet you can buy extras.
  
  It provides great fun for everyone. Me and my cousin played for days, and we never got bored. I 
 always screamed and laughed when she hit me, and always got her back! ;D
  
  Next time you see this game, give it a SHOT. Come on people, you know better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing was a fun game on the N64, so I thought it was pretty cool that they were making 
 this DS remake. I wasn't necessarily disappointed with much of it, but it certainly could have 
 been better. A lot better. The basic kart racing gameplay is fun and feels just right. The single 
 player experience is the only thing worthwhile here, and it's positively huge. The main story mode 
 has you on a pretty big island trying to stop a villain, weird like most kart racing games' stories 
 of course. There is a decent number of courses and they're pretty fun to play on. There are also 
 airplanes (fun!) and hovers (kind of fun...) to race in, which adds some variety. The big thing 
 about the game is all the extra features there are. You have a track builder, image editor for 
 signs, an avatar, and other stuff, and a sound editor for you to have your characters say whatever 
 you want them to for different situations (throw item, boost, etc.) . These ideas are absolutely 
 perfect for a racer, but they aren't executed correctly, especially when considering the online 
 mode, which is absolutely dreadful because you can't even see other peoples' images or hear their 
 sounds or anything and you have no win/loss record. So Diddy Kong Racing DS is a good racer that 
 just could have been done better. Somebody seriously needs to take these ideas and use them in 
 some other racing game though, because it would enhance said game in amazing ways if done correctly. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HalfLife24
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  alright diddy kong i have to admidt is not as good as mario kart but it is a lot of fun there r 
 tons of things to do. this game can actually be pretty challenging sometimes i would recomend this 
 to a racer / adventure type player. This is a really fun game on ds download play and also wifi 
 but the only thing that isnt cool is that there isnt any ranking system so that kinda takes away 
 some of the fun. Sometimes it can be annoying cuz theres this really stupid elephant that sits 
 on a magic carpet and anoys u a lot no joke!! lol . In this game there is a hovercraft that really 
 sucks and isnt much fun and then there is the go karts and the planes which are pretty fun. Through 
 out the game you collect coins and spend them on all on your car or levels. you can paint your 
 car or whatever your driving and give it some more speed but overall i think this is a pretty fun 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing DS. An N64 game and now on the DS. I'm warning you right now that I've never 
 played the N64 version so I can't say if it's the same or different. Diddy Kong Racing is an Adventure-Racing 
 game. If you don't know what I mean, say if you've played CTR or Crash Nitro Kart, it's like that. 
 Read on!
  
  STORY
  A message comes to Diddy Kong that the evil Wizpig is taking over their world. So Diddy Kong, Tip 
 Tup, Dixie Kong, Trixie, Timber, Tiny Kong, Bumper, Drumstick and Taj must stop him by driving 
 their car, airship or plane around the Adventure Arena. In the Adventure Arena are doors that you 
 drive through to race against the rest of the gang and by winning you are getting closer and closer 
 to beating Wizpig. I can't give Diddy Kong Racing much credit for the story line - it's pretty 
 simple.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The arrows are turn, A is go, B is reverse and L is release your item. There are some other uses 
 of the other buttons but they're not worth mentioning. The Adventure Arena is pretty big and quite 
 fun to explore. There are a lot of little secrets around you can unlock, and Taj has got a little 
 shop there where you can upgrade your vehicle. But in some parts Taj won't let you race because 
 he wants you to beat one of his stupid challenges. All boss levels are unlocked by beating all 
 the races in a specific area. The boss levels aren't all that challenging though because they are 
 all just races. The real fun you'll have in this game is just racing in these colouful tracks but 
 every now and then you'll come across such a tight turn that every time you do the race you will 
 crash into it. You wonder if the makers had planned this to happen. Just remember that most of 
 these races can be a little dodgy.
  
  GRAPHICS
  The graphics aren't as good as they could have been. It's kind of like The Legend of Zelda: Phantom 
 Hourglass - the cutscenes have bad graphics but when you're playing it doesn't look too bad.
  
  SOUND
  The whole reason I play this game is to hear the sound. My favourite tracks are Strangled 
 Shrine and Greenwood Village and why? Because of the music! It's sensational. The music is new, 
 entertaining and fun to listen to. I'm playing these tracks every day just so I can hear the music!
 
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  It doesn't matter if you do wireless play or download play. I can't find a difference! You may 
 know that in Mario Kart in download play you could only do 8 tracks and had to be Shy Guy. Well, 
 in Diddy Kong Racing DS your downloaded friends can choose any character and any track. Amazing!
 
  
  Overall, Diddy Kong Racing is a "poor man's" version of Mario Kart. Yes, it's got a story line 
 but the races are too dodgy.
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  Check out my blog for other reviews on other great (and not so great!) DS games!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Nitendos second racing game that is for hardcore gamers is Diddy Kong Racing. The game has some 
 new characters and some old from back then Donkey Kong games. The story really is to defeat this 
 big pig named Wizpig because he has captured some of Diddy Kongs friends and is starting corruption 
 in the jungle. Really all the game is racing so all you do is race. Also there is a world that 
 you can explore at and do some racing stuff with the playable character later in the game Taz the 
 elephant. Also the characters that are locked are kinda easy to unlock. The vechiles you can use 
 to race are Go Kart, Hovercraft, and airplane. The multiplayer and Wifi is fun because you can 
 race on the courses that are all unlockable. The good part is that the game is fun for all gamers 
 and surprinsly good graphics for a DS. The bad is that the touch screen is really stupid for the 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flip13lolb
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Diddy Kong racing for the N64 was pretty good... this is one of those games where they could have 
 just ported and it would have been fine but instead they added things specifically for the DS which 
 is pretty tacked on. Racing itself is very easy and the game is only difficult on the boss fights 
 for certain reasons. The game has an overworld which leads to warp rooms of different types tha 
 revolve around a theme. For instance on of the warp rooms revolve around dinosaurs so you'll be 
 racing in areas that have lava and dinosaurs. To unlock warprooms ( or the races in them) you need 
 to get a certain number of balloons which can be done by completeing races, solving puzzles, and 
 or beating a fat elephant genie who is you guide in a race. Once you unlock the warprooms then 
 you fight a boos the boss has a first race a second race then a special challenge. To race him 
 the first time all you have to do is beat all the races. The 2nd time you race him all you have 
 to do is go back to every course in the room and instead of race you get on the fat elephant's 
 magic carpet and pop a certain number of balloons and drag coins into your bag with your stylus 
 which is really fun and addicting. Then you race him and win again to unlock the specail challenge. 
 The special challenge for some bosses are almost impossible if you are in a car you'll have to 
 turn a wheel with the stylus in the bottom right hand corner then after that you'll need to draw 
 your path with your stylus and if your are sarting to deacelerate you'll see the wheel come up 
 and you'll need to turn it again. That is for 2 of the challenges the other two are pretty easy. 
 For one you go down a hill and must beat the boss and you can't accelerate at all and for another 
 you must steer your plane using a stylus which isn't all that hard. There are 3 types of vehichles 
 to race on a car, hovercraft and a plane. The stupidest thing with them is to get started at the 
 beginning of a race is to either spin a wheel blow in your stylus or spin the propeller and it 
 makes it very awkward to transition from spiunning a wheel to racing. I mean you have to drop your 
 stylus or put it back in the slot really fast but that is why they made the game so easy I guess. 
 One good thing about the game is six players online which beats MKDS by 2. Do yourself a favor 
 and pick up mariokart ds instead. thumbs down 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pro-Styler
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  Note: This review is quite similar to TuckinFypos review because My first GS account was TuckinFypo 
 therefore this is not plagiarism but I have added some various things :) (enjoy)
  
  yes this was my first review so don't flame i am just saying one gamers opinion.
  Gameplay: To 
 start off This game is quite innovative in slightly more ways than Mario Kart, for reasons such 
 as When you start off a race you dont have to press accelerate 3/10 of a second after it says GO 
 instead they have used the touch screens abilities (and microphones) to give you a boost e. g when 
 you start off with a car you have to spin the wheel, although changing from your stylus to pressing 
 the A button can get annoying at times but you will get used to it. In the N64 version there was 
 only one boss race per terrain now there are 2 boss races and a touch challenge, In the touch challenge 
 you use your stylus to somehow race (can be annoying but you don't have to do it if you don't want 
 to) they also have a first person shooter races where you use the stylus to pop balloons. (not the 
 best thing but does make time go by faster) and then of course there is the usual things that the 
 N64 version had like races, fighting that wizard pig and Adventure also when your finding the game 
 is getting difficult its about time for an upgrade which you just go into the tent buy some things 
 and customize your ride.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty top notch for the DS almost the same (if not the same) as Mario 
 Karts graphics. Lives up to the DS standard and is actually an improved Frame Rate from the N64 
 (but lower amount of pixels) .
  
  Sound: you'll be humming these catchy tunes whenever your able these tunes are the same from the 
 N64 but remastered.
  
  Conclusion: A great game, some people might say its too easy simply because rare over did the customization 
 so now your usually too fast for the AI. If you enjoyed Mario Kart theres No doubt you'll enjoy 
 this 
  
  P. S. I left some features out for you to explore and i'll be putting up some guides for this game 
 soon. But for now its Good Night from Pro-Styler
  P. S. S. My FC is 214884542298
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing for the N64 was revolutionary. It was ranked "THE Coolest Game EVER". But now, 
 it's just packed with pointless and frustrating extras which are needed to beat the game.
  
  If you're like me, you baught this game because you remember all of the fun you had on it when 
 you had your N64. But now, you can't even race. There are too many other things to do that get 
 in the way of your racing.
  
  A couple good things about the game include the classic music that the N64 version brought. Another 
 good thing is that there are some pretty neat customables... But they are far too expensive so 
 you have to save up for a while just to get one.
  
  If you're a hardcore Diddy Kong Racing fan and just want to race, then stick with the original, 
 this one might make you throw up. But if you have a lot of patience, then this game is probably 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 85% I played this game on the N64 the game came out in 1998 and now 7 years later this 
 game comes back but on the ds and the game looks the same but there's some changes so that people 
 can buy it. But the gameplay is good you select a character you have to win all the races and then 
 beat a boss and then play the same races with balloon touch challenge. Now the balloon touch challenge 
 is the part in the game that changes the game a bit but you dont drive any car you jsut have to 
 touch as more balloons as possible. There's about 50 maps all the maps from the n64 version are 
 in the game but there's some new maps that they created.
  What i dont like of the game is that the game on the N64 you can play the battle tracks ex: Icycle 
 pyramid, Smokey Castle.... In the map selection menu. But on the ds you cant you can only play 
 it On WI-FI or on multi-player when your playing with your friend. But overall its good. You have 
 allot of unlockable's to unlock you can change the sound of when you're shotting a rocket you go 
 to the menu and you to personal settings and yo u can create your own sound with the microphone 
 on your nintendo ds. You can unlock lots and lots of unlockables for the game.
  
  Graphics 95 % The graphics changed allot i like the way where you can play and see everything well 
 the tracks the character you can even see the tree's far away the track i think it changed allot.
 
  
  Sound 94 %The Sound is good the music is the same exept for jungle falls the music is different 
 for that map. Either way the sound is a little better then the N64 version.
  
  This game is worth the money and worth playing some one that asn't played it on the n64 wont like 
 it more to play it on the ds so if you never played this game i reccomend you to check this game 
 out.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Julenissen55
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  Diddy kong racing DS, have a really good single player part witch is exact the same as the one 
 on Nintendo 64, witch was one of the best racing games ever. But the Multiplayer part of this game 
 is not so good, you cant race against computers and players, so you can maximum play 4 players 
 on each race witch makes it boring. The touch screen is working really good with the rest of the 
 game, and it has bonus maps where you only use the touch screen witch works good. The game has got 
 good graphics to be on the Nintendo DS, and the gameplay is working really good. All the characters 
 form Diddy Kong Racing on Nintendo 64 is in the game, and you can use all the same vehichles and 
 weapons to take down your opponents to win the race. At all this game is worth playing if you love 
 the old nintendo classics and want to relive them on a portable screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grndyfn19
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Recommend ---Fans of the original game on the N64, people who love kart racers, and fans of Rare
 
  
  Not Recommend ---People who hated the original (which a lot did)
  
  Diddy Kong Racing DS might just be one of the most underrated titles of all time. I don't know 
 why this game has gotten so many dull reviews. In my opinion, it's great! It has so much variety 
 and depth, even more than Mario Kart DS. That doesn't mean it's better, though, but it's still 
 a great competitor. Let me just start off with the negatives so I can get them off my back. The 
 BEST characters from the original, Banjo and Conker (Rare classics) , aren't in this game for obvious 
 reasons (Rare going to Microsoft) . So instead, they're replaced with Tiny Kong (from DK 64) and 
 Dixie Kong (from DKC 3) who are horrible replacements, yet it's nice to see some nostalgic factors 
 added in. Also, one of the main characters who helps you along in the game, Taj (an Arabian elephant) , 
 had his original voice (which was great) replaced by some average Joe voice that doesn't even fit 
 his character. This was an incredible stupid decision. Another incredibly stupid decision is the 
 way you boost before a race. This is one of the only times you use your stylus. If you're riding 
 a kart, you use your stylus to spin a wheel really fast; if you use a plane, you do the same thing; 
 and if you use a boat, you blow into the microphone. Note: Try spinning a wheel as fast as you 
 can with a stylus, and then having to drop the stylus out of your hands right after as soon as 
 the race begins to start using the buttons. Stupid, right? I thought so. It's pointless and hard 
 to do. Now that all the negatives are out of the way (at least what I can remember) , let me get 
 to all the positives. The graphics from the original are largely unchanged, but they do look better 
 on the bright DS screen (provided you own a DS Lite) . The sound is also the same, which was a big 
 turn-on to me when I first played the original game. The main thing that separates this kart racer 
 from others is that it actually has an adventure mode (in vein of Rare, or course) . It's like a 
 weird mix of Banjo Kazooie and a great kart/boat/plane racer, to a lesser extent. You drive/fly 
 around a huge overworld which acts like a hub, and from there you enter different worlds which 
 have hubs of their own. These hubs have the actual courses you'll be racing in, and there are A 
 LOT of these. You collect all kinds of things along the way, too. Collecting balloons and coins 
 is addicting, and you can purchase unlockables with these coins. Things like secret characters, 
 karts, courses, and miscellaneous things. There's even a LEVEL EDITOR!!! Even though it's the weakest 
 level editor I have ever seen, it is still a nice addition that adds to the replay value. In some 
 stages, there are mini-games that are really addictive where you have to pop as many balloons as 
 you can (replaces the blue coins found in the original, but this old mode can be unlocked) . This 
 is probably the only good use of the stylus I've seen. Besides the adventure mode, there's also 
 single races where you can choose to race wherever you want with any character you want. You can 
 even play online over Nintendo Wi-Fi just like Mario Kart DS. As I said in that review, my Wi-Fi 
 doesn't work for some reason, but i bet it's really fun. You can still play multiplayer wirelessly 
 whether the person you play against owns the game or not. All together, this is one amazing package.
 
  
  Overall ---Basically a kart racing game that goes beyond what most racers have, offering intense 
 depth and replay value for anyone in search of it. The best part, however, is the Rare touch that's 
 added to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostyshorts
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing 64 was a good game for many reasons. Original tracks, a descent weapons system, 
 a variety of characters, all with different driving capabilities, and a colorful landscape that 
 was fun to tear up in either a car, hovercraft, or airplane. Diddy Kong Racing DS still has these 
 things, but with poor touch screen capabilities, and just not enough change to make this a very 
 good choice in games to buy from. There is now a vehicle upgrade system though, but it doesn't 
 really matter, being as you can still beat the game without upgrading once, and unless you want 
 to play the tracks over and over again to collect the coins needed to upgrade the vehicle, then 
 it really isn't worth it. The boss races are still fairly similiar to what they were on the N64, 
 but the lack of a joystick on the DS can make a few of them fairly aggravating. They will also 
 challenge you to a special touch race, promising money if you are able to win. The thing is the 
 touch capabilities to this game are a bit off, and this makes these races hard, since you have 
 to draw the path you want to take, spin the tires to keep momentum, and poke the weapons that you 
 wish to pick up. All the of the multi-tasking just doesn't work with the shoddy touch capabilities, 
 and you will find that even if you poke the weapons, it may not work, leaving you weaponless and 
 eventually, in last place. Another thing that bothered me was the lack of one of my favorite drivers, 
 Conker, most likley left out due to the two M rated games that he later inspired. Not everything 
 is bad about this game though. There is a fun online element to it, and two adventure modes, although 
 the second adventure mode is just the same adventure mode, except all of the tracks are now mirrored. 
 They also portray a more in depth story as to why you are racing in the first place as well. Although 
 this game does have it's moments, I honestly couldn't reccomend it to anyone but the people who 
 are extremley patient, and to those who won't throw the DS accross the room when this game raises 
 their blood pressure, and I assure you, it will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing DS is basically a remake of the original N64 version with some new additions, 
 but they don't exactly keep the game from feeling old.
  
  I will note the difference between this and the old N64 version. For further details check out 
 my review on Diddy Kong Racing for the Nintendo 64.
  
  Game design:
  Characters: Rare licensed characters Banjo and Concker were removed (Since RARE no longer works 
 with Nintendo) and replaced with Dixie Kong and Tiny Kong, with the addition of 2 extra secret 
 characters.
  Stages were slightly altered but otherwise play the same, the game also comes with online support.
 
  A feature which may appeal to many is the ability to create your own tracks. 
  While this may sound exciting at first it isn't really special. 
  While you can draw the track 
 it is very limited and you won't exactly be able to create anything special, because the tracks 
 you create won't be any longer than the original tracks and you won't be able to draw any curves 
 (Like summersaults or circle turns) . Not only that space will be consumed and you won't even be 
 able to customize the background. In fact playing through the original tracks is much more fun.
 
  
  Game play: The game comes with a few DS functions, including using the stylus to rotate plane propellers 
 or blow to turn on the boat's motors.
  Button functions are pretty standard, you use A and B for acceleration and brake and the D-pad 
 to turn and etc.
  
  Sound: No changes, exact sound effects, music and voices used from the old game, difference being 
 that the music quality isn't as good as the N64.
  
  While the game does provide lots of challenges and has interesting features you won't be able to 
 shake the feeling that the game is a bit too mediocre.
  Creating your own track is a neat idea, but with great lack of resources it is pretty much something 
 extra that you probably won't care about. 
  Some DS functions may feel a bit gimmicky but then again that depends on you.
  If you are looking 
 for a silly racing game similar to Mario Kart DS, you should check this game out. 
  If you played the N64 version you won't find anything here that will attract your attention or 
 make you keep playing the game (Apart from online multiplayer) , because it's pretty much the same 
 as the old, with added gimmicky DS functions and features you absolutely won't care about.
  
  There is nothing special about this game but I guess it might make for an interesting racing 
 game for along the way. But the game gets old very quickly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankDK1995
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Like I said I like both this one and the n64 one. this one just brings back memories from when 
 I had the n64 one. it is great because you get to race in a kart, a hovercar, and a plane, I preferrably 
 like the hovercar. there is these different worlds you get to go to with different tracks and you 
 save up balloons from each place and you have to use them to get into different places. the bosses 
 are pretty hard. especially when you have to do that little extra round with the stylus. that is 
 TOUGH! it took me a while to learn how to do it but I kinda got the hang of it. Awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuckingfypo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  yes this is my first review so please don't flame i am just saying one gamers opinion.
  
  Gameplay: if you think this game is boring you havent seen mario kart (seriously) this game is 
 similar enough to mario kart to be compared but different enough to have its own series. How is 
 it different? first things first not only do you play in a kart but you play in a plane and a hovercraft. and 
 these are actually different enough to have its own experience. not only do you get to race but 
 you can do this first person shooter races with the stylus to pop ballons. Instead of pressing 
 acceleration 3/10 of a second after it says go you get to do a more appealing start off where for 
 the kart you spin the tire for a boost, for the plane you spin the proppeler and for the hovercraft 
 you blow into the microphone. not only this but youll never be stuck with only one race the producers 
 made sure of that and adventure mode is almost as fun as the actualll racing ( dont wont to spoil 
 it )
  
  graphics: the graphics are very well mastered they reach the nintendo 64s standards by far and 
 then some sound: this is were some of the unlockables come in not only do you start out with the 
 catchy N64s tunes ,you get to make your own sound effects through buying an unlockable. (ill leave 
 you to find out what sounds you can change)
  
  the only two letdowns in this game is the first person shooter races you either love it or you 
 hate it and the fact that the hovercraft always power slides (which can be fun but most people 
 hate it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simpsonsfan2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Good:
  
  Good soundtrack
  Good Wi-Fi
  
  Bad:
  
  Terrible controls
  
  Diddy Kong Racing was originally released on the N64 in 1997. Diddy Kong Racing DS is much different 
 than the N64 version that was released 10 years earlier.
  
  The graphics look a bit better than the original, but still are good. Some objects from far away, 
 as well as close can look blurry at times.
  
  The controls are so-so, all the vehicles are hard to control, especially when you're going around 
 a sharp turn. And, at the starting of the race (when you spin the wheel if you're driving a car, 
 blowing into the microphone if you're in a hovercraft, or spinning a propeller if your in a plane) , 
 that most of time is annoying, and is sometimes hard to control.
  
  The sound is alright, most of the sound is hard to hear, and just isn't that great to listen to. 
 The games soundtrack is also very catchy.
  
  Wi-Fi is the best part of Diddy Kong Racing Ds. Single player mode gets very boring when you're 
 just racing the computer.
  
  In conclusion, if you've played all the other racing games on the DS, maybe you should purchase 
 this, but if you own the N64 version, you probably shouldn't, because it's just mostly the same. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philipxb
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  I'll start to tell you, that i am a Diddy fan, and i just can't stop loving Diddy games...
  Well, i've played the N64 version of Diddy kong racing, and i loved, completed it, and i even played 
 it some years after.
  Then this briliant game got stored, and for me it was a must have!
  It's a good game, with a long single player mode, and it got wifi, and single-cart game...
  Sadly 
 the WiFi gaming isn't even funny anymore, because of all the disconnecting. That just ruins the 
 fun, and i think that anyone but the ones who disconnect themselves, think so.
  Now back to the Singleplayer mode. The single player mode is addicting, and there is so much to 
 do. Personly i like the touchchallenges, and i don't think they're too hard or anything. Then there 
 are the balloon touch challenges. This is someway a bad thing, someway a good. They're quite a 
 little too hard, but i got through 'em, and after that, you are kindda proud :b
  Anyway, i just think that this is a good game, better than the N64 Diddy kong racing, and i think 
 gave it a 9/10, because it's just so ... Well, i think it's just such a funny game :] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bowser_jrFan
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 30, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  It is one dof the worst games I have played. No lies. I rented it out first. That was a good cuse. 
 It would of been a waste of money. DK is not even in it : (
  Do not bye the game. Bad game all the way. I like most DK games but not this one. I thoght it would 
 be like Mario kart but it was NOT!!! FAR OFF IT!!!!! I can not blave i picked that game. I am SO 
 glad I did not pay &pound;40 for it. Even if you like Donkey Kong or diddy Kong it is no good. 
 I LOVE diddy Kong but this is the worst DK game I have played!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkrfan
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  It may not be as great as the original but it's close to it. The reason pretty much why everyone 
 plays it is because of wifi which is awesome but can take time to race other players. I think finishing 
 the game was easy though it was fun. It would have been even beter if you could decorate your wish 
 tracks with trees and all that, i also think the original voices were much better. More colour 
 options for veichles would have been awesome but i won't complain about it. Diddy Kong Racing DS 
 is pretty much my favorite game (other than DKR64) and i still play both games.
  I gave this game 9.0 because it's so close to perfect but just has some problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexdude26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  It is a fun game. You go around searching for places to race, earn coins and it offers a ton of 
 things to do. you have to race and complete numerous tasks from blowing out torches using the mic, 
 to popping balloons with the stylus. There are several modes, you can do coin challenge where race 
 and try to collect all the coins around the course, the is story mode where you go around the island 
 and try to find places to race, and there is a mode where you can just race, a multi player mode 
 and Wi-Fi.
  Wi-Fi doesn't add much to the game, but it does give you something to do.
  
  I say it's a fun game that doesn't get boring and anyone who likes racing games should get this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehjole
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  When I saw this game I remembered playing it on the N64 and I hoped that there wouldn't be that 
 much change but I was curious to see how the stylus would come into play. Fortunately the original 
 characters were still there and you could still use three different vehicles (cart, hover craft, 
 air plane) . It was also good to see some of the same levels and bosses that there were in the original 
 game. I thought that the stylus would be used much more in this game to steer the vehicles or something 
 but to my surprise you only use it to give your character a speed boost at the beginning of each 
 race and during mini games were you have to pop balloons as you go through the levels. The stylus 
 is also used during boss battles to steer your character but I found that to be a bit awkward and 
 it took a while to get used to it.
  
  I think that Nintendo was successful in bringing this game to the DS. I like how they kept the 
 same look and I think that it controls really well.
  
  Overall I think that any fan of the original that has a DS should give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asliam77
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  This game is better that I thought. I just thought, Cool! A remake of Diddy Kong Racing! 
  
  But Now, I think, This is the best remake of a N64 EVER! 
  
  Pretty much, you choose your 
 character, ( I usually choose Timber) learn to race in a kart, hovercraft and plane! 3 times more 
 vehicles than Mario Kart!
  
  Some touch screen elements are fun, and the sound recording is AWESOME! However, the touch challenges 
 are incredibly hard, and would be funner if Rare and Nintendo spent more time on other elements, 
 instead of the touch screen.
  
  This is Rare's first time making a DS game, so the graphics aren't quite up to par, but you can 
 tell they spent time on them!
  
  IF YOU'RE TIRED OF OTHER RACING GAMES, GET DIDDY KONG RACING DS!
  IT WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaoticboy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 11, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I love this game since I played for the N64. This is one of my favorite racing games for the DS. 
 I love the new additional features they made for the game like :
  
  - new characters are made playable for the game - new levels to race in
  
  - it is fun to race 
 or battle with people over wi-fi
  
  - vehicles can be modify to suit your needs
  
  I would recommend everybody who has a DS to buy this game especially who are fans fot his game.
 
  
  I would like to thank everybody who made this possible to make this game for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:20 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  Usually, I think remakes are worse than the originals. Either it doesn't feel like the same game, 
 or it isn't enhanced enough. But DKRDS is just as good as the original and some say it's even better. 
 Diddy Kong Racing originally came out on the Nintendo 64 back in 1997, and ten years later the 
 game gets remade for the DS. This is a spoiler-free review so anyone who hasn't even heard of this 
 game can read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  Very entertaining, will keep you hooked for hours, new characters.
  
  THE BAD
  Banjo and 
 Conker are gone, Battle tracks can only be accessed in multiplayer, Adventure mode is over quickly.
 
  
  Graphics
  A lot better than the original's, I quite like them.
  9/10
  
  Sound
  Many remakes these days have worse music than the originals. This is an example, but the music 
 is still good. The voices for the characters have changed and all suck..... especially Taj.
  8/10
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is very enjoyable. Adventure mode is quite fun, but is very 
 easy and is over quickly. But it is still quite a bit different to the N64 version. Instead of 
 the Silver Coin Challenge, we now have the Balloon Popping Challenge; in these challenges, you 
 need to pop a required number of balloons in each track with the stylus. I'm pretty sure you can 
 access the Coin Challenges still for old time's sake. There are the same old bosses from Tricky 
 to Wizpig. They are still as easy as ever although may take a few tries to beat them. Outside Adventure 
 mode, you can play Single Track mode, where you can beat T. T.'s times again, but are a lot easier 
 than from the original. I guess this is good for the people who had a hard time with him previously. 
 Even after beating adventure mode, there's still quite a bit to do in the game. And yes, you can 
 create your own tracks. But unfortunately, they are only simple tracks and there are very little 
 settings. Still, DKRDS has some pretty good gameplay.
  8/10
  
  Controls
  Very cheesy. Especially the starting turbos. Fun, but kind of annoying.
  6/10
  
  Character 
 Design
  Banjo and Conker have gone, but have been replaced with Dixie Kong and Tiny Kong. At least we get 
 more Kongs, still no Donkey Kong though! There are also some more unlockable characters in the 
 game.
  8/10
  
  Storyline
  The story is a lot more clear this time around.
  7/10
  
  Overall
  Diddy Kong Racing DS is really good! If you previously enjoyed the original, it's 
 definitely worth the purchase. However, if you've never played the game before, try it out first 
 and see if you like it.
  8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hiccupski
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jul 29, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Diddy kong racing is the best kart racing game i have ever played when you race. What pisses me 
 off is the endless number of cap you have to do to get there.
  
  1. Balloon challenge- Balloon challenge???? I bought the game to race, not to fly around on a magic 
 carpet popping balloons with my stylus. This takes up half the game.
  
  2.- Taj's unnessary crap- Every 5 minutes taj comes up to you with a new stupid challenge. Some 
 notably annoying ones are running around the track blowing through your microphone to blow out 
 torches before time runs out. Another is trying to collect a certain amount of coins before he 
 does.
  
  3- Unlockables- To unlock everything, it takes a buttload of coins, which you have to collect during 
 the race. Even that isnt too bad, but unlocking the best characters is horribly hard.
  -Taj- beat adventure mode. Its not too bad
  -Wizpig- Beat adventure mode mirror.: Wait, your telling 
 me to unlock this guy, i have to go through the same crap all over again? Are you kidding me???
 
  -TT- Beat his very hard time trial on every track with every vehicle. I still cant. Its just ridiculous.
 
  -Chicken- Use your stylus to jump frogs into wizpigs head. Now thats just the most retarded idea 
 ive ever heard.
  
  4.- Hovercraft- The standard cart and plane both handle fine and are no problem to use. The hovercraft 
 is abysmal. It is impossible to control, and races with it take several times to win.
  
  5- Boss battles- Certain boss battles can also be a huge pain. In each world you have to face the 
 same boss 3 times. When using the hovercarft against them, this is especially annoying. The thrid 
 time is a special touch challenge, which is just stupid. One boss has you trying to manage pressing 
 up, the a button, and steering on the touch screen at the same time. I dont have 3 hands nintendo. 
 6- Totally pointless touch screen controls- To get the boost before the race begins, you are required 
 to spin a wheel to start. This creates a completely awkward position, as you are forced to drop 
 the stylus and get the ds gripped right again. When using the hovercraft, you are forced to blow 
 into the microphone for the boost. As mentioned before, the toch screen challenges are also annoying, 
 and the boss toch fight is just stupid.
  
  If you have the n64 version, just keep it, it is much better.- If debating between this and mario 
 kart, MK is definitely the better choice.
  
  Overall, when you get down to the race, diddy kong racing is second to none. The question remains, 
 are you willing to dig through a pile of crap to get to a gem? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  The thing that seperates Diddy Kong Racing DS from the rest of the racing game's out there is the 
 wide choice of vehicles. You can choose from cars, boats and hovercrafts. They all have their up's 
 and their down's but I won't go into that right now. 
  
  The graphics are 3D and interesting and are great when you consider the DS being so not next gen. 
 You can really tell what's what and who's who. I think that Phantom Hourglass wins still but DKRDS 
 is a pretty close second or third.
  
  There's a lot to do in Diddy Kong Racing DS, but sometimes unlocking things can be hell! The best 
 parts of Diddy Kong Racing DS are probably the boss fights which are just average races but are 
 challenging and fun.
  
  Pros: Good graphics and gameplay. Plenty to do. A bunch of vehicles. Bosses are fun. Lot's to unlock.
 
  
  Cons: But unlocking things can be frusturating. Your goal isn't always clear. Some races are hell. 
 
  
  I'd say check it out because it's a pretty fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidnoakes
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 7, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  The game developer Rare was the producer of the classic Perfect Dark game for the N64 console, 
 Rare also created the Diddy Kong racing game for the same system but unfortunately the game was 
 a disappointment. A decade on from the N64 version Diddy Kong racing is back, this time on the 
 Nintendo DS handheld.
  
  The game is basically recycled from the N64 version to the Nintendo DS with a little refurbishment, 
 there is extras to the single player mode which utilises the touch screen although this is a failed 
 attempt due to irresponsive touch screen controls and shallow touch screen games. There is a multiplayer 
 option which increases replay value but no included communication system makes it a chore to set 
 up games with friends. The game is more or less a copy of the Mario Kart game but watered down 
 and not as good. The gameplay is fairly similar to Mario Kart DS so if you played mario kart you 
 will get used to this game pretty quickly, just like Mario Kart though you can use power ups to 
 assist you while racing but unlike Mario Kart there is only a very small selection of power ups 
 to use. In the main single player mode you have to come 1st position to earn yourself a balloon, 
 sounds fair enough at this point but even if you come second or third it is not enough to earn 
 a balloon so it can feel punishing at times.
  
  The graphics are satisfactory for the Nintendo DS but nothing special and little improvement to 
 the graphics have been either. There is a low polygon count, lack of texture in some environments, 
 any environments that do contain some texture are either blurry or pixelated and the sky and clouds 
 seem out of focus. Though in this case it is a benefit to a degree because the Nintendo DS not 
 being a graphical power horse cannot produce decent quality textures without pixelation so by having 
 reduced textures or even blurry textures it will not only take away the eyesore the pixels cause 
 but also increase performance too.
  
  The music goes well with the game and is not really that bad, the sounds are ok too. The main critiscism 
 of the sound and music is that it is low quality and 'tinny', voices sound like it is whispering 
 to you rather than actually speaking properly to you, voice quality is more what you would expect 
 on Nintendo's previous handheld system but this may be partly down to the built in speakers on 
 the Nintendo DS itself, plugging in some ear phones may at least resolve some of this problem.
 
  
  There is something that separates this from other racers and this is that the game has a story, 
 it is different and a good idea but in practice it doesn't work simply because the story is poor 
 and has no depth. However though this game does contain a lengthy quest which will keep you busy 
 for several hours.
  
  The game is still a solid racer and on the whole is quite good, this game cannot compete against 
 Mario Kart DS so if your expecting this game to be another Mario Kart you will be disappointed 
 however this game will keep your mind occupied. I would recommend anyone who wants to get this 
 game to rent it first, if you do buy this game i would suggest buying it at a budget price or if 
 you buy a game in some 'bogof' deal then Diddy Kong racing DS would make a great game to get free 
 with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kilgore1987
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  i can't exactly remember when i bought the original Diddy Kong Racing on the N64, but i do remember 
 one thing, i didn't beat it. now almost 8 years later (i think it's been about 8 years) i get another 
 chance.
  
  don't get me wrong the graphics in this game while not being exactly N64 quality the games graphics 
 do give a very good sense of speed. you'll be careening to regain control of your vehicle as it 
 slingshots through a boost zipper.
  
  the audio in the game is almost completely recycled from its N64 original, this is not really a 
 surprise considering the fact that they are essentially meant to be the same game. controls in 
 the game are pretty solid, if you are using the normal controls. i have a feeling that rare were 
 desperate to figure out a way to effectively use the DS's touch screen facility. they decided to 
 make races where you plot out the course of your car on the touch screen while you're able to see 
 what going on in race on the top screen. these races though they sound good in theory, are actually 
 very annoying to play. however, you'll find yourself still playing them on the 10th attempt just 
 hoping you'll somehow figure out a way to beat it. though you will beat it... EVENTUALLY :P
  they did however use the touch screen something really cool. one important part of the game is 
 popping balloons on the touch screen as you fly down the track on a magic carpet. simple, yet very 
 satisfying gameplay.
  
  unlike the N64 original, DKR DS is made for a handheld while it's predecessor was made for a home 
 console. if you like an extremely addictive racer which offers an insane amount of variety then 
 buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HeartBreakKID1
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing first came out for the N64. it wasn't all that good, but the story and characters 
 were good enough to hold your attention for a few hours. It basically took Mario Kart 64's formula, 
 and improved on it. Mario Kart DS came out a couple of years ago, and they definetely learned their 
 lesson, and brought a spectacular racing game. Unfortunately, Diddy Kong Racing didn't learn its 
 lesson. See, I don't have a DS, so i borrow my friends. I played this game, and let me tell you, 
 It was boring, and on top of that, it was easy as well. It won't take you much time before you 
 pass the rest of the racers, and lead for the whole 3 laps. I was like, Is this the default difficulty? 
 Not only this, but the game is not really good in terms of graphics. The sprites and levels are 
 okay, but it leaves you wanting more. The sound isn't really that special either. All in All, if 
 you're a diehard fan of Donkey Kong/Diddky Kong universe, then you should get this game. But, if 
 you want to get your money's worth, go with Mario Kart DS. It's a much better game than DKR DS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veeblefester
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 6, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying that I got my N64 at the end of it's life, so I never got my hands on a 
 copy of the original. I absolutely loved this game when I'd play it on my friend's N64's. When 
 I learned that Rare was porting this game to the DS, I was thrilled. Now that I accually have the 
 thing, well... All I can say is What happened? The controls are bad and you'll all too often find 
 yourself crashing into a wall. Touch controls are lame and frustrating. To boost from the start 
 of the race you need to perform some kind of action on the touch screen. You'll then have to fiddle 
 with the buttons to find the button to accelerate. I haven't used Wi-Fi that much on this game, 
 and you know why? It sucks! At least this game can use the rumble pak. If you're debating between 
 this and Mario Kart, go for MKDS. Hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisyman
Rating: 5
Date: May 31, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  its not to bad it just was all changed from the origanal on n64. ya theres a little more to do 
 in it but the game was still boring. graphics sucked. only because nintendo cant make a system 
 that has good graphics. but the game is still good cause its a raceing game and your this monkey 
 that drives hover crafts and planes and a little cart. learning it is real quick. game is easy 
 its a push over. so its not a complete waist of money but its not the best game ive ever played 
 and ive play alot of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doughboy79
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 27, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game is just another version of Diddy kong racing on the n64. Really i thought this game wasn't 
 gonna be a bad game, But when i got it for my birthday, i was so addictive to that game. And one 
 thing i also like is when you are ready to start the race you have to spin or blow to get a good 
 start, but the n64 version you have to press A as soon as the Get Ready sign goes away. BUT one thing 
 i don't like about this game is that since Conker and Banjo belong to xbox now, there not in the 
 game. And that really ticks me off because those where the characters i used in the n64 version. 
 But instead lets have tiny kong (who isn't that tiny) and Dixie kong in the game. Those to kongs 
 are like the worst characters in the game, besides crunch. But like the n64 version they still have 
 Drumstick (the chicken) and T. T. that you can unlock. And you can also unlock Taj whos like one 
 of the best in the game and Wizpig too, I havn't unlocked wizpig and T. T. yet but i'm trying. But 
 overall this game is freakin awesome. Nuff said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 20, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing was one of my most played games on the Nintendo 64. I loved the challenging gameplay, 
 and the long single player was awesome. When heard about this new remake I was in extasy. But getting 
 my hands on the final product wasn't going to be as enjoyable as hoped.
  
  The graphics in Diddy Kong Racing DS is great. They look just like, if not better than the ones 
 in the original N64 classic. The whole game looks great.
  
  One of the things I remember the most from playing the Nintendo 64 was the music in DKR. It was 
 so filled with joy and made me wanna play the races over and over again. I've never really gotten 
 past digging those tunes. So I'm happy to say that the remake features mostly all of the same songs. 
 Some have been replaced, but they where luckily those few bad ones. The sound effects are also 
 great this time around, though a lot of the talking has been replaced by pure text, which is kinda 
 boring. In Diddy Kong Racing DS you can drive in a car, hoverjet or a plane through all of the 
 games many courses. You fight bosses and finish tournaments. All of this was in the original game 
 as well. But the DS version features a lot of new things which span from being very cool to total 
 crap. It's cool that you can buy new parts for your vehicles which makes it go faster, controle 
 better and so forth. But generally all the things you do with the touch screen is either unnesessary 
 or no fun at all. There are a lot of things to do though, and the multiplayer is very good. But 
 the game ends up being a kinda messed up classic with a new good multiplayer which is quite dissapointing.
 
  
  +
  Good graphics. The music is still fantastic. A lot to do! Good multiplayer. New upgrade parts for 
 your vehicles. -
  Bad use of the touch screen. Some new gameplay elements are just crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 6:37 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: staggering number of activities, fun and addictive touch screen collection stages, neat 
 customization features, online multi player is awesome and works fine {on of the best points in 
 the game and also multi player is fun} . you can create youre own tracks,4 characters to unlock {DRUMSTICK, T. T, TAJ 
 and WIZPIG.
  THE BAD POINTS: BANJOO and CONKER are gone and two stupid monkeys replaced them: TINY and DIXIE 
 kong, akward touch-screen features before starting a race, TAJ's fun indian acsent is gone, you cannot 
 overtake pure on speed, if you are a low place, its difficult to come back, creating a track is not 
 so deep as i hoped for, the game is surely lesser fun to play without wi-fi, adventure mode is to 
 short, you cannot do a trophy race in SINGLE RACE mode. [CONCLUSION] one of the better MARIO KART 
 rip-offs. but this doesnt mean it have no own charm, the three vehicles are a nice twist to a standard 
 kart racing game, and this game is a great variety after you have played mario kart ds for a long. and 
 i'm sure of it that everybody who liked mario kart ds like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chingadopollo
Rating: 1.2
Date: May 7, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Please, stay away from this game! Don't buy stuff like this, it's an insult and it doesn't deserve 
 to be played, I went to the store where I bought it and returned it right away. I wanted my money 
 back! Well instead I exchanged it for a better DS game, but well, I'm here to tell you my experience 
 with DKR DS, so listen carefully. Graphics are terrible! I know the DS hasn't the best graphics, 
 but this game really makes it look worst! The voice acting is awful and annoying and the music, 
 well, there's no problem with the music at all. It gets boring from the first time you grab it, 
 I know it's a game based on Nintendo characters, developed by Rare, but as soon as I started to 
 play, it seemed to me like a very bad Mario Kart DS rip-off! MK looks and plays perfectly, but 
 DKR is an insult! There are three types of vehicles in this game to choose from, a kart, a plane 
 and a boat. The kart and the plane are OK, but the boat is uncontrollable, imagine a monkey on 
 drugs driving on a road covered with ice. And of course you can tell this game was made by some 
 mediocre programmers because it's full of glitches. No fun for one player, just a headache and 
 a been there, done that feeling. Multiplayer may be good but i'm not gonna spread the word about 
 this awful game. Sorry Diddy, your dad is still the star, not you, at least he chose to stay in 
 the best kart game series ever, MK. Shame on you, Diddy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whellock
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 7, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  I gave this one a try but I've played it for a few days now and suddenly it has let me down badly. 
 Once you star racing you can't go any faster and I hated the balloon challenges because you cant 
 use the D-pad to move the camera and pop the balloons quickly in one lap. When you are playing 
 Mario Kart DS you go even faster than this pile of poo. I would stick with Mario Kart for the time 
 being. I think Rare must put a little more depth into it by adding more speed into the veichles 
 and adding more to the options about changing the control method so you can use the D-pad when 
 doing the balloon challenges so it will make the game more enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkrman
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  After 10 years..... DIDDY KONG RACING RETUNS!!!!! da da da da..... DA DA DAAAAAAAAA!!!!!!!! it 
 is a lot like the origanal but.....
  
  banjo and conker are gone they are now replaced with tiny kong and dixie kong and two new charters, 
 taj and wizpig
  
  upgrades so the game is easy
  
  planes, cars, and hovercrafts!
  
  making your own tracks!
  
  there are many new things new levels make your own sound effects 
 etc.
  so all REAL ds owners should get this, trust me and such a good sondtrack and dont trust gamespots 
 review PLEASE! Simple storyline I hread the story was that diddy and his frends have to stop wizpig 
 before timbers parents come home and find wizpig. Get it and trust me, you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioMainic
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  Diddy Kong racing ds is a great game it has a lot of unlockables . You can get coins in the game 
 the buy Tracks , Muitiplayer mode and single player stuff . There is wishes menu were you get all 
 those unlockabes . It has changed since the origanal one on the Nintendo 64 . Adventure is still 
 there if yoiu remember were the doors ar to go thought then you're ok . The secret key is still 
 there to verse t. t in the course you made. The old stuff is still there but in a different menu 
 .
  I highly reccomed this game even you know animals are driving cars . Hovercrafts . and Panes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsnow7
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  This game may have not been the best on the N64, so the DS update wasn't great, but it is still 
 good. It was very fun at first, but it became boring fast. Here is the breakdown:
  
  
  +New characters, 
 even though Banjo and Conker had to leave
  +Great racing controls
  +Most of the seemingly endless unlockables are fun (like the sound recorder)
  +Plenty to do (obvious!)
 
  +Vehicle upgrades are nice
  +THE MULTIPLAYER! (perhaps the best thing about this game)
  +Graphics are good, but Mario wins this time!
  +One of the better racing games for the DS!
 
  
  -Terrible voice acting (Taj sure can't keep the same voice in 10 years!)
  -Story is very much 
 the same
  -Island roaming makes it feel like Crash Nitro Kart (you know what I mean)
  -Unlocking your 25th unlockable calls for a celebration!
  -Have to do second story for just mirror 
 mode and make Wizpig playable (spoiler)
  -If you just like to race, you could be irritated at times
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  There you have it. If you like Mario Kart DS, then you should definitely get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GohanSSJZ
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 29, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Many years ago i played Diddy Kong Racing, and instantly fell in love with it, where Mario Kart 
 64 really let me down, DKR picked up the slag and still gave N64 users a great Kart game.
  
  Ofcourse DKR is not a pure Kart game, but frankly that makes it all the better, the Hovercraft 
 is pretty fun, and the Plane is loads of fun, and when the game came out the first time, it was 
 something new, atleast for most gamers.
  
  But unlike the previous version, this version doesn't have to pick up the slag from Mario Kart, 
 as Mario Kart DS is a excellent game, but that doesn't mean you shouldn't get this game.
  
  DKR DS hasn't changed much from the original version, the same races, some extra uses of the touchscreen 
 and some other minor changes, but overall it's pretty much the same game, which isn't a bad thing 
 except for the fact that many already bought the N64 version, and thus have to pay again for nearly 
 the same game. This game is worth buying, but if you already own (ed) DKR on the N64, then you are 
 probably better off getting Mario Kart DS first, if you haven't played it yet, then i would go 
 for this game, and get Mario Kart DS later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alchemist89
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 28, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is for anyone who had a N64, because if you owned one then you had to have bought this 
 game. Man, as soon as you heard the music to the into you know you are playing a great game. This 
 game bring me back to the N64 days. The Gameplay is so fun, and you will never get bored of it. 
 So many levels to racing in that are just plan fun. The Boss races are very, because they bring 
 something new to the table. You can race with or friend if you want, or just race with the AI. 
 You can also make your own track which is very cool feature to add, because it was not in the first 
 game. Overall this game is just to play and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DreFullCircle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  I remember Diddy Kong Racing for the N64 being a great game. I was surprised while looking up the 
 game on websites to see the mediocre, and sometimes low, scores for the game. Was it the same game 
 I played back in 1997? Couldn't be. I don't remember it being tedious or uninspired. One of the 
 major comlpaints was that it was a rip-off of Mario Kart. Well, I, for one, would rather have a 
 company borrowing out of their own arsenal, than another company. When I played DKR, I got a totally 
 different vibe. In a move mirroring N64 days, both racing franchises have made thie way to the 
 DS in the same order as before. How does the latter game hold up ten years later? Surprisingly 
 well in my opinion. The game begins with an in-game rendered (or terrible pre-rendered. I hope 
 it's the former.) cutscene, which tells the story of something happening, some pig dude chasing 
 little critters, and Diddy Kong vowing to never go hungry again. I made that last part up. The 
 story doesn't really make sense, but at least they tried. Diddy then takes it upon himself to solve 
 his conundrum the way most problems have been solved throughout history: racing various vehicles 
 for balloons. One thing that sets DKR apart from the pack is the choice of three vehicles. It makes 
 going around each track a little different each time. In a go hard or go home approach, you must 
 win each race to get a balloon, which allows you to enter the later worlds as you reach certain 
 numbers. In each world, there is a boss to race to unlock more of the game. The weapons system, 
 instead of being randomized, is three tiered, with a power up thrown in the mix. Same as before. 
 There are some changes made to the game in trasintion to the dual screen handheld. There are touch 
 screen controls, of course, but there are some changes that were slightly unexpected. The cheat 
 input menu has been replaced by an unlockable system. Some days, I like it, some days, I hate it. 
 It certainly adds more length to the game, but I would have like to enter the codes that I remember 
 as a kid. Also new to the game are some customization features that add to the game in some creative 
 ways. You can record your own phrases for certain actions in the game, profanity and all, as well 
 as make billboards that take the place of the posters of Diddy. You can also create your own tracks 
 and play with friends. At the beginning of the game, you create a custom icon for use throuout 
 the single player and multiplayer components of the game. It's barely woth mentioning, but the 
 characters Conker and Banjo have been removed, because as Adam Sessler of X-Play put it, Microsoft 
 owns their immortal souls. They've been replaced by two female Kongs. While I wish Conker could've 
 been included with his Bad Fur Day attitude, you don't really miss them all that much. You'd have 
 to be a Rare fanboy, and I doubt there are too many of them in the world. The graphics in the game 
 have been updated since '97. The textures are less stretched out and cleaner. The frame rate is 
 extremely improved, as evidenced by a side-by-side comparison of videos. It appears as if they 
 took the core elements of the predecessor and redid most of the game. The style of the game is 
 just as enjoyable as it was a decade ago. The sound is also basically the same as the console version, 
 with a few alterations which aren't really noticeable. Multiplayer totally blows Mario Kart's DS 
 foray out of the water. Single cart play is just about as fully featured as multi-cart. You can 
 choose from any of the characters the host has unlocked, instead of the generic pink thingy of 
 MK . There are a few choices of game types from the outset, as well as new ones to unlock in adventure 
 mode. Also noteworthy is the ability to wirelessly send your entire game information to another 
 DKR game card, sparing your friends the need to go through story mode. Speaking of which, I've 
 heard numerous complaints that the game forces you to backtrack too much and do races over and 
 over, but I don't have too much of a problem with it. It greatly improves your sense of accomplishment 
 to unlock something that would otherwise be considered trivial. It seems like gamers have gotten 
 lazy. Games have rules, and if you follow them, you win. Plain and simple. Diddy Kong Racing has 
 taken advantage of the DS game cart the best out of any game I've played. There are numerous options, 
 unlockables, and things to save and share. It, along with Super Mario 64 DS and Pokemon FireRed, 
 further proves that Nintendo's handhelds are capable of providing remakes that stay true to the 
 originals, as well as add new features. Bring on Donkey King 64 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bibblebobbyson
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing DS is a remake of the N64 racer, Diddy Kong Racing. It has a few problems here 
 and there but still makes up for entertainment.
  
  When I had my 64 back in the day, (I still have it) My sister played the original and thought it 
 was good so we bought it. I loved the game because it was very enjoyable. So when I saw this game 
 come out for the DS this February I thought to myself, Get it! Get it! so I did a couple days later. 
 I don't regret it! The Adventures 1 and 2 take a while to finish. It took me 19 hours to rap the 
 Adventure parts, so that lasted me for 2 or 3 days! I wish that it would be a little longer but 
 it's still good how it is.
  
  There's also two other parts, Single Race and Wish Race (Wish Race is an unlockable) . These both 
 are multi and single player modes. I really like the Wish Race feature. This allows you to create 
 your own track with the stylus. Then you can race either a friend if your on multiplayer or race 
 T. T.
  if you're on single player (T. T.'s the clock) . It's really fun to create tight turns and master 
 them, cause you're guaranteed a good fall! The single race lets you play all the tracks you'd find 
 in the Adventure and there is also new tracks you can unlock. It makes some pretty good practice 
 if you can't beat one.
  
  The character selection is pretty good! You can play all of the characters from the original (except 
 Banjo and Conker, they're replaced with Dixie and Tiny Kong!) and some new unlockable ones like 
 for example, a chicken!
  
  The graphics are second best for racing ones besides Mario Kart DS. The graphics in this game make 
 it really nice to look at.
  
  The Wi-Fi Connection is very good for people who don't have a friend to play with or just want 
 to beat people from Britain, Japan, Canada etc. It's a really nice feature and makes this game 
 have a lasting appeal if you already rapped it.
  
  The rating is 9.4, Superb!
  
  I recommend this game but I'd rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  There have been numerous attempts made to capitalize on the success of the Mario Kart franchise. 
 One rendition did manage to pull it off, and that happens to be Diddy Kong Racing for Nintendo 
 64. Several years later, Mario Kart DS received the online treatment with the pasta lover's first 
 dual screen go karting foray. Now, a little over 365 days later, Diddy Kong and friends have as 
 well. Was the N64 to DS transition smooth, or did it turn into a bumpy ride?
  
  Diddy Kong Racing DS is an investment-worthy title for either of two reasons. One, you missed out 
 on the Nintendo 64 release and can't find a copy of it, or two, you liked the N64 game, but want 
 the new features, and the ability to play the game anywhere, including online. It doesn't matter 
 which, but in the grand scheme of things, DKR is a decent game all-around.
  
  Unfortunately, Rare decided to add a ton of new features, none of which are all that captivating, 
 which is disappointing. During the beginning of any race, you can spin a tire or propeller on the 
 bottom screen for a potential speed boost. This takes your hand away from important buttons, so 
 what's the point of it? It simply wasn't necessary, and feels forced. Something else was lost in 
 translation, and that was the personality of poor Taj, the blue elephant genie. The once loveable 
 mascot now has a generic, flat aura about him that makes interaction boring. That very genie is 
 also part of another touch element, the track Balloon Challenges. In these, Taj flies on his magic 
 carpet (on a predetermined path) , and it's your job to 'tap' on the balloons hanging in mid-air 
 to pop them, while attempting to drag the coins into your little brown sack before reaching the 
 finish line. This does have a relevant in-game purpose, but it's just not interesting. Finally, 
 when facing the game's bosses, another attempt of forcing you to use the plastic stick is literally 
 'drawing' where your vehicle goes, and using it to utilize your weapons. It's ridiculously tough, 
 and really makes you question the intention altogether.
  
  Even with these design decisions that temporarily block the path of your racing delight; the core 
 of DKR's gameplay did make a successful journey in the porting job. While using the D-Pad feels 
 less natural for vehicle control than using the N64's analog stick, the game is still fun, and 
 that's what matters. The evil Wizpig has taken over an island inhabited with adoreable animals, 
 including the tiger Timber, and Diddy has been called upon to help drive out the nasty porker. 
 Players take whomever they happen to choose through a series of wonderfully varied tracks glamorized 
 with some decent effects. Unfortunately the overall aesthetical detail isn't quite what it was 
 before, which is a bit of a surprise. The game doesn't look bad by any means, but the atmosphere 
 of the island and tracks themselves is a bit more basic than it once was.
  
  The ability to upgrade your rides is a welcome addition to the revived N64 classic though. It's 
 necessary too, as those performance enhancers will increase your chances of winning as you continue 
 to progress. Plus, it serves as something worth doing for DKR veterans.
  
  The online element is also pleasant, but it's almost no different than the setup for MK DS. You 
 still have a friend code to give to your friends, and vice versa, but a few tweaks were made to 
 the system. You can set the number of participants in a given race, from two to six, and choose 
 between a single and trophy race. Users can play strangers from all over the world, host a game 
 for friends or join one of similar nature. It all depends on what strikes your fancy. If you enjoy 
 playing Mario Kart online, chances are you'll have some good times with DKR, just without the snaking.
 
  
  Finally, the audio department features a mix of redone and original tunes from the N64 title. The 
 intro theme is especially catchy, as well as some of the new in-game melodies, but most of them 
 have been brought over in pure form, and the same applies to item pickups. That should keep fans 
 of the initial production happy.
  
  As was stated at the beginning, if you enjoy racing games, and can relate to either of my two reasons 
 regarding why this new DS release is investment-worthy, then by all means give it a try. Fans of 
 the original may not care at all for everything Rare did to try to 'upgrade' the experience, but 
 at least it can't be denied that the core gameplay that made the N64 game great is alive and well, 
 missiles, slicks, boosters and all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burori
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  When I found out about the game being released, I thought to myself, oh sweet! Always loved this 
 game on the N64 when I was younger, when I bought it and popped it into my DS i was disapointed 
 with one factor on the character selection. It was missing my beloved character since I first played 
 the game on the N64, Conker (Banjo as well but I'm not really concerned about that, even though 
 I love the Banjo-Kazooie games) but atleast theres a reason, the fact that Rareware is owned by 
 Microsoft so Conker and Banjo games are only going to be on X-Box consoles now. But anyway, here 
 are the thing I'll talk about:
  
  Gameplay- I think that they made an improvement in the game play over the N64 version, except when 
 your flying in the planes, I found it much harder to pilot the planes with a D-pad instead if an 
 analog stick, because of the analogs much more precisely which makes turning up and down harder 
 on the DS version. Overall I like the game play more, except there are two more things I dislike, 
 first, sometimes it feel like I need to tap and hold the B button twice to reverse, maybe thats 
 not normal, but it happens. The other thing I dislike is that new boost system, I don't even really 
 get the one on the car but the hover craft and plane one I do, it seems like they expect you to 
 have the stylus in your hand at all times, but I don't know about anybody else, but thats uncomfortable 
 to me, I say this because of the things like this new boost system (which i dispise) , and the auto 
 pilot system.
  
  Graphics- I don't have much to say about the graphics, other then that there not bad. Amusing childish 
 looking graphics kinda make the game appealing, it has colourful enviroments, and I like how you 
 can change the colour of your cart. Not 100 percent sure whether this last statement about the 
 graphics would fall under this catagory but its gotta go some where right? But anyway, the icon 
 making system, personally I think its slightly amusing, but take a look at it compared to the one 
 in Mario Kart, its crap. There is no grid, you cannot have shapes you can put down to help you 
 get started, and you have to do it all by free hand!
  
  Other- Here are some things I couldn't stick into a certain catagory. It seemed to me that the 
 bosses were much easier to beat than in the N64 version, not necessarily a bad thing because of 
 that **** boost system, but I just thought I'd mention it. Like i mention before, the fact that 
 Conker and Banjo aren't in it. I really like how you can customize your vehicle in it, makes the 
 game much easier when your vehicle is upgraded to go faster and things. The fact that they made 
 Tiny Kong really tall compared to the other Kongs, I mean, its in her name, Tiny Kong, how tall 
 would you really expect her to be? Regardless, I like the rumble pack system in this game, I think 
 it works good and its not overly used in it. I like the sound, well its not great or anything, 
 but its, well, good. Last but not least, I think this games has really good multiplayer, there 
 are plenty of options, and when you have a single so your using download play, everybody can choose 
 there characters, unlike in Mario Kart DS where you HAD to have your own card to choose your character.
 
  
  I know that this game is probaly intended for little kids, but that doesnt change the fact thats 
 its a not bad game. I wouldn't be able to play this for an overly long time, but picking up the 
 DS and popping in DKR DS just for a few races to pass the time, it can be pretty amusing. Well 
 heres the end of my review so I will just leave you with a thanks to anyone who took the time to 
 read all of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wigglebutt32
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is pretty much the same as the nintendo 64 version. There are a few new characters 
 and you have to unlock some like Drumstick the rooster (my favorite) All the people have like mini 
 voices now like all cute and pipsy. The genie Taj sounds like a hippy or some guy on drugs, but 
 its alright. You can make your own tracks now and stuff to your vehicles, and change the color 
 of your vehicles. Also you can always change your character in season. It also has Wi-fi which 
 makes the game more fun. Still the same old bosses and tracks, but this game is a classic. Worth 
 playing and has a fun story with Wizpig and all. Overall, I give this game a thumbs up, but I don't 
 suggest you get it if you didn't like the nintendo 64 one, or racing games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Don_Patch360
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Rare... they used to Nintendo's ally. However, things do change and Rare was bought out by Microsoft 
 ( hey, I can't blame MS ) . Years later, Rare was stilling make games for Nintendo's handheld ( 
 GBA ) , and recently stated that they would be remaking the smash hit, DKR. Overall I think they 
 did a near perfect port, but the game does have small quirks. Read on.
  
  Gameplay: Diddy Kong Racing is obviously a racing game as it states it clearly on the box. In my 
 opinion its far superior to Mario Kart, and plays with more skill. This game is really easy to 
 control; a 6 year old could win the first race. That said, the developers made it a bit too easy. 
 The Silver Coin challenges are intact ( despite what people say ) , but are optional. In this game, 
 you have the choice between 3 vehicles. Car, Plane, and Hovercraft. All of them are fun to control, 
 but I like the plane the best. I can't forget abut the overworld. Unlike Mario Kart, you travel 
 through an Adventure on Timber's Island. Its tedious, but its still massively fun, and provides 
 some exploration. The negative side to the gameplay is the touch-screen boost. At the start of 
 each race, you are forced to strike/spin your vehicle to get a starting boost. Its annoying, but 
 you can't blame Rare for trying to be different. There are so many unlockables in this game, its 
 not even funny. Be prepared to spend of 100 hours unlocking everything. I'm not kidding. Banjo 
 and Conker got taken out for Tiny and Dixie, which means we probably won't get a new Banjo game. 
 Oh, and this game has Wi-fi. What more could you want?
  
  Graphics: The graphics are excellent!! Especially for a DS game. They aren't much noticeably different 
 from the original, but are a tad better. Everything looks good, except the trees are pre-rendered 
 like in Super Mario 64.
  
  Sound: Uh... let me get this strait, the music rocks, but the sound doesn't. Like nearly every 
 other port, the music is remixed from the original to suit the new generation. I adore the new 
 music, except some tunes from the N64 title are missing. Now for the sound. Should even bother? 
 The character voices are terrible. TipTup sounds like some sexually disturbed girl, and Krunch 
 the Kremling sounds like a 12 year old with ADD ( such as myself, except I'm not 12 ) . Don't even 
 get me started on Taj. He started out as a Pakistani Pachyderm, but now he sounds like a perplexing 
 Pedophile.
  
  Replay: Like I said this game will take forever to beat, and it has tons of multiplayer modes, 
 plus Wi-fi. I've played this more than any other DS game . You can even make your own level ( they 
 are nothing too spectacular, though ) and share them with your friends online. You can even do 
 battle mode online.
  
  Buy, Rent, or Leave: I'd recommend buying this. It has excellent single player and even better 
 mutiplayer. Fans of racing games should definitely check this out. Don't bother renting it, because 
 online won't work properly ( with the rental copy ) , and thats where most of the fun is to be had. 
 If you want to TRY it, rent it I guess. Leave it if you didn't really like Mario Kart DS, or are 
 just not the biggest racing fan. This game is just realfun.
  
  Conclusion: Diddy Kong Racing is a top-notch DS game, and the perfect game to add to your DS library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xTRIGGER092x
Rating: 6.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  I remember playing DKR on the N64 back in '97. Great fun. Battle was very good. I got really happy 
 to hear that it was returning on the DS. So, a few weeks ago, I picked up a copy. In DKR DS, you 
 have an adventure mode, a single-race, and a Wi-Fi Multiplayer mode. In adventure mode, you race 
 in a series of levels to beat WizPig, some pig/alien hybrid ruling an island because he raced everyone, 
 and won the races. That really doesn't make sense, but ok. The inhabitants of the island send a 
 letter to Diddy Kong, to help get Wizpig out of the island. Another WTF?!? moment. There ya go, 
 the story is retarded. The level design is ok, but also, its practically exactly the same ones 
 we raced in back in 1997. However, if you collect so many blue rare logo coins, you can buy upgrades 
 for your vehicles (car, plane, hovercraft) , as well as new tracks. But the adventure mode is sorta 
 fun, Rare tries to add a bit of open-ended gameplay in there with minigames, challenges, unlocks, 
 and such. Overall, the adventure mode is sorta fun. The single races are good, as well as the Ad-Hoc 
 multiplayer/Single Card multiplayer, but the Wi-Fi is where the game stands out. The Online in 
 this game is top-notch, and is very fun to play. You can have up to 6 players (8 in Ad-Hoc) , and 
 race eachother (obvious) . The sound is also pretty good, the music is creative and new, but, there 
 is some music from the original game, and some remixes of the original audio. The graphics are 
 good, colorful, and well-detailed, which is good as well. Now, onto the bad. At the start of every 
 single friggin race, there is a start-up boost challenge. For the car, you use your stylus to get 
 the wheels warmed up and ready to race. For the plane, you warm-up the propeller with the stylus. 
 With the hovercraft, you blow into the mic to warm-up the turbines. This makes the game waaaaayyyy 
 less balanced, and is very annoying, because I found myself depending on this feature about 75% 
 of the game. Also, once you finish a world (finish all the races + beat the boss once) , you have 
 to go to every track in the world, and pop the balloons in the area with the stylus. WTF is the 
 point of this?!? So, the new controls DS updates are just gimmicks. Another disappointment are 
 the characters. They took out Banjo and Conker and replaced them with Tiny and Dixie Kong, which 
 no one really cares about. I know Microsoft owns the two characters now, but seriously, couldn't 
 we get the original characters?!? Overall, Diddy Kong Racing DS is an ok game. When the game gets 
 old in a few months, pick it up as a budget title in the bargain bin. Do not waste your $30.00 
 on this, go buy a much better game like Brain Age or Nintendogs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_wiifather
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  The theme song, the graphics, the gameplay, it's all the same as the N64 version - which was exactly 
 what I was looking to have in this game. It plays just like the old version.
  
  The Pros:
  Decent gameplay. Brings back all the old memories from the old N64 version of this 
 game. Decent graphics according to DS standards. Fun while it lasts. Starts off easy, and then 
 the difficulty becomes just right, which is just what we need to get us into the game. You can 
 race using many different vehicles, and very good use of the stylus. Levels have been modified 
 so that the stylus pen is being used a lot.
  
  The Cons:
  One thing that get's really annoying is that when a race is about to start, during the countdown, 
 you are meant to stroke the stylus pen along the screen as fast as you can to have a faster boost 
 at the beginning. This can get really annoying, and after a while, you just ignore this and when 
 the race starts, all of your opeonents will immediately overtake you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galis
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:37 am PT
Review:  Maybe it is true that you have to spend quite some time doing some other stuff that you don't need 
 to do for instance on Mario Kart or any other typical cart racing games, but it also helps you 
 to get used to the controls on the game and it adds a little bit of story to just running and running. 
 I already liked the first one in N64, and this one I am enjoying it even more so far. It is just 
 a shame in my opinion that Rare left Nintendo, because I think that they did not have the pressure 
 that they have now with Microsoft, and the support from Nintendo, from the game designing point 
 of view, was priceless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonw131
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 29, 2007 11:22 am PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing was originally released for the N64 in the fall of 1997. Almost ten years later, 
 Rare has since been acquired by Microsoft, but that hasn't stopped them from putting out this remake 
 for the DS. The controls work pretty well, but take a backseat to the N64 controller's joystick. 
 Driving the car is pretty easy, but the plane and hovercraft might give people some problems. The 
 graphics are about the same as the N64 version, but compared to graphics of other high quality 
 DS games, they are sub-par. The sound is alright. Nothing spectacular, just something that gets 
 the job done. And the music is great, done by David Wise, who also did the music for the original. 
 This game also boasts the ability to create tracks with the stylus. When you're done, you race 
 against T. T. the clock one-on-one. This can be very addictive. Diddy Kong Racing is a decent and 
 sometimes fun game, but the lack of difficulty and sometimes awkward controls keep this game from 
 reaching its full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRealGameBoyx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 20, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  The old diddy kong is back and as better then ever i dont know what people are talking about i 
 loved this game it had the clasic spin with the new time fun!
  
  GOODS: There is The Plane HoverCraft and The Car They are all great. you can even costomize the 
 paint job on each of them and they each have diff upgrades i belive 12 upgrades for each but you 
 need to buy them with coins you collect in the races. i like the fact that there is freedom in 
 this game and its not just a boring story you have to follow you can search the island and unlock 
 new things. also switching between the plane hovercraft and car keeps it interesting
  
  Wi-Fi: The Wi-Fi is fun it remids me of mario cart Wi-Fi the only bad thing is if you didnt buy 
 upgrades in adventure mode your gunna get smoked!
  
  BADS: When you buy upgrades you can only use one of them at a time. Also in the Wi-Fi mode its 
 hard to set up races because you cant talk with anyone!
  
  Over all this is a fun racing game with a little twist if you liked mario cart you like this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMBfan13
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing is one of the best all time classics from Rare to hit the Nintendo 64. Now it 
 has been almost 10 years later. This hasn't stopped Rare from bringing the all time classic to 
 the Nintendo DS.
  With loads of fun and a lot of things to do, you can't go wrong with Diddy Kong Racing DS.
  
 
  GAMEPLAY - Rare has decided to stick with the same classic gameplay, along with a few touch screen 
 features. As you know from the Nintendo 64, you choose a character and race in different tracks 
 with different vehicles. Things have changed when you start a race. If you are driving a car, you 
 have to repeatedly rub the touch screen down until the announcer says GO! If you have the hovercraft, 
 it works the same way except you have to blow into the mic. For the plane you must make continuous 
 spins on the touch screen.
  On story mode, you have to drive around Timber Island in search of new tracks. You must complete 
 four worlds to race the evil Wizpig. Complete another world and you have to race him again. Beat 
 him a second time, and you have completed the game. That seems short right? That's not all the 
 game has to offer. There is also an Adventure 2 where your doing the adventure again, except the 
 tracks are mirrored. There are different modes and options you can unlock from Taj the elephant. 
 Plus there's also Nintendo wifi connection, which makes the game increase in replay value.
  
  GRAPHICS - The graphics are not INCREDIBLE, but they are normal for a DS game. They are not 
 well done like the N64 game was, but you can learn to live with that. Sometimes there can be glitches 
 in the game, but there are NOT a whole lot of them. Like sometimes when you shake a tree, a coin 
 comes out but it gets stuck on a wall. I haven't spotted a whole lot of glitches, but I hear people 
 complain there are some.
  Like I said, graphics is what kills this game by a little.
  
  SOUND - Could of been better. I still like the sound, but it could of been a lot better. The music 
 is really nice, just like the N64. The only problem is the sound is not as rich as the N64's sound 
 was. The characters voices has changed a whole lot since the original, and now they sound like 
 crap. Yep. I don't even want to talk about Taj's voice.
  
  VALUE - Great. It has Nintendo wifi connection. You can't go wrong with that, folks. There are 
 also different modes like Token Tussle, T. T. wish race, and many more.
  
  I absolutely love this game. The only issue I have with the remake is the graphics and sound. I 
 mean common Rare, you could of fixed it up at least. Other than that, this is an awesome game.
 
  I would recommend this to anyone who has a DS, so pick it up if you haven't. But if you weren't 
 satisfied with the original, this wouldn't be a good buy for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicphoto
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing DS is pretty similar to Mario Kart where you race on various courses and you 
 attack you're enemies, put them traps, get speed boosts, etc. In Diddy Kong however you can collect 
 the same balloon that has that item and it will upgrade that item. It upgrades into 2 forms that 
 are better then the last one before it. However Diddy Kong Racing DS still has some new stuff that 
 we saw and didn't saw on the original Nintendo 64 version and are not feature on a Mario kart title. 
 The most notable things are that in Diddy Kong you use three different types of vehicles: kart, 
 boat and plane. And the other different thing is the adventure mode. 
  
  In the adventure mode you must complete each course from each world to then race with the boss 
 that is big animals like: an octopus, dragon and so on. Completing each course will make you collect 
 a balloon. You need to collect them all in order to confront the last boss. Not only that but they 
 are also balloons spread around the island and you also get them by beating the challenges of Taj 
 the blue genie elephant that will helpful you through the adventure mode. There are also special 
 locked doors on each world that you will need to find the key in one of the courses of that world. 
 That is basically some of the stuff the original and this DS version have. 
  
  Now the DS version has new features using the touch screen and microphone. At the beginning of 
 a race you will either need to roll the wheel of the kart that appears on the touch screen, with 
 the plane you need to move the propeller and with the boat you need to blow on the mic. When you 
 perform one of this you will get a bad, good or great boost at the starting line but it all depends 
 if you spin it a lot or blow it a lot in the mic. Some people seem annoy by this feature but it's 
 nothing frustrating and it does add some nice originality. In the original version when you beat 
 a course in adventure mode you had to collect all the silver coins in that course. Now those coins 
 are only collectibles to upgrade you're vehicle and buy tons of unlockables like new courses. Not 
 only that but you can also buy the mode of collecting coins in the courses from Taj. 
  
  However you still have a second mission on that course: You will be flying on Taj's magic carpet 
 and you will need to pop a certain amount of balloons with the touch screen that are spread around 
 each stage. Depending on how many you blow up you will get a gold, silver or bronze balloon. But 
 to win the mission you only need bronze. Another change is the battle missions. In the original 
 version the battle missions where on the locked doors, but on the DS version you go and create 
 you're own course with barely any options and you will race on it against T. T. the clock. Don't 
 worry the battle missions are unlockable but you can only play them on multiplayer. 
  
  On the visuals department this DS version does improve from the N64 version. Some of the special 
 effects have been fixed. For example rockets on the N64 version cause a big white light like smoke 
 and it was pretty wild. In here you just get hurt. However sadly in the original it was more interesting 
 and more fun to do. Another notable special effect is that in speed boosts on the original each 
 type of boost had its own colors. In here is hard to identify and the upgrades seem to do same 
 boost. Graphically is not that much impressive for a DS game, however is not really bad either. 
 This game has some blurry textures here and there and well overall is not impressive like Mario 
 Kart DS. The characters still look great. And they also added this nice touch of a square popping 
 out during a race expressing the reaction of that character that attack you, you attacked, you 
 become first place and on the final lap if the first and second place racers are close it will 
 show them looking at each other with rivalry. 
  
  In the audio department most of the soundtrack is still the same, however they are still a few 
 courses here and there that there soundtrack got remixed or new background sounds added. The voices 
 are new and they are not that great like before. Taj's voice is pretty disappointing because in 
 the original version he sounded more energetic in this one it feels more like it was something 
 obligated to do and they chose simply anyone. The other voices in other characters are decent but 
 it was still a lot better in the original version. 
  
  Yet where Diddy Kong Racing DS truly shines a lot is in the multiplayer. It offers lots of different 
 type of racing or battling for both single, multi card play and on online. In online you can play 
 with up to 6 players and no lag happens when in other games like Mario Kart DS had lag and it was 
 only 4 players. If a player leaves the game the race still continues and just tells you in the 
 screen who left. But that's not all it also features battle mode online in which Mario Kart DS 
 didn't. All the online features work really well and will keep you playing the game for quite some 
 time. And there is also a lot of unlockables to buy or do in the adventure mode. 
  
  Overall Diddy Kong Racing DS is a great return of a classic in the Nintendo 64 with new feature 
 such as an online mode that features many options that no other online racing DS game has done. 
 Despite that some of the changes such as the voiceovers and the touch screen ideas aren't so great 
 they still don't affect that much the overall gameplay of the game. If you want another really 
 good racer on the DS like Mario Kart DS then you must definitely pick up this game. If you loved 
 the original game then you must pick it up because it will certainly bring you a lot of memories. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nets15
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  this is like the new mario kart. the graphics are not so great but is really fun. its got the fun 
 of mario kart and the adidiction of warioware. the plane and hovercraft are cool new additions. you 
 probaly dont know the charcters but who cares its fun. ther are some control flaws and graphic errors. it 
 has cool WI-FI because there is not errors and the option were you could choose up to 6 people. its 
 just alot of fun and you could get people good on WI-FI and multiplayer. just buy it its fun!!!!!!!!!!! 
 if you dont have it go buy it now. hurry the stores closing oh no ninjas make like mortal kombat 
 and kill them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game to come out for a while and it challenged Mario kart on 64 and 
 will challenge Mario Kart DS as well. although this game is a remake it still has a lot of differences 
 between the 2. One most notably is the missing characters of Banjo and Conker. As much as i would 
 have liked to see them in this game i understand why they could not be in it. licenses. they owned 
 by Microsoft would not allow them to be on a Nintendo system. but its not like they did not do 
 anything about it. They added 2 kongs we have seen before. Dixie and Tiny. i am glad they added 
 girl characters to this game. the N64 game had only one girl. also 2 new guys hit the karts. Taj 
 and Wizpig. they were in the game before as NPC. This game has kept the 3 different vehicles. Hovercraft, 
 Kart, and Plane. after 10 years nobody has made a game with multiple vehicles. Hard to believe 
 but its true. This game has the most robust online system on the ds. Well maybe not as good as 
 Metriod but close 2nd. Also there are tons of stuff to do such as create a track, Time trial, Coin 
 challenges. This game will last a while and your always have something to do.
  
  This game come close to Mario Kart. Mario kart gets the edge but this is not a bad game it self. 
 Gameplay: Racing in cars hovering on water, Flying in planes pretty fun
  Graphics: Great graphics for ds game but not as good as Mario
  Sound: Alot of the music from 
 the old game is here so thats a plus!
  Value: 35 bucks on the expensive end for the DS but give you a lot to do like i said above Overall: 
 Buy this game if you like mario kart. It will be fun to alternate between the two 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChickenBoy4
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 12, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I thought the game, though entertaining, was not all Nintendo could have made it. It was virtually 
 the same as the N64 version, but with some new characters and some added features to the story 
 mode. The racing speed is slow: not fast and exciting like Mario Kart. The game was also fairly 
 easy and did not take long to beat. The vehicle controls are also very choppy. I recommend this 
 game to younger kids because of the classic characters and comical action, but not to any gamers 
 looking for a true racing game challenge.
  However, I must be honest, I have not tried any multiplayer races, so if that kind of thing appeals 
 to you in racing games, go ahead and check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khunterg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun game and it has some content that the original Diddy Kong Racing didn't have. Some 
 of the new content is having Wizpig and Taj as playable characters and being able to draw your 
 own tracks. They have also cut some things out though. You can't play as Conker or Banjo in this 
 game. You won't have to spend a lot of time on this game, I beat it in just a little under two 
 weeks. Wi-Fi on this game is fun and it has a lot of different modes. If you liked the original 
 game then this game is worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayckoll
Rating: 5.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Actually, it's the same game that i played on N64, a racing game, a Mario Kart wannabe. Nothing 
 new about what we've seen before.
  
  There's a new balloon system on the game, where if you pop 2 different balloons (having the 1st 
 balloon item on your inv. of course) you won't lose the 1st item.
  
  There are a few other new modifications, like the removal of silver coin challenge, which really 
 takes out the challenge of the game, and the vehicle modification and new game characters.
  
  I bought this game hoping a sequel, or at least good new other changes, the game being just 
 a modification of the old one really disappointed me, i only think it's good to have a N64 game 
 on a portable console, and see how much we've improved on technology, but i don't know if that's 
 worth the $$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RubedoXT
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 6, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by asking, who the hell were the target audience for this version of the game? 
 Kids that played the original on N64 and loved it only to get sucker punched to think they could 
 relive a butchered version of this game 10 years later, or kids just totally new to the Diddy Kong 
 Racing concept? Now I'm not saying this all that bad, let's start off stating the good since the 
 good aspects of this version can probably be counted on 1 hand and the flaws can follow.
  
  PROS:
  -What you unlock in single player is available in multiplayer SINGLE CARD PLAY AS WELL, 
 what a great bonus
  -nicely revamped graphics
  -Dixie and Tiny are playable characters yipee, Diddy ain't the only monkey around now
  -personalize 
 game is fun, you can create billboards that can appear on walls in levels. It's hilarious if you 
 played my cart, you'll come across a pirate ship's mass saying F U oh and adding your own voice 
 or custom sounds to game circumstances are great. Like if you win 1st place on my cart you'll hear 
 the Greased Up Deaf Guy from Family Guy saying YOU'RE WASTING YOUR TIME
  
  CONS:
  -Dixie and Tiny are playable yes, but they replace Conker and Banjo. Friggin Microsoft...
  -Taj's 
 voice does not suit him
  -Collecting coins is hard, no matter how much you get, you can only accumiliate them if you win 
 1st place
  -Everything costs too much and collecting coins is way too hard
  -Boss touch challenges are extremely inane and difficult. Great reward though 100 coins
  -UNLOCKABLES!!! 
 They're great BUT once you UNLOCK something you only unlock THE OPTION to BUUUUUUY the unlocked 
 item... add to the stress of money collecting
  -Custom race tracks are pointless if they're all gonna be a cloud for a road and doesn't really 
 allow you to customize it with landscaping. It's not very collaberative for customization.
  -Cut scenes are disappointing. Wizpig isn't as intimidating as he used to be on the 64 version.
 
  
  I could go on with the cons, but I'd rather swim in elephant **** Point is, if you really loved 
 the Nintendo 64 version of this game, your expectations will be CRUUUUUSHED. If not, and you're 
 still interested on this nice take on traditional racing games, then buy it I guess. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OlnyGuy
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 3, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  The story mode begins as the evil swine wizard Wipzig arrives at Timbers Island. Causing a frantic 
 panic on the Island, he attempts at taking over the floating piece of land. The natives desperately 
 try to fight the evil swine wizard off with all of their effort; one of the the natives Drumstick 
 even sacrifices himself and gets tuned into a frog. Without Drumstick, the other natives Timber, 
 Pipsy, Bumper, and TipTup send a letter to Kong Island begging for help. Soon the Kongs arrive 
 and the quest to save Timbers Island begins.
  
  Many would like to quickly voice that this game is just another cruddy port with nothing new but 
 flawed controls. While that might be correct on some aspects, it isnt on all. When Nintendo sold 
 Rare to Microsoft in 2002, they signed over certain rights which is probably why they werent able 
 to keep Conker and Banjo as two characters. They replaced them though with a teenage version of 
 Tiny Kong and Dixie Kong from Donkey Kong Country 2. In addition to those two, you can also use 
 Diddy, Bumper, Pipsy, Timber, TipTup, Krunch, and the four characters that have to be unlocked. 
 (Drumstick, T. T., Wipzig, and Taj.) Once you arrive on the island, a friendly elephant genie named 
 Taj appears quickly to explain many aspects of the game. Taj also offers some frustrating challenges 
 which you need to complete to be able to race in all three available vehicles (Car, Hovercraft, 
 Plane.) He is also the guy to go to if you were to buy upgrades for your car (new feature) , new 
 tracks, new modes, and if you would like to switch settings or characters. Unlike Mario Kart, this 
 games takes advantage of the whole free roam concept where you are able to drive around the island 
 to certain levels. Since Wipzigs evil magic still has the Island cursed, you need Golden Balloons 
 to open the doors to these levels. While inside the certain level, there are four races which you 
 can choose from (if you have enough balloons that is.) Let the race begin
  
  There are so many things you can do in the each of the levels that it is going to be hard to explain. 
 You can choose a race, you can race the boss (if you beat every race) , do the trophy race (4 race 
 tournament) , or you can race T. T. if you found the key for that level. I will break down single 
 race. Most track will offer you the choice of all three vehicles, but during story mode the vehicle 
 that was meant for that level is used. Starting the race, a really tacky and annoying way of boosting 
 was added. You use your stylus to spin the wheel of the car or the wings of the plane to get the 
 boost at the beginning. For the Hovercraft, you have to blow into your DS. It is really hard for 
 you to do this simultaneously while trying to hold the accelerator to keep going after the boost 
 is done. During the race you can pick up items by popping colored balloons. I preferred this system 
 over the Mario Kart item system since the upgrades made sense (if you drive into another balloon 
 of the same color while having the original item with you, it will power up to a more effective 
 item.) You can also collect coins throughout races to purchase your tracks/upgrades from Taj later. 
 When you finish the races, you go up against a pathetic boss. After defeated, he makes you go through 
 the races again on a magic carpet using your stylus to pop Golden Balloons. This is again very 
 tacked on and frustrating at times. When finished, you will race the boss again and he will offer 
 you a touch challenge which is extremely difficult and stupid in my opinion. This is not required 
 though! To unlock everything in this game you will have to spend a decent time racing, so I would 
 say that the short story mode isnt something that should keep you from checking this game out.
 
  
  Online play is much better and more organized than the Mario Kart one. This time you dont have 
 to race in a four race series, but rather in a single race while choosing after the race if you 
 wish to have another. This reduces the amount of disconnections. Some of the characters are really 
 broken for online play and there is NO chance of playing online without a fully upgraded vehicle 
 (preferably the AIR/Top Speed upgrade.) Tracks and what vehicle you use during the race is chosen 
 by the majority rule. If you have your buddies friend code you can participate in other online 
 games like Battle Tracks and even racing on your own created track. The online play is improved 
 significantly over the other DS titles that I have played.
  
  The visual department take a hit in the character design category, since the characters look very 
 blocky and unpolished. Environments look crisp and inviting but they dont seem to give off a clear 
 graphical appearance. Some texture problems appear but they don't cause to much harm. The island 
 for instance looks like it was built out of cardboard boxes, looking like most DS titles to date. 
 The frame rate is improved from the N64 version of the game but still lacks the full potential 
 that it could have had. The vehicles and special effects are well modeled and overall look decent, 
 not as good as the other kart racing games for the DS though. Overall, the visuals were very similar 
 to all the other 3D DS games, looking decent but not fully developed in every aspect.
  
  The sound on the other hand is a fresh breath of air for Diddy Kong Racing. The fun and party like 
 songs from the original are still here and deliver more than ever. Everything transitions clearly 
 and exemplifies the potential other games have for the DS. It lack most of the voice acting though, 
 which chipped away at the personality of the game. The sounds incorporated with the environments 
 work well with the game too (tire screeching etc.) Musically the sound was exiting, but other 
 than that there is nothing that makes this game stand out over other DS games.
  
  Controlling the little racing animals became much more frustrating than expected. Using your touch 
 screen to boost at the beginning of ever race just feels wrong. Also, not having your trusty analog 
 stick may annoy and cause pain to your thumb occasionally. The Golden Balloon challenges control 
 very bad since using your stylus to look around and pop balloons at the same time just doesnt 
 work. And the boss touch challenges? Dont get me started on those. Those go beyond frustration 
 and are insanely difficulty. I would save myself the anger and just go earn those 100 coins by 
 racing. Racing doesnt feel so bad but the absence of the analog is noticeable. Tacky, unfitted, 
 and frustrating sum up some of the controls of the game.
  
  Overall, Diddy Kong racing has positive aspects on one end, and negative on the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchconlin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing DS is rediculously underated. It is the same game as the n64 version, with a 
 few new features and characters. the new features dont really change the game much at all, its 
 just a new boost system. And istead of the old silver coin challenges its touch screen balloon 
 races, but the silver coin races are still there but not part of the adventure.
  
  Gameplay: all three vehicles control differently from each other, but they all handle very well, 
 very good cource design, old problem is a few characters arent as good as others. Crunch is terrible 
 comparted to drumstick.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look fine there just nothing special.
  
  Sound: This is a real strong point of the game, all tracks have memorable sound tracks , some 
 have been remixed since the n64 version.
  
  Value : Very high due to two adventures, unlockable characters, and the best wifi that the ds has 
 to offer.
  
  Tilt: There isnt many funner games than this bad boy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThumbsUpMaster
Rating: 6.9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Last year, diehard Nintendo and Rare fans were amazed when, once Nintendo owned now in coalition 
 with Microsoft, Rare announced the Nintendo 64 classic, Diddy Kong Racing, will be ported to Nintendo's 
 handheld system, the Nintendo DS. After being bought by Microsoft, Rare still developed games for 
 the Game Boy Advanced like a spin-off of the Banjo-Kazooie franchise called Banjo-Kazooie: Grunty's 
 Revenge which didn't go to well with Banjo-Kazooie fans, like myself.
  
  Is Rare over? Are games like Banjo-Kazooie and Diddy Kong Racing better off left in the past, shrouded 
 in the memories of our childhood? Is Diddy Kong Racing DS going to send a message to Nintendo/Rare 
 fans that 'ol RareWare hasn't changed? Think again.
  
  I was hyping this since May last year, I believe. After it being delayed numerous times, I finally 
 got my hands on a copy. The first thing I noticed when I started out on a race was that, to boost, 
 you need to spin a barrel on your touch screen. The faster you roll it, the more speed boost you 
 would gain at the beginning of the race. This was a turn off because, personally, I'm the kind 
 of people that like to press A or B at the last two seconds to get a speed boost. Not roll some 
 Donkey Kong barrel. It becomes a real chore, especially with the bosses. Oh, but it gets better. 
 With the hovercraft you have to blow in your DS's microphone. I almost got a headache when I was 
 racing bosses that required the hovercraft. The plane's boost is the same as the car's except you 
 spin to the left. The car and the plane create a weird transition to the touch screen and the D-pad. 
 What do I recommend doing? Let your left fingernails grow to the point that their pointy enough 
 to spin the touch screen so you won't have to be pulling out your stylus all the time (some of 
 you may have already thought about doing this) .
  
  The main gameplay is the same. You race, win balloons, and use those balloons to open new worlds 
 or races. Each world has 4 levels. Once you beat those 4 levels, you race the boss.
  
  After you beat a boss, they will challenge you again but you must go back to the same tracks you 
 raced through before and complete, not a silver coin challenge like in the N64 version, but a Balloon 
 Touch Challenge. This is where the fun begins. Your sent riding a magic carpet that guides you 
 through each level. You can steer the carpet left, right, up, or down using the stylus. balloons 
 are spread around the level. If you touch the balloons with your stylus, they'll pop. If you pop 
 the required amount of balloons in every level, then you get the race the boss a second time but 
 this time HE'S HARDER. After you beat him, you get to race in the trophy challenge and an optional, 
 Special Touch Challenge against the boss.
  
  The Trophy Race consists of the four levels you raced through before but your opponents are fairly 
 more challenging than the past races. You gain points when you beat a race. If you place first, 
 then you get the most points. The player with the most points at the end of the Trophy Race, well, 
 wins a trophy. Once you collect all four trophies, you enter a new world minus the secret keys 
 and T. T.
  
  The Special Touch Challenges are extreme frustrating. You use your stylus to control your character. 
 Who was the genius that thought that up? Seriously. It took a while for me to get used to. I nearly 
 broke my DS trying to beat this. When I finally beat it... I found out it was optional. Great....
 
  
  Each world holds one secret key. If you happen to find the key, you can unlock the door with the 
 huge keyhole. Inside lies T. T. the deformed clock with a face that has an obsession with being 
 faster than everybody else. You race T. T. in a custom made race track Rare likes to call, your 
 Wish Race. You create it using your touch pad. You don't even create a wish track. It's just some 
 weird clear rainbow thing. It's too hard for me to explain it's lameness. Go to YouTube and watch 
 the videos if you haven't already. The only fun thing about these races is watching T. T. drive 
 off the track.
  
  Once you complete all worlds and collect everything you can find laying around on Timber's Island, 
 you can race the evil warlock swine, Wizpig. *cue Beethoven's 5th Symphony*
  
  Coins lie around each level. You can use these coins to upgrade your vehicles to go more faster, 
 have better handling etc. You can also unlock Battle Levels (like Icicle Pyramid, my personal favorite) 
 and other goodies.
  
  The voices don't even sound like their N64 counterparts. Tiptup, the closest to Banjo-Kazooie in 
 the game, sounds so... unmanly. I think he hung out with Jolly a bit too much at Jolly Rogers Lagoon. 
 And the absence of Banjo and Conker don't help.
  
  Multiplayer is probably the main reason why I'm not selling this game. You can play with a single 
 cartridge or two. There's also a Wi-Fi option. You can connect wirelessly with other people around 
 the world, or your neighbor next door. Online play is more diverse than that of Mario Kart DS. 
 There are more options to choose from, and best of all, no snakers. I think Rare learned a few 
 things when working with Xbox Live. Don't forget to have those stylus's out. You're going to need 
 all the boost you can get...
  
  There's definitely a lot more stuff to do in Diddy Kong Racing DS than Mario Kart DS but if your 
 looking for a straight up racing game, get MK: DS. If you're looking for something a little more 
 or want to relive a N64 classic on the go, get Diddy Kong Racing DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_ballin_cory
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 26, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game is extremely disappointing, and is way to easy. If you lose one race your either closing 
 your eyes got stuck on a wall or your a dumb ass. This game has the worst turning i ve ever seen. 
 In one level i fell off a bridge into the water, took 10 seconds to get out of that then hit a 
 wall got stuck backed up slow as all hell, and missed the entrance again because i couldn't turn. This 
 game is extremely disappointing, and is way to easy. If you lose one race your either closing your 
 eyes got stuck on a wall or your a dumb ass. This game has the worst turning i ve ever seen. In 
 one level i fell off a bridge into the water, took 10 seconds to get out of that then hit a wall 
 got stuck backed up slow as all hell, and missed the entrance again because i couldn't turn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Even after a decade, this game still dosen't seize to impress me. What distinguishes this racing 
 game from any other is that you can ride three types of vehicles instead of just a go kart. Diddy 
 Kong Racing might not be as good as Mario Kart, but it's brilliant idea still makes it a worthy 
 game. For better or for worse, there are a few changes:
  1. Taj's voice is completely different! What happened? I liked his old voice better, but now he 
 sounds just plain creepy. Also, Tiptup dosen't sound the same as he used to. He kind of sounds 
 like Butters from South Park.
  
  2. Conker and Banjo have been taken out. Ah man! Conker was my favorite character! Oh well, Dixie 
 Kong and Tiny Kong are still a good trade. I think it's the fact that Banjo and Conker have their 
 own games.
  
  3. No more coin races in adventure mode! That's good in my opinion. It was very tedious back then 
 in the N64 era. The pop a balloon challenge takes its place. It was a very fun, yet easy addition 
 that I'm sure that anyone can enjoy. 4. The bosses are unusually easy! Where did the challenge 
 go? I haven't a clue, but they were much harder back in the day. The only boss I lost to was Bluey 
 the Walrus because the hovercraft was so darn difficult to steer at first. I beat all the other 
 bosses faster than you can say Diddy Diddy Bang Bang! 
  
  5. At the start of the race, you must do something with the stylus or the microphone, depending 
 on the vehicle. You must rub the tire, spin a propeller, or blow in the microphone. Personally, 
 it wasn't as bad as you think it would. It just takes good coordination to get the perfect start. 
 Some might be at more of an advantage than others.
  
  Despite the changes, this game is still fun to play up to this present day. The graphics are a 
 notch better, the music is still the music as I remembered and loved it, and the gameplay still 
 works. Seriously, what's not to like about Diddy Kong Racing? It might be easier than the original 
 game, but it still proves to be just plain fun. If you need another racing game other than Mario 
 Kart, buy this one. Whether it is for nostalgia or for something new, you still can't go wrong! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Djammal86
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing is almost like a complete port from the Nintendo 64 version. It's different racing 
 style and appeal would make you believe that it would much better than its competitors. Well unfortunately 
 it doesn't.
  
  The game has a classic Nintendo 64 feel to it, but not enough modern touches to make this game 
 come up to par with many different racing games available for the DS. The game play in racing will 
 leave you feeling uninterested after a few weeks.
  
  Unlike other racing games, you do get a chance to race in many different types of vehicles and 
 devices, but it doesn't help justify the lack of racing experience that you would expect in a racing 
 game. And even though there are multiple ways to race, they all feel the same.
  
  In short, this is a game that most fans of the series will enjoy because a couple of the new features 
 on Wi-fi. The multi-player in Diddy Kong Racing is very good, with a couple of buddies online and 
 some of the mini game are fun too, but when it comes to racing, Diddy Kong only made a couple of 
 baby steps past its predecessor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendomania
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  When you think of Diddy Kong Racing what pops in your head? Thats right, the classic. I am both 
 happy and disappointed in this game however. They got rid of Conker the squirrel and Banjo the 
 bear. Replacing these two is Dixie and Tiny Kong. There are also four unlockable characters, two 
 of whom were not in the original. Also their are four new courses for your enjoyment that you can 
 buy using coins you find of the track. Also you can say good-bye to coin challenge in story mode. 
 Don't worry fans you can still buy the mode at the shop. It is replaced where you ride a magic 
 carpet and pop balloons with your stylus. It is a good replacement for the DS and makes it fun 
 and enjoyable. The courses are the same so don't worry and there are a few extra balloons to find. 
 The best part of this game is the on-line play. It is amazing and doesn't lag very much if at all. 
 Another new feature lets you change signs around the courses and change the sound effects for your 
 car. I highly recommend this game though. For those of you who want something new and own the original 
 like I did, I suggest you make sure its what you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -SiiLeNCE-
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing DS is a supped-up port of the classic of the same name from back on the N64. 
 Although some mediocre game additions crowd the great game underneath, it's still a great package 
 that's definitely worth your time.
  
  The graphics have mixed results. Although they haven't really improved that much over a decade, 
 they frame rate and textures have all been tweaked, and the menus and HUDs have all been re-worked, 
 which is a nice touch. I really liked the tropical jungle theme of the whole game, and the worlds 
 and tracks really look great and appealed to me personally a lot, so I gave it a higher graphics 
 score. However, some of the hovercraft animations have been toned down, and the ground looks a 
 lot worse than its N64 counterpart, which is ridiculously unnecessary.
  
  The sound is a lot better. Playing with headphones is actually a treat as opposed to the normal 
 speakers, which is actually the opposite of most DS games. Each character has a few phrases here 
 and there (similar to most other games in the genre) , and the sound effects and music are all pretty 
 cool. Some of the levels even have remixed DK tracks, which when combined with other DK references 
 and cameos really made it a fun experience.
  
  The gameplay is actually pretty controversial, however. Diddy Kong Racing was meant to be a console 
 racing game that has you overcome a lot of challenges the game throws at you as opposed to just 
 jumping in and winning races, which was probably not a good idea from a handheld game perspective. 
 However, that being said, adventure-style racing done Rare style with tons of collectibles, secrets, 
 and unlockables is awesome, and I don't think saying the game is too deep to be on a handheld is 
 necessarily a bad thing.
  
  New to the game this year are 4 new tracks, 2 new characters, a few new game modes, a track editor, 
 online multiplayer, 4 new battle arenas, and extra side-missions and challenges; which are all 
 done well and build on an already great game foundation, despite the fact that Banjo and Conker 
 were mysteriously absent from the character roster. Taj's challenges have been re-worked, though 
 it can sometimes be irritating to have him nag you to complete his challenges one too many times. 
 New features such as blowing on the touch screen or turning a propeller before the race starts 
 to gain a boost have been added, though it can sometimes be difficult to switch back to the buttons 
 before it's time to get into the action.
  
  The value and replayability is through the roof in this package thanks to the great multiplayer 
 and seemingly endless tasks that need to be completed. However, it takes a lot of time to unlock 
 and win everything the game has to offer, which can become quite tedious when coupled with the 
 often strange varying difficulty level jumps throughout the game. Unlocking new tracks and game 
 modes costs coins that you find throughout the tracks; but it's really stupid how each of them 
 costs so much money when it's actually really hard to collect enough of these coins to begin with!
 
  
  There's really no reason for you not to have this game in your collection if you're a huge DKR 
 fan like myself. The whole game is here, but with a lot of new features that work well with each 
 other. However, some of the new modes, such as the horrible touch-screen boss racing levels and 
 mediocre magic carpet rides seem tacked-on and unnecessary since they really just disrupt the natural 
 flow of the game and kind-of bury the great underlying game underneath. It can sometimes be extremely 
 irritating when you have to go through lots of krap just to get to the good stuff. That being said, 
 this is still a really great package that's a blast to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirJusticeEsq
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2007 9:46 am PT
Review:  Despite Gamespots negative reception to the original Diddy Kong Racing on the N64, it was a huge 
 hit, fondly remembered as a classic by all who played. If you personally havent, then youre either 
 a poor, deprived bastard, or just made of stupid, and either way you have no business here. In 
 any case, what the rest of you loved about the originals adventure/racing hybrid experience, will 
 find the same fun here. Whether its a feeling of nostalgia or d&eacute; j&agrave; vu is debatable, 
 because when it comes down to it, this is the exact same game, with some minor differences, mostly 
 in a means to DS-ify this game for the handheld. If youre a sucker for joyful, anthropomorphic 
 animals with big, round eyes and horrible voice acting, then youll really enjoy the cast of characters. 
 And most of the cast from the original is accounted for, with the exception of Banjo and Conker, 
 who now cant come out to play for Nintendo anymore. They have been replaced however by some silly 
 monkeys, with four unlockable characters, so theres plenty of racers to choose from. All have different 
 attributes, juggling between handling, acceleration, and then sacrificing everything to just plain 
 driving fast, depending on your play style. Theres also variety in the mode of transportation; 
 cars, airplanes, and finally hovercrafts which most people will avoid like the plague. Then theres 
 plenty of locales for you to race around in, covering all the clich&eacute; s youd come to expect 
 in an adventure/platform game ten years ago. Of course with Rares special touches, such as inanimate 
 objects with eyes and autistic dinosaurs conveniently obstructing the road. So it sounds very much 
 like what you might have played before, but then theres the new DS features. The first and most 
 obvious crops up at the beginning of your first race. Instead of mashing on the gas button before 
 the urgent admonition to GO!, you have to use the touch screen to get your tires or propeller 
 spinning. And my favorite, blowing into the microphone to get the hovercraft to a boost start. 
 Its stupid. But it must be done. And youll lose your stylus more than once, and spit all over 
 your screen like a fool, but a small price to pay I spose, as its not enough to throw this game 
 in the fire. Theres also special touch boss battles, where you must compete in a race using 
 only your touch screen. These can be very aggravating, and the reward is a slap in the face for 
 the grief youll most likely endure. A positive new feature, and one surely to please all, is the 
 option to record your own little quips for different actions in the game. Most will probably use 
 this opportunity to use profanity, and its juvenile, but who cares. Having these cutesy creatures 
 cussing out the competition is funnier for much longer than it probably should be, and after what 
 Rare did in Conkers Bad Fur Day, its not totally out of context either.
  
  Its also worth mentioning, in case there was a thread of doubt, this is a still a blast in multiplayer, 
 both with friends and wi-fi, and should not be missed. Theres much more I could say about this 
 game. Because there is a lot of crap, mostly in the way of unlockables. A second adventure and 
 mirror races, coin challenges, vehicle upgrades, four battle courses, and more. So whether you 
 play alone, or if youre lucky enough to have friends, this game should satisfy for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_magnolia
Rating: 4.1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  I went in to this game with full hopes that this would be a throwback to N64 version. But I was 
 sadly mistaken. Most of the content from the original was there, but not the best parts (or at 
 least my favorite) . The free-for all challenges are missing and several other things as well. Gameplay 
 wise the kart and plane races are all well and good but the hovercraft was terrible. The handling 
 was totally broken making just about impossible to race effectively. Also the balloon popping challenge 
 was just not fun. I would have preferred they just left it like the original and just made it a 
 harder boss battle and second run on the tracks. All said the most redeeming quality of this title 
 would have to be multiplayer. In that you can race all you want (and you don't even have to use 
 the hovercrafts) and any of the tracks. Plus you can create your own to race on as well (meh) . 
 Also they included in the mutliplayer the original head to head challenges that are notably absent 
 in the adventure mode. All said and done I probably wouldn't recommend getting this game (unless 
 you want the online multiplayer then by all means go ahead) but rather you should just dust off 
 you N64 and pop in the old cart.
  
  Also what happened to Taj's voice? They changed it to offensive stereotype to another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CupNoodl3
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 21, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  After reading the review Game Spot gave this game I did not want to buy it, then I saw the You 
 Say reviews I thought I would give it a chance. This game sucks. It's not like Mario Kart at all. 
 The game play is stupid the adventure mode is stupid and the whole game is nothing like the original. 
 I hate it and the worst part is that Target won't take it back because I opened it and played its 
 suckiness . I now know to trust whatever Game Spot says and I will never try a game that gets below 
 a 8.0 review. F 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 21, 2007 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I bought the original back in '97. I adamently looked forward to it two months prior to Christmas 
 that year. I played it to death when I rented it, and then once I got it, then my obsession just 
 got worse. The game was amazing. I had Mario Kart 64, but I loved DKR so much more.
  
  And so, it is with a heavy heart that I must confess that DKR DS is crap. It is. The touch screen 
 stuff is downright retarded (with the exception of the balloon gathering carpet ride thing... that's 
 cool) . The graphics look worse than the N64 version. The music is still the same, though the quality 
 seems a little poorer. idk... At the time I'm writing this, I've played the game for about two 
 hours. I'm not impressed. It really hurts to see a game that I treasured as a kid so incredibly 
 destroyed. It looks like DKR, but doesn't play like it should. What the heck is with the speed 
 sensation? It's non-existant! It's like you're taking a Sunday stroll through the courses.
  
  Okay, so my one point: I don't like this game... at all. They ruined DKR. You're better off 
 unearthing your N64 and doin some old school gaming on the old school system itself. If you crave 
 a kart racing game, get MK DS. If you already own MK DS and crave a kart racing game, go find your 
 MK DS cartridge and play it. Trust me, you'll thank yourself profusely for what you're saving yourself 
 from. : (
  
  ... such a shame T. T 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Its not the best game on the DS i know thats for sure, the game is really easy to beat and there 
 is not very many graphic changes, when you oplay people on wifi connmection there are people that 
 are really glitched up on it so it is wiered like they either skip infront of you or behind (you 
 will know what i mean if you play it on wifi) . It has many of the same sounds on the other game 
 so theres nothing new there, i got the game for 40$ ands i dont think that is worth it to be honest, this 
 game diservs maybe $19.99 if even that much. overall the game is alright but if you are looking 
 for a game like this than i reccomend mario kart ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STArmadillo
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 19, 2007 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I am one of the biggest fans of the original Diddy Kong Racing you'll meet. Well, maybe not, but 
 I really did like it. It was far more enjoyable than the lackluster Mario Kart 64, and the quite 
 creative adventure mode just increased its quality. After a long decade, Rare decided to dust off 
 this N64 gem and give it new life on the DS. But this time, they decided to make use of the DS' 
 new method of controlling. However, did it work?
  
  No, not really.
  
  The game is good, I'll give you that. The racing is solid, the adventure is more or less well designed, 
 but the 'tweaks' Rare gave it hurt it a lot more than help it. For example, the boost system. It's 
 a pain in the ass a lot of the time and barely works for the Car. Another example of poor touch 
 screen controls is the ABYSMAL touch-challenges. Thank God they're not required because racing 
 against bosses with the touch screen has to be one of the most frustrating things I've ever done. 
 The characters in DKRDS are NOT balanced, and this really ticks me off. If I'm playing with my 
 friends, the ones who go for a slower character like Pipsy or Tiptup are likely to be more than 
 half the course beyond almost every time. The last gripe about DKRDS is that, well, they ruined 
 the character voices. Tiptup's now a girl, Diddy sounds like he got throttled right after DK64 
 and hasn't been able to fully recover his voice yet. Taj is a stoner English pub owner and Timber 
 must have figured he was inbred... and also English.
  
  Sorry, those are minor gripes, but still. They annoy me.
  
  Other than that, the game is damn 
 solid. The multiplayer is great (assuming everyone is playing as a good character) and the online 
 is relatively robust for a DS game. The new features are quite welcome to, like the simple track 
 designer and new courses/characters.
  
  Diddy Kong Racing DS is indeed good, but it could have been even better if Rare stopped jacking 
 it and started to actually look at what makes their newer games so flawed. DKRDS didn't need touch 
 screen controls or microphone support; it needed to be balanced out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ksaajasto
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is suberb, it is very similar to the previous version for the nintendo 64, but if you 
 liked that, its all the fun all over again!! I have this, mario kart, and nfs carbon, and this 
 is byfar my favorite because it has more variety and freedom. In mario kart (a great game) you 
 only have so many maps, same here, but you have a lot more. In this game you can also enjoy the 
 triumph of unlocking doors with your precious gold balloons. I really have no idea how this game 
 possibly could have gotten this low of a score... I love it, and if you loved the 64' version than 
 you shoud too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JL2K6
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  diddy kong racing was one of the best racers on N64. now its back on the DS and its great. The 
 graphics are somewhat old for DS but they are still dazzling and colorful. the racing is pure awesomeness 
 (if that is a word) . the soundtrack is very energetic and fun to listen to. i can remember it all 
 from the N64 version. it is one of the funnest racing games ever, even up to par with mario kart's 
 best. you'll be playing every part of this game and the multiplayer is pretty awesome as well. 
 don't believe gamespot. they gave the original one a 6 too. but they love all the dumb games... 
 just don't believe it. this game is one of the best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffrey17
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 19, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  Diddy kong racing ds isnt just a mario kart coppy cat, its original all by it self. In diddy kong 
 racing theres actually somewhat of a story to follw, is not just back to back racing like mario 
 kart. Also in diddy, theres tons to unlock meaning there will be hours of play time and hours of 
 fun. However diddy kong racing ds does have some weak points to it, like the pre-race start ups 
 can get annoying. But most of all diddy is a great game. The graphics push the ds to its limits 
 and i highly recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aashkii
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 5, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  In 1997 Rare created a racing game that revolutionized gaming for the N64. This was a game full 
 of exploration, tight and fun game play, and a superb multiplayer experience that was never duplicated 
 before at that time. Rare put everything into this racer, like their humor level, their challenge 
 level, and their now famous collectathon; all these ingredients mixed into a recipe that was 
 tastefully done to serve their fans during the 64-bit era.
  
  Ten or more years later Rare finally brought back the timeless classic to the Nintendo DS (ironically 
 since they are contracted to Microsoft these days.) DKR DS may not be the superior to Mario Kart 
 DS, but it does offer great game play and unique features. There are some changes, however, that 
 make DKR DS go from first to last place.
  
  The DS version is bigger, badder, better. The Adventure mode is still there, only this time it 
 has changed a bit. First of all, the map layout is different. And now there are touch screen-compatible 
 features where you can trace, scratch, or use the environment to earn coins, balloons, talk to 
 Taj (an elephant-like genie) , and other tasks. Speaking of which, collecting coins allows you to 
 buy vehicle parts, the new racetracks in the game, and other items in Tajs tent. This is a good 
 idea, but it gets repetitive and boring to collect everything throughout the game. The boss races 
 and tracks are different too. Instead of a coin challenge, now there is a balloon collecting-like 
 game that replaces it (of course you can unlock the coin challenge through Taj.) The boss battles 
 are the same, but now there is a third challenge that you need to use the touch screen to make 
 a path to win the race (this is a good thing, but its so frustrating!!!) Another change is the 
 key door levels. Instead of entering a battle mode, you now have to race T. T. in a track you create 
 thru the followed instructions by T. T. himself. Speaking of which now there is a map editor mode 
 where you can create your own racetracks and test them against T. T. I like this feature since you 
 can share them with other players.
  
  And now the touch features. I mentioned a little bit about the touch screen controls on Adventure 
 mode above; now lets talk about the rest of the touch screen controls throughout the game. At 
 the start of each race, instead of pressing the A button to do a starting boost, now you have to 
 spin the wheel (car) , blow on the mic (hovercraft) , or spin the propeller (plane) to get a starting 
 boost. I found it distracting, but I got the hang of it after playing the game for the first hour.
 
  
  Changing the subject let me tell you some of the things and changes I found in the game. One thing 
 I found out was the level music. It has changed a bit, and I mean that each track has their own 
 exclusive tune. Another thing is a sound recorder feature that allows you to make your own sound 
 effects which I played around with it a bit, making weird yet funny sounds. Oh yeah, theres Wi-Fi 
 too, making it the second DS racing game (I think) to support online.
  
  DKR was the superior to MK64 ten years ago, but the DS version feels like the same game except 
 for the newer additions that make the game fresh and fun for newbies of the franchise. Even with 
 the issues above, I still like this game. If you are looking for a racer that is as comical and 
 interesting like Mario Kart DS, DKR DS is that kind of game. After ten years, this game has become 
 the reason why I like Rare so much back then and today. This game is definitely in first place. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Havraha
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 18, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Back in the day of N64's infancy (and I mean extreme infancy) , Rare produced Diddy Kong Racing, 
 an unusual take on your average kart racer by taking a sidekick and spawning an entire game around 
 him, curiously absent of even other supporting characters. Usually such a thing would be a recipe 
 for disaster, but the gameplay and unusual layout of the game saved it from the realm of obscure, 
 horrible games.
  
  Years later, and after Nintendo has sold Rare to rival console manufacturer Microsoft, Diddy Kong 
 Racing surprisingly makes a rare (pun-intended) re-appearance of a classic N64 title for the DS. 
 But how does it stand up?
  
  The updated graphics sure doesn't hurt, along with cutscenes, but probably the most interesting 
 addition is the various touch screen controls. Some of the redundancy of the first game, like racing 
 the same tracks over again, have been replaced by rail-like balloon-popping games, touch screen 
 boss challenges, and a whole mess of interesting ways to use the touchscreen that I wouldn't have 
 thought of.
  
  Of course the entire game doesnt end up smelling like a rose, though. Some of the touch screen 
 options arent so good ... like the aformentioned boss battles, or having to start a boost in the 
 race by spinning objects on the touchscreen. Even more dissappointing is that the two characters 
 from the race roster who actually went on to have their own games, Banjo and Conker, are mysteriously 
 missing -- replaced by Dixie Kong and Tiny Kong, undoubtably because Microsoft has a problem letting 
 Nintendo use anymore of their characters. Likewise, Diddy Kong now sports a rather large Nintendo 
 logo on his baseball cap, as if to say he's now the sole property of Nintendo.
  
  But the bad stuff really ends there. Wi-Fi play is enabled, there are TONS of purchasable unlockables 
 which go on to give you even more customizablility options, more ways to customize your kart than 
 even Mario Kart DS offered, and 4 secret characters which you can clamor to unlock.
  
  All and all, Diddy Kong Racing DS is simply a solid remake of a classic kart game, utilizing everything 
 you'd hope it would to achieve a nostalgic but yet fresh take on a game that fans and anyone looking 
 for another kart racing game for their DS will enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExciteTruck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  Well I havent made a review for a while cause i learned i should make reviews of games i beat so 
 here it is. To start off with the story the timber island is getting overunned by the evil space 
 wizard wizpig so timber the tiger and freinds send a letter over to diddy to help stop wizpig from 
 terrorizing the island. So diddy and freinds head over. And thats how this racing adventure begins. 
 To start out with my review im going to discuss one of my fav parts of the game. Its the graphics. 
 They fully remind me of the N64 version and made me feel back in the past. Thats the way i like 
 to feel. The character design is great same with th e levels. They are very good for the ds. Graphics 
 are better than MKDS. Now an okay part of the game was the controlls. I dont see why people complain 
 so much about the controlls. They are basiclly the same thing to me as the original DKR game. They 
 get clumsy at some points like on the hovercraft but i still think they are pretty decent. The 
 way you have to start a boost at the beginning of the race is actually pretty cool for me i dont 
 really see whats wrong with that. Its pretty innovated. What was really dreaded about the game 
 was the sound. Not the music cause the music was my favorite part and sounded as good as the N64 
 one and wasent sound effects either it was the stupuid voice acting that ruined it. I cant belive 
 they just went around and clucked up all the voice acting. WTF is wrong with diddy. He sounds like 
 a psyco. And drumstick were is your country acsent i missed it. And dont get me started with taj. 
 He sound like an drunk and he dosent sound at all like he did back in the N64 times. This really 
 dissapointed a big fan like me. At least the music saved it. Now were on to gameplay! The racing 
 is uber cool it so involved and stuff. There is bosses and ballons you have to collect to advance. 
 Theres so much to do so its basiclly never gets old. but it does get repiteieve . There are upgrades 
 to make your car go faster and 4 secret characters. once you beat it which takes like 15 hours to 
 beat or less. took me like 9. The wifi is good to. but theres lots of wimps who just quit cause 
 they are losing. But wifi is still the best on this game. So i said good and baf things about this 
 game. Its a gam you should buy if you like racing and nintedno. if you dont just dont get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knux58
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok, we should all know Diddy Kong Racing from the Nintendo 64 right? Good. Diddy Kong Racing for 
 the DS is basically the same thing as the 64 version but with a lot extra, but a bit of things 
 were taken out also. Well, the new things in this new installment are the track editor, sound recorder, 
 and the Wi-Fi play of course! First off for the graphics. Ahh... a game's visuals... so fun to gaze 
 at, so how does this game stack up in the graphics department? For a DS game, I'd say pretty well. 
 The models of each characters was done much better than in Mario Kart DS so you don't have to worry 
 about ugly Donkey Kongs (bleeeh...) .
  
  Now we have the gameplay. The gameplay in this game feels pretty shaky at first, but after a couple 
 races, you'll get the hang of things. The plane controls well, as well as the kart racer, but oh 
 my! The hovercraft! Handling? I don't think so! The hovercraft is definatly NOT made for turning. 
 Although you can still press the R button to jump and maintain control of the craft, it's still 
 pretty swirvy. But the very big downer for this game, is the difficulty. Oh I'm afraid so. This 
 game is way too easy. Also the stats for the different characters don't seem to make a difference 
 at all when you're actually racing unless you're considering the handling... other than that acceleration 
 and top speed are 
  
  The sound is also a pretty good factor in this game. This is made complete with a sound recorder 
 that you can buy with coins to record you own sounds and actually put them in the game. Also, did 
 I mention catchy songs? Hot Top Volcano for example, that mysterious chanting... what is it!? Why 
 it's the background music! Oh my!
  
  As a final word I would like to say this game was overall not as good as I had hoped and that this 
 was a pretty disappointing title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funky_midget
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  When this game first came out on the N64 gamespot gave it a 6.6. Now with new features, an online 
 multiplayer mode, a reinvented island, and an extended storyline featuring unlockables gamespot 
 gave it a 6.7. Well I'm giving it a 9.0 Superb because this game is a classic. Diddy Kong racing 
 has stood the test of time and this remake shows it. The DS version of this game makes you feel 
 young again and it takes you back to a time where video games were enjoyable and not a rant about 
 graphics, gameplay, and online features. Diddy Kong Racing DS: A must have for any DS owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendogamer94
Rating: 7.1
Date: Feb 15, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing is a cool game. I think it's a must have game. I play it every day. And sometimes 
 I play people around the world. You can play cool mini games on single, and multiplayer mode. You 
 can also do trophy races on wifi, and you can create your own track to race on. You can also draw 
 your very own icon and billboard for the levels. It's really easy to play and learning is really 
 too. You can unlock new characters and new tracks. There's 2 different adventure modes. There's 
 regular and mirror mode. I like also beacause you can race in a boat, a car, or a plane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Since there aren't much good racing games for the DS, I have to say that this is the second best 
 DS racer. Only because Mario Kart is insane. From the rating GS gave it, I wasn't so sure, but 
 I liked the N64 version so why not.
  
  The first thing I want to talk about is adventure mode. You will take a character of choice and 
 race over 30 races and then take down the evil animal known as Wiz Pig. You will be lead by a pink 
 elephant named Taj and he will take you all the way rewarding you with ballons. You need as many 
 ballons as possible to keep unlocking races. After you beat all the races on each world, you will 
 face a certain boss and then you will complete everything on that world. Adventure mode tends to 
 get boring and repetitive and I seriously have to put down my DS for a while because it is just 
 constant racing. So, that is one thing that kind of disgusts me. The story doesn't really change 
 much, but I didn't expect it to so I agree with the adventure.
  
  You will not just be racing in carts if that is what you were wondering. No, you will be racing 
 in airplanes and hovercrafts as well. The vehicles controls really don't change. One of the only 
 things that is different is the airplanes controls. You will be able to control how high and low 
 you fly. The other thing is that each vehicle will have an ability to have a boost at the beginning 
 of the race. For the cart, you will have to spin the wheel down with your stylus. You will have 
 to spin your stylus in a circular motion for the airplane. The hovercraft requires you to blow 
 into your mic and hold it. I think the vehicles are great and I am glad they added them into the 
 game.
  
  The graphics in this game aren't excellent, but they fit the DS. You will be able to see everything 
 clear enough. The characters, enviornment, vehicles, etc... The sound in the game isn't that important. 
 The only thing that I noticed about sound is the music they use during races. As you get to the 
 last race, the sound will go faster and I think they worked out great.
  
  The last thing I wanted to talk about was the multiplayer. You will be able to play either with 
 friends nearby or on your Wi-Fi conection. You will be able to race with at least 7 people. I think 
 that is a great addition to the game and one of the most enjoyable.
  
  This is a great DS game indeed and if you are a DS fan and enjoyed Mario Kart, then I would definitly 
 try out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neo9898_98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 14, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing was possible THE most popular racing game on the N64. Everybody who had an N64 
 had this game. I believe it even broke a world record for most games sold before Christmas. On 
 the DS, there was only room for improvement. Updated graphics, new features, and don't forget the 
 online play. The game is basically the same, with some new touch screen features that are annoying 
 at the beginning, but you get used to them and start to enjoy them. The multiplayer is even better 
 than the original's because now you can have up to 8 players playing from a single card. The only 
 problem I had with this game was the sound. While the music was good, the voices were terrible. 
 Drumstick no longer sounded like a rooster, Taj no longer sounded like a stereotypical Indian that 
 we grew to love (but for some strange, yet comical reason, his stereotypical music was still played) , 
 Wizpig sounds like Dracula, TT sounds like a cowboy, and that's just complaining about the playable 
 characters. Rare seemed to remove ALL boss voices. The difficulty in the later levels is alot harder 
 for sure, making this a good purchase for a fan of the original looking to have a new challange. 
 All in all, get this game, no matter who you are and no matter how old you are. Get it. Now. Before 
 Nintendo decides it failed and discontinues it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda450
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  One of my earliest memories of video games is getting an N64 for christmas when I was 5 years old. 
 With it, I got 2 games, Diddy Kong Racing and Wayne Gretzkey's 3D Hockey 98. DKR was definitely 
 my favorite of the two, and I spent countless hours playing it by mysely, and an embarrisingly 
 long time playing the multiplayer with my dad and brother. That's what I think is so great about 
 this game. It has a great multiplayer, with many more modes than the original, including an awesome 
 new mode where each racer creates a new track and everybody takes a turn racing it. There are some 
 forgettable new characters that you start with, just some female Kongs. However, you can unlock 
 Drumstick and TT just like the original, but there are also two suprises that caught me off gaurd. 
 So here's a breakdown of the game:
  
  GAMEPLAY: I think the karts handle really well (unless you're Crunch or Drumstick) and offer a 
 good sense of speed. A really neat feature they added is the ability to customize carts in the 
 categories of Speed, Acceleration, Handling, and Looks. The same power-up balloons are in this 
 game, but there is also a token that allows you to do a super upgrade on whatever item you have.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Worse textures make this look slightly worse than the original. But if you think about 
 it, the create-a-track feature and all the tracks you create take up space, so it's a fair trade 
 in my opinion.
  
  SOUND: The same catchy tunes as the original with a few exceptions. First off, the voices are completely 
 different, and completely suck in every sense of the word. There are just a few differences in 
 the track music, but I don't think anybody besides me will care or notice.
  
  VALUE: This is where I completely disagree with practically every other major review out there. 
 I think the collecting and reracing is actually king of fun, and the touch screen challanges are 
 actually quite addicting. Also, the multiplayer is amazing, but I wish more people were online.
 
  
  I'm sorry that throughout this review I have only compared this game to the original, but I think 
 that people who have never played this game before will like it just as much as the N64 vets.
 
  
  By the way, NO BOINGY  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SevenSorrows
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 13, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing for the N64 was probably one of my favorite games for the N64; and also one of 
 my favorite racing games. It had catchy music, three vehicles to race with, fun multi-player, it 
 had everything a racing game should have. Diddy Kong Racing for the DS has all these features with 
 even more to do, but it falls short with the changes that were made from the N64 to the DS version.
 
  
  If you played Diddy Kong Racing for the N64, the story is pretty much the same on the DS. Wizpig 
 rampages on Timber and the gang's island, so Diddy Kong racks up the Kongs to go help defeat Wizpig. 
 From first glance, DKR DS seems like a port. Unfortunately, it's not. Before you race on the island 
 and rid of Wizpig, you'll have to chose a character to play as. A couple of character's have been 
 replaced from the first game. Banjo and Conker have mysteriously disappeared, and have been replaced 
 with Tiny Kong and Dixie Kong. The only problem with that, is that all three kongs have the same 
 stats. And it seems pointless to pick any of the kongs since Timber overall has better stats than 
 them. When you pick your character, you'll be greeted by Taj, the genie elephant of the island. 
 This is where the sound immediately disappointed me. Taj doesn't have his indian accent anymore, 
 and instead, is replaced with an accent that makes him sound like a drunken elephant. The other 
 character's voices seemed a little different as well: none sounding particularly good. Terrible 
 voice aside, the game plays the same in terms of going around the island, collecting balloons to 
 open up other courses, battling bosses, trophy challenges with back-to-back races from one world, 
 those features haven't changed. Another thing besides the sound that disappointed me were the new 
 touch screen controls. At the beginning of a race, to get a turbo start with the car, you have 
 to slide the stylus across the wheel on your touch screen repeatedly. The problem with this is, 
 after the boost, you have to quickly do something with your stylus, (put it down somewhere, put 
 it back in the holder on the DS) because the race will begin no matter what. It's really annoying, 
 and it's an awkward transition from stylus to the A button. I also had this problem with the plane 
 turbo start. And the third time you race against a boss, you will have to spin a wheel which pops 
 up on the screen with the stylus, and draw a path with the stylus to beat the boss. This is truly 
 a crappy feature and is unresponsive at times. Anyway, on to the racing. Bananas have been removed 
 from the races, which now means you can't increase your top speed during a race. Well, how can 
 you increase your top speed then? DKR DS lets you upgrade your vehicle's attributes or add custom 
 additions with coins you can collect during races. You can also paint your vehicles for free. Coins 
 can also buy you different modes and features like the track editor, which is pointless. The track 
 editor doesn't let you chose the scenery, where power-ups go, who you race against, attach walls, 
 and stuff like that. The track editor seems like something Rare slapped together in 10 minutes. 
 Another thing about the track editor: remember the secret battles you could play in a world by 
 finding the key in one of the levels? Well, these fun challenges have been taken out and replaced 
 with crappy wish races that they force you to create and race on. This is one of the biggest 
 disappointments in the single player mode. On a random note, for some reason, the hovercraft controls 
 seem terrible to me, or at least worse than the N64 version. The single player mode is disappointing, 
 so how is the multi-player? Well, if you unlock a few things in the single player mode, you'll 
 have a lot of fun in the multi-player mode. All those fun battle challenges taken out of the single-player 
 mode can be unlocked and played here. The multi-player modes can be played with a single card download, 
 multi-card play, or even over Wi-Fi. Most of the enjoyment I got out of this game was from the 
 multi-player. Diddy Kong Racing is really a love or hate game. Fans of the N64 game will probably 
 enjoy this game, and some will be annoyed by the touch screen controls and changed content. In 
 my opinion, Rare tampered too much with an already great game, which is really disappointing, because 
 Rare usually does a great job in making games. I really wanted to like Diddy Kong Racing DS, but 
 too much has changed content wise for me, and the touch screen controls were a pointless addition. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Quinones22
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  okay if you liked the N64 version of this, this is a must buy already. Its got a lot better graphics, 
 of course. The gameplay is the same, except i loved what they did with the stulys now. They let 
 you do stuff with it actually, to get ballons, its pretty fun. Wi-fi is pretty good, MKDS is better, 
 but DKR isnt bad. There are 4 more characters you can get, theres the icon and nickname, the new 
 mapping in race thing you can see, which is nice. The sound is nice, i like how they have it. So 
 overall, a nice game, specially for N64 lovers, if youve never heard of Diddy Kong Racing, try 
 it out, its tons of fun! The only bad thing, the steering isnt great, but you get used to it, about 
 the 2nd or 3rd time you start to play it, so youll get over it, GET THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FullMetalEnvy
Rating: 1.7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game recently. I was looking forward to getting it since E3 but it was a huge disappointment. 
 The car doesn't really control right. The game is quite slow. The wifi is boring. The tracks are 
 boring. Its just a horrible game. If you have Mario Kart DS do not I repeat do not buy this game 
 and if you don't have Mario Kart DS buy it but do not buy Diddy Kong Racing DS. If you do end up 
 geting this game for a birthday or as a gift from anyone there's always Ebay. There is only one 
 good thing about this game its graphics arent half bad but as we have learned from the PSP graphics 
 do not make a game playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna be staight up honest, this game kinda sucks. It had potential but didnt really cut it 
 for me. The new characters they added i thought were great, you can even race as wizpig. The mic 
 things is neat and changing the vehicles is also great. I dont really like the stupid challenges 
 they give, i also noticed they changed the genies voice and its really lame who they had. I also 
 dont like the spinning wheel crap because its tough to spin it then press the accelartor at the 
 same time and move. The game overall is easy however. Ive become very picky with games and i dont 
 really like the ds as much. The stylus to move is bad in any game i think. I will be sticking with 
 the mario games i think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ebi_Furya
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  I dont want to think about just how many hours I spent racing around Timburs Island when this 
 game came out on the Nintendo 64. I played everything and unlocked everything and loved every minute 
 of it. Now, Diddy and Crew are back again on the Nintendo DS and Rare has taken a classic game 
 and added new content, tracks, unlockables and more and made the game so much more.
  
  * Overview
  Diddy Kong Racing is not your typical Kart Racer. This game has a story to it as 
 well. Wizpig has taken over Timburs Island and Timbur has asked Diddy and crew to help him take 
 his Island back by beating Wizpig at his own game: racing. This Adventure Racer will take you through 
 5 unique worlds and 20 tracks (plus 4 unlockable) .
  
  * Graphics
  Graphically, the game looks great for the DS System. There are a few flaws here and there, but 
 not enough to detract from the experience. The race tracks are still well detailed and new tweaks 
 have been added here and there to the tracks.
  
  * Sound
  The music is very fun and fits the mood of the tracks quite well. One thing missing from the DS 
 game is a lot of the voice acting has been removed. There are still sound bytes for all the characters, 
 but thats all.
  
  * Controls
  The controls take a little getting used to, especially for the Hovercraft. Also, you now use the 
 touch screen for your boosts at the start of a race (roll a wheel down for the kart, spin a propeller 
 for the plane, and blow into the mic for the hovercraft) which is a little bit annoying, but not 
 too bad. There are also several other areas where you use the touch screen.
  
  * Gameplay
  Since this is an Adventure Racer, you have an over world (Timburs Island) to explore 
 which connects the worlds together. Each world has a theme (Prehistoric, Snow, Tropical, Medieval, 
 and Futuristic) . There are several things in the game that require the use of the Touch Screen, 
 such as tracing items to receive coins / balloons, flinging coconuts, and a few others.
  
  A new race mode which replaced the Silver Coin Challenge uses the touch screen to pop balloons 
 in the race tracks (which is quite fun by the way) . The Silver Coin challenge is there, but only 
 if you acquire at least Bronze on the balloon popping in the Adventure Modes.
  
  There are also two new unlockable characters: Taj and Wizpig. (Simply beat Adventure 1 and Adventure 
 2 respectively to unlock them.)
  
  * Overall
  Overall, Diddy Kong Racing is still a fun-filled game with hours of gameplay. Throw in multiplayer 
 (WiFi and Local) and its even better. DKR is hands down a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 13, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  You know how some games just make you unhappy the moment you turn them on and then never get any 
 better? You don't even feel good when you win type games. Diddy Kong Racing DS makes me feel that 
 way.
  
  I Used to love playing Diddy Kong Racing 64 and I was hoping that I could share that same sort 
 of love with the DS version, but thats not happening. I was also hoping for a new game, not the 
 same old game with downgrades (an American voiced Taj? WTF?)
  
  If you've played the 64 game you know what to expect; by that I mean what levels to expect and 
 what characters. You'll get the same ones (at least through the portion of game I stomached) . The 
 races are however unbalanced. They start off ridiculously easy and then get way to difficult. Your 
 abilities don't change any, but the enemies all the sudden become faster and better. This doesn't 
 add any enjoyment.
  
  The game controls worse than the 64 version as well. It seems like they seemed to add maybe more 
 realistic controlling? The hovercar is super slippery and there's also a slide feature (similar 
 to Mario Kart DS) however it doesn't do you any good, in fact most of the time I ended up in the 
 wall when I tried to use it. It basically turns you a slick 90 degrees instead of allowing you 
 to slide.
  
  There's a lot of little coins and things to collect to unlock features, but it's really not much 
 fun. I remember collecting silver coins in the 64 version and getting through it, but thats not 
 happening in this one. That sense of wanting to accomplish things is gone.
  
  The sound and graphics are just about identical to the 64 version. This means they aren't bad, 
 but not top of the line. Its no orchestra thats for sure. It gets the job done, minus the American 
 voiced Taj which I mentioned earlier. Fairly bitter about that one, why? Basically it seems they 
 took the old game, tried to make it better and broke it. If thats what your into, knock yourself 
 out. But if you're just out there to race I must say to stick with Mario Kart DS for the time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubiseewaba
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing DS is one of the best DS racers out there. You got Wi-Fi connection which is 
 really fun to use, you can customize your vehicle and create tracks for multiplayer instead of 
 racing on the original tracks. The adventuring idea is very good against the grand prix style Mario 
 Kart. The new tracks you can buy with coins are somewhat good. The challenges from Taj (the purple 
 elephant) can be repulsive and it is annoying when you exit a world and you automatically have 
 to do a challenge if you didn't finish it before. Also some the characters are very useless and 
 you never even use them. The boss touch challenges are also very dissapointing because you have 
 to draw the path and constantly have to turn the wheel or propeller on the bottom left screen.
 
  
  But the game is very enjoyable and is very fun to play. Diddy is gonna have a tough race against 
 Mario though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armagun
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 12, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics
  I finish all the game in 25 hours, and with the wi-fi its not finish!!
  
  6 player possible in wi-fi! The first game who permet that.
  
  Ok i will do a simple shourt 
 test:
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Very colored and a really good 3D
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Ok its a little bit hard in begining but after it's easy to control.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  the 
 same good sound of the version of nintendo 64
  
  Value : 10/10
  2 long adventure, and a long time to unlock T. T, and the wi-fi is illimited!
  
  General: 9.3/10
 
  If you like mario kart DS, you still LOVE diddy kong racing with his adventure mode and his lot 
 of other new things unlockable! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cpt_Apollo
Rating: 7.4
Date: Feb 12, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - Diddy Kong Racing plays rather well on the DS. The controls are good and it is nice 
 to see that all of the different vehicles (car, hovercraft &amp; plane) handle differently. I think 
 that the car racing is the best and the hovercraft physics are a little hard to get used to. The 
 features an adventure mode, which basic is like a free roam around the main hub world looking for 
 the sub-worlds where each of the races take place. There is also a standard time trail mode with 
 ghost. DKR DS boasts some of the best multiplayer action for the DS. The game offers both single 
 and multi-card play, both with a large number of features. And the online racing is fantastic. 
 You can choose to have single races or have a set of four tracks. Each race can host up to 6 players.
 
  
  I love the tracks in this game. They are very nicely designed and full of secrets and short cuts. 
 Also the added bonus of an unlockable create-a-track mode gives the user a chance to design their 
 dream course.
  
  The worst part about this game is the process of getting a boost off of the line. This involves 
 spinning tires for cars, blowing into the mic for hovercrafts or spinning the plane's propeller. 
 However you need to hold down the A button at the same time. This can be a huge disadvantage to 
 some one that is right handed. My advice is to use your finger and practice. Unfortunately for 
 Rare, is process is overall to gimmicky and doesn't enhance the experience at all. Graphics - The 
 tracks look great on screen and each theme fits in well. Some of the textures for things like the 
 trees and the lava look really good. However, I don't like the character models at all. They look 
 very rushed and really could've been cleaned up a bit.
  
  Sound - The remixed tracks are good and a lot of the music is catchy. It is nice to hear character 
 voices like in the original game, even though some drivers have different voices. A huge bonus 
 is the sound editor, which lets you record your own sounds for character actions and responses. 
 A very funny and unique bonus.
  
  Value &amp; Tilt - The game retails at $29.99 and a found it for $25. It is a great deal because 
 of how big the game is. Their is tons of stuff for you to do. Lots of tracks to race, stuff to 
 collect, track designer, lots of unlockables and solid multiplayer.
  
  There is a lot of good things about Diddy Kong Racing DS, but it is by no means perfect. It does 
 run a bit too easy thought the game (especially when you start to upgrade vehicles) and some people 
 might be turned off by the style or the collecting. A fun game if you like kart racing or have 
 a wi-fi connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TristanH12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 11, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing DS is the second Nintendo Racing game from the N64 to hit the DS. The game retains 
 many of the same things that the original had. It still has the awesome levels, music, and vehicles. 
 The Racing Adventure mode is still present and is intact, with a few minor additions.
  
  What the game introduces is sort of a mixed bag. Many of the new aspects of the game are great, 
 however other parts could have either been forgotten or ignored. The new features that are included 
 are: new unlockable item/vehicle upgrade/level/battle arena featurette, two additional game modes, 
 multiple boss races, genie, and remixed music. I adore the additional race modes for they add an 
 extra sense of touch to the game. However, the high costs of reaching them seem pointless [which 
 I will get into later] . The touch racing mode [coined balloon collection] is a great mode. What 
 it entails, is that you, the player, is on a flying carpet that flies through the level. Your goal 
 is to touch as many balloons as possible within the time limit. You have the chance to get coins 
 as well. This mode is really quite entertaining as it is a challenge to try to get all 40+ balloons 
 in one lap. One of the other major features that I like is the new music. When listening closely, 
 several of the levels sound like they have people singing the songs or making noises (especially 
 Hot Top Volcano) , the music is louder than it is in Mario Kart DS which I am grateful for! The 
 weapon upgrade system is probably the final feature that everyone will like. Now in the races you 
 get the chance to get either three of the same color balloon (for different levels of traps, projectiles, 
 or boosts) or to trade whatever level you have and upgrade it to a better weapon (such as multiple 
 homing projectiles versus one) . This works well too and adds more fun to the game.
  
  The game has several flaws sadly. The Hovercraft is probably one of the most annoying flaw. It 
 seems that it is hard to control without a Control Stick and the handling of it is harder than 
 trying to steer a 24 Wheeler on the Arctic Ice Sheet in the middle of a Blizzard Cyclone, it is 
 just that hard. This affects gameplay drastically on the Island World for nearly all of the races 
 force you to use the hovercraft. Another aspect that is quite annoying is the unlockable system 
 and the balloons. There are a ton of unlockables all coming at high prices. Levels require one 
 to continuously go to other worlds and then come back to do the next level of races (such as balloon 
 challenges) . Not only that but even after that you have to go against the boss again in another 
 heated race. And even more unbelievable is that even after that you have to race once again and 
 then race the boss once more! The unlockables will require one to do these races even more for 
 they come at high prices too. The unlockables would have been better if they were given to us at 
 the onset (such as the battle arenas for multiplayer and levels!) . You even have to unlock the 
 WiFi mode! All in all, looking passed those faults, the game is fun for those who want to spend 
 more time on WiFi Connection. It is great for those who miss this classic. I love it for the voices, 
 the music, and the airplane! Personally this was one of the wisest purchases on the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Story: As the story goes, some space hog named Wizpig hath cometh to reek havoc upon the residents 
 of Timber Island. Diddy gets the call from his pals, pleading for his aid in defeating the evil 
 menace by way of racingUh, okay.
  
  Let's be clear, it's still really just a racing game. However, there are other little things that 
 you do in between that make it somewhat of an adventure. But the story's there simply to add color 
 to an already colorful game. It's simple fodder, a silly premise to give you, the player, an excuse 
 to run through all the tracks. The story and characters are meant to be lighthearted in the extreme 
 and, to that end, it's a really jolly game.
  
  Gameplay: My guess is, many of you are well familiar with the basics of Diddy Kong Racing (DKR) , 
 but just to be clear... it's a racer offering three modes of transportation: kart, plane and hovercraft. 
 All three present a unique challenge and are each fun in their own way. The controls are quite 
 similar to those of Mario Kart DS, using the face and shoulder buttons to navigate. Additionally, 
 you'll receive a boost, at the beginning of each race, in one of three different ways. For the 
 kart, you'll have to use your finger to spin a wheel just before the race begins; for the plane, 
 you'll use your finger to spin a propeller; and for the hover craft, you'll utilize the DS' mic 
 by blowing into it. Some critics have scoffed at these DS-specific additions, but I actually find 
 them to be an inspired and welcome part of the game.
  
  Characters each have three different stats: acceleration, handling and top speed and each character 
 is a little bit better or worse in each respective category. However, there are a few un-lockable 
 characters who pretty much trump all others, and getting at them (and unlocking tracks) will become 
 a main focus of the single-player experience.
  
  The Adventure Mode (single-player) consists of an overworld, one in which you are guided through 
 by a blue elephant named Taj. In addition to the races, the adventure will also include various 
 challenges he will present to you. Some of these challenges can be downright grueling, but the 
 only way to progress further and gain access into other worlds (tracks) is by way of completing 
 the challenges. The variety doesn't stop there, though. The island also holds many secrets and 
 the bounty is actually quite worthy.
  
  But the meat of DKR is, indeed, found within the races
  
  There are 24 tracks to eventually 
 unlock, three vehicles and 12 characters to choose from. The vehicles, I think, all handle quite 
 well and, as I alluded to earlier, the stats of each character have a relevant effect on how your 
 racer will control. The tracks offer a tremendous amount of variety and they're all very cool to 
 look at. There are balloons, which contain items such as missiles, boosts, road hazards and other 
 diabolical delights. Also, throughout each course, there's an array of zippers (boost markers) 
 and utilizing each one will be essential to your success later on in the game. The races are fun 
 and they're plentiful.
  
  What's not so fun are some of the tacked on challenges. Other critics have complained about them 
 and with due cause, I must say. Not all rubbed me the wrong way, but there were one or two that 
 had me begging the Divine Forces of Nature to "please allow me to win!" The game also makes you 
 jump through a lot  for me, way too many  hoops to get at the unlockables and without them you'll 
 likely not be able to fully enjoy the multiplayer experience.
  
  Which bring us to... the multiplayer experience. It's the reason I bought the game and it was worth 
 every penny. When you're playing single or multi-card gameplay, or playing online via the Nintendo 
 WFC, you'll have access to (provided you've unlocked them already in the Adventure Modes) all of 
 the tracks, characters and battle modes. Amazing! The single-card offering is the best I've yet 
 seen in any DS game and the online options are incredibly deep, as well. The hassle you experience 
 in single-player becomes a worthy trade-off for what you gain in multiplayer. The game's still 
 quite new, so there's no telling what might rear up online, but from what I've seen thus far DKR 
 is a real online dream machine.
  
  I could go on and on talking about different elements of the gameplay, but who'd read it?
  
 
  Graphics: DKR is a reworked 3-D game handed down to us from the N64. Interestingly enough, it 
 immediately made me think of Rayman DS upon first seeing the game in person. Some of the objects 
 within DKR are beautiful to look at and others are a real eyesore. Overall, however, the game does 
 a much better job than Rayman DS in its transition from the elder system.
  
  There are really only a few moments of extreme blockiness and they reside in the opening cutscene. 
 The tracks, however  though you can at certain points throughout the game make out the textures 
  offer a much more subtle mix of polygons. The developers did a fine job in this area of masking 
 the fact that the DS lacks texture filtering. The tracks are also extremely varied in their look 
 and design and, for the most part, it's a lot of fun going through each one. The characters, however, 
 are a little thin. What do I mean by that? Well, though they're indeed 3-D, they lack a fair amount 
 of detail and come across as being less than fully three-dimensional. But considering the nature 
 of the system the game is on and the size of the overall game itself, the graphics are actually 
 quite a fine visual offering.
  
  Sound: There's a lot of goodness here. Each track (again, there are 24, plus the battle tracks) 
 has its own unique song -- granted, most are mere variations of a single theme. However, each track 
 song is presented with different electronic instrumentation and, together, the songs add even more 
 variety to the entire presentation. The overworld music even changes slightly as you make your 
 way through various parts of the island.
  
  Plus, there are real voices in DKR  woohoo! The game's not saturated with them, but the little 
 bits that are thrown in are a nice addition to the whole experience. Some folks have complained 
 about Taj's voice (or other characters) , but, having not played the original, it makes no difference 
 to me; it all sounds good.
  
  Lastly, the sound effects are really cool. There are laser sounds from spaceships, swooshing effects 
 from the vehicles, explosions and various other sounds and noises that come across quite nicely 
 on the DS speakers (though, they're even better-sounding with earbuds) . There's even an option 
 to record your own voice, so that when certain actions occur in the game your personal snippets 
 will sound off; that's a ton of fun.
  
  Presentation: The presentation is quite a mixed bag. On the surface, everything looks amazing, 
 with so many different elements crammed under one hood. However, there are certainly some things 
 that could have been added, others that could have used a bit of a tweak, and yet others that could 
 have been left out altogether.
  
  Let me begin with the elements of the game's presentation I found to be on the mark. The overworld: 
 I love the way the single-player gameplay works out. Traveling throughout the island and discovering 
 various goodies is a very cool way to present the gameplay. I like making my way to the different 
 worlds this way. It adds quite a bit to the overall experience. Everything is easily accessible 
 and navigating your way to the tracks is definitely half the fun. I also enjoy the way Taj is worked 
 into the gameplay, as a sort of all-in-one shop and menu selector. You can visit him (or his tent) 
 to upgrade your vehicle (s) , change the sound-recorder settings, unlock goodies, and other various 
 options. In addition to the overworld, the general menu options (upon first turning the game on) 
 are implemented nicely and there are a lot of ways to customize your gaming experience.
  
  Going back once again to the multiplayer elements, DKR really packs quite a punch. Single-card 
 (and multi-card) multiplayer offers you the ability to race with up to eight players locally and, 
 as mentioned previously, all the characters, vehicles and tracks you've unlocked in the story mode 
 are available here. There are also four un-lockable battle tracks (playable with up to four players) , 
 which offer a whole other unique form of gameplay. All these options are available when playing 
 online via the Nintendo WFC (though races are for up to six players only) .
  
  What's not so great? Well, for starters, some of the Taj challenges will bring you to the edge 
 of insanity. One of the challenges requires you to blow out a number of torches while riding around 
 in the hovercraft. Sounds easy and fun, perhaps, but with the time allotted and the speed at which 
 you must huff, it's completely frustrating and literally dizzying. There are one or two other such 
 challenges that just aren't fun. In some cases, the developers take a gameplay element beyond the 
 point of being a "challenge" and turn it, rather, into a painful experience you wish would end. 
 But, thank goodness, these elements of the game are few.
  
  That's not my only gripe, however. There are two other main areas of the game I have a problem 
 with. The first one being the way in which the character stats are divided. They are separated 
 into definite tiers and that makes little sense to me. You've got characters like Diddy and Dixie 
 who might have two bananas (bananas are the icon used to display the power of a stat) in acceleration 
 and three bananas in both handling and top speed. But then you've got Timber who has three bananas 
 in all of the stats. Why then would you choose Diddy or Dixie? Sure, they might be your favorite-looking 
 character or whatever, but there's no strategic reason to choose them. The character T. T takes 
 this to the extreme, in that his stats are something like five bananas in both acceleration and 
 top-speed and four bananas in handling; no other character comes even close to those stats. So, 
 what you're bound to end up with are online races in which everyone uses T. T. Meh.... Personally, 
 I would like to have seen every character given the same amount of bananas (either nine or 10) 
 and then distribute them differently for each character. This would offer players 12 unique ways 
 to approach racing. But the current balance of the characters is really quite a sizeable flaw when 
 you consider how much is wasted in the multiplayer experience.
  
  I did say two things, didn't I? The other having to do with upgrading your vehicles. You're only 
 given a vague description of what you're improving. There's no way to know exactly what you're 
 getting and, at about 100 coins a pop, that's an expensive way to experiment. This little faux 
 pa is definitely on the lower end of the spectrum of things missing, but I thought it was worth 
 mentioning.
  
  Finish Line: In closing, I want to briefly state something about the game's "fun factor." In spite 
 of its shortcomings, DKR is a tremendous amount of fun to play. Perhaps due to the ridiculous challenges 
 you have to undergo within the single-player game, it feels all the more rewarding enjoying the 
 fruits (unlockables) of your labors. But make no bones about it, the multiplayer kicks butt! Rare 
 (the developers) might make us heel like dogs in the Adventure Mode, but they do, eventually, give 
 us the promised treat online and in the single-card offering. Some things could have been a bit 
 more defined and the characters could have been given a much better balance (and some things could 
 have been taken out altogether) , but, in the end, you get a game that's a ton of fun and worth 
 the price of admission.
  
  No, I didn't compare this game to Mario Kart DS (much) or to the original incarnation of DKR on 
 the N64, and I really can't. Besides, it's probably worth more to you to know what you're getting 
 as it pertains to playing it on the DS. It's a flawed piece of software that still manages to be 
 great fun.
  
  Thanks for reading, and happy gaming!
  
  -GD
  
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Breakdown
 
  
  Presentation / 9
  Tremendous multiplayer offering; the overworld is a great way to package the gameplay; and there 
 are a lot of neat little elements that make it easy to customize the experience to your personal 
 liking. A better description of the upgrades would have been nice, though. However, the included 
 manual  as per every Nintendo-published game I've ever owned  is first-rate and full of helpful 
 details about the game.
  
  Graphics / 8
  Not perfect, but quite nice. The frame-rate is a little slow, but it's solid. Some textures are 
 a bit blocky and the character models are nothing to rave about, but, considering the size of the 
 game, it is a wonderful visual experience, overall.
  
  Sound / 9.5
  An amazing variety of themes and sounds and the addition of actual voices is always a treat. Also, 
 the output of all those sound elements comes across really well on the DS speakers.
  
  Gameplay / 7.5
  The vehicles handle very well, with good sensitivity. The track designs are quite 
 varied and a lot of fun to run through. The characters, however, need better balance, and some 
 of those challenges probably could have been left out altogether.
  
  Replay Value / Fun Factor / 9.5
  In spite of the game's flaws, it still manages to be a ton of 
 fun, especially in multiplayer. If there is a genre that is meant for online play it's racing. 
 There are a lot of great multiplayer options and, with all the variety offered, you should definitely 
 find inspiration to keep coming back.
  
  Overall / 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stayinalive84
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  Meet Diddy Kong. Hes one of the few video game sidekicks that have managed to garner the attention 
 of countless gamers around the world. At first glance, you wouldnt think that this little primate 
 is one of the greatest unsung heroes of Nintendos many franchises. Compared to his more popular 
 partner Donkey Kong, Diddy seems pretty weak, useless, and wimpy. Dont let his appearance fool 
 you; this guy can kick evils ass with supreme prejudice. If brutally slaughtering baddies with 
 lethal cartwheels and gracefully jumping along platforms arent enough of a reason to give this 
 guy some of your love, then his versatility as a character certainly will. Aside from providing 
 some great backup in a fight, Diddy has been known to participate in music making, playing sports, 
 and being in nearly every spin-off in the Donkey Kong series to date. Though he may have played 
 second banana to his mentor in the older games, Diddy is most memorable in a game that featured 
 him as the hero. Diddy Kong Racing was one of the greatest racing games on the Nintendo 64, and 
 its latest incarnation, Diddy Kong Racing DS, tries to do even better.
  
  Too bad it failed miserably. Its not like Nintendo and Rare totally botched this remake. They 
 were actually smart enough to borrow themes and aspects from the older game. Apparently, theres 
 a monstrous pig named Wizpig running rampant across Diddys homeland, terrorizing the local animals 
 in an attempt to gain control over the nearby island. Since living under the rule of some psychotic 
 farm animal isnt exactly the ideal way to live, the locals decide to send a letter to Diddy to 
 get him to rid the island of evil for the umpteenth time. Since his partner Donkey Kong is nowhere 
 to be found, the little guy decides to round up all his little animal friends (sans Banjo and Conker 
 from the previous game) and speed off into Wizpig's hive of scum and villainy. But once the band 
 of would-be heroes gets to their destination, they find that the island and its inhabitants have 
 been imprisoned. Before Diddy can venture any further with his nonsensical plan for salvation, 
 Taj (a purple elephant dressed up as a genie) appears and informs him that he needs to participate 
 in a variety of races to free the island. Thus, our hero and his pals commandeer the vehicles conveniently 
 nearby and decide to start racing. Once youve gotten past this thankfully brief reminder as to 
 why racing games arent supposed to have stories, youll be free to explore the island. Thats 
 right, boys and girls. Instead of browsing menus a la Mario Kart DS to start races, youll get 
 to wander around a wide expanse of the island to find the tracks. These are organized into the 
 little hubs that make up the area; once youve driven through the nearest door or gateway, youll 
 find a series of other doors that lead to different tracks. Each door is decorated with an etching 
 of a balloon with numbers on it. These numbers correspond to the amount of balloons (aka the prize 
 youll win if you finish first in a race) you need to access that specific door. Thus, youll be 
 forced to seek out a door with a low enough number, secure victory, and collect the rewards to 
 access higher-numbered doors. Since you wont get any balloons if you score in second place or 
 below, youll be forced to replay tracks until youve completely dominated your competition. Its 
 not like these places are particularly difficult to find and access, but gamers that have enjoyed 
 more streamlined formats might lose patience with this tedious adventure and racing game hybrid. 
 After entering one of the doors, youll be given access to a kart, plane, or hovercraft to use 
 in the upcoming race. None of these vehicles are particularly fun to use, however. The original 
 Diddy Kong Racing championed the use of the Nintendo 64s analog stick to make the controls seem 
 more fluid and responsive. This time, the controls have been transferred to the DSs Directional 
 Pad with shoulder buttons used for drifting and weapons use respectively. Accordingly, the controls 
 seem slightly unresponsive and sluggish at best, which will make using the vehicles  the hovercraft 
 in particular  far more of a chore than it should have been. Such problems are balanced out with 
 some truly pathetic AI; youll find that Diddys friends are inept as racers. Many of the races 
 are close and competitive only due to the facts that your opponents never make good use of the 
 track layouts and the controls hinder you from getting too far ahead. The game tries to spice things 
 up by including a small assortment of upgradeable weapons hidden within the balloons strewn throughout 
 the courses. Youll be able to blast your foes with missiles, leave proximity mines or an oil slick 
 in your wake, gain multiple speed boosts, and zap anyone that gets too close to your vehicle. The 
 weapons selection is not adjusted depending on your place in a race; unlike the combat system in 
 Mario Kart DS, the racer in the lead will still have access to as many good items as the person 
 in last place. Such weapons will frequently make your break your bid for victory. There is, however, 
 one more way to help ensure victory. At the start of the race, an icon will appear on the DSs 
 Touch Screen. If youre using the kart or the airplane, youll have to take out your stylus and 
 use it to rotate the wheels or the propeller respectively. If youre driving the hovercraft, youll 
 be forced to blow onto the screen. Youll be granted a larger speed boost at the start of the race 
 depending on how much you used the screen. There are few things more awkward than using your stylus 
 to rev up the vehicle, then scramble to get your hands back on the regular controls when the race 
 abruptly starts. Its even worse with the hovercraft; since the game gauges how much wind is going 
 onto the screen at a given moment, youll be forced to time your blows to get the maximum power. 
 By the time the race starts, youll be out of breath and panting as your competition speeds away 
 from you. Its one thing to have slippery controls and stupid AI. But forcing gamers to use the 
 Touch Screen for such an idiotic boosting system is unforgivable.
  
  Speaking of terrible uses for the Touch Screen, the game requires that you participate in a half-assed 
 mini-game to complete the adventure. Once youve finished enough races, youll be granted access 
 to the boss stage. Youll get to race against a dinosaur, a giant squid, and a few other not-so 
 fearsome foes. Should you manage to kick their asses, theyll tell you to complete another set 
 of objectives to complete an area. Upon returning to a track that you previously completed, youll 
 be mounted on Tajs flying carpet. Instead of racing again, youll be forced to endure a horribly 
 designed rail shooter mini-game. Armed with your trusty stylus, youll float along the track and 
 pop all the balloons drifting in your way. The problem lies with the controls; both the popping 
 and the aiming are done with the stylus. Since many of the balloons are flung off in all directions, 
 youll have to first drag the stylus around the screen to get the camera into the right angle, 
 then tap it again to bust your target. It can be tough when youre trying to gauge distances; one 
 misplaced touch can foil your best intentions. The game doesnt offer nearly enough time for you 
 to get all of them; youll frequently slip up, miss a balloon just out of reach, and pray that 
 youll be able to pop enough to meet the requirements. Once youve endured this poorly crafted 
 excuse of a rail shooter, youll get to face the boss again, but with only a slightly higher difficulty. 
 After that, youll get to go through all of the hubs races again. Instead of taking them one by 
 one, youll have to do them all in a row. This time, the prize for securing victory is a trophyand 
 to face the boss again. In this third encounter, any semblance of quality racing gameplay is thrown 
 asunder. Instead of taking on your opponent the old fashioned way, the screen will switch to an 
 overhead perspective. The Directional Pad and shoulder buttons are replaced exclusively with the 
 stylus. In order to get your vehicle to move, youll have to use the stylus to spin a wheel that 
 appears in the corner of the Touch Screen, and then draw a path for the vehicle to follow. At least, 
 in theory. Your kart doesnt seem to like the change from steering wheel to stylus either; it doesnt 
 make much effort to follow the stylus path accurately. When your kart slows down, youll have to 
 spin the wheel again. Since you cant control both the boosts and the direction at the same time, 
 your vehicle will go careening off course, forcing you to try speeding up in the correct direction 
 and somehow salvage a victory. It doesnt help that Taj has his own set of equally inane races, 
 either. Apparently, the elephant/genie isnt acting entirely out of the goodness of his heart. 
 Hell have his own set of races for you; youll be forced to speed around the island, collect pickups, 
 and blow out torches with yet another crappy use for the Touch Screen. Youll have to suppress 
 your murderous rage, however. Despite his poorly crafted challenges, Taj is also the guy that handles 
 the games unlockables. He can upgrade your vehicle for better racing performance, and unlock the 
 Track Editor system. Its not like hell just give it to you, though. Youll have to collect the 
 coins strewn throughout the tracks and use them to buy Tajs favor. As you replay the tracks countless 
 times and scrounge around for change, youll also get a chance to work on another sidequest that 
 involves finding a series of keys hidden within the tracks, which in turn allows you to play against 
 another competitor. In order to unlock this already hard-to-reach contender, youll have to beat 
 all his records on every single track. Rare may be infamous for its lengthy fetch quests to unlock 
 everything in their games, but forcing you to replay the dozens of tracks multiple times on top 
 of all that other stuff is downright criminal.
  
  The games only semblance of saving grace comes with the multiplayer. Like Mario Kart DS, the competitiveness 
 in Diddy Kong Racing DS is focused in the games Wifi features. Youll be given the chance to take 
 on up to five other contenders in an all-or-nothing race for online supremacy. The game boasts 
 the typical DS Friend Code system in order to play against your buddies, but youll be able to 
 play against random racers as well. The terrible controls of the regular game are still present 
 and accounted for, but at least the human players will give you a run for your money. The majority 
 of the online gameplay runs fairly smooth, but youll often find that your opponents will suddenly 
 disappear from right behind you and magically reappear further down the track. This can be especially 
 aggravating when youve got a weapon needed to gain the lead and you cant rely on what youre 
 seeing on the screen. The fact that the game doesnt punish disconnecting gamers doesnt help much, 
 either; since only the first place winner is awarded points, racers that are in the other positions 
 wont have a compelling reason to finish a race. It may not be as bad as the regular gameplay, 
 but the online multiplayer has its own share of problems.
  
  For all its mistakes, Nintendo did manage to do one thing right: the graphics. The DS isnt renowned 
 for its abilities with visuals, but it faithfully renders the tracks and levels from the original 
 Diddy Kong Racing. There stand Diddy, Timber, Dixie, Drumstick, Pipsy, and a few other characters 
 youll neither remember nor care about, all depicted with polygonal bodies, bright colors, and 
 wooden movements. They all have voices, though their words sound garbled at best. The only exception 
 is Taj, whose bland/stoner accent matches his character fairly well. At least the levels are crafted 
 well; each area is filled with multiple paths, shortcuts, obstacles, and features to keep you interested 
 in exploring. Youll get to fly over flowing pits of lava, speed through dark tunnels and past 
 villages, float along flowing rivers and mossy lagoons, board tiny pirate ships, and traverse Diddys 
 jungle homeland. All of these areas are designed fairly well, but the bright colors, jagged edges, 
 and overly bland visuals leave something to be desired. So, what exactly can we learn from Diddy 
 Kong Racing DS? The idea of remaking an awesome game isnt an original concept, but its still 
 a good one. The game could have been good, even great. All of the necessary aspects were present; 
 the variety of playable characters and vehicles, tons of tracks to play through, and an online 
 multiplayer that could rival the best of what the DS could offer. Unfortunately, this game is marred 
 by far too many problems to save it from its mediocrity. Exploring an entire island in order to 
 race is tedious in itself. The need to win first place every time forces you to replay a track 
 until you race perfection. The controls are slippery, and the gameplay seems sluggish. The Touch 
 Screen features are poorly implemented. The difficulty, AI competitors, and convoluted mini-games 
 are pathetic at best. Instead of allowing for more features to be enjoyed at your leisure, youll 
 be forced to complete nearly every aspect before finishing the adventure in its entirety, making 
 the games replayability aggravating. Fans of Diddy Kong Racing, do not let nostalgia fool you 
 into buying this game. In terms of the quality of its predecessor, Diddy Kong Racing DS has nothing 
 to prove its worth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xL-phrutz
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Finally a kart racing game with a point of racing!
  
  Cool new upgrades to vehicals.
  
  Steering for hovercraft and plane are kind of hard
  
  Great way to get a boost off by using 
 the stylus/blowing into the ds... very unique!
  
  Just bought it and I am refraining myself from playing it too much.
  
  Gameplay= great will 
 last a long time. A lot of things to do. New characters!
  
  Graphics= Great for the ds. Did not expect it to be this great. Great camera view.
  
  Sound= 
 Good, kind of repetitive. I like the theme song but for others it might get a little annoying.
 
  
  Value= last long time
  
  Tilt= just a great game will last a while, loads of fun... gs shuldve gave it at least a 7.0+ score... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshandlucky
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a aaz a a aa aa a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a aa a a a aa a a a aa a a aa a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a aa aa a a aaaaa aa a a a a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay and Story, the story is fun sometimes and I used to like this game for the Nintendo 64 
 but now its really dated with or without some new touch screen stuff. The racing is sort of boring 
 even though you can choose from 3 vehicles it doesn't seem to compare to some other racing games 
 for the DS. Such as Mario Kart DS. and the game is sometimes glitchy and it really destroys the 
 fun. But yet it is very addictive.
  
  Graphics, ehhh..... not so good. Even for a DS it just isn't good for a game made in 2007.
  
 
  Sound and Music, bad, bad, bad. I can't say anything else.
  
  Value and Tilt, it has some value. But not worth buying for enless you loved the old Nintendo 64 
 version of the game there is some, I repeat some new things but i'ts not really worth it. Especialy 
 for newcomers. Old players of this game will like it. Like me =P
  
  Control Layout, simple, the way you'de always play racing games for the DS and anything.
  
 
  Total Rating, with crudy graphics and sound atleast it has gameplay and value and thats allt hat 
 any game needs. The final rating of Diddy Kong Racing DS gets and 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REVOLUTIONfreak
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: When most of us think about kart racing, we don't think about Diddy Kong Racing, which 
 is why this game has always been a hidden gem of sorts. Sure, it definitely isn't a masterpiece 
 of any kind, but it is a pretty decent racer. This is the first title that Rare has worked on for 
 Nintendo in quite awhile, and it is unfortunate to see that the project didn't turn out so great.
 
  For the most part, Diddy Kong Racing DS is a port of the N64 version with a few extras added in. 
 Some are good, some are bad. However, let me give some background info on how the game plays first.
 
  In the single player adventure, this racer attempts to be a racer and adventure game at the same 
 time. There is a small overworld in which you access races and challenges throughout the game. 
 This system is definitely different, but ultimately it doesn't change the experience too much. 
 Once you get to the beginning of a race, that is where things go downhill. For some reason the 
 developer decided to get rid of the typical Hold in A until the start of the race to get a boost 
 and replaced the concept with spinning a wheel with the stylus on the touch screen. Sounds cool 
 at first right? Nope. In reality, it is near impossible to successfully get a good boost. I still 
 haven't figured out how to keep my fingers on the buttons and spin the wheel with the stylus at 
 the same time. This concept applies not only to the kart, but to the other vehicles the plane and 
 the hoverboat (which you blow into the mic instead of spinning a wheel or propeller) . As the race 
 continues, you'll notice that the tracks are kind of linear (which can be good or bad) , and that 
 the weapon choices are fairly limited.
  Also, when compared to the analog control of the N64 version, the game doesn't play very well at 
 all. Unlike Mario Kart DS, the D-pad controls are hard to get used to, and at times it feels like 
 there is no real skill to playing the game. The main reason I say this is because there is no speed 
 boost as seen in Mario Kart, which is kind of disappointing (although for some you may not mind 
 that at all) .
  Lastly, the multiplayer. Here is where the game is pretty worthwhile. I would honestly recommend 
 local play with single card or multi-card play, because to me this game is more about the social 
 aspect. The online includes pretty much everything in the local play which would be battle tracks, 
 the level editor, trophy races, coin races, and of course single races. The only difference between 
 the two would be the decrease in the number of players from 8 to 6. There is a flaw however to 
 the online play, the lack of voice chat. It wouldn't be that big of a deal in most other games, 
 but as I said previously this game is more about the social aspect than anything else. It would 
 be satisfying to scream into the mic when someone gets shot with a missile in a race or when their 
 dinosaur egg gets stolen in battle tracks, but unfortunately you can't do that.
  All in all, the gameplay in Diddy Kong Racing DS has in some ways improved, and in some ways gotten 
 worse. Diddy Kong Racing definitely shows its age in certain spots.... after all, it is a ten year 
 old game.
  
  Graphics: Diddy Kong Racing shows off the great 3D that the Nintendo DS can produce. The visuals 
 are colorful (although the art style is odd) , and while some of the textures could be better most 
 of the environments look pretty nice. The water effects though do like kind of crappy considering 
 you see so much water in teh game, and while the 3D is good it certainly isn't the best I have 
 seen on the Nintendo DS.
  
  Sound: The original had a great collection of music, as does the DS version. It still sounds just 
 as great as it did ten years ago. Only now, the sound quality has decreased from being transferred 
 from TV to DS.
  
  Value: Diddy Kong Racing DS for the most part has a lot of replay value. There are a lot of extras 
 to unlock including new characters, an upgradeable vehicle, unlockable tracks (some of which are 
 brand new) , and a level editor which unfortunately is kind of dull and lacks a variety of features. 
 In addition to this, there is an extensive multiplayer mode both online and local. It is worth 
 noting though that the connection in Diddy Kong Racing DS when playin online is kind of poor. For 
 some odd reason it takes much longer to setup a random match than in other Nintendo DS games, even 
 if you are only doing 4 players and not 6. If you have friends to play this game with though, chances 
 are you will love this game.
  Overall, Diddy Kong Racing is either a hit or miss purchase. You'll either love it, or you'll hate 
 it. My recommendation is that if you already have the original, or if you have Mario Kart DS already, 
 then hold out on buying this and check out some of the other great games the DS has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLeBlanc
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Pros
  1. Tons of improvements from it's past.
  2. Wi-Fi is great, and can have races for 2, 4, and 6 players at a time.
  3. The abillity to 
 paint your automibles, and even tune them up.
  4. A whole bunch of activities to do on the island.
  5. New courses are highly entertaining.
 
  6. Able to make tracks with TT's wish mode.
  
  Cons
  1. Horrible voice acting.
  2. Wi-Fi could have been a little better.
  3. The computers, and TT are too easy.
  4. You will 
 get through the amulets for WizPig faster than you think.
  5. Only one automobile tool can be used at a time.
  6. Going around the island trying to find 
 something to do gets old too fast.
  
  The story begins as a whole bunch of happy animals, get attacked by a pig from space. They send 
 an SOS to Diddy, and he goes, to kick WizPig's butt.
  
  The controls are easy. R for sliding, L for items, the others are obvious. But there is a really 
 stupid part when you start a race. When you're starting with the car, you need to spin a wheel. 
 To start a good boost with the hovercraft, you need to blow your brains out like a moron. And to 
 start up the plane, you need to spin a plane propeller.
  
  Graphics for this game, are standard, and a little better than Mario Kart DS's. But the thing with 
 the wheels with the kart when you are going top speed are starting to bug me. It looks like they're 
 barely even moving. And the graphics seem to be a little better than the N64 ones. But that is 
 just my opinion.
  
  The sounds are OK I guess. The characters sound more stupid than they use to be in the past. And 
 the music for Hot Top Volacano is still annoying! And some of the tracks's music were replaced. 
 Some with good music, and some with bad music.
  
  So far, I think old time Diddy Kong Racing lovers would love this game. Others should just stay 
 away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: war_monger1983
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  I was one of many who had the chance to play the original DKR for N64. Back then, many may remember 
 that it wasn't quite a good game, specially considering how frustrating it may turned sometimes.
 
  
  But nobody could think that the people in Rare could mess what it could be a good port, specially 
 considering that Super Mario 64 DS and Rayman DS to a lesser extent were respectable (but not great 
 adaptations) .
  
  So what happened? Just add the same challenges with more hidden features, a-la-Rare style, and 
 you'll get one of the more frustrating games for casual player. One of the hits Mario Kart has 
 was that maybe you could be a newbie, but that didn't mean that you're going to crash to a wall 
 everytime.
  
  Well, add the you win only if you get first formula and maybe you'll get stuck in a single race 
 for hours. The touch challenges are very difficult to complete, and unlock new features may turn 
 into a very frustrating experience.
  
  However, not all is bad in the pet island. Wifi support is well handled, but not even compare to 
 Metroid Hunters style. Although it is rare to get into 6-players races (specially if your country 
 has 24 hour differences) .
  
  Well, Rare just made a Red Steel with this game. Everybody was waiting for this, and I think everybody 
 was dissapointed with the final results. But I guess the replay value is in the wi-fi support.
 
  
  Javier Rivera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fick1122
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Diddy Kong Racing was released on the Nintendo 64 in 1997. Although the game got mixed reviews 
 at the time, many fans of the game fell in love with the racing and adventure elements. Almost 
 10 years later, Rare has re-released the racing game for the Nintendo DS with extra content, as 
 well as a few things cut.
  
  Diddy Kong Racing DS starts out with the inhabitants of Timber Island calling Diddy and his Kong 
 friends for help to stop the invasion of the evil Wizpig. It isn't a very deep or interesting story, 
 but it is good enough to set the game's basic direction. Throughout the game you may switch your 
 characters whenever you wish, and drive one of three vehicles: a car, a hovercraft, and a plane. 
 Through the elephant named Taj, you can buy vehicle upgrades, extra tracks, secret characters, 
 and much, much more by spending your coins you find around the island and in races.
  
  What sets Diddy Kong Racing DS apart from mostly all other racing games is the adventure element. 
 Instead of playing race after race, you must drive around the island overworld looking for a plethora 
 of things to do. For instance, you can enter one of the four worlds to enter races, but only if 
 you have the amount of the balloons that is on the entrance door of the world. You can collect 
 balloons from winning a race, completing one of Taj's challenges, finding them on the island, etc. 
 Balloons are the most important items in the game. They grant you access to all of your races and 
 as said before, each world. Diddy Kong Racing is very juicy and would be great if you wanted a 
 long lasting game. Other than the 50 or so balloons to collect, you can complete all of T. T.'s 
 time trials, buy upgrades for your vehicle, collect trophies by winning tournaments, and even unlocking 
 a track creator, where you can make your own level and share it with your friends.
  
  The game play is mostly typical of any other racer. A neat building system where collecting the 
 same item consecutively will strengthen the item sets Diddy Kong Racing DS apart from other racers, 
 and the different vehicles deepen the game's racing aspect. One main problem that Rare really screwed 
 up on was the touch screen capabilities. At the start of each race, a wheel will appear on the 
 touch screen. Spinning the wheel gives you a boost right off the bat, but quickly switching from 
 the stylus to the control pad is very awkward. Another terrible touch screen gimmick is the third 
 outing with a world's boss. Instead of just racing him, you must guide a little car on the touch 
 screen through the track making paths with your stylus. This function is so dumb you are better 
 off just drawing lines like crazy hoping your car will go in the right direction, while having 
 to spin a wheel in the corner of the screen periodically.
  
  Not all of the touch screen functionalities are bad, though. After beating the world's courses, 
 you may replay them, but this time riding on Taj's magic carpet popping balloons and collecting 
 coins by dragging them in a money pouch. It is a neat mini game, and can get addicting, but never 
 frustrating. Throughout the overworld there are various touch screen puzzles that are clever. It 
 seems Rare would have hit the spot with the touch screen if they would have just left the racing 
 and the touch screen separate.
  
  The biggest addition to Diddy Kong Racing DS though, would be the game's single card play, multi 
 card play, and Wifi capabilities. On Wifi you can share levels with your friends, race up to 5 
 other people, and even play battle mode. The online set up is fantastic, and even rivals Metroid 
 Prime Hunter's online. Wifi is a HUGE plus to this game, and works perfectly.
  
  Diddy Kong Racing DS is great for veterans of the game and new comers alike, with enough new content 
 to keep the game fresh, but at the same time keeps what Diddy Kong Racing did best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matrix8909
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 6, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Even though it was only 10 years ago that Diddy Kong Racing was released on the Nintendo 64, the 
 style of Kart Racing hasn't changed too much. Sure Mario Kart may be the main kart game, but old 
 favorite's die hard.
  
  The game itself hasn't changed too much since the original release. You choose from 3 different 
 vehicles and you go from area to area and play the races. Though the tracks themselves have not 
 changed, but the layouts are a bit different.
  
  And of course, no Banjo or Conker, but everyone knew that since Rare now works for Microsoft and 
 has already produced Conker: Live and Reloaded and is currently working on Banjo-Kazooie 3.
  
  The over world hasn't had too many additions, but its enough to make it somewhat of a new game. 
 The original 4 balloons around the over world have been removed, making it that you must complete 
 the Taj race to even enter the 1st world. Taj now has a tent, which many more options then just 
 changing your vehicle.
  
  But on to the races themselves:
  You can now only play each track once before racing the boss, which is a difference, and you have 
 to go back to the over world and race Taj to collect enough balloons to move on.
  
  The silver coin challenges have been removed from the main game, but are now a single race option 
 that you must purchase from Taj. Instead there is a balloon popping challenge. It may take the 
 first race to adjust to the new mode, but overall it isn't too bad, easy enough to earn a Silver, 
 but work is needed to gain the Gold.
  
  The bosses have no voices, which is a disappointment, but then again it is the Nintendo DS, not 
 the N64. The races are basically the same, except for a few minor changes, like in Tricky's race, 
 the shortcut has been removed from the game.
  
  Also, the T. T. Challenge has now been replaced with a new, draw your own course race, in which 
 you must beat T. T. to gain his medallion.
  
  Overall, then game hasn't changed too much and is still a great game for any player. The graphics 
 have been lowered a bit, but only to make way for new modes and features, the biggest being Wi-Fi 
 connection to play up to 6 players online (Even though enough people don't own the game yet) .
 
  
  My own opinion: If you loved the original version, then pick up the DS counterpart. Its still a 
 great game, with a good story and new modes to make it feel brand new. Even though Conker and Banjo 
 were removed, there are still enough characters to blast through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disworldsuckz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Back in the good ol' days of the Nintendo 64, a small and unknown racer came out. It was kalled 
 Diddy Kong Racing. However, it came out facing mixed reviews. Now, fast foward to 2007. Rare rereleased 
 Diddy Kong Racing for the Nintendo DS. Is it good? Yes. Is it AS good as its N64 brother? Well, 
 yes and no. I personally have spent countless hours playing that OTHER kart racer, Mario Kart. 
 I have played it for the DS, and I liked it.... a lot. With Diddy Kong Racing DS, it kind of reinforced 
 that. In this game, there is actually a story, but I want you to find that out.
  New to the franchise is Wi-Fi mode, which allows you to race wirelessly around the world against 
 people you don't even know. This may be a worthy addition, but it doesn't change everything. It's 
 kind of confusing racing around in an airplane, but the worst is the hoverboat, which I personally 
 hate. However, there are plenty of races available for your enjoyment, and they're all fun. All 
 in all, if you've played Mario Kart, give this one a try. If you didn't, well give it a test run 
 anyway. It's worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigatron
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 6, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  We all remember that 10 years back on the n64, there were 2 big racers. Mario Kart, and Diddy Kong 
 Racing. While MK64 was a decent and fun romp, Diddy Kong was superior in pretty much every aspect. 
 Now a decade later, it has arrived on the DS along with plenty of new features including multiplayer 
 over WFC! But how has it aged?
  
  I just wanna start things off by saying that GS never liked Diddy Kong Racing to begin with, so 
 if you're a fan of the original, just ignore their low score. It's still the same old Diddy Kong, 
 but I will admit a few of the features are a bit tacked on. Spinning a little propeller and wheel 
 at the start of the race is pretty lame. Why couldn't it be like the original, where you just pressed 
 the button at the right time? Another gimmick that gets on my nerves is the blowing out the torches 
 challenge that Taj gives you. It doesn't feel that precise or responsive, but it's somewhat tolerable. 
 What really bugs me is the new voice acting. What happened to Taj's accent? What happened to Bumper's 
 youthful voice? They could've just left the original VO alone!
  
  Now that we have the bad stuff out of the way, let's get on to the game's pros. The Wi-Fi play 
 is a great new feature, and there's even download play, making it an all-around great multiplayer 
 experience. You can even make your own levels, and share them! You can also make a custom emblem 
 (a la MKDS) . Yes, there's plenty of great new stuff, but don't forget that the original story mode 
 is intact, but it's a bit remixed. You'll see a lot of familiar stuff, but there's plenty of new 
 challenges and even a few new levels. It's not quite the same, but I appreciate the effort. After 
 all, a straight-up port would be pretty boring...
  
  There's plenty of unlockables for you to buy, such as record your own voice, make your own course, 
 and much more. GS was right about one thing... getting enough $$$ to unlock these things gets pretty 
 repetitive. But, I don't pay much attention to it, because the core racing is still good fun, even 
 today. No doubt that this game is a fantastic value.
  
  Other than that, they''ve taken out Banjo &amp; Conker (cuz they're owned by Rare) , but they added 
 in Dixie &amp; Tiny Kong to even it out. Plus, now Taj and Wizpig are unlockable racers! They've 
 even added an opening cutscene, giving it some kind of story this time around. Overall, if you 
 still fondly remember the original, don't hesitate to pick this up. It's a great alternative to 
 Mario Kart, and a solid racer overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michial1890
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  This is everything you loved about the original and more. A 6 .7 PLEASE Stop all of the snobby 
 elitist reviews guys. What criterion are you utilizing to determine a games worth. THe answer lies 
 there and not in the presuppositions and expectations brought to the table. Have fun for goodness 
 sake-Yes reviewing should be serious and weighty but please -this game is a blast. Am I a fanboy- 
 heck no. I am 36 never grew up around video games until a few years ago. Moods my friends, moods- 
 Yesterday I was in a R6 Vegas mood, until I Wii golfed a round, now Iam playing Super Mario World 
 on the Virtual Console, later I will play Halo 2 live and tomorrow I'll multiplayer some fun Diddy. 
 RELAX and ENJOY HAVING FUN stop taking your reviewing and gaming so seriously. later..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tok3d
Rating: 6.2
Date: Feb 5, 2007 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Diddy kong racing was a great game in its time, but now, it feels a little washed out. Hell, really 
 washed out. The adventure mode still holds up really well, but the racing style, the weapon system, 
 and even the characters all feel too much in the past, and it ends up getting really boring, really 
 quickly. The new onlnie mode could have been a great fixture if the game actually turned out being 
 a little more intresting.
  
  Gameplay
  Old, and washed up. The racing system with the weapons and such as been used so many times, its 
 honestly just very boring at this point. No new features or anything were used to try and strike 
 some kind of diffrence between this game and the older games.
  
  Graphics
  The textures and actual animations are good, but the characters could have been a little more detailed, 
 and a little sharper. The DS can do better than this.
  
  Sound
  Quirky music sounds a bit muffled. Perfect sounds for this type of game, but its a little worn 
 down.
  
  Value
  If you actually get into this game, it may last you. It has many online features, and the adventure 
 mode actually has alot to unlock, if you stay commited to it, which may not happen.
  
  Overall
  I wouldnt recommend diddy kong racing. It doesn't feel rushed, but it doesn't feel finished 
 either. Rare could have done a much better job with this game, but given the fact that they did 
 add the online capabilities, i'd give them a pat on the back for some effort. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
