-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dig Dug: Digging Strike
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/digdugdiggingstrike/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tons of stuff to collect and obsess over.
 Namco fans will enjoy the minigames and cameos.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Serious lack of stylus use.
 Tries to futz too much with the original gameplay.
 The core game doesn't last all that long.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 18, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.6, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 94 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco
Genre: 2D Platformer
Date: Oct 18, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you came in looking for a throwback to the arcade days of Dig Dug, you should probably look elsewhere. 
 

  Way back in 1982, Namco released Dig Dug in arcades everywhere. More than 20 years later, the game 
 has truly stood the test of time; it is regarded as a bona fide classic. Were it not for Pac-Man, 
 the hero of Dig Dug, Taizo Hori, would undoubtedly be the official mascot of Namco. Dig Dug: Digging 
 Strike takes the basic concepts of the original arcade game and adds a few gameplay elements that, 
 ultimately, don't fit together all that well. The game plays well enough, but anyone accustomed 
 to the simplicity of Dig Dug might turn their nose up at this one.  

          Dig Faster!     

  Over the course of the game's 15 stages, you're tasked with ridding 
 an island of its boss. Simple enough, as you're armed with your trusty digging tools and handy 
 harpoon to take out any enemies in your path. The catch here is that you never fight the boss directly. 
 By digging underground and creating holes under the pillars placed conveniently around each of 
 the maps, your goal is to sink the big monsters into the water by breaking off the chunk of island 
 that they are standing on. Throughout the course of each stage, you'll switch between traveling 
 both above and below ground, taking out enemies, collecting power-ups and playing minigames based 
 on other classic Namco arcade games.  

  One of the things that made the original Dig Dug games so great was their simplicity. With Digging 
 Strike, though, the simple things are really only here as a reminder of what the original games 
 were like. Sure, while you're underground you're using the harpoon to blow up enemies, but when 
 you clear out the screen, the stage doesn't end. In many ways, the bad guys down below are merely 
 there to slow you down from sending the boss creature into the drink. After getting used to the 
 fact that the Dig Dug gameplay you might expect really only appears in the game in spirit, and 
 after you've completed several levels, you realize that the concept gets old very quickly. While 
 it certainly can be challenging to figure out exactly how you're going to make the bosses take 
 a bath, Digging Strike does little to offer much more of substance. Aside from the collection elements 
 of the game, Digging Strike also sports a thin wireless multiplayer mode for up to two players, 
 where you and another spelunker race to gather 20 coins before the other.  

  Also scattered throughout the subterranean levels are a slew of items to pick up: parts to upgrade 
 your weapons, pieces of ancient fossils, and temporary power-ups. If you're brave enough to not 
 whiz right through the story mode, there is a ton of stuff to collect, which does help add to the 
 length of the game. In addition, two items you can find buried underground unlock brief minigames 
 based on two other Namco games, Rally-X and Xevious. The twist here is that the gameplay takes 
 place on the island you're currently on and helps you take care of the boss monster more quickly. 
 They're fun to play, and they star Mr. Driller, another popular Namco character. If you're a fan 
 of all things Namco, you'll probably find something to like in Digging Strike, especially during 
 the wacky cutscenes before each level.  

          Someone needs a bath.     

  Given that this game appears on the Nintendo DS, one might expect some kind of interesting use 
 of the stylus. Aside from tapping the screen at the menus and skipping past story sequences, this 
 is the most tactile the game gets. While this is somewhat of a disappointment, the game does have 
 a fun, cartoony look to the graphics, with colorful hand-drawn sprites for the subterranean levels, 
 polygonal 3D for the parts of the game that take place above ground, and cute anime-style story 
 sequences. It's nothing remarkable, exactly, but the visuals are ultimately servicable. Perhaps 
 best of all is the inclusion of remixed takes on the classic Dig Dug music, which in and of its 
 own is quite unique -- in order to keep the music playing, you've got to keep moving.  

  When all is said and done, Dig Dug: Digging Strike isn't a terrible game, but it's not all that 
 great, either. The nods to the Namco back catalog certainly add to the charm of the game, but it 
 ends up playing awkwardly, and comes across as rather tossed together. If you're in the mood to 
 collect every last item in the game and revel in the wacky story, you'll find some charm in the 
 experience. If you came in looking for a throwback to the arcade days of old, you should probably 
 look elsewhere.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: The-Longshot
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 29, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so. This game while trying to semi-reinvent dig dug, doesnt really do much at all but take 
 the fun out of the old games. I kind of wish they would have just released like a "classic arcade" 
 title or something. 
  
  Game play: Basically dig dug except eliminating enemies doesnt really mean much. The real objective 
 is do defeat the "boss" character on each stage. One of my main concerns with this game is the 
 difficulty. Its just too easy. The somewhat lagging controls provide a little more difficulty, 
 but I dont believe a games difficulty should be increased by bad controls. Anyway you basically 
 dig under big pillers to chop off a piece of the island the monster is standing on then bam, level 
 done. As far as the touch screen is concerned well, it really isnt used at all other then to display 
 the actual gameplay. To me thats sort of a downer because the reason i picked up a ds was so I 
 could play new and inventive titles that actually incorporate the technology.
  
  Graphics: Are pretty standard ds graphics (which are beautiful i might add.) The top screen displays 
 the monster walking around and where the pillers your digging under are located. The cut scenes 
 are a cartoony art type you might see in a childrens saturday morning show. Again nothing special 
 but it suffices.
  
  Sound: In a level the music only plays as your guy moves around, its kinda cool cuz it gives you 
 some incentive to dig constantly to keep hearing the music play. Other then that basic popping 
 noises as you over inflate your enemies and such. All in all decent sound effects and decent music.
 
  
  Replay Value: 'Low' Not much you can beat the game in about 45minutes or less and there really 
 are no extras. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmataSSKKorosu
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 6, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Dig Dug: Digging Strike is developed by Namco. It is intended to be played on the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  Dig Dug DS is a mix of the old school Dig Dug and Dig Dug 2 (both on the Nintendo Entertainment 
 System) . In Dig Dug, you play in a 2D perspective, digging down the ground as you encounter underground 
 enemies. To defeat them, you shoot a harpoon at them and inflate them until they pop. In Dig Dug 
 2, you played in an overworld view as you defeated your enemies by dropping various terrains of 
 the ground they're on. To do so, you would simply just make cracks on the ground.
  
  In Dig Dug DS, the objective of each level is to sink the giant monster that is on the island. 
 To sink it, you must create cracks on the ground with poles that are around the island. To use 
 the poles, you must drop into one of the island's holes that lead to the pole and create a way 
 for the poles to fall further down. When it reaches to the bottom of the ground, it has gone to 
 the deepest level it can. If other poles link to the crack, then that part of the island will fall.
 
  
  When digging under, you can also collect special items that may aid you. For instance, you can 
 repel enemies with this one certain item in order to avoid them from attacking you. There are two 
 kinds of items: The first kind will work only on Taizo. The second kind will call Susumu in which 
 he will assist you, like stopping the boss from moving.
  
  The story is about Taizo [aka the Dig Dug guy] getting fed up over how Susumu [Mr. Driller] gets 
 all the credit. One day, he receives a phone call from the government over how some explorers were 
 searching for fossils and then suddenly awakened the monsters that were dormant. Taizo takes the 
 job instantly.
  
  The music is pretty good for the most part. When you're digging, the music will play when you're 
 moving, just like in the original Dig Dug. The graphics are mostly 2D, and even though the dialogue 
 scenes are basic, they're decently presented. The big bosses are rendered in 3D, though, which 
 don't look too shabby.
  
  The sound in the game is mostly all traditional Dig Dug sounds. Fans of the older games would recall 
 such jingles.
  
  If you liked Dig Dug 1 and 2, or just want some old school, good ol' fashioned gameplay, then give 
 this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  Dig Dug Digging Strike truely does a good job at mixing Dig Dug 1 & 2 style gameplay for a unique 
 game, but this game really does little to try and give players more beyond this, besides the extra 
 powers, provided by Taizo's son.
  
  Gameplay- 7- Nothing more than the classic game with a few tweeks here & there. This game will 
 not blow you away, but it will deliver great Dig Dug action, if that is what you are looking for.
 
  
  Graphics- 7- There are some nice upgrades to Dig Dug's graphics that give it a nice fresh feel
 
  
  Sound- 6- Same old sounds, just sounding more refined
  
  Value- 6- Once you run through the game, unless your a fan of the classic game like me, you will 
 be done with it quickly
  
  Tilt- 8- Its Dig Dug, its gotta have at least an 8
  
  Overall, I know this review is short, but there really isnt much to say on this game besides its 
 classic Dig Dug action with a little twist. Just don't expect anything past that. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
