-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Digimon World DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/digimonworld/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Loads of options with regard to training and evolving monsters.
 battle system involves some strategy.
 Digifarms make it easier to give monsters specific experience.
 good use of the second screen for battle stats.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay shamelessly rides Pokmon's coattails.
 leveling monsters can be a chore.
 graphics and audio don't push the system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 25, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.2
Critic Score: 7.3, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 615 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games America
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Nov 7, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Digimon World DS is a solid, if unremarkable monster battle game, which pretty much means it's the 
 best Digimon game ever made. 

  Fans of the Digimon franchise have had to put up with some shoddy games over the years. Thankfully, 
 if Digimon World DS is any indication, it looks like Namco Bandai is finally taking steps to reverse 
 that trend. The process of catching monsters has been made less tedious in this latest game, the 
 battle interface has undergone a few strategic tweaks, and you now have a lot more leeway with 
 regard to training and customizing your collected monsters. The ability to trade and breed monsters 
 with people over the Internet using Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connect service is also a welcome new feature, 
 even if actual multiplayer play remains limited to opponents that you can fit into the same room 
 with you. Digimon World DS still has some catching up to do when compared to the typical Pokmon 
 game, but all of the various improvements go a long way toward making this the kind of game that 
 Digimon fans can buy and play without much fear of disappointment.  

          Digimon World DS is one of those games where you collect, raise, and battle hundreds of 
 fictional monsters.     

  Digimon World DS isn't much different from all of the other monster battle games out there. It's 
 a story-driven dungeon crawler where you set out to capture and raise as many digital monsters, 
 or Digimon, as possible. Monsters can be collected in the wild, evolved into other monsters at 
 certain points, and mated with other monsters to yield eggs that eventually hatch into still more 
 monsters. In all, there are more than 300 of the little buggers to find. Of course, because this 
 is a monster battle game, you can use the monsters you collect to battle other monsters in turn-based 
 battles. These battles are three-on-three and play out much like the battles in a traditional role-playing 
 game. When it's your turn to attack, you pick one of your monster's attacks from a list and then 
 watch the attack happen. Turns go back and forth until one side's team is defeated. Like in Pokmon, 
 the monsters in Digimon have strengths and weaknesses based on their type. Classes, such as dragon, 
 beast, insect, dark, and holy, come into play. Digimon World DS also ups the ante on its predecessors 
 by letting you situate your Digimon on specific spots on the battlefield. You can place your monsters 
 side-by-side to activate certain support effects or split them up to prevent the enemy from whacking 
 you with group attacks. Beating the CPU's monsters will earn you useful items or advance the story 
 along, while beating your buddies will earn you bragging rights and boost your ego. Ultimately, 
 you want to capture as many Digimon as possible, achieve the rank of master trainer, and see the 
 story through to its conclusion.  

  The biggest problem with previous Digimon games is that they put too much emphasis on the story 
 and too little emphasis on the collecting and customizing of the actual monsters. Digimon World 
 DS puts the focus where it belongs. The world has been streamlined so that dungeons are all accessed 
 from a central area, and the story has been put together so that most events involve seeking out 
 certain Digimon or improving your trainer rank. Side quests are given to you by your own Digimon. 
 Completing those tasks gives them new abilities and allows you to evolve some of them into their 
 rarer Mega and Ultimate forms. Finding and catching monsters has also been simplified. Each of 
 the 20-or-so dungeons in the game contains a specific set of monsters. Those monsters still randomly 
 challenge your Digimon to a battle every few steps or so, but now, instead of taking a random shot 
 at trapping one, you can just head back to the farm to generate your own monster once you collect 
 enough battle data.  

  In exchange for making it easier to collect new Digimon, the folks at Namco Bandai have greatly 
 expanded your options with regard to training and customizing Digimon. You can give your monsters 
 stat boosts by collecting more battle data before generating them, and you can strengthen key attributes 
 by training them with specific tools on your very own Digifarm. Your monsters also gain different 
 types of experience based on the kinds of monsters you have them fight. When one of your monsters 
 gains enough levels to Digivolve into a later form, you usually have two or three potential Mega 
 and Ultimate forms to pick from based on the different types of experience your monster has gained. 
 About halfway through the story, you're given the ability to return Digimon back to their earlier 
 forms, which allows you to mix and match the abilities of different types of Champion, Mega, and 
 Ultimate Digimon. On top of all that, you can outfit your monsters with swords, armor, and other 
 items that further boost their abilities.  

  Longtime Digimon fans will appreciate the inclusion of Digifarms. Digifarms are like the day care 
 centers in Pokmon. As the name implies, they're farms where you can park any Digimon not currently 
 traveling in your party. You can leave weaker Digimon behind, and they'll train on their own and 
 gain experience on the farm while you and your other monsters go out on quests and participate 
 in battles. Though you have little control over day care centers in Pokmon, in Digimon Worlds 
 you have some control over how your four Digifarms are set up and the specific areas they train. 
 You can make them larger to hold more Digimon and install specific tools and exercise equipment 
 for training your Digimon. For example, if you want to build up a Digimon's holy attribute, you 
 can place a phonograph on the farm. These tools even improve the longer they're used and become 
 more effective as the simulated days pass. Digifarms are a godsend for beefing up lower-level Digimon 
 and for when you just can't bear to backtrack through earlier dungeons.  

  The single-player story can take a good 15 hours to finish. But you can easily double that by completing 
 all of the side missions and filling up the Digimon index. However, to get the most out of the 
 game, you really need to take advantage of its multiplayer options. With the exception of a couple 
 of points in the story, the only way to produce DigiEggs is to mate one of your monsters with someone 
 else's monster. There are about a dozen unique Digimon that have to be obtained this way. One nice 
 thing about the mating system is that it supports Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connect service. If you can't 
 find anyone locally to mate Digimon with, you can swap friend codes with people online and arrange 
 times to pair up your amorous monsters. Unfortunately, that's all you can do with the game online. 
 Versus battles and monster trades are limited to the system's local wireless footprint. Versus 
 battles alone justify the effort it takes to track down a local opponent. Later dungeons and CPU 
 opponents can put up a strong challenge, but the CPU lacks the spontaneity that only humans can 
 display. CPU monsters also tend to appear in predictable teams, whereas a human opponent may surprise 
 you with a mix of monsters you've never seen. If you can find someone to battle locally, you'll 
 enjoy the game a lot more.  

          Battles are three-on-three, with each side having two replacements standing by.     

 
  For the most part, Namco Bandai did a good job of putting together a solid game. It doesn't really 
 introduce anything that wasn't in Nintendo's last Pokmon title, but it's better by leaps and bounds 
 over previous Digimon titles. The only major drawbacks are the same drawbacks that every game is 
 guilty of in the genre. Battles feel repetitive after a while, grinding levels in dungeons just 
 to level up specific monsters is tiresome, and the subject matter is definitely geared toward younger 
 players. The game also doesn't do much to push the audiovisual capabilities of the Nintendo DS. 
 All of the artwork is colorful, and the monsters and backgrounds are detailed, but it's the same 
 sort of stuff we've seen on the Game Boy Advance. However, some of the monster sprites are rather 
 large, and there are short video clips that play during Digivolve scenes. It's also sweet that 
 the upper screen is used to show what's happening on the Digifarm while you're traveling but switches 
 to an information view when you're in the thick of battle. You really don't know how spoiled you 
 are until you no longer have to press start during a battle to check basic info. Meanwhile, audio 
 consists entirely of a wide selection of peppy battle and dungeon themes, along with a collection 
 of generic sound effects that were probably borrowed from earlier Digimon games produced on the 
 PlayStation and GBA.  

  If you prefer Pokmon or are waiting for Nintendo to produce a proper Pokmon game for the Nintendo 
 DS, you probably won't be all that impressed with Digimon World DS. After all, it plays a lot like 
 Pokmon and shamelessly borrows some of the more recent enhancements that Nintendo introduced in 
 the latest Pokmon games. However, those enhancements, along with a few other improvements, are 
 what make Digimon World DS so much better than all of the other Digimon games published previously. 
 Fans of the Digimon franchise will likely be very pleased with the game because it's the first 
 Digimon game that they can legitimately sink their teeth into.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: j_rock91
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Digimon hasn't quite been out as long as Pokemon has, and some people believe that Digimon should 
 have run out of gas long ago with the final TV season; yet the games continue on.
  
  Upon playing Digimon World DS, I was surprised at how fun it actually was. It may feel like a Pokemon 
 game, but some things are different.
  
  The first obvious difference is the way battles are fought. Random encounters are prevalent, with 
 some key battles. The battle screen however, looks like a mod off of earlier Dragon Warrior/Quest 
 games (showing your opponents, but not your team) . Another great thing is that you're shown the 
 battle order, so you can plan your battles ahead of time to minimize how much damage your Digimon 
 take.
  
  The next difference you'll notice is how you can raise your Digimon on farms (like the Day Care 
 in the Pokemon games) . What's cool about this feature is that you can directly affect how your 
 Digimon develop, and there are a certain number of quests they'll ask of you throughout the game.
 
  
  Probably the biggest and most important difference is how your Digimon level up and evolve. They 
 level up regularly with every battle, but you can choose when they evolve, and sometimes, what 
 they evolve into. You may have to do a few things to reach the evolution chain you want, but in 
 most cases, it's worth the wait.
  
  If you're tired of Pokemon games, this game might not be for you, but if you want to see what the 
 differences are, go ahead and try this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet_sora
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  AIM OF THE GAME: To complete the story and to get as many Digimon as possible (sounds a little 
 cliche for a monster RPG lol.)
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  Digimon from the anime shows///Digivolving is now simple///Many different options to Digivolve 
 your Digimon///Digi-Farms make training Digimon alot easier///Lengthy storyline///Good use of the 
 touch screen (only in battles) ///Data Squad Digimon are included.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  Bad use of the touch screen (outside of battles) ///It takes too long to level up your Digimon///Getting 
 scan data for Digimon seems too easy, because running from a battle still gives you scan data///Graphics 
 are just ok.
  
  
  
  MY SCORES:
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  Gameplay is really similae to Pokemon, but Pokemon gameplay has always been great. Three on three 
 battles are excellent and battles aren't long and boring. 
  
  Graphics: 7.5
  
  The graphics are average. The sprites of the Digimon are pretty pixelated but in battles they look 
 alright.
  
  Sound: 7
  
  Background music can get annoying but the audio is still good.
  
  Value: 10
  
  If you're 
 looking for a Digimon game that doesn't bore you, has a great story and isn't hard to play, then 
 Digimon World DS is definately the right game for you. It definately is the best Digimon World 
 game to date.
  
  Overall/Average: 8.5
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 14td
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  I thought this was a real good game. The gameplay in combat is fun and strategic. Diffrent moves 
 hit diffrent battle zones the enemies are in diffrent zones as well and it displays who will attack 
 next making it easy to know whether or not to destroy them all or save mp and let the second guy 
 in your party help out. Boss battles weren't that hard... It's all your digimon against the one 
 boss. Leveling up is a pain in the neck but you gota do what you gota do. The storyline was interesting 
 and kept you going in the story. Of course the music bothered me so i turn it off... But the graphics 
 were colorful, bright, and cute. I recommened this game to digimon fans. I don't think this game 
 had any pokemon feel to it because you had to see the digimon enough in battle to scan it on your 
 digivice so i think it had a cool digimon feel to it!!! Overall this game was fun and interseting!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazzy113
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  What a nice surprise, I've played several other Digimon games in the past and have been left with 
 a very bitter taste in my mouth, they turned me off to the whole series as a result. So needless 
 to say I was a little hesitant to give this one a go.
  
  However, after the disgrace that is Pokemon Diamond and Pearl I thought "What do I have to lose?".
 
  
  Well I gave this game a try and not only is it quite fun to play it's also very deep. The sheer 
 amount of ways you can customize your Digimon blows the latest Pokejokes right out of the water.
 
  
  Admittedly the story is a little silly and the main character is a bit of a pansy, but it really 
 doesn't figure too much into the overall game too much. You'll be too busy training and evolving 
 your Digimon to care.
  
  If you're like me and are sick to death of the same Pokemon games that are just rolled up into 
 different packages, you'll find a lot to like in this game. 
  
  I keep comparing this game to the Pokemon series because well... they are of course extremely similar. 
 But in no way is this a Pokemon "clone". In fact I find it funny when people refer to games like 
 these as "Pokemon clones", as every single Pokemon game you've ever played is a straight copy of 
 the one that came before it! 
  
  How is that for irony?
  
  Give this game a try, chances are you'll enjoy this if you're into this type of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic3456
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  diigmon, a great anime series that makes bad games, this game is actually pretty good. The story 
 is you're a kid sucked into the digital world, and after the longest intro ever, you're playing 
 the game and you pick your digimon (I reccommend Koromon) . Gameplay wise it's great, very similar 
 to pokemon, except for the fact that you attack a certain area in the battlefield, which is a pretty 
 nice twist. The sound is ok nothing to remarkable. You're probably gonna get bored of it after 
 awhile. Anyway this is the best digimon game to date, but you're gonna get bored after to months, 
 and even then you would have finished the game by then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nocturnalkisses
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:54 am PT
Review:  Okay this game is good to start out with. Yes you can say it's a little like pokemon but who cares? 
 It's a game. Okay, but when you start to play, you get into the game. You collect your digimon 
 and raise them as if you would do real animals. You raise them on this farm called, Digifarm where 
 the creatures can grow and gain experience to evolve, level-up, etc. I was into the game. I was 
 hooked. I spent about 30 hours playing, about ten of the hours was leveling up. When i fough the 
 last boss, (forgot his name) he was hard, excuse me, that was an understatement. IMPOSSIBLE! He 
 was on level 60. My digimon were in the 50's. My highest digmon was level 58. He wiped my WHOLE 
 team out (total of 6 digmon) with one or two hits. This pissed me off. I bought my digimon the 
 MOST expensive defence, and offensive accessories and.... THEY STILL LOST!!!
  So I started a totally new game. I leveled up like my ass was on the line. My didgmon was on level 
 60 and up... and WE STILL LOST!!! This game is very disappointing. The last two bosses are next 
 to impossible to beat. If you want to spend half of your life evolving your digimon to the maximum 
 level and still lose? Be mu guest. This game is a waste of money, time, and hope. I don't know 
 why the creators of the game made the last boss impossible to kill. And to power a digmon up to 
 it's last evolution required, not hours, but days. So if you beat this game, then you must have 
 been the one whom spent days or possibly weeks powering up.
  To me, this game is a VERY big waste. SO don't get this game unless you're very desperate and want 
 your hopes of beating this game to fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninj11
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  this game is a game kind of like pokemon but kind of not. the game has a great story and you get 
 to train your own digimon into higher levels. there are 5 levels of digimon in the game. the levels 
 are.... in training (baby) rookie (grown up) champion (adult) ultimate (older adult) and mega the 
 final form (perfect) .
  
  there is also a feature in the game called a farm. a farm is where you can take care of your digimon 
 and you can train your digimon at the farm. there are different kind of farms in the game like 
 dragon farm and aqua farm. the total amount of farms you can have in the game is 4. there are also 
 quests that your digimon ask you to do when you talk to them in the digifarm, there are a total 
 60 quests in the game and no you dont have to finish all of them to do quest 60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omnikh
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Digimon World DS is one of the best RPG games for DS.
  
  Also, it's defeat all Digimon games for PlayStation 2 ^_^
  
  You can now have many digimons. 
 Besides, you can choose
  
  which digimon that you want to create (Digivolue) . In addition
  
  you can equip your digimon 
 with weapons, armors, and rings.
  
  Somethings that I didn't like in Digimon World DS:
  
  1- There is no WORLD that you can make your adventure only (S ID) .
  
  2- You can't have 
 old Skills from old digimon after digivolution.
  
  3- Very easy to create a digimon.
  
  4- You can't see your digimon in the battle &gt;_&lt; just it's attack!
  
  Anyway, you can 
 have a fun with this game if you like digimon ^_^
  
  and play with your friends as multi-player form. ENJOY ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuskLord
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Pick one monster out of three and start your game, collecting different kinds of *mon, fight turn-based 
 battles with your army of *mon. *volve your *mon.
  
  Oh come on! These two things are so close to each other that it's almost ridiculous. Oh sure, DW's 
 got a few features not present in the other mon-series, like equipping stuff to your monsters, 
 and optionally degenerating your digimon to start growing a stronger one. But this game's not as 
 fun as any of the Pok&eacute; mon games. At times it can get very frustrating, the map designs are 
 awful IMO...
  
  But there's at least one bright point. You don't have to spend money on tons of wasted balls trying 
 to catch new monsters, you just have to battle the monster a few times until you have 100% data 
 of it, then you can just proceed with replicating it.
  
  Ultimately... Played this for bout 12 hours now, and it's over for me. Not worth full price, and 
 not worth a shot if you know your Pok&eacute; mon.
  
  Oh yeah, and the everlooping battle music really really sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmaotaku
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 20, 2007 11:34 pm PT
Review:  One of the first game I ever brought to the console (DS) , I am a rpg player and after I played 
 it, I got hooked on it right away. At first I played from 2 - 3 hours and slowly without noticing 
 it, played up to a solid 10 hours or more.
  
  Great RPG game, definitely worth playing. It grows on you as the game progresses, the desire to 
 digivolve you're digimons into a mega rank. You will think that it is all to make you're digimons 
 stronger by leveling up? Well in a sense yes, but to become stronger you must make them weak first. 
 This is what made Digimon kinda unique but at times not so good because just when you tought that 
 you're MGreymon is ready to be Wargreymon, you will be surprise that he doesn't level up anymore 
 and the conditions to become Wargreymon could not be meet, this is where the APTITUDE stat comes 
 in. Well after I learned this... it is like another adventure and leveling up cycle must be done. 
 I think it is justifiable.
  
  Overall, I give Digimon World DS a 8.9... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luis1234
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  this is one of many good digimon games even though it might not have had all the digimon it had 
 most of them. at first it was hard to go through but when you digivoled most of the digimon it 
 gets interesting. so if you train them you and your your friends can get together and have some 
 digifun i know me and my friends did many things. out of all the digimon games wich one would you 
 buy i know i would choose this one instead of some other game. i also remember me and my friends 
 when it barely came out we battled with our starter but when we went further we made cool teams, 
 you and your friends should just have some fun and experiment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricardover3
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  Even though the Digimon series is a lame copy of the Pok&eacute; mon one, this game succeeds the 
 Pok&eacute; mon series in many aspects!
  
  The farm system is very cool, and customizing it to get the necessary types of EXP, and the highest 
 grow rate of your Digimon adds some diversity to the game! The various Evolution Routes can take 
 the Replay high to the skies, and the various combinations of itens and abilities, the types of 
 Digimon, the Tamer Rank... All this things make Digimon DS the first deep monster-breed game to 
 come.
  
  The bad part is that the graphics are very basic, and the game could have made much more use of 
 the NDS capacities.
  
  But, for those who say that Digimon DS is just a game to wait for Pok&eacute; mon, it looks like 
 Pok&eacute; mon P/D won&acute; t make good use of the DS graphic capacities too.
  
  Digimon DS ends up being a very immersive game, with criative raising mechanics and a very open 
 monster-customize system! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjjanime
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  digimon world ds is probly the best digimon game ever made the story is down patt. the only down 
 side to this game id that u cant go to mega for geogreymon and lalamon and gaomon or burst but 
 other to that wevery thing wauld be good. the game is quite easy all the bosses are not even a 
 chalenge they are just easy last boss not even a hassle wargreymon is way better than shine greymon 
 this games is a very flashy games even thoe the game is a very easy games to this game is like 
 a just 9.6 games but this game is very fun once when u beat it i probly dont want to sart all over 
 again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Yeeech!!!! Unoriginal and not fun. Simply not fun. I have always seen Digimon as a rip off or similar 
 product to pokemon but it always falls shirt much like this game. I did not like the gamplay and 
 the way the game starts is really boring so I put it down within 40 mins of playing it. Not fun 
 and definitely not worth buying. Your money can be spent elsewhere more wisely. I am also oblivious 
 to the fact of how a fanbase of this nature can enjoy this game. I know the whole Idea of these 
 games is to give kids the same impression as though they are part of the Digiworld but it never 
 seems that way in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnmmaster
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  it is a great game for now it is fun and it has everything that a digimon game needs i cant think 
 of any way to make it better but to take out some of the text and make it simple it is a bit to 
 long for my taste other then that it is a good game but it is only going to be good for now because 
 when the pokemon games come out it is going to be old and not be able to keep up with them because 
 pokemon is just a bigger series then digimon is and in my own opinion pokemon is way better and 
 badder then digimon ever was and ever will be 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iman2050
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Nice Little Game With so much Digimon that can be scanned not like in previous games in which you 
 could only have like what 30-40 digimon here you could get 230! Digimon now thats alot of digimon 
 for me which is good. The story game me a bore because of the running back in forth but hey what 
 could i say all digimon/Pokemon games are like that. The excellent use of the data scanner impressed 
 me a whole lot. The Digimon Put into this game were awesome but they definetely need to include 
 more in the next game. Overall the game is excellent in keeping you busy and its actually fun raising 
 little monsters on your very own Digi-Farm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragao_de_Fogo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 6, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  Right lets get to it! This game reminds me of the good old digimon world 2 for the ps1 (actually 
 the only one i REALLY liked) . Think of it as a final fantasy with digimon. But there's more! You can 
 do the standard digivolving stuff, also you can equip your digimons with weapons, shields, armors 
 etc... The new stuff here is the possibility of breeding your digimon (can anyone say pok&eacute; mon?) ! That's 
 give some replay factor to it, since you can just keep playing to get all different kinds and max 
 their data for some real powerful digimon. The multi-player lacks a bit, since you can only play 
 a versus match with someone in your location. The breed system makes use of the Wi-Fi connection 
 of the ds, meaning that you can match your lil fellas with other people digimon to get some rare 
 and exclusive kinds. Unfortunately, that's all it's wi fi can do... if you're a rpg player you will 
 find it a light and pleasant fun. For the digi fans out there, this might be the best Digimon game 
 released so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Denarrow
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 4, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  Why didn't it get a better review from some people? That's becuse its repetitive, too short, and 
 too easy. People think that itss good for a game to be short, easy and repetitive. Those people are 
 pokemon fans. I, on the other hand, hate repetetitveness, and wish this game could not b e so repetitive. If 
 they have a sequel, maybe it won't be so repetitve... Sometime I might do a new game on it. But not 
 for a long, long time. But try it, it's a great game. Just rent it first! I don't guarantee that you'll 
 like it. But it's a digimon lover's dream! Any digimon fan, even the smallest one, should have this. Better 
 than pokemon, more storyline, more action, and no mindless battles! Its perfect! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterWaffle009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 2, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  This is easily the best Digimon world game I have ever played, and I have all of the four before 
 it. This game is awesome.
  This game lets you play as your favorite digimon from all the seasons, which is one reason why 
 I loved this game, because I am a big fan of the veemon line (including Flamedramon) and this is 
 the only game (other than world 2) that you can get Flamedramon. Also this game has digimon from 
 all the seasons and from digimon the movie. I would recommend this game to everyone of my friends. 
 This game has a great and new way of getting some digimon that you can't get anyway else. It's 
 called matching. What you do is either go onto the Wifi connection or the Ds wireless communication 
 systems, and then you pick digimon from each others farm to get digi-eggs. Then, you have to get 
 the Digi-eggs to meet the hatching requirements to hatch them, and then you have your digimon.
 
  Oh, right, I forgot to explain about the Digi-farm. it's a place where you can leave your digimon 
 to grow and level-up without it having to be in your party. This way, you can do quests with all 
 your strong digimon in your party, while your other digimon stay at the farm and grow stronger.
 
  The game will explain all of these details I have explained through the guides at the building 
 in Digi-Central. I recommend this game to everyone.
  I hope you decide to buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuramak
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 30, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, cool graphics ...
  As the TV show, a lot of digimons to choose, and a variate of teams.
  The game is based in quest 
 and raising the digimon in the farm or battling.
  You can customise your farm, and raise your favorite digimon type.
  In my opinion the worst part 
 is that you have to loose a lot o XP to digivolve, sometime you have to go back, and your strongest 
 digimon turn into a weak digimon, and than it is hard to battle in the hight stage.
  Some times the dungeons get a bit annoying, with a lot digimons attacking you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadman_Luigi
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2007 1:09 am PT
Review:  just plain fun i recommend everyone to try it out it is so addicting the graphics r really awsum 
 if u r good at looking in the ds it is a game the sound and music r really good the same as from 
 all of the other digimon world games the gameplay is so awsum but i had one problem with the gameplay 
 is that there is so much talking at the start that is y it took me a while to learn how to play 
 it because they wouldn't stop talking but once u get past that it is so fun and i couldn't stop 
 playing it so i say give it a try i say u will love it and wont want to stop!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 94iceman94
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  this game is a great game it a prefect game there are so many digimon u could not name them all 
 i have played it for long but now my friend borrowing it so i will wait till i get it backcause 
 they like it heaps and that all about u can say about that game it perfect and of story really 
 but u can get so many digimon once i herad u could get that many i did not know there where that 
 many it was very supriseing it a great game i would recomed it to every one it just so good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ariolander
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid monster taming RPG. Does nothing new in the genre but take the standard monster 
 training formula of it's predecessors (a la Pok&eacute; mon) but adds its own Digimon twist. You 
 won't find any of the TV characters in this game so it is the perfect even for people unfamiliar 
 with the franchise. So without any TV tie ins to tie it down (ha ha) it does some new (and some 
 old) things that you might be familiar with.
  
  The story itself centers around your character. Seeing monsters at one of the PCs while browsing 
 the web on one of the schools computers he is sucked into the digital world where humans and digital 
 monsters, aka Digimon, partner together to become stronger and, eventually, digivolve. Seeing some 
 of these monsters upon arrival your character is naturally drawn to them and quickly find yourself 
 signing up to become a tamer, a human who trains Digimon and takes them up as partners, yourself. 
 Then through a series of events you are drawn into a series of events and a contest to be crowned 
 Tamer King.
  
  Gameplay has several aspects to it. First part your party, you should be familiar with. You can 
 have up to 6 digimon in your party and when you battle via random encounters they gain experience, 
 level up, and at some point digivolve. There are some more aspects to battle beyond that however. 
 Though you have 6 digimon in your party only three can battle at a time. Between those three you 
 can set them into formations between 5 spaces. If they are enxt to one another certain digimon 
 might grant each other bonuses, on the other hand that might also make them susceptible to attacks 
 that can hit a number of spaces at once. Beyond just simply your party obviously you will be able 
 to obtain more than 6 so the rest can stored in a bank of digimon. Here is where the next gameplay 
 aspect comes in. Eventually you will obtain a DigiFarm (s) and on these farms you can raise your 
 various digimon at the cost of food per day, which grows on the farms, and supply various training 
 equipments for their use. As you progress through the story and misc. quests days will pass and 
 the digimon on your farm gain EXP and the misc. bonuses associated with the equipment you provide 
 for the farms adding another layer to gameplay as some digivolution paths may have perquisites 
 not easily accomplished through straight battle. For example to digivolve a Tokomon into an Angemon 
 a certain amount of Holy EXP is required which happens to be rare in the beginning of the game. 
 To compensate training items like Phonographs, Holy Bells, and Churches may be required.
  
  Overall the game is not that bad and quite solid. Graphics are good, sound is sufficient, gameplay 
 is strong, and its RPG elements are not that bad. Good for people both new and old to the franchise 
 this game turned out better than expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RpGamerzzz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Digimon world DS a game about Digital monsters, virtual monsters that can befriend you, and also 
 battle. Digimon world is based on a television show in Japan, which was dubbed here in America, 
 called Digimon: Digital Monsters . This game was surprisingly good, seeing as pretty much every 
 digimon game sucked very badly. Now for the Analysis of the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is a pretty traditional Role-playing game. It is turnbased, and on the top screen, it shows 
 in order which digimon is next to attack. Your digimons placement on that is dependent on your 
 digimons stats. A good game to compare gameplay with would be Final Fantasy X. And a very interesting 
 part of the game that sets it aside from other RPG's would be the Digifarms. These Digifarms are 
 like Digimon Daycares, where you can raise and train digimon automatically without actually having 
 to battle. Farms can be upgraded, and also you can put various items that can help your digimon 
 gain stats. And one of the most fun parts of this game is probably digivolving. Once your Digimon 
 reaches certain levels it can digivolve into a stronger form. But the even better parts of it, 
 is that some digimon have several branches to choose from. Some branches could affect the digimons 
 element, or just the digimons stats.
  
  Gameplay Overall: 8
  
  Graphics:
  The outside battle graphics are GBA quality (rather than the sprites, which are very well done in 
 this game) , but in battle, you will see the digimon as anime. The anime designs are very, very 
 well done, and the background are colorful, bright, and vivid. Graphics overall: 9
  
  Sound:
  The music in this game was pretty decent. In and after battle you will be easily amused 
 by the music. Sound effects are only ok, and when you encounter a battle, the warning alarm gets 
 really, really annoying.
  
  Sound overall: 7
  
  Value:
  This game was surprisingly good. That's all i can really say about it. If you turn down this game 
 just because its of the digimon franchise, your missing out on A LOT. And to add to that, this 
 game has a lot of replay value, trying to raise All the digimon and all of its multiple digivolutions.
 
  
  Value: 9
  
  Tilt: 8
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 7
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guz4923
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 21, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Yes, my friends, the time has arrived! A new Digimon game has been released. Wait, before you go 
 lock yourself in your room and hide from the usual catastrophe, hear me out; This game is pretty 
 good. I know, I know, I just said that about a DIGIMON game, but they were able to tame the savage 
 beast that was this series. Sounds impossible, I know, but I'll explain a bit....
  
  The Graphics: First and foremost, we'll cover the graphics. They're decent. They could be better, 
 but the sprites are detailed, each digimon looks unique, and the dungeons each have a distinct 
 feel. The Sound: For a DS game, it's ok. It fits the game well, and as with the graphics, they 
 just cover everything fine. Not GREAT, but, hey, my ears are still functioning. :)
  
  The Gameplay: This is where the game deviates from the regular formula by a mile, nay, a few miles. 
 Yet in this deviation of a few miles, it wanders into Pokemon territory a bit, which might not 
 be a bad thing, considering the last World game.
  
  The battles are turn based, and like in most games, a speed statistic determines who attacks first. 
 The fun part? If your team's speed really outclasses your opponent's, you'll find all your monsters 
 attacking twice before the opponent attacks at all. Great for ending fights quickly, and you'll 
 need to, because there's random battles. This isn't too great a problem, since the levels are generally 
 easy to navigate.
  
  Digimon digivolve in this game, each with a level or experience requirement to do so along a Digivolution 
 tree of sorts. I can hear you all now.... But doesn't that mean I have to go out into the field 
 with each of my digimon to train them? Not really, thanks to the addition of Digifarms!
  
  Digifarms are these awesome little areas you can let your digimon train in while you go off and 
 do other things. You can customize what stats they raise by adding certain equipment.
  
  For example: I can go out into a dungeon with my Tyrannomon, leaving my Gomamon to gain experience 
 back at the Digifarm while I continue the storyline.
  
  Unfortunately, the storyline isn't much, nor would it really be worth continuing. Storyline: As 
 I said, it's a very bare bones, Give you at least SOME motivation to continue kinda thing. Just 
 enough storyline to call it an RPG. Tetris has more storyline than this. With that out of the way, 
 if you go back and look over the dialouge in the side quests (particularly the one about KingEtamon 
 stealing that food.) you'll find small hints about the plot of the next season of the Digimon TV 
 show. Several other websites can give you information on that, but go back and look, you'll notice 
 it.
  
  All of this being said, even though it's not perfect, it's sure better than some of the other games 
 that bare the name, so put that past behind ya and give it another shot, you just might be surprised. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 8:45 am PT
Review:  I have been a huge fan of this series ever since the games started back on PS1. This game is an 
 interesting mix. By that I mean that you take monster rancher, and pokemon, combine their gameplay 
 and that is pretty much what this game is. But this mix doesnt come as a bad thing, it's a very 
 good thing in fact. Digimon DS is one of my favorite DS games. The story is standard for this series: 
 you are a tamer, who is brought to the digital world for one reason or another, and you help the 
 locals stop the encroaching evil. Im glad to see the series being good again, as the last DM World 
 game, number 4, was horrid.
  
  Gameplay 9- Combine the battle elements of pokemon with the raising elements of monster rancher 
 and this sums up how the game plays. While some might see it as a crossover, it is still nicely 
 done.
  Graphics 10- Like watching the cartoon series. 2D graphics. However they are nicely detailed, colorful, 
 and show off the DS's capabilities.
  Sound 9- Good sound and music. Would have been better if music from the cartoon was used.
  Value 
 9- A good DS game in general, and best in the series. A high recommendation to any Digimon fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthuralex
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Well,
  
  At first time you will have a lot of fun creating, envolving and feeding your digimon. I didnt 
 saw any cartoon about it, but he game is very funny. I recomended this game to all RPG Pokemon 
 Lovers. The Graphic is very cool, the sound its just ok, the gameplay is very good. The battle 
 is turn based, and the vision in this mode is first-person. Out of battle the vision is third-person. 
 The way when you are raising your digimons is very cool, you can bring with you 6 digimons, the 
 XP is equal to all. If you kill a enemy digimon and it give to you 10XP, all of the digimons with 
 you, will gain the same XP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDRGodsgift2man
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  When I first saw this game released, I went Oh, cool, never played a Digimon game before . I'm 
 kinda glad I spotted this game. With interactive modes and editions added to this new installment 
 of Digimon, this game makes we wanna play RPGs (although I'm not a fan of turnbase!) . Sure, it 
 does get a little irritating when you keep running into a load of digimon when you're in a huuuuge 
 Digital Field, but its all in good fun to get yourself stronger, which is just about how the Pokemon 
 series flows. Yeah, I might've grown up with Pokemon, but this game just helped me grow even closer 
 to the anime I once watched when I was able to get up early on Saturday mornings. As much as you 
 want to say this is such a copied game , think again. This game is solidifying their territory, 
 and its here to stay.
  Should you buy it? If you like a challenge, long hours of leveling up, and high-energetic SFX and 
 music (haha) , as well as solid nostalgia, get this game.
  NO arguments!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellSin69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Well all-in-all I liked the first digimon game for the PSX but after that it got stupid with weapons 
 and all. But, this digimon i decided to get because my friend asked me if it was good. So, i bought 
 it used from GameStop and played it. It. Is. Awsome. I don't even like digimon to much but, this 
 game has alot of good monster taming elements that are both Dragon Warrior Monsters and Pokemon 
 elements. Its great because you can wireless battle your friends and hyrbid your friends digimon 
 with your own! Also I like the Final Fantasy turn-based style of gaming its very cool and strategic. 
 The graphics are good for a DS game the sprites dont repeat alot and the skills all have different 
 animations. The sound is... well... Digimon. Need I say more? The game play is were its at, with 
 tons of raising and levels and places to visit you wont get bored anytime soon. You will find yourself 
 playing this game over and over. This is a great game for the price, if you like monster raising 
 games, if not dont buy it because it will be a waste of yours, and everyone elses, time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fallensting
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is a solid monster taming game with good rpg elements; but that just might be the problem. 
 I remember when i first heard of digimon, I was about 7 I think. I saw the tomagatchi thingamajigs 
 at toy stores. Then the show came out on fox kids, which i still watch on my computer. Maybe a 
 year later, Digimon World came out for the Playstation. The game had some flaws but stuck to it's 
 roots. The only problem with Digimon World DS is that it didnt stick to it's roots. It copied Pokemon 
 in which your mission is to find and tame digimon. Though that is not your only mission, that is 
 not what digimon is about. The original Digimon World game on Playstation was about saving the 
 world and recruiting Digimon; not about gotta catch'em all or in this case, gotta copy them all 
 . Besides the fact that it copied Pokemon, this game is a good game. It has lots of playing time 
 in it and stuff to do, though I am not fully done with the game yet. The battle system is simple 
 yet fitting. It is like Final Fantasy X in which you can see who's turn is next; which is very 
 helpful. You can focus your attacks on the digimon that is coming up next and kill him before he 
 attacks you. Also, when your digimon levels up, it reaches a level limit. To expand that level 
 limit, you'll have to degenerate your digimon. I know it sounds gay but it isnt that bad and it 
 makes sense. Your digimon will get very strong in the end. You can also match your digimon online 
 with other people. Unfortunately, you cannot battle via wi-fi. A bummer but whatevs. All in all, 
 this game is a solid monster taming game with good rpg elements; but it didn't stick to its original 
 roots. I hope Digimon on the WII will learn from its mistakes and be original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitalriku
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is like pokemon only better. You have a lot more to do like doing quests for your digimon 
 and the farm system is great. If anyone likes digimon buy it and if you dont you will still like 
 it! This game has many things to do and has a lot of digimon to collect and the online community 
 of the match system is great too! This game is like a drug and you just cant stop playing it! They 
 have the famous digimon and the not so famous like wargreymon and yatakaramon. Though you cant 
 play as Alphamon you still have a huge variety. This has a well put storyline the only weird thing 
 is the dialogue which makes them sound like robots. This is a great game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flightjam
Rating: 1.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is blah because the digimon games for ds are not great. the first one for playstation 
 was allright but they should not try to make digimon games no more. the classical thing was the 
 cards, they stopped that but i guess they keep going with the games. they also stopped with the 
 toys and show and movies but the game keeps going. this game is not great because its graphics 
 are weak and all they did was copy pokemon which is not that great itself either. if u want to 
 try a good game, just try real PC or system games not boring gameheld games like ds or gameboys. 
 all they do is just keep your head down at an annoying little screen.. they should stop all the 
 handheld games for good. and just pay attention to the systems and PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shidohari
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  I have never been happy with the digimon line of games... UNTIL NOW. The graphics in this game are 
 great as are the wave sounds. None of the characters speak in this game, it's mostly a text based 
 rpg if someone's talking. But the number of digimon you can obtain is greater than any other game 
 that has been put out.
  
  The storyline in this revolves around you the player and you can be male or female. Similar to 
 pokemon you have to level your digimon up with certain conditions to be able to digivolve into 
 one of the next forms of the digimon you are raising. After you find the researcher Phil you are 
 able to Return a higher level digimon to a earlier form to re raise it to a higher level to get 
 another type of digimon in that line that's more powerful and can also grow more.
  
  There is a growth limit set into each digimon you raise regardless of level. This is based on the 
 amount of data that you have collected of that digimon before you convert that data to the digimon 
 itself. Each time you graduate to a higher level digimon that growth limit does change depending 
 on the type of digimon it evolved to. However if when you're in the higher level you won't have 
 enough to make it to the next level available for it you can deevolve to earlier forms as stated 
 earlier if you've collected more data with them in your party. This will allow you to later re 
 evolve the digimon to something better.
  
  The farm concept is great though that and breeding really shines in wi fi. I don't have a wi fi 
 connection myself but i know that's how you get the most out of the farms you get. You can have 
 a total of four farms and as in harvest moon you are allowed to pay for size upgrades and buy goods 
 for the farm in the way of training equipment for the digimon.
  
  Some of the missions are time consuming because you have to figure out which direction to go in 
 to reach your objectives but it's worth it and you get to level your digimon as you figure it out.
 
  
  So have fun with this game i think you'll be pleased because it's the first decent digimon game 
 that i have played and actually have wanted to take through to the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julianv
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Digimon World DS brings a blend of both action/adventure and responsibility with it's gameplay. 
 On one hand you must go out on missions to help out the digital world and it's inhabitants, and 
 on the other you must raise Digimon in Digimon Farms and run errands for your little friends. The 
 graphics, while not much in the movement department, are extremely colorful, vivid, and pleasing 
 to the eyes. There is a wide variety of Digimon to be raised and each and every one is unique in 
 their own way. The battle gameplay is shown from the point of view of your Digimon. You cannot 
 see them during battle, but you can see animation of the attacks your Digimon use. As a new tamer, 
 you are able to choose between one of three starter Digimon (similar to the Pokemon games) and 
 start your journey. After receiving a partner Digimon, you meet a mentor Digimon whose job is to 
 supervise you and give you advice about your missions. The mentor Digimon also tells you how to 
 rise in rank. Upon completion of certain missions set forth by the mentor, your rank will go up. 
 In addition, when the Digimon you are raising (either in your party or in your Digimon Farm) reaches 
 a high enough level and reaches other requirements, it may Digivolve into a more powerful monster. 
 Most Digimon have multiple Digivolution opportunities and can usually digivolve into two or three 
 different stronger digimon. Later on in the game it is also possible to Degenerate or De-Digivolve 
 your Digimon in order to allow one digimon to digivolve into all possible combinations. For example, 
 if you evolved your digimon at a lower level because it did not meet the requirements for the other 
 evolutions, you can Degenerate it later, fulfill the new requirements, and Digivolve into the newer 
 Digimon. This game has all around smooth gameplay. It does not take too much time to learn to play 
 the game but certain aspects, such as running he Digimon Farms, may take a little practice to perfect. 
 It is a very interesting game and keeps you playing for hours at a time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  This game is hella awesome but it suffers from one very serious flaw. A nasty Stat rollback bug 
 that can ruin your digimon. If you are careful and save the game often with non glitchy digimon 
 it is still playable. And the game is totally worth playing..
  
  Your goal in digimon games is to train your digimon into insanely powerful digimon and save the 
 world . You can do that by slapping some equipment on up to 6 digimon and taking them out into 
 the field to kick some butt or by leaving them back home in a digifarm where they can train on 
 gadgets and get experience just loafing around.
  
  As your digimon level up they gain stats and depending on their stat levels that can digivolve 
 into different forms. Whats great about the game is that you can also DEVOLVE your digimon and 
 turn them back into newbie monsters. They get to keep a % of their stats though and so when you 
 level them back up to where they were they are alot stronger. Keep doing this and eventually newbie 
 digimon could kick the crap out of everything little lone the mega-evolutions.
  
  Back at the farm.. or should i say farmS. You can buy and install gadgets for your benched digimon 
 to play with while your gone. When you visit your farm you can also bring up a toolbar that contains 
 different tools depending on what gadgets you have installed. You can use these tools to improve 
 the stats of your digimon by doing some forced training. You can only train them so much though 
 before they get tired and there is only a % chance of it working each time. Like there is a hammer 
 to improve their defense and a barbell to improve strength.
  
  The really awesome part is that the top screen on your DS has a constant feed of your digifarm 
 so when your out fighting you can watch your other digimon back at the farm interacting with the 
 gadgets and stuff. As you move and fight outside the farm time passes and the people at the farm 
 gain XP and consume food. You can buy multiple farm and upgrade their size, how much food they 
 produce, and how much XP they give. Different farms are meant for different species or different 
 purposes. Some farms produce tons of food while you will need if you have alot of highly evolved 
 digimon and others produce alot of XP.
  
  All this leads to raising tons of digimon and constantly leveling people up and training them which 
 is really fun instead of boring work. The game would be awesome and a must own title if that was 
 the end of the story. Sadly there is a problem. A big fat huge problem actually. A stat rollback 
 bug. You will be strolling along kicking the crap out of monsters and some of your people might 
 level up and so when you go check them out or put it off till later you will find out that your 
 digimon who maybe had thousands of points in a stat now has all his stats reduced to single and 
 double digits.
  
  There is no way of preventing it or knowing when it will happen. You just have to make sure none 
 of your people are messed up and then make a save and do that often. It only affects people in 
 your battle party. Atleast to the best of my knowledge. I guess it could happen to your guys on 
 the ranch if they level up while your gone which is rare since they make way less XP.
  
  I got NO RESPONSE from those jerk offs at Namco-bandai about it. Hopefully it doesnt happen in 
 the two sequals. Digimon World Dusk/Dawn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracon_08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome i havnt even beatin it yet. A good game is a game that is hard and only gets 
 harder as it goes along, the pokemon games were kinda easy but how long the game lasted and all 
 the things you can do made it an awesome game and digimon world ds had that and even more it was 
 just like pokemon except with even more stuff and capabilities. There is just so many things to 
 figure out and all the dragon digimon and oh man this game is great i suggest any pokemon fan plays 
 it trust me you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cannon_Sam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 24, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. Really the only thing I really had a problem with is that you 
 can't see your own Digimon fighting the opponent, and that the battling style is a bit monotonous. 
 Probably the best feature about this game is you can raise virtually any Digimon you find in the 
 game. When you run into a battle, you automatically scan the opponent (except for bosses) to a 
 certain percentage of scan data, by fives or tens each time you go up a rank. Once you scan the 
 data to 100%, you can go to your Digi-Farm, a place you can raise and talk to your Digimon that 
 are not on your team, you can convert the Digi-Scan Data, and the Digimon is created for you ro 
 raise. However, you can wait to scan to more than 100%, say 500 or 600, and that Digimon will have 
 better stats depending on how much you have scanned that Digimon to. Note that it is the same level, 
 it will just have better stats.
  
  The battling style is much better than the first few games, but the only flaw is that you can not 
 see your own Digimon battling. The battles strategically are fantastic. The upper left-hand corner 
 shows you what Digimon is going to be able to move next. This gives you the upper hand to decide 
 if you need to use items or fight. You can also equip different items to Digimon depending on their 
 type and level. Perhaps the best feature of the new battling system is that all six Digimon on 
 your team are given experience points even if they did not battle. Which brings me to my next point:
 
  
  You are now able to have six different Digimon on your team at any given time, three main and three 
 backup. Now you might be thinking right now, Hey that's just copying Pokemon! Well, you'd be right. 
 They are. Anyways, you have your first three Digimon in battle, while the others lay back for a 
 while. Now, if your first three happen to faint, then the other get to step in and take over. I 
 love that part of the game. Note however, the Digimon that faint do not gain experience at the 
 end of the battle.
  
  The way of raising is cool too. Some of the batlles you can fly by, but some require you to work 
 hard and raise up. Sometimes it's difficult to raise, and the bosses are extremely hard, but it 
 all pays off in the end. By advancing in the plot, you get raised to different ranks. You start 
 out as a Normal Tamer, then Bronze, Silver, Gold, Platinum, and then Tamer King. Different ranks 
 unlock different abilitites such as scanning ranks of Digimon to certain percentages. The higher 
 the rank, the higher the scan percentage. You can also equip different weapons to your Digimon 
 and their stats will increase.
  
  Another cool feature about this game is the WiFi connection. You can get friend codes from different 
 people and visit their farms to use DNA bits of one of your Digimon and a bit of theirs to create 
 special Digimon with unique stats. Some certain Digimon can ONLY be made through 'blending' as 
 this is called. There is also the DS to DS communication where you can battle and trade Digimon 
 with your friends!
  
  This game also promises a supper strong Digimon you can own at the end of the game......... if you 
 can beat him. No spoilers here, you're gonna have to get the game yourself. Overall this game was 
 excellent. So, if you were deciding to get it or not, or just wasn't sure, think no longer, JUST 
 GET IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Def_Con1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Game is fun and addicting like playing pokemon for the first time. The graphics are at a good place 
 and the plot is simple to fall along with. The cost was reasonable for a new DS game, and so far 
 it is still interesting. The fun part about this game is being able to own different digimon and 
 being able to digivolve them into different digimon at a certain level. With more data you collect 
 from battling, the more digimon you can have. Its a fun game and pleasing if you're patient enough 
 to follow. Fun and Addicting to play, one of my favorite games so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shock-n-Terror
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  i saw this game in a strore, and i immedetlly had to have it. i loved the digimon cartoon seris, 
 the first two seasons most of all, its a lot of fun, i would refer this to anyone who ever liked 
 the digimon show, and even if you dont, you should still check this out. the wifi makes this game 
 alot better, i dont have wifi yet, but ill post my username on here when do. the game reminds you 
 alot of pokemon, well kind of... but it has its own battle line up and fight system that make it 
 diffent and better in its own way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saba_ora
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Take the gameplay of MegaMan Battle Network, the concept of Pokemon, the turn-based battles of 
 Final Fantasy, and add digimon. Thats pretty much Digimon World DS. You walk around in different 
 parts of the digital word in MMBN style fashion, have random, turn-based battles with digimon in 
 FF style fashion, and create a party of digimon you've captured in Pokemon style fashion. Actually 
 you're not really capturing the digimon, every time you have a random battle you receive a percentage 
 of scan data for the digimon you're fighting. Once yoy have 100% or more of their data you can 
 materialize that digimon in your digi-farm and add them to your party. Sadly (and this is a BIG 
 sadly) some digimon in the game can only be gotten in wifi trading, and wouldn't you know they 
 would be some of the most powerful. I don't want to call this game a pokemon rip-off, but when 
 you come right down to it that's what it is. This however, is not a bad thing. The game is highly 
 addictive, and plays very well. I honestly didn't think it would be worth it, but i was wrong. 
 If you like the Pokemon or MegaMan Battle Network games, you will definitely like this game. I'm 
 not sure if I can do this, but here is a link that will show all the digimon in the game, just 
 scroll down a little, you'll see it.
  
  http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Digimon_World_DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shylilbabyboi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 15, 2006 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive. A must get. I thought that game would be that great but after trying 
 it, i was hooked. It is great how you can choose what your digimon can digivolve to and how you 
 have have your digimon stay at your digifarm ( a place where you digimon stay to eat and train 
 by themselves) . You must go to your local game store!!! GO NOW YOU GUYS!!!! GO GO GO GO GO GO GO 
 GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO 
 GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO GO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodWerewolf
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  Before I say anything about this game, if you have played the Digimon PS2 games before, forget 
 that you ever played them. Digimon World DS is entirely new and gives a rich, albeit linear, RPG 
 collection experience.
  
  The story premise is taken almost directly from the Digimon anime series. Your character, male 
 or female, goes into their campus's computer lab after everyone is gone to investigate a rumor 
 about some kind of monsters. Shortly after discovering the Digimon World website, someone sends 
 an e-mail asking, Do you want to open the gate to the Digital World? Surely, your character agrees, 
 and is sucked through the computer into the Digital World's main server.
  
  When your character arrives, Terriermon, who tells them to register as a Digital Tamer and recieve 
 a Digi-Farm, greets them. The game then lets go of your hand, and you are off into the world. However, 
 that does not mean that the game throws you into a sandbox game with no compass. There is plenty 
 to do but let us start at the beginning.
  
  The core gameplay of Digimon World DS is a fusion of Pokemon and Final Fantasy X. When battling, 
 certain Digimon go before others, as indicated by an order of action list in the top screen and 
 you can face anywhere from one to five opponents at once. Your party of Digimon can include a total 
 of six, but only three can be fighting at any given time. Other Digimon are Reliefs , and can be 
 swapped out with others at any time. However, unlike Pokemon or Final Fantasy, where only those 
 who actually fight can gain experience, every Digimon in your party gains the same amount of experience 
 when the enemy finally drops, some more than others if they have an ability to enhance experience 
 gain from certain Digimon types.
  
  Also during battles, where yours and the enemy Digimon are placed is important. There are five 
 zones, which can be set before battle, where both yours and the enemy Digimon can wage battle from 
 and where they are standing depicts whom they can attack. For example, GeoGreymon, once he learns 
 Fiery Breath, can attack enemies in any two zones but they must be close to each other. His advanced 
 fire techniques can strike other zones but how useful they are is dependent on the placement of 
 the enemy Digimon.
  
  In the Pokemon games, you must capture creatures in Poke Balls. In Digimon World, the process of 
 catching Digimon could be classified as cloning . At the beginning of every battle, your character 
 will automatically scan every enemy by five to fifteen percent, and this scan total will not drop 
 until you Digi-Convert the Digimon into an ally at your Digi-Farm. At that time, the Digimons 
 personality and status will be set, as well as their friendship meter; depending on the total percentage 
 you scanned it before converting them. Personality and status are important even in the early stages 
 of the game. Personality depicts what kind of Digimon, such as Defender or Attacker, you will be 
 using. For example, a Timid Digimon will have a higher Defense stat than an Excited one, but 
 most of these are only for use when Digimon are training at the Digi-Farms, and gives a comical 
 twist to the dialogue during such times.
  
  However, what about the Evolution aspect of Digimon. Wow! Break out a notepad and get ready to 
 take some notes. Heres the skinny.
  Digital Evolution is broken down into parts. First is the Requirements stage. To Digivolve, your 
 Digimon must reach a set level and at higher levels, another kind of status. Once this happens, 
 you can choose to Digivolve your ally into one to three forms, each of which has different requirements. 
 This results in a bump in stats and a change of appearance, and often, a new skill. Nevertheless, 
 if at some time you decide you do not like your evolved Digimon, you can chooses to Degenerate 
 them. By doing so, they back one or more forms but retain all their old stats and skills, and can 
 Digivolve again after some time. You must make some progress to do this, but it allows Digimon 
 to break their natural level limits and grow stronger.
  
  Digimon World DS uses the stylus mostly during the farming portions of the game. Otherwise, it 
 is almost useless when wandering. The pad and buttons can be used almost entirely, but given the 
 complexity of this game, the stylus was necessary in the training aspect of Digimon World DS.
 
  
  Overall, Digimon World DS has some rough spots, but the game gives Digimon the RPG experience it 
 truly deserved for years. The clever dialogue from your allies, long list of world quests, and 
 huge database of creatures, over two hundred in total, makes Digimon World DS a truly wonderful 
 experience for any RPG fan. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
