-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Digimon World: Dawn
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/digimonstorysunburst/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Loads of Digimon and plenty of ways to customize them.
 Organizing Digimon and controlling them in battle is good fun.
 More flexibility in the Digifarm system is nice.
 You can battle your friends online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only offers a few minor upgrades over the previous game.
 Single-player mode is weak and takes forever to unfold.
 Graphics and audio are Game Boy Advance quality.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 7.0, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 362 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Developer: Bandai Namco Games
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Sep 18, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Digimon fans will find the multiplayer worthwhile, but the dull story mode is basically just a rehashing 
 of the previous Digimon World. 

  There's an old saying that goes, "second verse, same as the first." That just about sums up Digimon 
 World: Dawn and Digimon World: Dusk, both for the Nintendo DS. Apart from a few trivial enhancements 
 that make it easier to train your virtual monsters and challenge your friends to wireless duels, 
 the two versions of this so-called new game really don't offer much above the previous Digimon 
 World that was released the year before. Once again, diehard Digimon fans will probably be able 
 to forgive the game's phoned-in nature, while those not totally enamored with the franchise will 
 probably shake their head at this plodding, half-hearted take on the monster battle genre.  

  Like Pokmon, as well as all the other games of its ilk, Digimon World is a story-driven dungeon 
 crawler where you set out to capture and raise as many digital monsters, or Digimon, as possible. 
 There's nothing particularly inspiring about the story. It's merely a hackneyed tale that involves 
 two rival factions joining forces to stop a mysterious villain from taking over the world. Visiting 
 the quest counter in the main city will send you out on a fetch quest, which, in turn, will reward 
 you with another ridiculously small piece of the story. Being an errand boy for 15 to 20 hours 
 is terribly boring, as you can imagine. Thankfully, the story is just a means to an end -- the excuse 
 to send you to all of the game's different virtual environments so you can skirmish with wild Digimon 
 and add them to your collection of fighting monsters.  

           First, you collect, train, and breed Digimon. Then, you control them in turn-based three-on-three 
 battles.      

  Each version of the game tells the same basic story, but they each have their own dungeons and 
 a couple dozen Digimon that the other version lacks. If your favorite Digimon fall into the dragon, 
 aqua, bird, or holy categories, you'll want to pick up the Dawn version. The Dusk version, meanwhile, 
 is geared more toward gathering the beast, machine, organic, and dark species. In total, there 
 are roughly 400 Digimon to collect. To get all 400 into your save data, you'll have to trade and 
 breed your Digimon with other players that own the other version.  

  Going out on silly quests, fighting the same low-level monsters, and watching the story play out 
 in trickling fashion is all terribly, terribly tedious. However, the reward for your tenacity is 
 the ability to customize and create some truly killer Digimon. The Digimon you collect in the wild 
 will learn new attacks as they gain experience and can be evolved or devolved into other Digimon 
 at certain points. Your Digimon gain different types of experience based on the kinds of monsters 
 you have them fight. When one of your monsters gains enough levels to evolve into a later form, 
 you usually have two or three potential forms to pick from depending on how many different types 
 of wild monsters you've made it a point to fight. Another way to create new Digimon is to mate 
 two Digimon together, which will yield an egg that will eventually hatch a monster sharing the 
 traits of both parents. On top of all that, you can outfit your monsters with swords, armor, and 
 other items that further boost their abilities.  

  If you played the previous Digimon World, you'll notice a few minor improvements in this new game 
 that are meant to make the process of gaining levels and evolving your Digimon easier. Each area 
 seems specifically set up to help certain types gain experience. Also, when you devolve a monster, 
 it now drops all the way back to level one. That may sound like a negative, but it actually gives 
 you more levels with which to build stats. The biggest change has to do with the Digifarm system. 
 Instead of leaving your Digimon to train at a prebuilt farm, you now get to design your own unique 
 farm by selecting the music you prefer, as well as placing the individual terrain and equipment 
 pieces wherever you like. As before, each piece of terrain and equipment has a specific kind of 
 experience associated with it. For example, by placing a bunch of fire-boosting pieces on your 
 farm, you can turn your Agumon into a Greymon in no time. The overall selection of terrain and 
 equipment has tripled since the first Digimon World. So, even though watching your farm-raised 
 Digimon slowly gain levels on the upper screen while you go about your business on the lower screen 
 still feels very much like watching paint dry, at least you now have greater control over the way 
 your farm looks and how it's set up.  

  The battle system is pretty fun, even if it hasn't changed one bit from the previous game. Battles 
 are still turn-based and involve three Digimon on each side. When it's your turn to attack, you 
 pick one of your monster's attacks from a list, select the target, and then watch the attack happen. 
 Turns go back and forth until one side's team is defeated. Traits, such as dragon, beast, dark, 
 and holy, come into play as strengths or weaknesses. You also have to take formation into account. 
 On offense, some attacks affect certain positions on the field but not others. On defense, you 
 have to decide whether to situate your monsters side by side to gain support bonuses or to split 
 them up to prevent your opponent from smacking you with group attacks.  

           You can design your own Digifarm now. That's just about the only thing, other than online 
 play, that this game does differently from the previous one.      

  Later dungeons and CPU opponents put up a strong challenge. But between the plodding story and 
 the overall predictability of the CPU, you really need to set up battles against other human beings 
 to enjoy the game. For the first Digimon World, that meant local "same room" matchups only. Dawn 
 and Dusk up the ante by allowing players to duel online through Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connect service. 
 You can't just seek out random opponents, which is kind of weak, but it's not too difficult to 
 swap friend codes and arrange battles over e-mail or your favorite online forum. Because the battles 
 are turn-based, you won't notice any problems with lag or stalling. In fact, fighting a real person 
 feels just like facing off against the CPU, except without the mind-numbing predictability. You 
 can also breed your Digimon with your friends or random people that happen to be online. That will 
 help you acquire the majority of Digimon that aren't in the specific version you're playing. Some 
 of them, though, need to be acquired through straight-up trades, which, for some crazy reason, 
 still can't be consummated online.  

  The quality of the presentation lacks any kind of heart or soul, but it gets the job done. The 
 isometric 2D environments and tiny characters in the quest view look generic. They're also about 
 as detailed and colorful as the stuff you'd see in every role-playing-game put out for the Game 
 Boy Advance a few years ago. The monsters in the battle view are pretty huge, at least, while their 
 attacks exhibit a wide variety of nifty visual effects for such things as flames, poison clouds, 
 ice crystals, and so on. It's also nice that the game makes use of the upper screen to display 
 helpful status information during the fight. The sound effects are just a bunch of generic slashes, 
 elemental sounds, and growls. However, the music is actually very dramatic and beautifully orchestrated. 

  Because of the plodding story and modest presentation, this probably isn't a game you should buy 
 if you're not a diehard Digimon fan or won't be able to take advantage of the game's multiplayer 
 features. Conversely, if you are a Digimon fan, as well as know you'll be able to play and trade 
 with other people, you should be able to overlook the game's weaker aspects to get your money's 
 worth.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (10 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gnarkill1524
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Digimon World: Dawn is probably the second best digimon game i have ever played. The first was 
 that one for the gba which was kinda like super smash bros. Anyhow this games storyline is kinda 
 akward and not very good but the game play makes up for it. it is a lot like pokemon in that you 
 have 6 digimon and you fight anywhere from 1 to 5 digimon at a time using only 3 of your digimon. 
 The best part of this game is leveling up your digimon and making them digivolve into various digimon. 
 The "farming"system is kinda confusing but once you get used to it, it really helps your digimon 
 get better. This game is pretty good and i recommend it for all digimon fans.
  
  i need more characters because the limit is 800 and i dont have enough and i cant really write 
 more about this game because i havent beaten it yet so lalalalala wooohooo add this band on myspace. 
 
  
  
  
  there that should be enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iwkya0X
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 22, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  You start off as a boy or girl, because I'm a guy I picked male. Note I live in Australia so I 
 don't get most of games that the damn US gets and yeah I'm really trying hard not to swear in this 
 review. Now I really had fun with this game but the start up is just weird I mean you don't really 
 start with any story line and yes I'm that type of person who looks for story line then the real 
 game play, but back to the review I name my little guy Yu and I didn't know there was Yu from Digimon 
 Next comic (Now on www. onemanga. com) in it so sue me. You start off with 3 digimon two that are 
 all ready at there ultimate level and I found that cool but after I finished the first mission 
 I found they turn back in to there normal boring rookie forms. Its not a bad game its just time 
 taking, I mean you can rush to the end of the game in 3 days or 24 hours if your a big fat nerd 
 sitting on your toilet all day and all night. I did like it that it did have most of the digimon 
 I remembered like Agumon and so on. The only really bad part of this game is the damn battles. 
 People like me who wants to get from point A needs 
  to go into a big maze at times just to find one digimon then you have to backtrack most of the 
 time on a mission. I was disappointed that it didn't have VforceVeedramon in it but you got Goldramon 
 that isn't even in Veemon's digievolve line, and the DNA was abit messed up like someone was watching 
 Zero Punctuation on there computer when it was at the near the deadline so they just rushed it 
 to watch more of Yahtzee swearing and making rude re-marks on games. If your a hard core digimon 
 fan like I am I would buy it. Its a good game to waste hours of your lives on trying to get all 
 digimon on it. But you do want to grab Dusk too because the game is like pokemon you need both 
 or all 3 games to get all of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyoger2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Dawn/Dusk includes Digimon from every Digimon adventure (besides Frontier (4) ) ! A very enjoyable 
 game that I liked much more that Pokemon D/P. You can talk to your Digimon and interact with them. 
 It improved from Digimon World DS a lot. Lots more Digimon to collect than the last game, as well 
 as a good story. The only flaws I found were the graphics and the fact that if you choose the girl 
 for the story, they'll call you a boy. You "scan" Digimon Data, then go to your Tamer Home, where 
 you can get a copy of your own. A good game for people who like Pokemon, but are betting tired 
 of it. I spent a lot of time on this game, collecting and training my favorite Digimon. I got it, 
 then told my friends, and they loved it, too. Another bad part they could improve was that you 
 can only have 40 Digimon. The Digimon Island limit could be a bit better. Unlike in Digimon World 
 DS, you can't buy Digifood. And when you Digivolve a Digimon, it will go back to level one. Otherwise, 
 this is an AMAZING game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chjaei
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  This game has upgraded alot since the original. They added many new digimon and made more accurate 
 digivolution lines! Unlike some others may say the story line is pretty cool and easy to follow. 
 Many areas with varying digimon and many digimon that need to be degenerated and digivolved to 
 get. This game is very intresting and worth picking up. Anyone who likes RPG's, Monster-Raising 
 games, or Digimon in general. Despite what many others say, it is worth picking up. If unsure you 
 should definitely rent it at least, maybe borrow from a friend... All I can say is PLEASE TRY IT!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow701
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  An excellent rival to the Pokemon series, a refreshing alternative! Though the Digimon resemble 
 Pokemon at the In-Training, Rookie, and Champion levels, beyond that, the Digimon really look cool! 
 The ability to merge two Digimon and return them to their previous forms makes for near limitless 
 combat combinations. The ability to play the game virtually worldwide adds to its competitive and 
 replay value drastically! It does have its faults, as you cannot see your own Digimon during the 
 heat of battle. Also, there are sporadic translation errors. Solid gameplay at its core. Music 
 is adequate. The graphics are a bit dated for DS standards, feels more like a late GBA game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezz-mezz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 8:03 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing , yes it may be similar to the first digimon game on the DS but this 
 is more challenging than it and has a wider range of digimon available. Once you pick up this game 
 and play it you will be unable to put it down for weeks on end . The graphics on this game are 
 very good for the Nintendo DS and are propberly some of the best that will come out on this console 
 . The sound is also very good because it is never the same in each location it changes and the 
 music when you digivolve is also very nice . The most important thing about any good game is the 
 Gameplay , and this game has perfect gameplay . There is always something to do in this game which 
 range from collecting scan data and completing quests so this game will keep you playin even after 
 the main storyline is completed . All in all this game got a 9.5 / 10 from me because it is a game 
 that stands out from the crowd and offers everyone of the ages 3 - 16 a great past time which is 
 incrediably fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agubna
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I had the original digimon world ds, played it for over 150 hours and loved it. I was hoping that 
 dawn/dusk lived up to how awesome the original was, and for the MOST part, it did. I really love 
 this game, a lot of the reason is because there are over 350 pokemon with SO many new ones that 
 you would have LOVED to see in the original, but were absent.
  (for example: Shingreymon/Miragegaogamon are in this one, and werent in the original) This game 
 is also long and hard. It took me over 40 hours before I beat all the quests. Theres so many of 
 them too, that they will just seem to never stop. This game is also hard, because the bosses in 
 this game, in my opinion, are a lot harder than the bosses in the original. Therefore, takes a 
 lot more training to beat them. There are a lot of new moves, which are great, but with a lot of 
 old ones too. The main things I do not like about this game is the fact that when you digivolve 
 someone, they go all the way back to level 1, which can be a pain in the a$$, especially if you 
 are on the way to mega level, and you have a lvl.1 ultimate with a LOT of training to do to be 
 the level requirement for its mega form. Another good thing about this game though is the fact 
 that you can now battle over wifi. You couldnt do that before, only match. I am disappointed in 
 the fact that you cant trade over wifi, you can only trade through wireless communications. But 
 overall, I LOVE this game and would spend $30.00 on it any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kidou
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  The Good: More Digimon available than in the previous game | Online battling is finally available 
 | Battling is easy to jump into since they shoot you directly into it from the get-go.
  
  The Bad: Run-in rate is killer | Farm System got a severe downgrade since the last game | Graphics 
 and music are at a stand still.
  
  ---------------------------
  
  Digimon World: Dawn/Dusk is the second Digimon game featured on the Nintendo DS. The two games, 
 in a sense are almost exactly the same, with the differences being several Digimon being exclusive 
 to each game and the areas within the game that you can access. The other obvious one is the team 
 that you're on. Since I'm posting this review in Dawn, I'll talk solely about Dawn.
  
  Your adventure in Digimon World: Dawn takes place in Sunshine City where you fight against your 
 rival team, Night Crow who resides in Darkmoon City. Dawn starts you off participating in the Bronze 
 Tamer Tournament. As the storyline would take it, just as you're about to make a run for the Championship, 
 chaos in the two cities ensue.
  
  A mysterious virus is spreading around destroying access points that connect the two cities and 
 reverting Digimon to their Digitama (DigiEgg) state. The terror is spreading fast, and something 
 needs to be done about it. That's where you step in. The Light Fang Chief, Julia, has entrusted 
 you to investigate what is going on and get to the bottom of it all.
  
  One particular feature about the game that stands out is the Farm System that the Digimon DS games 
 use. Here, you're able to put Digimon in a farm with several training items that you can use to 
 help raise your Digimon and DigiEggs. The Farm System in Dawn/Dusk took a severe beating from the 
 first game. Dawn/Dusk capped limits on your farm by adding a memory system. Each item you use on 
 your farm is a certain size and depending on your farms memory it limits you to how much training 
 equipment you can use on your farm. The last game had a level up system with the items where they 
 would grow after a certain amount of days. The items in Dawn/Dusk, however, are standalone items 
 and can no longer be upgraded by just keeping it in your farm. Also, it's harder to get food since 
 you cannot directly buy Digimon Food from the shops. The Farms also allow you to give Digimon specific 
 experience gains this time by the addition of terrain change and background music. Depending what 
 the farm is equipped with, it will either benefit or limit what certain Digimon can gain.
  
  A good feature that Digimon fans were waiting for has to be it's addition of online battling. 
 Like the Pokemon series, as long as you have your friend's Friend Code, you can battle using the 
 Nintendo Wi-Fi system. What's great about this is that it allows you to gain Tamer Points (points 
 needed in-game for certain items and events) with each win or loss. I've battled online several 
 times and have found absolutely no problems battling with other people. Although finding them online 
 might be a hassle from time to time.
  
  As far as graphics go for this game, it goes almost unchanged from the last game, only change up 
 a few sprites and making several of them smaller. In some Digimon, for example ShineGreymon, you'll 
 notice a huge graphical difference from the other in-game sprites that isn't 100% visually appealing. 
 It smooths out the graphics, but it doesn't mean that it actually looks good. Some other Digimon 
 suffer from a lack of detail because their sprites are so small. The attack/defense/support animations 
 are exactly the same from the last game, so there's nothing new graphically for this game.
  
  Musically, they've varied up some of the music that plays, but doesn't do anything that pushes 
 it's music to the next level. Most of the time, you'll be playing this game with the volume down 
 since you might get tired of the alarm sound going off whenever you run into a Digimon.
  
  Training in Dawn/Dusk is actually quite easy since the game allows you to hold up to 3 Digimon 
 to use in battle and 3 Digimon to hold in reserve. But even though it's easy to level up, it starts 
 becoming a chore when the places you're training at aren't giving enough experience. You'll be 
 able to access better training spots later, but not until after you beat the main adventure. The 
 game also requires you to degenerate your Digimon several times for statistic gains, which makes 
 training even more tedious. It's not horrible, but the system could be made a little easier for 
 some. Although tedious, you become rather numb to the fact you have to keep degenerating later.
 
  
  Even after the adventure has ended, there is still lots more to do after the game to keep you busy, 
 not only does this add some value to the game, it also adds a certain degree of challenge since 
 these additional quests are particularly harder than the main story line quests. Most players would 
 appreciate some extra adventure.
  
  Digimon World: Dawn/Dusk, is a solid game that does improve on certain things from the last game, 
 but is almost at a stand still due to some bad decisions made game play. It doesn't really add 
 anything new to those who have played the last game, but with the addition of online battling, 
 it does add a certain value to the game that makes this title worth purchasing. If you're a fan 
 of the last game, Pokemon has left you bored, or willing to indulge in another RPG for the DS, 
 Digimon World: Dawn and Dusk is worth that purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkaxl1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Its a very addictive game and it takes very long to beat, Actually I'm still not done yet.
  
  Wi-Fi is pretty sweet, You find people online and you see all there digimon in there digifarms 
 and you pick one of yours to breed with theres and instantly you get an egg of different sorts. 
 You can do this as many times as you like.
  
  Then if you have friend codes you can battle people with your digimon which is always fun .
  
 
  Yes it may be like Pokemon but if you like Pokemon what's stopping you from liking this game. Pokemon 
 a great series and so is digimon.
  
  So thoughts who are complaining just shut up and try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaDark
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Many of us probably remember Digimon: Digital Monsters in some form or another. It might be as 
 the old Saturday morning cartoon on Fox Kids, or it might be the cute Tomagachi style virtual pets 
 of the 90's.
  Some of us may have even played some of the previous Digimon World installments.
  
  Digimon 
 is short for Digital Monsters. These Digimon live in a digital/virtual world called the Digi World 
 . Everything in this Digiworld, including the digimon are actually pieces of data. Think of it 
 like living inside a computer program. Data can be deleted, rearranged, moved, copied, manipulated... etc.
 
  Its very similar to the Pokemon concept, but bear in mind Digimon came before Pokemon in Japan.
 
  
  Just like in any game, there is an evil threatening the world... in this case, its the Digital World 
 being threatened by an evil Computer Virus type Digimon. Its your job as a Digimon Tamer (think 
 Pokemon trainer) to figure out whats going on.
  
  You are given a choice of which Digimon partners to start off with in the beginning. There are 
 3 sets to choose from. Dawn focuses more on brighter friendlier looking Digimon, while Dusk features 
 mostly beastly looking digimon.
  
  The story progresses through a series of quests. Quests are assigned to you via the Quest Office. 
 There you can talk to the NPCs and pick a quest of your liking. Once completed, return to the NPC 
 who issued the quest for your reward. Simple enough.
  
  However, as any good Digimon fan &amp; Pokemon trainer knows the real fun in these kinds of games 
 is training your Digimon/Pokemon, and collecting them all. This is where DigimonWorld: Dusk/Dawn 
 set themselves apart from any Pokemon game!
  
  Digimon have various stages they can go through. Each digimon starts in a baby (in-training) stage. 
 Then, when they get old enough they Digivolve to their rookie stage. Under very specific circumstances, 
 this rookie can Digivolve to the next level of power called the Champion stage. In rarely seen 
 situations, Champion level digimon can Digivolve to an even higher level! This is called the Ultimate 
 stage. There are several other variations to Digivolving, but these are the basics.
  
  Your three starter digimon start at the Ultimate level in the very beginning. Nice! This is to 
 better show you what this game is like when your digimon are strong and at their best.
  However, a few minutes into the game, that evil virus digimon degenerates your team down to their 
 in-training stage.
  From here, your quest begins to find out just what creature you are facing and find out how to 
 stop it.
  
  Training your digimon is done through battling and gaining XP.
  For each level your digimon gains, its base stats go up. Nothing out of the ordinary.
  However, 
 there is one stat called Apptitude that doesn't go up by leveling up. Appt is the max level your 
 digimon can get to.
  An Appt of 35 means, your digimon can only get up to level 35.
  
  The only way to increase Appt is by Degenerating to a weaker form or Digivolving to a stronger 
 form. Each time you do this, appt goes up, and your digimon returns to level 1. However, your stats 
 remain largely unaffected. There are certain conditions that must be met before digivolving or 
 degnerating. Let me give you an example.
  
  Say I have a level 1 Koromon.
  After training for a while, I reach level 7 and have these stats.
  Attack 100
  Def 100
  Appt 
 7
  
  Since I can go no further up in levels, something must be done. Good thing a Koromon can Digivolve 
 to Agumon at level 7.
  Koromon Digivolve to.... Agumon! 
  
  I now have a level 1 Agumon with 5% higher stats than Koromon.
  I then need to train Agumon for 
 a while to try and get his next evolution. Greymon. But Greymon requires Agumon to be level 17, 
 and Agumon's Appt is 10. What do we do? Degenerate to Koromon once we are able to at level 7.
 
  
  We now have a Koromon with 98% of Agumon's stats.
  Train to become Agumon again and digivolve.
  Train Agumon to level 17, then Digivolve him to 
 Greymon.
  
  This constant degenerating &amp; Digivolving adds a whole new level of depth to your standard monster 
 collecting/raising game.
  
  But apart from this, some Digimon require much more than specific levels to digivolve to their 
 next form. Specific XP is needed from a digimon type. There are various types of Digimon in the 
 world, and each gives a particular XP. Holy, Dragon, Beast, Aquain, Bug/Plant, etc. Each time you 
 beat a Digimon of a particular class, their class' XP is added to your digimon's tally. Any type 
 can be used for leveling up, but specific XP is needed for certain digivolutions.
  Greymon's next form MetalGreymon (an Ultimate level Digimon) requires you to have 3500 Dragon XP 
 and have Greymon at level 34.
  
  Once you met these conditions, you can Digivolve your Greymon to MetalGreymon. His stats go up, 
 but his level goes back to level 1.
  This is actually a good thing. From level 1, it makes it very very easy to level up and gain higher 
 stats.
  
  So, now you can see why a highly trained Rookie level Digimon could in theory beat a poorly trained 
 Ultimate level Digimon. Sure, the higher up the digivolution chain... the higher stats. but a highly 
 trained rookie can have just as high stats by simply training.
  
  As if that weren't enough, each digimon has multiple paths to Digivolve into. Koromon can become 
 Agumon or DotAgumon.
  Agumon can become Greymon or GeoGreymon. This gives you plenty of options. And the Agumon I'm using 
 in this example is only 1 of the 400 available Digimon in this game.
  
  So you start with 3 digimon, how do you get more?
  Battles are usually random, just like any 
 good RPG. Each time you load into a random battle with a wild digimon, your Digivice (think Pokegear/Pokedex) 
 will SCAN the data of the enemy digimon. This scan will usually be about 5% of their totall data 
 makeup. After various encounters with that same digimon, your Digivice should eventually get to 
 a 100% Scan Data for that particular digimon. Once there, you can create that digimon and your 
 scan data goes back to 0%. You can get a total of 999% scan data on each digimon. The higher the 
 scan data, the more powerful your generated digimon will be. But at 5% - 15% Data Scan PER ENCOUNTER 
 with that digimon, 999% is a very very long way away.
  
  Now that you've generated another digimon, you can add him to your party. You can have a total 
 of 6 digimon in your party, but only 3 can be active. That means only the 3 you choose go into 
 battle. The 3 on the sidelines can't be substituted in during a battle either.
  However, all 6 digimon in your party receive XP when the battle ends. That makes it easy to train 
 everyone in your party at an even pace.
  
  This is the very very bare bone basics to this game, there are many more things to be learned. 
 Things like Armor Digivolving, DNA Digivolving, Online Matching (Breeding) , online Fights, trades, 
 Mega level Digimon, Digimon Equipment, Digimon Farms, etc.
  
  Overall this is a very indepth RPG monster collecting/raising game for the nintendo ds. I highly 
 recommend it to anyone who enjoyed Pokemon, or is a fan of Digimon. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
