-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Digimon World Championship
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/digimonchampionship/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A nice variety of digimon to train and care for.
 Does more than rehash last year's formula.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Virtual pet mode is boring.
 Computer-controlled battling takes away much of the excitement.
 Evolving your digimon is unintuitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.5, 6 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 114 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Developer: Epics
Genre: Strategy
Date: Aug 26, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Digimon World Championship attempts to shake things up with some interesting ideas, but these changes 
 leave the game repetitive and unexciting. 

  Last year's Digimon World games for the Nintendo DS, Dawn and Dusk, were retreads of Digimon World 
 DS that failed to improve upon the formula. Namco Bandai decided to shake things up with Digimon 
 World Championship by revamping the battle system, introducing more involved Digimon hunting mechanics, 
 and -- strangely enough -- reaching into the past by including the pet-raising mechanics of the original 
 Digimon World for the PlayStation. Unfortunately, Digimon World Championship also completely eschews 
 any storytelling and takes away some hands-on control from Digimon battles, resulting in a disappointingly 
 tepid game.  

           Lassoing and dragging Digimon into your collection is pretty fun...      

  Digimon 
 World Championship puts you in the role of a tamer whose purpose is simply to hunt, train, and 
 take care of multiple digimon for entry into a world championship tournament. There are no dungeons 
 to crawl around in or plot twists to discover. As you win battles, you increase your tamer rank, 
 as well as the level to which your digimon can evolve. Every day, you increase your digimon's abilities 
 and stats by dragging them into different cages using your stylus. As the game progresses, you'll 
 be able to purchase more cages that have unique effects on your digimon's development. You're given 
 limited space with which to work, so you'll also have to manage the way your cages are laid out. 
 Your critters will get hungry, tired, sick, and even cranky as they train. As such, you'll have 
 to feed and medicate them appropriately. You'll even have to undertake the embarrassing task of 
 cleaning up their digital "leavings."  

  At first, managing your cage layout and caring for digimon as pets are refreshing gameplay mechanics -- at 
 least in relation to recent games in the franchise. But as the population of digimon increases, 
 all of that cleaning, dragging, and feeding becomes extremely repetitive and dull. With this in 
 mind, trying to juggle around all the different cages also becomes somewhat frustrating as you 
 try to mix up training regimens for the various monsters. Furthermore, it's hard to figure out 
 how to evolve your digimon, and the game is no help. You will eventually discover that in order 
 to advance your monsters, you have to repeatedly de-evolve them. This isn't just counterintuitive, 
 it's also frustratingly repetitive.  

  You'll need to take some time out of your pet-care schedule to hunt for new creatures. At its core, 
 this involves drawing a lasso around your prey with the stylus and then dragging it in the opposite 
 direction from which it's running. This is perhaps the most enjoyable part of the game for two 
 reasons. You won't be hunting often because you don't have that much room to keep digimon, so it 
 doesn't get overly repetitive. It's also the only portion that really requires dexterity on your 
 part because battling is an entirely hands-off affair.  

  During most days of the in-game calendar, events called "Title Battles" are available for you to 
 partake in -- provided that you register for them between 7:00 and 15:00 on the day of a given match. 
 You can also participate in "Free Battles" on the side to further develop your digimon. These battles 
 can be one-on-one, three-on-one, three-on-three, and one-on-three. Fights play out in real time, 
 with participants running around an arena and wailing away on each other. Once you assemble your 
 team, you're able to set one of three general strategies for each team member -- but that's really 
 it. You don't control any of your team members directly, you can't select which attacks to use, 
 and you can't even switch up general tactics during the battle. This auto-battle system carries 
 over to the multiplayer modes as well. Digimon World Championship provides DS wireless and Wi-Fi 
 Connection multiplayer modes, but leaving your success to the whimsy of artificial intelligence 
 just isn't as exciting as making the correct strategic decisions yourself.  

  The game's presentation is none too thrilling either, though it manages to stay inoffensive... mostly. 
 Everything is presented in 2D, with some zooming effects taking place during battle. Almost all 
 of the digimon are colorful, detailed, and easy to tell apart. However, there's some noticeable 
 slowdown that occurs while training your digimon in their cages -- something that shouldn't be an 
 issue in a game with such simple visuals.  

           ... feeding every one of them every day and then cleaning up after them? Not so much.  
     

  Digimon World Championship presents an interesting combination of gameplay mechanics, but it just 
 doesn't take them as far as they could go. There are some nice little touches, such as when the 
 game looks up your birthday on your DS and gives you a gift or how your digimon's hunting habits 
 will have to change as the seasons do. In the end, though, the auto-battle system and repetitive 
 virtual pet mode drain much of the life out of this game, leaving behind a tedious and detached 
 experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FlamingNiXoN
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  tue this game did get a bad rating it is perfectly understandable. However i give this game a 7.0 
 because of these reasons:
  - keep you entertained for hours
  - Somewhat fun to watch them battle
  - Figuring out how to actually do stuff in the game like 
 figuring out the digivolution requirments give you a sense accomplishment
  
  It failed to satisfy in for a number of reasons. when you first start the game you will never EVER 
 EVER EVER be able to succesfully hunt and capture a digimon its impossible. but after a while of 
 toughing it out with your koromon or whoever u get to start with you will be able to buy items 
 to help yourself. when you start you wont understand the digimon evolution chart it will just pop 
 a blood vessel in your head ull be so mad! but then again you will get a hang of it!
  It took me 3 restarts to make sure my koromon did NOT digivolve into the ridiculous toyaugumon 
 the lego thing and actually digivolved into augumon. Eventually you will have a pretty good time 
 with this game and find yourself playing it when bored and when pretending to be sick so you could 
 go home from school and play this game. However you will lose the championship and other things 
 along this line. For one Drastic reason. EVERY SINGLE TIME THE CHAMPIONSHIP DAY COMES, all your 
 megadigimon will turn into eggs. EXTREME BS THEY COULD NOT HAVE PICKED A WORST ABILITY IN THE GAME 
 GGRRRRAAAAAHHH!!!!
  
  but even tho it has its downfalls its a pretty reliable game when your bored or want to past the 
 time. 
  
  MY advice to most of you would be to but the orignal Digimon World DS and if you like that move 
 on to digimon world dusk or dawn then try this game l8r in life. 
  
  
  ARSON 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragondusk
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  this game is greatest!! I like it very much!!! thids game is very tough you must raise from one 
 baby digimon to a mega but that's not the hard part. you must fight throug title matches to digimon 
 championship and it's not easy. to become a digimon champion you must train your digimon very hard. 
 there is 216-217 ( i don't know really) digimons I still play this game and i haven't fought in 
 championship yet but I will very soon. more about fighting style. you can enter 1-3 digimons in 
 arena and they fight on their self but there is cheat for controling one of your digimon but I 
 won't tell you. about gameplay, graphic and music my grades are:
  
  gameplay:9/10
  graphic:9/10 (only because is DS game)
  music:9/10 (same reason as for graphic)
  
  you are 
 probably asking why my score is 10. the reason is because is digimon and one of the best digimon 
 game in digimon serias for DS. my advice is only if you are patiently play this game. thx for reading 
 my review!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munchgun
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is about raising your Digimon, you can't digivolve them unless you get something 
 called a Training License, depending on which one you have the higher it can Digivolve. Mine is Mega 
 which means I can Digivolve them to Mega, which I have done, pretty obvious right?.
  
  You don't do the fighting the Digimon fight themselves which was fine with me, like I said I'm not 
 complaining, I knew what I was getting into when I bought it. The battles are pretty easy to win. If 
 you train them to their max attack you can't train them to their max defense, why? because if you 
 increase a stat. another is decreased, which isn't bad, all of mine have Max attack and Hp. It doesn't 
 really matter, just don't waste your time trying to get something perfect. 
  
  It doesn't take a long time to Digivolve a Digimon, you just need the right license the right training 
 and you need to win a lot of free battles or Title Matches. It gets pretty repetitive though which 
 was fine with me, as long as it passes the time...
  
  Sometimes when you're about to get a Mega level Digimon it may turn back into a Digi egg, which 
 isn't bad It'll take a while to Digivolve it back but It'll be stronger than it was before, my Wargreymon 
 has done that many times it takes a while but the more times it does it the stronger it will be 
 once you reach Mega again.
  
  In my opinion this game is pretty good, don't expect a story though, it has none. Again I think It's 
 good, It's an opinion please don't bother me if you don't like the game, It's just my opinion. Oh 
 and sorry for any spelling errors.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AMD91
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  This was the worst digimon game i have ever played.
  Its even worse the digimon data squad.
  This game was bad because of its low graphics and what 
 to do in the game.
  At first you need to train your partner very good and then battle and this wil actually take a 
 long time because as you increase something sometimes something decreases. As an example sometimes 
 when you increase HP your digimons TP will decrease. So that will take forever to get what you want.
 
  I never evolved a digimon to its maximum but i as i saw it takes along time to evolve it.
  To catch digimon is a little hard but as you practice you will get the hang of it (which i didn't) . The 
 way to catch is a little strange too.
  The way to catch is putting a circle around the digimon (kinda like Pokemon ranger) until something 
 happens on the screen and then you pull a rope towards until you catch it.
  Once you catch your digimon you put it in the cage and train it like your first digimon it will 
 evolve and can join battles.
  As you go through the game you will have tournaments or title battles to do which have specific 
 rules.
  The worst thing in this game is when you battle. When you battleyou just see the battle and do nothing 
 which is kinda stupid and BORING!!!
  So overall this game is the worst digimon game ever played and it is absolute boring to just see 
 battles and you just watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ignite2k3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  For those who were ever following the series of Digimon since they ever started, you should remember 
 that they were actually keychain (Tamagotchi) pets that lets you train from an egg slowly to its 
 ultimate stage, and allows you to perform battles with friends who have them. 
  
  Only later stages of Digimon games became popular with a story line that apparently was used to 
 attract more childrens. 
  
  Digimon World Championship is all about training your digimon, and pitting them in battles. No 
 kiddy story lines to torture you, no quest. All you have to do, is to train your Digimon to be 
 the strongest there is! 
  
  In battles, you don't get to control your Digimon, how they fight, is totally dependant on how 
 you trained them before, which is how Digimon was supposed to be. 
  
  If you were the fan of the original Digimon, you will love this game, if you only started playing 
 Digimon after they became like Pokemon, you may find this game boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piledriver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This was my first experience with Digimon and after a few hours of play find it quite enjoyable. 
 The gameplay is easy and the tutorial is helpful, but in-game help is pretty worthless.
  
  All you need to do is prepare your monsters for battle. Just drag them around to different stations 
 (cages) and watch the stats go up and down. I'm not sure when they beef up, but giving them a good 
 balance of training seems to do the trick.
  
  The title battles have the biggest payouts but I always tried to join the battle too late and missed 
 it - so keep an eye on the clock! The battles seem to be easy or hard with little middle ground. 
 
  
  You'll only get to manage about a half a dozen monsters, and if you're not careful they'll start 
 disappearing as others level up.
  
  The strategy and fun in the game is building your monsters and then building your "deck" of monsters 
 as needed for each battle. You can't go in with all strength and no defense, and vice versa. You 
 have to keep tabs on your monsters, which requires a lot of screen skipping, but this is the challenge.
 
  
  I didn't mind the auto-battles, but the ability to speed up or skip to the outcome would have been 
 nice. This game isn't about your ability to control and fight, it's about building your team in 
 just the right way.
  
  This isn't a very involved game and is very accessible, but it kept me playing for about 4 hours 
 straight after dropping it in the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kapuran
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  While I have only been playing the game for... well, tonight (instead of sleeping) , I feel that 
 I've seen enough to say that I love this game. It's simple, and addictive, which is enough to make 
 a game great (some of the time -- other times you require dozens of hours of gameplay and a story 
 which could fill a bookshelf) .
  
  There is no plot to this game, and as such, I would recommend that if you are getting this game, 
 you do it with a friend, and you both better love Digimon. Because of the shallow nature of the 
 game, a love for Digimon helps keep you interested consciously, and I recommend a friend because 
 multiplayer probably also encourages your continued play (in a similar fashion to Pokemon; you 
 keep training to get better to beat your friend/sibling... although you maybe only battle that 
 person once or twice in the hundreds of hours you spend training) .
  
  What you do in this game is simple. You feed, train, and clean up after your Digimon in a very 
 Tamagotchi like fashion. While doing this, you frantically move your Digimon from cage to cage 
 where they learn different skills which result in stat boosts, which affect your Digimon's branched 
 evolution tree in ways I have yet to personally discern, and as a new game there is not yet a walkthrough 
 on GameFAQs leaving me with my rag-tag team of random Digimon. When you have enough space for more 
 Digimon, which you get by winning Title Match Tournaments, you go out and hunt for more, by circling 
 them with your stylus and then yanking them until they get too tired and you can bag and tag them. 
 (Unlike PKMN Ranger, you only need to circle them once, but you need to pull on them a fair bit, 
 which is worse then Ranger's incessant circling) . You can also shoot at them, bomb them, and bait 
 them, and a whole slew of things I've yet to unlock, I'm sure, but the idea is the same.
  
  And then there are the tournaments themselves, and the point of the whole thing. Essentially, you 
 hope you've trained your soldiers well enough, because you choose three, select their battle mode, 
 and set 'em loose; the battle is fully automated and often frustrating to watch.
  
  Still, the whole experience is rather fun and rewarding, in my opinion; you have to have conquered 
 a number of pointless games before it to be able to deal with something of this nature (Pokemon, 
 Monster Rancher, and previous Digimon games come to mind) but if your a fan of the series, I highly 
 recommend this unexpected gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death_godlet
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  Digimon has always been what seems to be the eternal Pokemon rival. For eons, people have debated 
 over what was better. 
  
  First Impression:
  Hmm.. Digimon as an actual virtual pet. I think it sounds like an interesting idea.
  
  Gameplay:
 
  Everything here is stylus controlled and you see the world from a top view. Interesting. Now the 
 fact that the game actually said "Login" rather than press start made me think of an online game. 
 Makes sense, too. 
  Now the game starts you off with a digi-egg which you use through the tutorial phase of the game. 
 The egg eventually hatches and you have two In Training digimon in your cage thing. Much like the 
 tamagotchi people were lugging around in the old days, these Digimon get hungry, poop and get injured. 
 Apart from feeding them and cleaning up their poop, you get to go out into the field and catch 
 MORE digimon to feed and clean up after. 
  Sounds ok... So far. 
  These digimon have to be trained as well and eventually, they grow strong enough to be used in 
 battle. Unfortunately, you have NO IDEA how to evolve them just right. Unlike the past Digimon 
 games where you had the option to look up a digimon's stats and check it's evolutionary tree, you... 
 don't have the option to this time around. It's more of a hit and miss thing unless you've managed 
 to memorize every single prerequisite for evolution in each game. 
  The battle system is quite... interesting. 
  You choose your team and they slug it out with your 
 opponents UNASSISTED. What they choose to do in the battle is all up to them.
  The game was interesting to begin with but as Gamespot has said before me, this is a bit of a disappointment. 
 It seems to me that the player is allowed little freedom apart from training and caring for the 
 Digimon. Random. Hit and miss. Yuss. 
  
  Last words:
  This is a great training tool for a kid who wants a pet. If they can manage to clean and feed their 
 digimon for a long period of time without going stark raving mad... they deserve that dog. :/
 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
