-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Diner Dash: Sizzle & Serve
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/dinerdash/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Strikes a nice balance between being challenging and fun.
 Touch-screen controls work well.
 Multiplayer is a decent addition.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very simple graphics.
 Little variety to the audio.
 Not much replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.4, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 112 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: GameLab
Genre: Puzzle
Date: May 23, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Diner Dash is a challenging game that will keep you on your toes from start to finish, but it's 
 too simple to keep you coming back. 

  Worn down by stress, an overbearing boss, the daily grind of a 9-to-5, or a combination of all 
 three, many people have fantasized about quitting their jobs and setting out to do what they love. 
 Such is the premise of Diner Dash, where you control Flo, a young woman who quits her desk job 
 and opens a restaurant. Diner Dash's premise is quite simple, but the gameplay is fast-paced and 
 fun. Unfortunately, though, the game is short on depth and there's little to keep you coming back 
 for more once you've finished the main course.  

          Things go from calm to hectic in the blink of an eye.     

  Diner Dash starts off with 
 a tutorial level that teaches you the basics of running your restaurant. At the beginning of each 
 day you're given a monetary goal that you must reach or otherwise do the level over. When customers 
 enter the restaurant, you take them to a table. When they're done reading the menu, you go to their 
 table, jot down their order, and deliver it to the kitchen. When the order is ready, you take it 
 to the table, wait for them to finish, take their payment, and bus the table. Customers' satisfaction 
 is conveyed by a heart-shaped meter that empties every time they're disappointed. If it's completely 
 empty, they'll walk out and you'll probably fail the level. Conversely, the fuller the meter, the 
 more money you'll earn.  

  This sounds easy, and at first it is, but things quickly get hectic. You'll have to juggle multiple 
 tables at the same time, and the eight different types of guests each have their special needs. 
 Families will need a high chair; patrons with reservations will need to be sat at specific tables; 
 and any finicky restaurant critic who comes by will require extra-close attention. Seniors are 
 slow eaters and bad tippers; bookworms are patient but hate noise; and the mobile-phone addict 
 eats fast and is noisy, but is a good tipper. You can improve customers' moods by bringing coffee 
 to the table or by hiring entertainment, but the true path to success -- and the challenge -- lies 
 in staying organized and chaining tasks together. For example, rather than taking one plate of 
 food from the kitchen at a time, you'll want to take two plates and drop them both off while you're 
 out on the floor. Once you've dropped those off, you might want to bus two tables simultaneously. 
 You don't necessarily save a whole lot of time this way, but you do earn a bonus, which is sometimes 
 the difference between passing and failing a level.  

  The PSP and DS versions control differently, but the objectives are the same. On the DS you simply 
 use the stylus to tap an item or person and Flo will go there. It can be difficult to seat guests 
 on the DS version, and the screen is so small you'll sometimes mistap something, but for the most 
 part the DS controls much better than the PSP. On the PSP you use the D pad to maneuver a cursor 
 around the restaurant and then press X to select the highlighted person or item. The basics are 
 easy enough, but having to tap the D pad until you highlight the appropriate item wastes valuable 
 time. Holding down the L or R buttons to seat people or clear dishes isn't exactly difficult, but 
 it makes the controls a little more complicated than they need to be.  

  While it lasts, Diner Dash is enjoyable, even if it is repetitive. Trying to juggle a seemingly 
 endless number of tasks and then successfully finishing a day is personally quite rewarding, and 
 you really get a sense of accomplishment from doing so. Unfortunately, there's not much to do once 
 you've beaten the game's six restaurants and approximately 70 levels. You can play endless mode, 
 and there are a few multiplayer game types where you can try for the highest score, serve a certain 
 number of customers first, or see who can go the longest before losing three customers.  

          If your first restaurant is successful, you'll get to open another.     

  Diner Dash's 
 simple visuals get the job done, but just barely. The restaurants aren't very detailed, and you've 
 got limited customization options to work with. When all your tables are full it can be difficult 
 to see what individual customers are doing or even discern what type of customer they are. The 
 DS version makes poor use of the system's dual screens, and it's tough to keep an eye on patrons 
 waiting to be seated because you have to scroll the screen to see them. The PSP version looks the 
 best thanks to its larger, clearer screen. The audio doesn't offer much to get excited about. There 
 are some helpful sound effects here and there, but there's not much variety to them. Nor is there 
 much variety to the music, which is simple, not all that catchy, and super repetitive.  

  At $30 it's difficult to wholeheartedly recommend Diner Dash on the PSP or DS, especially when 
 you can play a limited version of the game for free on the PC or get the full version for just 
 $20. Sure, it's fun while it lasts, but once it's over there's very little here to get you to revisit 
 it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: GreatSlayer980
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 9:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was actually amazing compared to what I though it would have been. The dinner dash game 
 is a great restaurant game for the nintendo ds. You go around playing as a waitress and taking 
 peoples orders to make them happy. If the game is done right you can unlock special outfits for 
 your waitress. Thouh there is no online wifi play you can still play with friends who have the 
 game for a whole new experience. If you are into being a sever this game is diffenately a game 
 you should pick up. I would also recommened cake mania if you like these types of games. You can 
 buy this game for around 20 bucks and get some other amazing games with it in bundle packs. I do 
 hope to see a part two for this game because the difficulty and restaurants become bigger and harder 
 as you progress in the game. Now I dont want to spoil anything for you so go out there and try 
 it out:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2007 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I don't know about every one else but I have played Diner Dash on the computer for the last few 
 years. I think I have beat all three they have for the computer and I just love to see computer 
 games come to the DS. Needless to say I Dashed to the store and got this game. For those of you 
 that have not played Diner dash you are a waitress that seats people, takes orders, serve people 
 and clean up after them. This game can get a little hard as you move on and get more tables but 
 it is just good clean fun. The graphics are pretty good and the sound is good as well. The game 
 play is great and keeps you on your toes. I think anyone who likes these kind of games would love 
 this one and it is a must have for those gamers. Even my kids love this game and it is worth the 
 price it sales for. If you are unsure rent it first and if you don't like it you only spent a couple 
 bucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Von-Dozier
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 14, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  The addictive PC game comes to the DS, and it does all the right things. Annoyances that were in 
 the PC version have changed for the better, and this game has even added a whole new assortment 
 of new objects, people and appliances to mess with.
  
  It's simple, if you liked the PC version, you'll love this. If you've never played this before, 
 this is very much worth a rent to experience how unique and addicting this game is. The point-and-click 
 style of the older PC version translates perfectly with the DS touchpad, making it probably one 
 of the easiest (and truest to original) ports ever done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33T5T3R
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:03 am PT
Review:  DinerDash.... When I got it for my sister I thought it was a dumb idea, but then I took it from 
 her and started playing it and it was really fun.
  
  You serve many different people who try to make your life harder as a waitress and you have to 
 put up with them. But its all easy with the touchscreen. I found everything looked and sounded 
 good.
  Lets start with the graphics, they are simple and colorful just the way you want this game to be.
 
  Now the sound or lack of, there doesnt have to be much sound dont forget thats its a restaurant, 
 not a theme park
  The touch screen worked perfectly
  
  I can easily see myself playing the game more after I beat it
  
  I cant see it working on any 
 other system besides the DS and PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerframe8
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 8:10 am PT
Review:  I love the Diner Dash series. I actually bought this game for my sister, but found myself stealing 
 it to play it. Its very challenging and seems impossible to score Expert level unless you repeatedly 
 go back and play it. Which is good, because even tho the game spawns 80 or so levels , it feels 
 all too short. I whipped through 20 levels in just one sitting. Graphics, are nothing to be amazed 
 at. Animations are nice though, although I noticed it did get glitchy at some parts. Not to mention 
 the horrible text used (seriously, did they use like Times New Roman?) The sound, is worse than 
 the graphics. On full volume blast, it was barely noticable. Its grainy, and crappy music. But, 
 you play a game for the gameplay right? And it delivers. Fun, REALLY fast paced and intense. At 
 times it becomes way too overwhelming, but its still good. Controls are ok. The scrolling between 
 people waiting and people being served is fine to deal with, but what I hated was always having 
 to double/triple tap a customer or something. Response is mediocore and the controls just could 
 of been a bit better. All in all, if you find this game on sale or used, its a definate pick up 
 (especially if you are going on a long car ride) . Just don't expect the graphics or sound to be 
 breathtaking . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lawrencevanrijn
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  If someone would come around stating that it might be cool to make a game about a waitress, then 
 smirks and all kind of thoughts come our way. Still, last year this thought became a reality on 
 Yahoo games. This game seems simple, but like all simple games, they can get very addictive.
  
  So, it must have enterd the minds of the makers to get it on a handheld, because it is out 
 in force on the DS. It is simple as hell. Seat people, get order, serve food and cash bill. All 
 this yields for a fast passed action, and the lack of a mouse is very well solved by the use of 
 the pen.
  
  Yes, on equal footing, this is one smooth way to enjoy a quiet mindless evening. helping our poor 
 waitresss through the complications of different foodplaces, getting the maximum tip and becoming 
 an expert.
  
  For those saying, oh what a simple shallow game. i agree. The game lacks the depth that only Infocom 
 Zork could breing, but then Tetris wasn't rocket science either and millions still play the game 
 20 years later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elfsong
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Diner Dash makes full use of the touch screen and it works very well, the top screen is also made 
 useful instead of just being left black like in some other games.
  
  The sound is quiet but matches the themes of the Resturants which I thought was quite good! The 
 graphics are 2D but you can basically choose the design of your resturant: floor/wall design, etc. 
 Overall the look of the game is pretty good!
  
  As I've said the game is short however it's very fun and you can play for longer to try and get 
 the best rating and expert ranking on all levels.
  
  Overall I really enjoyed this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordreltec
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 28, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  My girlfriend is a huge fan of all of these type of games for the PC and now for the DS. I originally 
 bought Diner Dash for her, but have found myself playing it more than her. One thing that really 
 stands out is how well the stylus actually works. You would think that it would be a no brainer, 
 but play Cake Mania and you'll know what I mean. Unlike Cake Mania, Diner Dash actually responds 
 to your touches and makes the game very fun. Along with the good use with the stylus, the new additions 
 also make it worth playing even if you have the others on your PC. You get the addition of the 
 Cell Phone Caller, the Book worm and many 6 others. If you want a game that you can just pick-up 
 every once and again, or play it all the time, than this is the game for you. Dont let the Chick 
 Game appeal scare you away. You will challenge your mind and stylus skills with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smileyryder34
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 28, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  If you've played Diner Dash on the PC before you know exactly what to expect. This game does not 
 depart from the original game at all. The controls are responsive and the smaller screen does not 
 really hurt the gameplay in any way. Gameplay: In Diner Dash you take on the familiar role of Flo, 
 a restaurant entreprenuer. Customers come into your restaurant and you're in charge of sitting 
 them, taking their order, serving them and cleaning up when they're done. All of this is done with 
 the stylus and the touch screen. To seat a customer you touch them with your stylus and drag them 
 to the table you want them to sit at. After a few seconds they'll raise they're hand indicating 
 they're ready to order. Touch them with the stylus and then touch the order area in the kitchen 
 and they series famous chef with prepare their meal. You'll then select their order and they're 
 table to give them their food. They'll take their time to eat and then raise their hand to indicate 
 they're done. You touch them again and they'll pay you for the meal. Select the table to pick up 
 the dirty dishes and take them over to the bus area and that table is now ready for another customer. 
 All of these actions give you points and you're attempting to reach a set dollar amount to go to 
 the next level. Sounds easy? Well by itself it is. There are 8 different types of customers that 
 have different needs for their dining experience. Families with babies are messy and the baby gets 
 noisy if things take too long. Bookworms take their time in their meal and they prefer to be seated 
 in a quiet area of the restaurant. Food Critics expect prompt service. There are others as well 
 and these traits can add up to bonuses or bad experiences for other customers. Each customer has 
 a heart rating that tells you how happy they are. If this heart meter runs out then they have had 
 all they can take and they will leave the restaurant and take some money in the form of a penalty 
 with them. You can chain similar events together to gain bonuses. Each customer also has a different 
 color. When they sit down the chair they're in changes to the color of their clothing and hair. 
 If you seat multiple people of the same color in the same seat you get bonuses to your daily profits 
 as well. All together there are 70 levels, which is more than any of the versions on the PC.
  
  Audio/Visual: All the characters in the game are easily recognizable to their PC counterparts. 
 The graphics have taken a slight hit since the DS is not as powerful as a PC, but by itself the 
 game looks really good. It is a two dimensional representation of your restaurant. The colors are 
 bright and vivid and the game is really nice to look at. It won't wow you in the graphics department, 
 but you'll be impressed with how well the game moved over to a handheld. Each restaurant has snappy 
 background music that you probably will forget is there. They don't get in your way or sound out 
 of place, but they're probably not anything you're going to remember for very long. Overall: If 
 you're a fan of Diner Dash or this style of game then this is definitely one you won't want to 
 pass up. It's a great version of Diner Dash and the extra levels will keep you playing this one 
 a little longer. There was only one problem that I really noticed that dealt with the controls. 
 You occasionally had to select an option from the menu a couple of times before it would register 
 that you'd actually selected it. Also every once in a while when seating customers they would inexplicably 
 go back to the que and you would have to seat them a second time before they would take the seats 
 you had given to them. This didn't really affect the gameplay too much as it didn't take long to 
 seat them. I never lost a customer because of this. I would say that you should pick this game 
 up and add it to your collection. Many people who would consider themselves casual players will 
 enjoy this game as well. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
