-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Disgaea DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/disgaeads/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good amount of depth and replay value.
 Item world provides limitless customization.
 Lots of bonus features, including multiplayer and guest characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No online multiplayer support.
 Audio and visuals are less impressive than in other versions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 280 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NIS America
Developer: Nippon Ichi Soft.
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Sep 23, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Disgaea DS is a delightfully evil strategy RPG with enough depth (and prinnies) to entertain you 
 for ages. 

  Disgaea DS is an enhanced version of the popular strategy role-playing game that was originally 
 released for the PS2 and which later found its way onto the PSP. It maintains the original's light-hearted 
 style and impressive amount of replay value, but also boasts a fresh multiplayer mode, a slew of 
 guest characters, and full stylus controls. The game's difficulty level has also been lowered, 
 which makes Disgaea the most player-friendly it has ever been.  

  Set in the demonic realm of the Netherworld, Disgaea casts you as the young and impetuous Prince 
 Laharl, son of the recently deceased Overlord. Laharl has spent the last two years asleep and is 
 awakened only when his less-than-trustworthy vassal, Etna, tries to kill him. Afterward, Laharl 
 discovers that he'll have to slay any who oppose his claim to the throne to be the new Overlord. 

           Take the floor of the dark assembly to impose your will upon the Netherworld.      

 
  Disgaea's turn-based strategy battle system is straightforward, with a moderate learning curve 
 that shouldn't prove too intimidating. The grid-based battlefield is presented on the bottom screen 
 while the top houses a valuable map that marks both enemy and ally units, making the game significantly 
 more player-friendly because it aids in character positioning. Another feature that increases the 
 game's ease of use is the ability to maneuver the camera, which greatly helps in targeting because 
 you're able to get a better view of both the field and your opponents. There's also a very well-integrated 
 zoom feature that enlarges panels to make them easier to select with the stylus, which is a convenience 
 often lacking in most DS strategy RPGs.  

  The game's most striking aspect is its geo-effect system. Geo symbols, which are colored objects 
 that grant special effects to their same-colored geo panels, can significantly alter the battlefield 
 to the point that you can't proceed without dismantling or transferring them. For this reason, 
 you might want to destroy every geo symbol on the map, but the most effective way of doing so, 
 chaining, involves both the transferring and destruction of multiple geo symbols, which can quickly 
 become tiresome and frustrating for beginners.  

  Combos, team attacks, and throwing also increase strategic play and are essential for besting the 
 game's opportunistic AI. You trigger combos by attacking the same enemy in succession, which lets 
 you quickly dispatch foes because it raises the damage rate. You'll also score extra goodies by 
 filling a bonus gauge with each successful combo string. Team attacks, meanwhile, are specials 
 that are initiated when you have characters placed near an attacking ally, and these grant you 
 such a great combat boost if you pull them off consecutively that they're absolutely vital against 
 powerful enemies. Throwing adds a refreshing dimension to the battle system by letting you lift 
 and toss characters; this is useful for accessing hard-to-reach areas and can even be used to manipulate 
 enemies by combining them to create a more formidable foe.  

  Disgaea boasts a remarkable amount of customization and depth due to its item world and dark assembly. 
 The item world encourages you to level your favorite items by clearing dungeon floors within them, 
 which grants you access to the specialist characters inside. Specialists increase the stats of 
 their item depending on their class; for instance, a dietician increases a character's HP whereas 
 a coach increases speed. Although the item world is just a series of random dungeons, it offers 
 countless battle opportunities as well as limitless potential for decking out your characters in 
 the best gear. The dark assembly not only adds depth but also operates as an engrossing minigame 
 in which you propose bills to a demonic senate. These can vary from granting you access to more 
 expensive equipment to special stages. What's most fun, however, isn't passing bills but "persuading" 
 by force those senators who object to your machinations; this initiates a battle against a horde 
 of higher-level demons, and though it's difficult to win, it's nonetheless a treat to thrash those 
 who get in your way. The dark assembly also houses a standard character-creation mode, in which 
 you can choose from 14 human classes and additional monster types to fill your ranks.  

           Combo attacks are a powerful way to subdue or be subdued by your enemies.      

  The 
 DS version of Disgaea is visually similar to the PSP version, though a few adjustments were made 
 to capitalize on the DS's top screen. The detailed sprites look almost identical, and you'll rarely 
 encounter any slowdown from flashy spell effects. The game does suffer from poorer texturing and 
 a lower audio quality, but the occasional voice acting is clear enough, and the background music 
 is suitable. A prinny, the franchise's violent penguin mascot, now appears on the top screen during 
 anime-style cutscenes, where he supplements random dialogue lines with foreshadowing and jokes. 
 These snide comments pair very well with the game's jovial character and should prove amusing to 
 both fans and newcomers. An extremely helpful option is the ability to turn off battle animations 
 for enemy and ally characters; this drastically speeds up fights and saves you time by turning 
 hour-long brawls into 20-minute tiffs.  

  There's a good 40 hours of gameplay in Disgaea's 14 chapters, though you can easily double this 
 amount with side quests and visits to the item world. You can unlock guest characters from other 
 Nippon Ichi games, including Adell and Rozalin from Disgaea 2 as well as Pleinair, franchise character-designer 
 Takehito Harada's signature character, who is playable for the first time. Multicard multiplayer 
 drastically increases replayability and offers myriad customization options; you can determine 
 geo-cube effects that apply to all characters and even add a fog-of-war setting that limits visibility 
 to your allies. The standard time limit and victory-condition settings are also included, and if 
 you're the obsessive type, you can purchase items from friends to complete your collection. If 
 you tire of multiplayer, you can always start a new game, keeping your characters, money, and unlockables 
 as you try for another of the game's 10 endings or even Etna mode, in which you play through as 
 Laharl's favorite vassal.  

  Disgaea DS is chock-full of fanfare as well as a surprising amount of depth and strategic play 
 in a convenient handheld package, and it offers a great way to experience this unique strategy 
 RPG.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MikeLXXXVIII
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2009 5:24 am PT
Review:  Disgaea is truly a great game when it comes to gameplay and length to mess around with. The story 
 and characters are memorable and hilarious due to how well written it is. I laughed almost everytime 
 there was a cut scene, which was not the case in Disgaea 2. However what puts it down is the mediocre 
 animations due to how much it got watered down on the DS. I have a feeling Nippon Ichi could have 
 made a better effort than those muddy ugly battle effects. So some of its eye candy presentation 
 through the over the top animations that the series is known for is not that appealing here. Another 
 problem is how the game felt like a grindfest when your enemies suddenly incease up uneven levels 
 and you're only choice is to repeat levels over and over again to match up which becomes a chore. 
 Disgaea 2 had a much better balance in difficulty and pacing even if it had a few moments there. 
 Nevertheless this is a great opportunity for people who are only familiar with the DS to try one 
 of the most fun satisfying deep SRPG series out there. Personally I do in some way regret not getting 
 the PSP version (if thats you're option too) as presentation is very important to this type of 
 game which was butchered to the max. To be fair this version has a lot more added content but for 
 those who don't care to fight an extra overpowered boss or to aquire a new characters idoesn't 
 really add that much more value to the game
  
  Nevertheless you shouldn't miss out on this experience if this is your only option to get the game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedshadows
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 1:14 am PT
Review:  I've played both this version and the PS2 version - the transfer from the PS2 was a little irritating 
 at first, but I quickly adjusted and now use Disgaea as my go-to game when I'm not playing anything 
 new. The story line is quirky and amusing, and it can be played for a ridiculously long period 
 of time without getting old. I've logged almost 40 hours so far and most of that has been in the 
 item world, which means I've still got hours of fun left to beat the game.
  
  Being able to delve into an item and level it up is a great feature that allows you to level characters 
 and pick up new items outside of the story and geo panels give the game another angle of strategy 
 aside from what is needed for battle. Team attacks and combos make battle more interesting, as 
 does the ability to throw enemies and allies to desired locations (or, of course, throwing those 
 lovable exploding prinnies at an enemy) . 
  
  All in all, a great game and a great adaptation for DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemadre
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  I would like to note up front that this is the first Disgaea game I have played; I have yet to 
 play Hour of Darkness for the PS2, nor its remake that this is based off of, Afternoon of Darkness. 
 Therefore, I may make a few goofs as far as graphics and audio are concerned, as the DS has notably 
 weaker graphical/audio strength. However, I believe I have seen enough gameplay footage of Hour 
 of Darkness to know just how much (or little) the game has been altered. So with that, I give you 
 my review of Disgaea DS.
  
  
  
  It seems as if the market is constantly flooded with "JRPGs", cliche anime-esque games that involve 
 the power of friendship and crazy hairstyles. While I do take offense to the notion that all anime 
 and RPGs that come from Japan (I refuse to use the term "JRPG", since it is politically incorrect, 
 you negros) are shallow and predictable, I will admit that the main core of these games are like 
 this. However, every once in a while there comes a game that parodies the nature of the genre down 
 to a cue. One of these games is No More Heroes, which mocks action games by involving a teenage 
 punk who rides around in a ridiculously huge motorcycle and battles baseball bat-wielding henchmen 
 with a lightsaber he bought on eBay. Another one of these games... is Disgaea DS.
  
  Story: This is one of the most creative games I've played in a while. The plot involves Prince 
 Laharl, the son of the late Overlord of the Netherworld, King Krichevskoy (who died by choking 
 on black pretzels) , who fights to claim his right to the throne. Now this may sound like a stereotypical 
 "zero to hero", "rise up to the challenge" story, but it's not. While this game may have a pretty 
 good story, where it really shines is in its writing. For starters, as I mentioned before, this 
 game takes place in the Netherworld (and no, I don't think it was translators trying to avoid "hell", 
 since Laharl constantly says "hell" and "bastard" and the like) , meaning that the characters are 
 demons. That means that you are playing as the bad guys. And don't think that it'll be a "Hell 
 is good, Heaven is bad" plot (well, near the end it steers in that direction, but I digress) . The 
 main characters are evil... and they know it. From time to time, Laharl will let out a ridiculously 
 exaggerated evil laugh. When it turns out you kill one of your allies, the royal vassals simply 
 reply "You certainly are clumsy ". Laharl dubs a recurring villain "Mid-Boss", to his chagrin. 
 In order to get the Dark Assembly of senators to give in to your demands, you either have to bribe 
 them with countless gifts, or persuade them by force (expect to do the latter very often) . Laharl's 
 greatest weaknesses include sexy women and the word "love". Not only does the game milk this, but 
 it also constantly finds great humor in parodying both the Japanese media that this is claimed 
 to be "fodder" of, and the American media that tries to pretend that it's far superior, despite 
 being the same bullcrap in a different package. You gradually come to love the characters for their 
 comedic wrongdoings and their flaws, and while they do mature throughout the game, they are still 
 the same people. The story is the one hook that will motivate you to keep on playing that next 
 level...
  
  Gameplay: ... and thus I get to my next point: the gameplay. This is unlike any other tactical game 
 I've ever played. Whether that's a good thing or not... well, you can decide in a moment. The game 
 is played diagonally, in that instead of moving up, down, left, or right, you move up and left, 
 up and right, and... you get it. At first this is a little irritating, but after a few hours of 
 training yourself to know that up on the D-pad is diagonal-right in the game, then it pretty much 
 becomes natural. An interesting aspect of the game is that it has no limits. Literally. Unlike 
 most Stragety/RPG games, which usually have some cap at which your characters can level, this game 
 has no such cap. You could level up your character to level 25,374, but you'd have to have the 
 patience of a saint to be willing to play for that long. Now the actual gameplay flows as one would 
 expect from a Stragety game: you move all your characters, attack the opponents, then they move, 
 attack you, and so on and so forth. As characters grow, they gain special attacks that are a treat 
 to watch for the first few times around, but then become expected. Now, for the most part, the 
 game flows fine. There are a few problems, though. One of such is that the game is never self explanatory. 
 When you play the damn tutorial stage, they suddenly throw everything at you at once, expecting 
 you to suddenly absorb it all. It'll probably be 75% through the game before you actually manage 
 to fully grasp all of the game's mechanics. However, there is one major gripe that overpowers any 
 of the rest: the game is too fxcking hard. I mean, I can handle difficulty. I like a challenge. 
 For the five minutes I got my hands on Mega Man 9, I didn't scream expletives that would make my 
 mother want to cram two boiling hot elephant penises through her ears; I enjoyed it. I relished 
 the challenge. And when I finally beat it, it gave me a sense of accomplishment. But that's not 
 the case with Disgaea. Sure, getting the Dark Assembly to bend to your demands can be a pain in 
 the ass, but what I'm talking about is the core gameplay. You will most likely be playing the game 
 with a roster of 10 characters (with, aside from 10 story-specific characters that you may or may 
 not use, are all user-creatable with customability up the wazoo, but what the hell am I doing; 
 I'm bashing the game right now, not praising it) , each of which will level up at a trudging pace 
 of about a quarter of a level per stage, if you are so lucky. Meanwhile, while it takes you a matter 
 of days to level up, your enemies are leveling up faster than you are. And I don't mean that they're 
 about one level ahead each stage, because I can handle that. I mean that, by the last few chapters, 
 the enemies are increasing in strength by five levels per stage. That's fxcking bullshxt. If it 
 were a matter of tacking intelligent tactics to beat this game, then I wouldn't mind; once I found 
 out the proper solution, I'd say "Oh, of course!", laugh to myself, then play on. But what pisses 
 me off about this game is that it expects you to spent half of the time going back and playing 
 old stages to level grind for hours on end. I can handle a little level grinding before a major 
 boss, but this is fxcking ridiculous. The difficulty of this game is not only mind-blowingly arduous, 
 but tedious and boring to boot, and, like Yahtzee of Zero Punctuation said, maybe this was a satire 
 of the genre; however, when humor comes at the sake of fun gameplay, that just grinds my balls.
 
  
  Graphics: Phew... now that I've gotten that out of my system, let's move on to something a bit less 
 infuriating. I don't know what to say about the graphics; they're just... OK. For the Nintendo DS, 
 they're OK. However, I've looked at HoD footage, and noticed that there is little to no difference, 
 graphically. This begs the question, "What the fxck is a PS2 game doing with SNES-level graphics?". 
 Now some may argue that these are N64 graphics, perhaps PS1 graphics... but none would argue that 
 these graphics are of the PS2's capabilities. Now I admit that I am being a tad hypocritical, as 
 my favorite game has... admittedly lousy graphics. At points. The difference, though, is that while 
 FE10 has impressive graphics during cutscenes and battle sequences that mirror the console's capabilities, 
 Disgaea has no such sequences of superb graphical strength. But... then again, I'm reviewing a DS 
 game, not a PS2 game. Overall, the graphics aren't too shabby. I may be jaded by Phantom Hourglass 
 and TWEWY, but taking in perspective most of the DS's library, these graphics are pretty durn good.
 
  
  Audio: I... feel so-so about the music. Same thing about the graphics; it's not amazing, but it's 
 not bad, either. There are a few catchy tunes, but most of it just sounds like drivel. Then again, 
 most of the music sounds right out of a children's cartoon or an anime series right out of Japan, 
 so maybe this was another instance of the developers making a stab at the culture surrounding this 
 game. To that, I will say that they did a fairly good job, as the music is always upbeat and zany, 
 which kinda clashes against the whole "demons from hell" thing. As it turns out, though, the audio 
 quality dropped dramatically from the PS2 version. While it's not like we're missing orchestrated 
 versions of the themes, they still sound more tin-canned on the DS than they do on the PS2, which, 
 after hearing the much more entertaining sounds on the PS2, is quite a disappointment (and an oddity, 
 really, considering that after seeing what TWEWY did with music, it's hard to believe that the 
 developers were hard pressed to carry over MIDI music) . Another problem is the lack of voice actors. 
 Normally I'd say that a game like this doesn't deserve or need voice actors, and it really, really 
 doesn't; the issue, though, is that the PS2 version did have voice acting in almost every single 
 cutscene, whereas this version didn't. And that's a dad-gum shame, considering that Laharl and 
 Mid-Boss have pretty amusing voices.
  
  Length/Replay Value: At around 55-60 hours, I'd say this game checks out as your standard RPG, 
 length-wise. Ignoring the mind-numbing hours you'll be spending level grinding, the game is rather 
 long, with somewhere along the line of 70 different stages, each divided neatly into episodes. 
 Once you beat the game, you can either start playing a short alternate version of the game in which 
 Etna accidentally kills Laharl as he sleeps, causing her to become the main character, or you can 
 play the main quest all over again. Both options involve all of your characters carrying over with 
 whatever stats you left them at, allowing you to play this game over and over and over again until 
 your head explodes. One problem I have, though, is that the game has multiple endings, and it grinds 
 my shxt when I go through all the trouble to beat the game, then, because I messed up one time, 
 I have to watch this depressing ending that basically says "YOU SUCK, KID". Normally I'd be willing 
 to play the game over again to see that ending, but the hell with that; I still have a full laundry 
 list of games I have to beat/review.
  
  Bosses: Usually each episode ends with a story-driven boss. Some of them are easy... most of them 
 are not, leaving your entire team to swarm on them in a hope to peck off even a fraction of damage. 
 Most likely these bosses will be almost twice as strong as you, which can get rather annoying when 
 you get near the end of the game, and one boss is level 80, and the next is level 90, and they 
 just expect you to roll with it.
  
  Multiplayer: There's a function unique to this version, in which you can battle against your friends 
 with your own teams, but I haven't had the time to try it out. While I'm usually skeptical about 
 multiplayer Strategy games, though, this would work out well when it comes to duking it out against 
 each other.
  
  Extras: Other than Etna's Story, the multiplayer function, and around 10 different endings, there's 
 also a guy selling music from the game (but why the hell you'd pay good money for those expensive 
 tracks instead of actual weapons is beyond me) , a special room that contains Etna's diary, which 
 lets you in on secrets within the game, and an option for the Prinnies, reincarnated souls having 
 taken the form of penguins and forced to serve in the Netherworld to repent for their sins on Earth 
 while speaking like 13 year old boys on the internet and exploding when tossed, to give commentary 
 over the game's dialogue.
  
  Final Statement: Despite all of its flaws and issues and all of my complaints, Disgaea DS isn't 
 a terrible game; it's not even a bad game. It's very good, but not necessarily the best game out 
 there. It's charming, amusing, clever, and will hopefully pave the way for an (easier) sequel to 
 be ported onto the DS soon enough. While I am partial to certain games with emblems that are on 
 fire when it comes to strategy, this game has warmed me up to the franchise, and I'm open to see 
 what Nippon Ichi has in store for us next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaMunkee
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This is Disgaea, for the DS.
  
  Let's start with the fact that this game is, in fact, a port. It came from Disgaea Psp, which came 
 from the original Ps2 game, Disgaea: Hour of Darkness. Obviously, the graphics and sound quality 
 had to be watered down, since, after all, a DS card can only hold so much goodness in one little 
 package. Of course, if you've never played a Disgaea game before, then you wouldn't really mind 
 it, or notice it.
  
  Next is the story. It is hilarious. It starts off with Laharl, the main character, and his vassal, 
 Etna. He gets woken up from a two year long nap to figure out, his father died, and while he was 
 sleeping, demons were trying to take over his throne. And so it goes. There are fourteen chapters 
 in the story, and then of course, there is Etna mode, where his vassal is the main character, and 
 Prinny Commentary, which makes the story even more hilarious.
  
  And so we move to the music and graphics. I mentioned earlier that they had been watered down, 
 since, after all, the DS cartridge is only so big. If you're a first time Disgaea player, then 
 it wouldn't really pick up much notice. If you ask me, I think that the graphics are great, and 
 they actually look pretty decent. In fact, with a game of so much content, I'm kind of surprised 
 that they could be so well. And the music, sounds very much normal. There are no vocals in the 
 music, but then again, it's music. It sounds great as it is. 
  
  And finally, the gameplay. It's a turn-based strategy, which means, you and the enemy take turns. 
 It is also grid based, which is fairly simple. However, the controls will start off a bit confusing, 
 but they become second hand within a few hours of play. There's also an interesting concept, Geo 
 Symbols. They give effects to certain tiles. Depending on the color of the Geo Symbol and the tiles, 
 destroying one will set off a Geo Chain. Since I'm still on gameplay, I've also got to mention 
 that there are a lot of secret characters, and the max level cap for each character is 9999. You 
 can also make up to 35 of your own characters, as well as have ten out on the battlefield at the 
 same time.
  
  Overall, I'd say that this game is one of the best, and certainly deserves a score worthy of it. 
 It is one of the best games released yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longtimegamerr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  I'll assume you've played the PS2 version. On the one hand, this is a direct port of the PS2 game's 
 gameplay, which is great news. 
  
  But the few concessions that were made to fit the game onto the DS were deal-breakers for me.
 
  
  The lower screen is cramped and some of the graphical precision is lost in the process. In other 
 words, you'll be squinting and you'll be squinting a lot. But the game designers really messed 
 up with the upper screen. All you get is a simple map that represents the battlefield. C'mon guys, 
 in a strategic game with the tons of info, the upper screen should be doing a _heck_ of a lot more 
 than that. If you loved the PS2 version and want a portable version of Disgaea, this is a great 
 game. But for myself, I wanted a better and more thoughtfully designed port than what we get here. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsfanboy1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  this game was very satisfying. as my name intends i am the ds fanboy and i own 41 games to date 
 for my ds alone over 2 years. this will be my first review and 40 others are yet to come
  
  disgaea was a fun game and it was one of the best games i have played on the ds because it was 
 highly addictive. the bad thing that happens to me is that i get highly addicted to all the games 
 i own then get bored and the ranting begins. now i have begun to realize how addicted i have become 
 becaause i realized the game is pointless and would have been much better if it gave you something 
 to look forward to. all that you do is jack up your character until you can rape prinny ball enough 
 that he realizes he can become a hooker and make a profit. what would of been much better added 
 to this game would be online capabilities so then you can be laughing your ass off at the kid in 
 japan saying ' i more smarter than wang '
  
  in conclusion if you want a better game get
  hello kitty big city dream 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigheadNo1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is beyond the extent of my words, this game has gone farther than any SRPG and RPG has 
 ever gone before. For me, it was the only RPG game that I ever played through more than once after 
 spending 100 hours on the first time.
  
  The storyline is rather... not serious, but hold your horses, the hilarious dialogue will keep 
 your funny bone tickled for hours. Not to mention the multiple storylines (around 20) that the 
 game includes. If funny isn't the right type for you, there are a few sad moments throughout the 
 game (if my prinnies exploding count as sad *sob*) .
  
  Despite the story being a laughing stock, Disgaea has revolutionary game mechanics. The first thing 
 that I noticed is the astronomical numbers associated with this game (e. g. The level cap of 9999, 
 the stats cap of hundreds of thousands to the millions) , you might be thinking, 'oh great, another 
 grinding game'. But I'm sure that many that have picked up Disgaea have come to their senses: 'oh 
 this is 101x more content than most other SRPGs and RPGs'. When you are done leveling your characters, 
 you can begin leveling your items to make yourself stand tall among your friends in multiplayer 
 (sadly, no Wi-Fi support) in randomly generated (and thus adds to the variety) maps called "item 
 world"
  
  The graphics is pretty good, I loved how when a character is angry, surprised, or annoyed, their 
 on screen sprites reflect their emotions. Making them erm... more lovable. The battle animations 
 is great and once you start to obtain the higher tier skills, they become much more interesting 
 to watch
  
  The voice-acting fits the funny storyline while the sound during animations is not pretty good 
 too. Nothing special here though.
  
  Overall, Disgaea is the game for those of you who want more from your RPG or SRPG games, don't 
 let the childish look of the front cover turn you down. Like I said, it's worth every one of it's 
 9999 levels.
  
  Final Score:
  Story: 9/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Sound: 8.5/10
  Originality: 10/10 (gotta give NIS credit for bringing us prinnies)
  
  Overall: 
 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meiaman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:17 am PT
Review:  This game most know characteristic is the capacity of almost endless training... and you can also 
 adjust the enemies difficulty to make it easier or more challenging (called "bill", through its 
 not so simple to pass a "bill") , in order to make so you need to do a not-exactly but kinda of 
 a mini-game which is basically you ask the senators to vote the project, then you can bring them 
 gifts or kill them in order to make it easier to pass the bill. (its incredible how accurate the 
 game is to real politics)
  
  The story start out good, the netherworld king dies and the netherworld is on chaos... and a lot 
 of people wants to take the throne... so the prince arises to take back his rightful throne.
  
  
  The problem is that at the end the game suffer some twists that turns the story less... 
 cool. Both Laharl and Etna (the supposedly main story characters) will have their participation 
 greatly reduced as the story goes near the end, the game could had take advantage of a more serious 
 storyline while keeping the unusual comic it has.
  
  The game also is quite charming, there are those things called prinnies who are rather pathetic... 
 but somehow those things manages to catch the player attention every time they appear.
  
  The combat system is not innovative, but its cool, much better and fast paced than final fantasy 
 tactics advance, the animations are also much better and the skills have a nice variation, both 
 in range and area of effect/damage, this make them very useful in some situations but can also 
 make them useless in others... its all how well you manage to position yourself and how is the 
 situation going.
  
  Music is nothing really great, its ok, but not much that deserves special attention.
  
  In 
 overall is a good game, if you have nothing to do then get this ame and you will be busy all the 
 day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kemix10061
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  Oh yea, finally, Disgaea on the DS, the question is, 'twas it worth the wait? I'll say, HELL YES! 
 I missed this on the PS2 long ago, once I had gotten Disgaea 2, I got hooked onto the series, and 
 the fact you can have the ULTIMATE characters or infinity+1 weapons, armor or even consumable items, 
 make this game have a LOT of replay value in the form of extra netherworlds to beat, extra characters 
 AND multiple endings to be had.
  
  There are so many ways of leveling up to infinity and beyond that I can't even hope to list, there 
 is so much depth to the game, but you can beat it with minimal knowledge, and never even attempting 
 to gain access to extra netherworlds.
  
  There is even the Dark Asembly to look into, that is where you get all your little extras passed, 
 such as reincarnating characters to level 1 and making them stronger after a while, or even making 
 it easier to get a higher bonus level at the beginning of battle, there is just so much to do and 
 too much life to get in the way of.
  
  Even though it takes hundreds of hours to make the ultimate characters or infinity+1 equipment 
 and items, there is a lot to be had and if you love J-RPGs like FFTA or Fire Emblem, you should 
 pick up this game and start laharl on his way to being a bad ass freaking overlord. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tenchi_sonic
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I currently have about 60 hours worth of game play in the game and i have yet to unlock the full 
 potential of the game.
  
  It is a great Strategy game where level, and equipment doesn't always matter. as long as you have 
 the right strategy, which can be obtained by playing the level multiple times to get it down pat.
 
  
  Reason I give the game a 10 / 10 is because it's all around fun, hitting the max level then "reincarnating" 
 back to level one with most of your stats and doing it again to get stronger.
  
  Overall I think if you have a Nintendo DS, and you want something for your birthday or Christmas 
 or if you just got some spare cash to spend, you should check this game out, the story is funny, 
 you get to love the characters, and it even has it's own anime and Comic book series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hopeless77
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  I just bought this game on a whim w/part of a winning lotto ticket and I could not be happier w/my 
 purchase. It is by far the best DS game I have played so farif you are into strategy games like 
 FFT then this is a must have game for you I think its actually better. Game play is excellent w/a 
 very low learning curve. There is endless game play due to the item world :} where every item can 
 be leveled up and there are so many character classes/monsters you can beef up and make do your 
 bidding its just mind boggling all the content they have packed into this game. The story line 
 is great w/some super cheesy comedy.. it even has voice acting yes voice acting on a DS game who 
 would have thunk itanyway if you like strategy w/a lot of depth and have a lot of time on your 
 hands do yourself a huge favor and pick this game up now you will not be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zobi123
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  The Disgaea series offers probably the deepest turn-based strategy experience around. That fact 
 impresses many of us, but it also turns a lot of people away. This game throws so many gameplay 
 mechanics at the player, it's more than some can handle. I happen to love it. I sank hundreds of 
 hours into Disgaea when it first appeared on the PlayStation 2, and here I am doing it all over 
 again. And loving it. This one game could keep you busy for the rest of the year.
  
  The original PS2 title has been faithfully recreated here, although it's been adapted for the DS 
 and touch screen controls have been added. It's basically the same game with a few extra characters 
 and a wireless multiplayer mode for two people who own the game. For the most part it translates 
 very well, although I don't think the top screen has been put to the best use. When exploring the 
 hub world it is left mostly blank, and in battle it displays an overall map that is a bit too crude 
 to be much use.
  
  
  
  Disgaea games are all about turning the bad guys into good guys. Players control Laharl, the demon 
 prince of the netherworld. He awakens from a long slumber to find his father has passed away and 
 many demons are vying for control of the land. Laharl sets out to put these fakers in their place. 
 While the game begins in the depths of the netherworld, over time it will reach into our world 
 and up into the heavens. The story is full of wacky Japanese humor and there is some nice romantic 
 tension between Laharl and a fallen angel named Flonne. Unfortunately, whereas the PS2 game allowed 
 players to select between Japanese and English voice tracks, only English could fit on the DS cartridge. 
 The story seems silly and trite at first, but slowly these characters begin to reveal their various 
 vulnerabilities and they really draw the player in.
  
  While the touch screen controls have been implemented well, I prefer to use traditional button 
 control. If you go the way of the stylus, you'll find you can make all your selections that way 
 and several icons have been added to the touch screen. Touching these icons allows you to perform 
 basic functions like rotating the screen or zooming in and out. The entire game, save for strolling 
 around the hub world, can be controlled with the stylus. Disgaea's isometric view caused the occasional 
 problem on the PS2 when columns or walls obstructed the player's view. These instances occur on 
 the DS, as well, but they are rare and don't detract from the experience.
  
  The general flow of the game goes from the hub world, where you can buy items and deal with the 
 Dark Assembly (more on that in a bit) , to a cut scene setting up the next battle, to the actual 
 turn-based combat scenario. Fights will be familiar to anyone who has played Final Fantasy Tactics 
 or Ogre Battle. During your turn, you can give commands to everyone in your party, but they won't 
 act on their commands until you select "execute." You can either attack with characters one at 
 a time or assign an action to everyone and let them all go at once. This feature makes quite a 
 few interesting techniques possible.
  
  At the beginning of battle your team is safe inside their base panel. They can be moved in and 
 out as you wish until they have executed a maneuver. But apart from their own moves, each unit 
 can also take part in team-up attacks if they're standing next to a teammate. That means you can 
 pull people out, let them team up, then send them back to the base panel and use them again. Whereas 
 many turn-based strategy games restrict our options to attacking or casting a spell, Disgaea invents 
 new gameplay opportunities and invites the player to explore them.
  
  One of the key features of Disgaea is the geo symbol system. On most maps, certain panels will 
 glow in different colors. These are the geo panels. You'll also find small pyramids called geo 
 symbols lying around. Bear with me here, because I'm going to make your brain explode: The geo 
 symbols each possess one stat-altering effect, but they have to be resting on a panel in order 
 to be activated. If they are, their effect will be transmitted to every panel of the same color 
 and therefore to any character standing on one of them. So if the symbol "attack +50" is sitting 
 on a red panel, then any character standing on a red panel will be imbued with an attack bonus 
 of +50. These symbols can be destroyed, and if they're resting on a color different than their 
 own they will destroy all the panels sharing that hue. It's possible to create enormous combos 
 that clear all the panels from a map, kill all the enemies, and earn you a hefty bonus. In this 
 way, Disgaea can be approached as a puzzle game, if you so desire.
  
  You should probably clean up all those bits of your brain before you continue reading.
  
  In 
 between battles, you can make proposals to the Dark Assembly, the ruling body of the Netherworld, 
 for legislation like better items in the shops or less powerful enemies. The senators are all demons 
 and can be bribed into voting your way. Once they have voted you can either accept their decision 
 or try to defeat them all and beat them into submission. These flashes of dark humor are what give 
 Disgaea so much personality.
  
  The lacklustre use of the top screen is one of my few gripes with Disgaea DS.
  Multicard wireless 
 play is available for two player head-to-head matches. There are nine multiplayer maps available 
 and battles play out much like they do in single-player. You can use the party you've built in 
 story mode, but you can't use items and you won't gain experience. The winner will receive two 
 points and the loser will receive one. Multiplayer points are cumulative and build your ranking, 
 but only in this wireless mode. If you're not feeling particularly violent, you can connect with 
 a friend to buy or sell items.
  
  Aside from the story progression, there is the Item World, which is almost a game unto itself. 
 Every item in the game contains a world that Laharl can delve into. Here, he fights through a series 
 of battles much like in the story mode. The thing is, he can only escape every 10 levels. If he 
 is defeated at any point in the Item World, he'll lose all his progress and starts from his last 
 save. The purpose of the Item World is to gain experience, find powerful items, and level up the 
 item the world is contained in. This feature provides almost infinite gameplay opportunities for 
 those that want to extend their experience.
  
  overall:10
  very deep game
  replay value
  fun
  you'll love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsgba
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  This game does deserve a 9.0. A 9 not a 8. The only thing that let this game is the graphics. I 
 know I know. The graphics are not important to games but in this one it is.
  Ya i mean sure the graphics look 3-d but it really is int. I mean I couldn't find myself in the 
 house. Man so the graphic is horrible so it makes this game horrible? No that does not make this 
 game horrible. In fact the graphics is the only thing that makes this game get a 9.0. Everything 
 is a 10 except graphics so that really let the game a 9.0. I don't have a ps2 so I don't know 
 
  if the graphics is the same or not and if you think the graphics is great then great. This is 
 just my opinion. Anyone who likes fantasy and tactics then this is the game for you. This game 
 also lasts for a long time. I've spent more than 50 hours already in this game. OK now i know what 
 your thinking 50 hours is too much. Not really. I got pre ordered it so i got in the first day 
 it came out. This game is exactly like final fantasy tactics a2 girimor of the rift but final fantasy 
 tacics takes too long to fight one battle. {see final fantasy tactics a2 girimor of the rift dsgba] 
 So yeah. If i were you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silent_Raven92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: Let me get this settled quickly. I realize that this is a port of the PS2 game that was also 
 ported to the PSP. I haven't played any other versions of this game, so I will not compare Disgaea 
 DS to the other versions. 
  
  Disgaea DS is a tactical grid based combat rpg. In combat, you move your units, your enemy moves 
 theres. Simple, right?
  
  Not exactly! Each of your units have a variety of special abilities depending on their class, personal 
 statistics, their own inventory, and the ability to lift and throw both enemies and friends alike. 
 There are also Geo-Panels and Geo-Prisms (or whatever they are called) which manipulate the terrain 
 and change the battles. These colour coded panels receive powers/buffs from the geo-prisms that 
 lie on the same colour. It seems a bit confusing, but it gets explained very clearly at the start 
 of the game, and geo-prisms don't always play parts in some of the games levels.
  
  Beyond the games storyline missions, (which I believe there is quite the sum of) , there are many 
 other things to do in the game. I'll mention now that the story itself isn't all that impressive, 
 but is filled with gags and isn't cut scene intensive, so you won't be scrolling through heaps 
 of text to get to the action. Now, some of the other things you can do...
  
  The 'Item World' is an abnormal place in which you attempt to power up an item in your inventory 
 by traveling to the corresponding world. In a world you have to do at least 10 randomly generated 
 levels before you can leave the Item World, unless you have a Gencys Exit (a take on 'Emergency 
 Exit) which will allow you to leave. The item world has an almost unlimited replayability as the 
 levels are randomly generated and you'll face a wide range of enemies at different powers depending 
 on how many levels you have traversed and depending on the item world you are playing.
  
  You can also teleport to a mission level you've previously completely, minus the cut scenes and 
 replacing the story-based bosses with stronger generic enemies. 
  
  There's even more, such as the Dark Assembly, in which you can spend mana (accumulated from killing 
 enemies in combat) to create more units to join your party or to take various proposals to court. 
 Yes, court.
  
  Perhaps you want to improve the stock in the Castle's Shop, so you may call forth the senators 
 for the proposal of "More Expensive Stuff" by costing x mana. After doing this, the character proposing 
 the request will appear in court with various senators. The senators have a viewable opinion on 
 the current proposal, such as "Total Support", "Totally Against" "In favor of" etc. You can then 
 choose to bribe these senators with various items you have collected or bought so far. Different 
 senators prefer different items, but relax; it says on the top screen how much the senator wants 
 the item. By bribing them, they will become more eager to vote for your proposal. IF enough senators 
 agree, your proposal will be passed, and you'll reap the benefits. Otherwise, you'll have to try 
 again or 'Persuade by Force', in which you and your soldiers must slaughter all the senators who 
 did not agree with your proposal.
  
  Depending on your demon rank (which you raise by doing combat examinations in the dark assembly) 
 you will be able to propose a variety of new proposals. 
  
  This also adds to the replay value, as there is several proposals you can pass to unlock new areas, 
 with various more levels and battles to keep you entertained.
  
  I haven't had Disgaea DS for long. I've spent about 11 hours on it and I'm not even slightly bored 
 yet. Also, I've only completely 3 of the 14 ( I think) episodes. And I've barely even touched some 
 of the extra stuff in game!
  
  Graphics 8/10 - The graphics and visuals are impressive and there is no slow down during game play. 
 Characters during cut scenes are drawn well and the combat visuals are relatively impressive.
 
  
  Audio 7/10 - What little voice acting there is is done to an impressive standard with the same 
 actors of the Disgaea Anime (english version) . The audio is crisp and you can clearly hear and 
 understand what people are saying. The music is catchy and the sound effects are good.
  
  Gameplay 10/10 - The turn based combat is refined and magnificent, and abnormally fun! Heck, even 
 the politics are fun. This game is very enjoyable and plays very good with allot of depth, and 
 also boasts multiplayer modes! (local)
  
  Reply Value 10000/10 - Yeah, saw that one coming. Chances are, I'll be playing Disgaea DS for the 
 rest of the year and probably even further.
  
  Verdict - If you're looking for a brilliant rpg with grid based tactical combat, look no further. 
 In fact, if you are just generally looking for a brilliant rpg or a game to keep you entertained 
 for a long time, I heartily recommend Disgaea DS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pablomaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, I'm guess that some of you already played this game for the PS2 or the PSP, so you should 
 know how it goes. For those of you that haven't played, why not? It's a good game with a lot of 
 things to do besides the story and having it for the DS means you won't have to pay a lot compared 
 to the PSP, plus you need no memory card. 
  
  So the story is about main character Laharl, who has been asleep for two years and wakes up to 
 find out his father was killed two years ago. Many demons are fighting for the throne, and Laharl, 
 the prince of the Netherworld, desides to get the throne by elimateing the competion. 
  
  Yeah, it seems hard at first because your players die in the beginning, and you are low on money. 
 But as you progress through the game, money won't be your concern, because the side events will 
 cause you to train your players to levels like 2000 or more, so if you think beat the story bosses 
 are have, you ain't seem nothing yet.
  
  Overall, even though I have played this game for the other two systems, I would say that buying 
 this game will be worth the money. But don't take my word for it, find out for yourself and have 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lazay727
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  While this may be a remake of a ps2/psp game that i have played before, this game really is so 
 much fun to play. There is literally so much rpg options to develop however you want. You can fill 
 in so many hours with this game. 
  
  Another thing, it will keep your attention. The plot is mediocre yet entertaining and keeps you 
 pursuing your endeavor, and the dark assembly and unlock able classes/characters gives way to potentially 
 hundreds of hours of actual addicting fun gameplay, not well maybe if you take it slow you can 
 get that many hours out of it type scenario.
  
  I know this game has been done before but it really pushes the DS hardware to a new level. Everything 
 feels as good/better then the ps2 version which is unheard of for a DS game. The Sprites are crisp 
 and you do get some voice acting. The voice acting occurs at the start of the game and at the end 
 of each chapter, there's not a ton of dialogue so you wont be reading too much to really divert 
 you because of the broad supply of voices.
  
  Overall, as long as you haven't invested time into another version lately or if you don't own the 
 other versions, this is a must have game. You will destroy days with this game as hours fly. It 
 is a very rewarding rpg game. I give it a 9/10 and that's only because it's a port. I implore you 
 to get this game. I have often been critical of the repetitiveness of nipon games yet this one 
 really redefines fun. The ability to take a ps2 classic with hundreds of hours of potential game 
 play that hasn't been stripped down at all and feels and plays just as smooth is well worth 30$. 
 You will earn back every penny you spent with the countless hours you spend.
  
  Thank you for this game. Now go have fun and play the game!
  
  -First Review
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
