-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: DK Jungle Climber
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/dkkingofswingds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple, unique control scheme.
 Enthusiastic visuals.
 Well-balanced difficulty.
 So many bananas.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Donkey Kong comes off as uncharacteristically delicate.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.2, 197 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Paon Corp.
Genre: Action
Date: Sep 10, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
By splitting the difference between action and puzzle with its unconventional gameplay, Jungle Climber 
 makes for a compelling experience. 

  The monkey called Donkey returns to the Nintendo DS in DK Jungle Climber, which comes with the 
 lush, prerendered look of the Donkey Kong Country games, but without the traditional platforming 
 gameplay. Instead, you'll flex DK's upper-body strength by climbing and swinging your way across 
 a series of acrobatic levels fraught with enemies and pitfalls. DK Jungle Climber builds on the 
 good work done by 2005's DK: King of Swing for the Game Boy Advance, offering better visuals, bigger 
 levels, and more variety.  

  The game kicks off casually enough with a Kong family vacation to Sun Sun Island. Once DK catches 
 a glimpse of the giant, crystal banana floating above the island, it's not long before both Diddy 
 and Donkey Kong are chasing regular DK baddie King K. Rool across a series of themed islands on 
 behalf of a bunch of banana-shaped aliens who have a verbal tic inspired by The Name Game. The 
 story's light and harmless, allowing you to focus on getting acclimated to the game's unique controls. 

           Do you think real monkeys find all this banana business at all condescending?      

 
  Your objective is usually just to get from one end of a level to the other, though there's also 
 no shortage of item collection. As standard as this sounds, it's the means that sets Jungle Climber 
 apart, as virtually all of the controls in the game are handled by the L and R shoulder buttons. 
 When DK is on solid ground -- which, as you progress through the game, becomes less and less frequent -- the 
 L and R buttons will move him to the left or right. Tap them both at the same time, and he'll leap 
 into the air. Once he's airborne, the L and R buttons correspond to DK's left and right hands, 
 which he can use to grab onto the pegs, pegboards, switches, and other peglike objects that take 
 up much of the real estate in the game's often bottomless, vertically oriented levels.  

  It's a control scheme that takes some getting used to, mostly because it's a pretty nontraditional 
 setup. But it's also got plenty of nuances. Grabbing a peg with just one hand will cause DK to 
 swing in circles around the peg until you either grab onto another peg or let go entirely, which 
 will send him sailing in whatever direction he was facing. You can finesse his trajectory in midair 
 with the L and R buttons, an often indispensable ability.  

  The game is smart about how it ramps up the complexity of the levels, and it takes its time introducing 
 new abilities and challenges. You might start off very gingerly moving one hand over the other 
 as you inch your way across a simple pegboard, but a few islands later you'll be flinging DK through 
 the air as you try to grapple with moving pegboards and harsh winds, or using his weight to roll 
 a gigantic wheel through tides of molten lava. Though you're pretty much always grabbing pegs and 
 dodging whatever calamity Jungle Climber throws at you, the level designs stay inventive throughout. 
 Minigames that see you collecting falling bananas in a giant barrel or dodging logs as they come 
 rolling down a hill toward you also serve as nice interludes.  

  While your biggest challenge throughout the game is traversing the environment itself, there's 
 also no shortage of antagonistic animals crawling about, and each island ends in a big old boss 
 fight. Donkey Kong has a simple dash attack that you can perform with the A button that is really 
 only effective against the most basic enemies, though it can also be used to smash barrels and 
 barriers, or to get to pegs that can't be reached with a regular jump.  

  You'll occasionally find specially marked DK barrels which, when smashed, release Diddy Kong, who 
 will climb on Donkey Kong's back and serve a number of purposes. With Diddy in tow, you can double-tap 
 the A button to perform an even longer-ranged dash attack, though you'll also need Diddy around 
 to use rare power-ups such as a pair of wings, an ice-melting flamethrower, and in a turn of events 
 sure to disturb Mario, a giant, highly destructive mallet. You'll also collect crystals by smashing 
 barrels and bashing enemies, which can be used to trigger some time-limited invincibility.  

  Diddy Kong acts as a buffer against enemies you come in contact with, which is good, because 
 Donkey Kong is kind of fragile in Jungle Climber. A single touch of an enemy or an environmental 
 hazard will cost him a life and send him back to the last checkpoint. It seems harsh, but the game 
 makes up for it by being incredibly generous with extra lives. When you do run out of lives, you'll 
 continue from the start of the last level you were on, meaning that you'll have lost no more than 
 a few minutes of progress.  

           He may look tough, but DK can't take too much punishment here.      

  How long it'll 
 take you to make your way through DK Jungle Climber will depend on how actively you pursue the 
 various collectibles that are scattered across the game, which also figures into how hard the game 
 can be. You might breeze through a level in a minute or two without so much as the threat of losing 
 a life, and collect nothing. If you want to grab all banana coins, the DK coin, and the panels 
 that spell out KONG, though, it'll take a lot more exploration through much more hazardous terrain. 

  DK Jungle Climber refines the bright and busy visuals of DK King of Swing, which itself borrowed 
 its charm from the Donkey Kong Country games. Improved resolution means that both screens are packed 
 with detail, though it also ends up making Donkey Kong appear fairly small onscreen. Ultimately, 
 though, being able to see more of the environment is more significant to the gameplay than a bigger 
 DK sprite, despite how much we enjoy watching his dangling legs swing about.  

  Despite being a sequel to a game based on a well-established franchise, DK Jungle Climber still 
 feels surprisingly fresh. While it could've relied on the sheer novelty of its control scheme, 
 it does a smart job of fleshing out the gameplay and offering a well-balanced challenge once the 
 novelty has worn off.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jercioh
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2009 5:48 am PT
Review:  If you are a donkey kong fan this is your game to get on ds. The wii version is bad but this is 
 as good as resident evil on gamecube. My dad first bought this it was a masterpiece, my mum borrowed 
 soccer.
  
  
  If you are a donkey kong fan this is your game to get on ds. The wii version is bad but this is 
 as good as resident evil on gamecube. If you are a donkey kong fan this is your game to get on ds. 
 The wii version is bad but this is as good as resident evil on gamecube. If you are a donkey kong 
 fan this is your game to get on ds. The wii version is bad but this is as good as resident evil 
 on gamecube. If you are a donkey kong fan this is your game to get on ds. The wii version is bad 
 but this is as good as resident evil on gamecube. If you are a donkey kong fan this is your game 
 to get on ds. The wii version is bad but this is as good as resident evil on gamecube. If you are 
 a donkey kong fan this is your game to get on ds. The wii version is bad but this is as good as 
 resident evil on gamecube. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musiquence
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  I was a bit sceptic at first, but I'm always curious when a new Nintendo-Classic (Mario, Donkey 
 Kong, Zelda, ...) game comes out. The game is a well thought through platform / puzzle game with 
 excellent graphics. It really looks very smooth and the sound is also very good. When it comes 
 to graphics, it might be the best I've seen on the DS! Amazing to see how they can turn pretty 
 straight-forward gameplay into a very addictive and fun game! The difficulty builds up just right, 
 so you get time to get used to the controls and won't be bored after that. The controls are a bit 
 weird at first, but after the tutorial level, you're good to go. While the basics stay the same 
 throughout the game, there is enough variation in the levels to keep you hooked! You really should 
 check this one out if you're into platform games, you won't be disappointed! Definately one of 
 my favorites! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1n6sta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 12:54 am PT
Review:  Overall, Jungle Climber was a great game. It had an interesting twist from the plot, and we still 
 see King K. Rool as our primary baddie. 
  So the game offers an interesting concept that a lot of games do these days: completion. In each 
 level, there are five banana coins to collect. At various multiples of 5 (so for us non-math individuals, 
 that would be 5, 10, 15, 20...) you can unlock various perks. My one gripe with task based games 
 is that it requires everything to be done (here, finding all the coins) to advance. Jungle Climber 
 doesn't do that, which is a great thing. But the perks available do help the final clash.
  Throwing Diddy Kong? Well, I'm sure PETA objects, but I've wanted to toss him about since he lost 
 Donkey Kong's banana horde in the first game! Overall, it provides for some really great game play. 
 
  Side scroller? Well, on one hand it is, but inherent to the DS alone is the availability of two 
 screens. Jungle Climber makes some use of them, but I wouldn't go so far as to say it does a great 
 job. Rather, they tease us a bit, using it for puzzles with Diddy Kong.
  As far as the specs, it took me about 10 hours or so to beat this game (which I find is consistent 
 with my fellow raters) . The learning curve is maybe a half hour, which is normal for most games. 
 It makes good use of all of the DS controls, and its got a decent amount of worlds.
  Overall, its a great glimpse of what's to come. Is it good? Yes. Is it great? Parts are, yes. Could 
 it have been better? Sure, but everything has room. for improvement. With enough variation and novelty 
 magic, Jungle Climber definitely has its merit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 5:19 am PT
Review:  You may not be aware that this is a sequel. The original, DK King Of Swing, appeared and disappeared 
 on the GBA quickly and didn't get the attention it deserved. The sequel offers more of the same 
 but as the majority of gamers didn't play King Of Swing we'll start from scratch
  
  The Kong And The Short Of It
  Jungle Climber is a platform game with a pretty unique control 
 method. The whole game can be played using the L and R triggers and the A button. You don't need 
 to use the D-Pad and pressing the touch screen does nothing. Basically, you move Donkey left and 
 right using the shoulder buttons and press them both to make him jump. While in mid air, pressing 
 L or R will make him grab with his left or right hand, allowing him to grasp one of the many round 
 pegs that litter each stage. As soon as you grab a peg, DK starts to rotate until you let go, at 
 which point he'll fling himself forward in the direction he's pointing.
  
  
  
  It's a really satisfying control method and does give you the feeling you're in control 
  of 
 an athletic ape. It's weighted perfectly and is tricky without being frustrating.
  
  The only real problem is that it does become a little bit samey after a while. There's only so 
 much you can do climbing pegs and while there's some nice variation thrown in (such as the level 
 where you have to use the top screen as a map to grab pegs in the dark) it's pretty much run out 
 of ideas by the time you get to the fifth world.
  
  It's still a very enjoyable game and it's to the developer's credit that a title which revolves 
 around one gimmick is so compelling. There are loads of collectibles and some great boss battles. 
 It doesn't offer a lot more than climbing and jumping but that's no bad thing. A plumber can fix 
 your sink but he doesn't need to be able to put up your curtains too 
::::::

::::::
UserName: that70brawl
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Donkey Kong Jungle Climber is a good Nintendo Ds game, and a proper follower of "King Of Swing" 
 for the GBA. What I like so much is the places u go, they kind of remind me of Donkey Kong Country. 
 Its very fun to climb trough al those obstacles and use some Power-Ups for the hard places, the 
 difficulty for the Final Boss could be a little bit less what I also like are the Kong's that 
 appear its just a great follower for King Of Swing and maybe even better, I never really finished 
 the game, I could not beat the final boss :/ well its sure worth buying. And then the Multiplayer, 
 I love to race with Diddy kong!! Well that's pretty much my review about Donkey Kong Jungle Climber 
 Sure worth a buy, but not buy it for $ 40.00 or higher.
  (I buyed mine in the store for $30.00 but it whas $45.00 but i didnt get the booklet pretty funny 
 that was =)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  DK Jungle Climber is the sequel to the game DK King of Swing which I never got. This game has very 
 simple controls and it is fun. Now, as a hardcore DK fan, I bought this game hoping for something 
 a little more along the lines of DKC but I got this, but that doesn't mean its not good.
  
  The Good: Fun Gameplay-Unique Boss Battles-Fairly good selection of extras-Cutscene dialogue sequences 
 look really good-DS Download multiplayer 
  
  The Bad-Its Short-Not the most challenging game I've played-DK is really annoying (sorry buddy) -Doesn't 
 really use the DS to its full potential 
  
  Final Comments: Overall, its not my favorite DK game, but its still a lot of fun. DK Jungle Climber 
 fails to give me an awesome platforming experience like the DKC series, but is still unique in 
 its own little way. Congradulations for uniqueness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendoguy325
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  DK: Jungle Climber is Donkey Kong's first game on the DS. For the most part, it's a solid game. 
 The graphics are good, looking like the DKC games. It has a good tutorial, and steadily gets tougher 
 as you progress through the game. The music is classic Donkey Kong, and it can keep you company 
 as go through the creepy forest and volcano when Diddy doesn't. Minigames are fun, and there is 
 plenty to collect and keep you busy. It offers a new way to play, using the trigger buttons to 
 grab and climb up spheres that somehow float in midair.
  On the down side, it would have been better if it was another DKC game. At some points, it becomes 
 really hard all of a sudden. You will want to go really fast, but then, suddenly, there is nothing 
 left to climb on to, and you fly off a cliff and die. A trademark of Nintendo games disappears 
 in this game: YOU CAN'T JUMP ON ENEMIES! You have to do a kind of launching attack, doing a cannonball 
 into the air.
  Not wanting to give away the odd story, I will just go ahead and say that this is a good game if 
 you have been waiting for a fun DK game that DOESN'T have BONGOS, this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3dfd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Was a pleasent game with great controls which DK will have to fight King R. Rool. Controls are 
 unique. LOTS OF BANANAS!!!!!!!!! (Which rules) , Awesome graphics, good plot of the story, had a 
 good level of difficulty. It should be on more game systems than the Nintendo DS!!!! Another thing 
 that I'm dissapointed about is the multiplayer mode. Me and my friend wanted to play the game itself, 
 but all we could play was Speed Climb or Booster Barrel. WAS AN AWESOME GAME. It ruled. Another 
 GOOD thing was the sound. It was good. The levels --------- good. Toybox --------- strange, a bit. 
 But, worth buying on eBay. And if you're a kid, or even an adult -------- you'll love the game. 
 Although, Chill 'N' Char Island is hard to get through. It might be hard. Ghost Island, Spooky 
 Woods had some good ideas, The pegs are hidden in fog. On the touch screen it tells you where all 
 the pegs are under the fog. Or in level 2-2, Glass Labirynth where both screens have almost the 
 same pegs, but you can only grab onto them if they are the same on both screens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: white143papi
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game and I thought "wow finally a Donkey Kong game on the DS". Then I played it and 
 I wish I never bought the game at all. It get ridiculously hard to quick and the whole shoulder 
 pad control scheme absolutely sucks. I would much rather play the original Donkey Kong Country 
 with poor graphics and no color. At the beginning it is fun with all simple levels but it gets 
 totally unforgiving later on. Once you grab hold to a round object on the wall you will rotate 
 continuously and it is difficult to make precise jump so you'll end up falling or hitting a monster 
 by accident. It's difficult to get through a level with out getting hit once. I understand that 
 in DK country or in Mario games with one hit (without a power-up or sidekick) you will die but 
 for this game there should of been a life bar. It's frustrating that you work so hard to get to 
 a point then you accidentally get hit and then have to start all over again. I personally stop 
 playing after the 5 world because the difficult was unbelievable. It wasn't even Contra hard but 
 beyond it. I suggest to anyone who is thinking of getting this game should think twice before wasting 
 your money on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePimpEdwin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  when i first got it i was bummed because it didn't have wi-fi and played it the new R and L button 
 uses in the game are great and its the right amount of hard and easy and there are lots of levels 
 and challenges after you pass it you still have a reason to play to get all the challenges and 
 cheats if your'e a hardcore gamer and the DS Download Play games are and fun but you really don't 
 use the stylus much, it doesn't have no wi-fi and needs more multi player games other than that 
 it's a great game to pick up and play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  The story begins as the Kong family heads out to Sun Sun Island on vacation. At some point, Donkey 
 Kong spots a giant banana floating above the island, and soon enough, him and Diddy Kong will be 
 travelling through a series or islands, collecting bananas and chasing King K. Rool.
  
  The game is played entirely with the left and right trigger buttons. While on the ground, the triggers 
 move Donkey Kong either left or right. Pressing both at the same time makes him jump. But for the 
 most part, each represents one of DK's hands. By alternating between the left and right buttons 
 you can get your friendly gorilla to grab hold or let go of the pegs, swinging around in the air 
 to reach other areas. If you keep holding the button down, DK will spin around on the peg he's 
 holding on to. Unfortunately, you can't just drop from a higher peg to a lower one, which is a 
 bit annoying.
  
  Each island is composed of several levels where the purpose is to swing your way to the end of 
 the stage. The game is played in both screens, especially in vertical levels where you will be 
 paying more attention to the top screen to see where you're going. 
  
  Aside from pegs, there are giant sunflowers that catapult you into the air, cannon barrels that 
 shoot you in the direction they're facing, switches, boulders, bonus barrels with mini-games, rolling 
 barrels and DK barrels to release Diddy.
  
  There is much to collect in the islands: plenty of bananas (100 give you an extra life) , jewels 
 (from defeating enemies, they can render DK invulnerable for a bit) , letters (spelling KONG gives 
 you an extra life) , DK coins to unlock extra features and banana coins. There are also oil barrels 
 that you must collect in order to use the plane to reach certain islands.
  
  The thing is, many times it's really easy to miss all the goodies and find easier routes to the 
 end of a given stage. Especially until you get the hang of the controls, which at first were extremely 
 clumsy and frustrating. Fortunately, the tutorials make it a bit easier to get adjusted.
  
  Many of the levels are vertically oriented. These levels make great use of the dual screens and 
 they're not as easy as they seem, since many times missing one peg can bring you falling all the 
 way down to the start. Doesn't really leave you much room to monkey around there! Some kind of 
 checkpoint would have been useful, but I guess that would have made the entire game too easier. 
 
  
  The main gameplay is an Adventure mode, but if you get tired of all the swinging, there is a Challenge 
 mode where you can play a few mini-games for a change of pace. Last but not least, there is also 
 an online Versus Battle for up to four players using a single game card via DS Download Play. Players 
 pick their characters (Donkey, Diddy, Dixie and Funky) and compete in Speed Climb or Booster Barrel 
 races. 
  
  To sum it up, DK Jungle Swing is a different type of platformer with a wacky story, strange alien 
 characters, plenty of mini-games and lots of extra content. But the difficulty of certain stages 
 will eventually have you going bananas.
  
  
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screenshots at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=dkjungleclimber
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeus-Guy
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 13, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Rare joined up with Microsoft, my faith in the Donkey Kong series has been going downhill 
 fast. Other than the Game Boy Advance remakes, there hasn't been any Donkey Kong games faithful 
 to the Country series; in fact it feels like Nintendo and the series new developer Paon have been 
 attempting to stay away from it. At least that's what I thought until I played DK: Jungle Climber, 
 a sequel to DK: King of Swing, release on the Game Boy Advance about two years ago.
  
  While vacationing on Sun Sun Island, Donkey Kong and Diddy catch a glimpse of a giant crystal banana 
 and go after it. When they get there, they learn the crystal banana is one of many that belong 
 to the rather ugly looking alien named Xananab. The rest have been taken by recurring DK antagonist 
 King K. Rool, who plans on using them to take over the jungle, then the universe. It's a simple 
 plot and a bit of a mediocre one at that but it's like the Super Mario series, it doesn't harm 
 the actual game in any way.
  
  Jungle Climbers controls are about as simple as you can get on a handheld; much of the game is 
 played using the shoulder buttons to make Donkey Kong grab onto and swing from a variety of pegs, 
 pegboards and other peg-like objects as he climbs his way though each of the game's 25 stages, 
 most of which spice things up by including their own little "gimmick". The A button let's the big 
 ape launch a charge attack to break though obstacles, barrels and enemies. With enough gems Donkey 
 Kong can become invincible and plow though hazards briefly by touching an icon on the bottom screen. 
 However, using the stylus makes little sense, since there are several unused buttons that could 
 have activated invincibility easier and it's a bit awkward and difficult to hold the shoulder buttons 
 and use the stylus at the same time. If there's one DS function that the game takes advantage of 
 and does right are the two screens, effectively giving the illusion of one tall screen, much like 
 Yoshi's Island DS but with less of a "blind spot" between the two.
  
  One thing that makes Jungle Climber better than King of Swing is how the game is more faithful 
 to Rare's Donkey Kong Country trilogy. The game revives a number of items from Country such as 
 K-O-N-G Letters and various coins; a few new collectables are thrown in including Fuel Barrels. 
 Collecting these items in each stage awards you with extra lives, mini-games, cheats and bonus 
 stages. But what makes Climbers most faithful to Country is the inclusion of DK's sidekick Diddy 
 Kong. When freed from a DK Barrel, Diddy piggybacks on Donkey Kong, allowing him to use his buddy 
 to launch an additional charge attack that send the second banana as high as the top screen. You'll 
 also occasionally find little devices that only Diddy can use; they include a hammer for breaking 
 rocks, feathers that let you fly and the seldom seen flamethrower that melts snow.
  
  While Diddy's inclusion give the game more of a Country feel, he also serves as an "extra hit point". 
 Diddy is lost if Donkey Kong is stuck by something harmful and the big ape will lose a life if 
 he's hit while solo. The problem is later levels and bosses tend to swamp him with harmful obstacles 
 and hazards that are difficult to avoid and also provide DK with fewer chances to be reunited with 
 his little buddy. As a result you'll likely find yourself dying often and having to restart difficult 
 areas all over again. That's another problem you might have with Jungle Climbers, the difficulty 
 feels unbalanced at times. The first couple of worlds are a bit easy and the difficulty rises from 
 there (the real challenges start about halfway though the third world) . In some cases it feel like 
 the difficulty in each stage jumps too frequently, sometimes you'll get though an area with little 
 troubles, but other times an area could drive your patience off the deep end.
  
  One of my biggest points of criticism in King of Swing was the way the developers downgraded the 
 graphics from 3D sprites the series was known for in the SNES era to more cartoon-like 2D sprites. 
 Jungle Climbers returns the graphics to the series' original roots and, while they aren't all necessarily 
 on par with Country, they certainly look better than the degraded visuals we got in KoS. There 
 are several cut scenes featured in the game that use 3D character models that look and animate 
 better than most of the other stuff, but I will say the dialogue in the cut scenes could have been 
 better. Audio wise, the music is better than most of the recent DK games and it does include a 
 few easily recognizable remixed themes, but some themes tend to repeat a bit too often. The sound 
 effects and voice clips, though nothing special, are decent and fortunately, there aren't as many 
 recycled from past DK games.
  
  There are a number of things to see and do in Jungle Climbers. As mentioned earlier, the game only 
 consists of 25 somewhat short stages, so this isn't the longest DS game out there, you can probably 
 get though most of it in less than 10 hours. But to unlock everything the game has to offer, you'll 
 likely need to put in up to 20 or so hours. Jungle Climber also has a few multiplayer options for 
 up to four players, all of them (as far as I know) are single card download play, something that 
 should be attempted more often.
  
  Overall Jungle Climber is defiantly an improvement over King of Swing. However it's still hard 
 for me to recommend, mainly due to the difficulty; the earlier stages are too easy, while later 
 stages and secret stages can get insanely difficult. Casual gamers and those with short patience 
 should probably avoid Jungle Climbers; for those looking for the next Donkey Kong Country, this 
 is about as close as your going to get for now.
  
  Scores
  Gameplay - 8
  Visuals - 8
  Sound - 7
  Replay - 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Donkey Has had a long history as a video game character.. He was the first real villian of Mario.. 
 in the arcade Game Donkey Kong.. Then he was gone for a little while and DK JR had some spot light 
 including an apperance in Super Mario Kart. Then Rare Took Donkey Kong and Gave him his signature 
 tie. Now we have the Donkey Kong today! But Rare was not having this Ape be a Villian, instead 
 he would be the main character of his own series for the SNES Donkey Kong Country.. and those were 
 3 damn fine games.. the only problem was that in only one game you could play as the Kongster! 
 Then Donkey Kong was gone agian until he stared in his own 64 bit game Donkey Kong 64.. it was 
 a Classic.. it was also very hyped it even got a limited editon N64! the Lime Green Color.. and 
 the Cartrige was in fact Yellow.. Now we are seeing that For Halo 3! Then Rare Left Nintendo For 
 Microsoft and Donkey Kong was left without a maker.. nobody knew what would happen to everyones 
 favorite Ape.. After Rare left Donkey Kong was in Bongo based games like Jungle beat, and Konga.. 
 then Panon the new makers made a Average DK game that was so different from the Rare games we played.. 
 and quite frankly turned me off.. Now They are back with a Sequel and this time its the closest 
 thing to a Raresic Donkey Kong game..
  
  Donkey Kong Jungle Climber is by far the best game that uses the shoulder buttons maybe on any 
 system.. Why you ask.. because almost all the controling is done by two back buttons! No other 
 game has ever done that.. The Game uses great use of the DS dual screens however there is little 
 to no touch screen features.. the only one being you tap the screen for a super kong move of whatever 
 you call it.. the Shoulder act as your arms in the game.. the main idea is about climbing.. you 
 use the respective should button to control each arm.. so you can grab and climb up mountians. 
 a is to power jump your only physical attack in the game.. it would have been nice to have a roll 
 or something cause at times it can be hard to take out emimies.. The Controls are very basic and 
 an entire stage gives you the 411 about the controls.. its easy but very Unique.. nothing i have 
 ever seen..
  
  Donkey Kong Story goes something like that.. King K rool is back agian.. he has stolen the banana 
 on top of Mount Kong.. then Fanana (a Humaniod Banana..) you can see him on the most recent smash 
 bros update as a Trophy! Fanan mistakes you for the Kremlins and you destory his ship.. now you 
 got to track down K Rool and Help Fanana with his ship.. its stupid like all Nintendo Games.. but 
 the storyline is meaining less and if you ever played a Nintendo game you know that Storys are 
 not top notch.. they are always lame.. but who cares it aboue gameplay
  
  Donkey kong gameplay is terrific.. with many different stages and different items to collect! In 
 the game you also have Diddy Pal around with you.. Diddy is Very Helpful and when you get hit and 
 loose him you will feel very sad : ( cause he helps you a lot.. Some things you can do with diddy 
 is: Throw him up high to get items, use him to beat enimies.. he picks up items like hammer and 
 wings to help you out, and he gives you more life.. The Gameplay is very Rareisc.. it feels like 
 someone from rare made this game because of the collecting of items.. and just the feel of the 
 game. That is good thing cause Rare has never failed me on a DK game and this feels like rare made 
 it.. The game also makes you think in a different way.. how to climb up and up to get past the 
 level.. using stones or vines to climb! its a lot of fun!
  
  The Graphics in this game look great! 3-D talk scenes are feaquent and the 2-D graphics are so 
 colorful.. i love the design of this game how it goes back to that jungle like DK.. tha Cartoon 
 Crap was lame.. now it has a more realistic look and that jungle look the title says.. there are 
 so many colors, and the minor 3-D effects look great.. the Way they go back to the Old Rare look 
 was good enough for me!
  
  Overall DK Jungle Climber is a Must buy for any DK lover.. if you played any of the the Old games 
 then check it out.. its a little different but the fact that the style is back and the platforming 
 parts are great.. the puzzles are put in, in correct places and the game seemed to have the edges 
 smoothed out.. the Story line is pretty long and there are also mini Games! some of them are fun 
 others are annoying.. you can play these over single card Multiplayer however there is no Online 
 at all, which is a bummer.. it would have been nice to play online.. Buy this if you enjoyed King 
 Of swing cause this game owns that one! it does everything better in Jungle climber then King OF 
 Swing
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Simple and very Unique.. platforming is fun and the level are very creative.. no other 
 game uses the shoulder buttons quite like this!
  Graphics: great 3-D scenes and 2-D graphics are so colorful and well done
  Sound: Classic Music 
 shows up along with a lot of Rare- DK Country Style Music.. DK grunts are also done well.. Funny 
 Ape!
  Value: With Single Card Multiplayer and a Nice length story this game should last you over a long 
 car ride or Plane Trip.. but the game is also replayable!
  Overall: The best Donkey Kong game in a little while.. i was very skeptical at first but playing 
 the game and expericening it has become a Surprisingly Good Experience! Pick it up if you can 30 
 bucks is not that bad
  
  Final Score
  8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_AM_AROD______
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  It's one of those games that would have been too much of a challenge (and would make me frustrated) 
 for me when I was like 8, but now it's too easy and rather boring, except for the boss battles.
 
  
  Well, before I right a full review let me tell you that I have only played through the first two 
 worlds, so if I had beaten it this review could have made the game sound better or worse.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is rather simple, good for younger kids, a little boring for others. 
 Basically all you use is the shoulder buttons, one of the four lettered buttons ( I think A) , the 
 directional buttons (only left or right and it's optional because you can use the shoulder buttons 
 for it to) , and the touch screen (only for a power-up about once a level) . And all you do is (as 
 the title states) climb.
  
  Graphics: Let me just tell you that the picture won't look as bad as the Gamespot screens unless 
 you have your eyes 1 centimeter from the DS screens. The picture is very colorful and in looks 
 somewhere in between SNES and N64 (? maybe closer to SNES?) . The cut-scenes look pretty good (between 
 N64 and GameCube) .
  
  Sound: The sound pretty much sucks: the music is the norm, the cutscenes you have to read, and 
 the in-game effects are sometimes random (like DK laughing when he dies) .
  
  Difficulty: I picked Just right because, even though the regular gameplay is sometimes easy, the 
 boss modes (that I have played so far) are kinda hard.
  
  This game is like a word puzzle; you don't play it for pure fun but to challenge yourself and take 
 up some time. It's good to play on a road trip or when you have some free time and you already 
 beat all your other games. And even though I said it was boring, it is, for some reason, addicting 
 and keeps you coming back.
  
  I suggest it to anyone who just wants something to play on their DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 10
  GRAPHICS: 9
  SOUND: 7
  VALUE: 10
  TILT: 10
  
  ROUGH SCORE: 9.2
  FINAL SCORE: 9.0
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  The Good:
  - great level 
 design
  - easy-to-learn controls
  - action on both screens
  - well-balanced difficulty
  - has a definite DKC feel to it
  
  The Bad:
  - the voice acting
  - the story (strictly 
 speaking in comparison to the DKC series' plots)
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  GS classifies DKJC as an action game, but I have 
 to say that I think it's definitely more of a puzzle platformer. I can't say I've ever played anything 
 prior to DKJC that I could describe as such, but that's exactly what this is. You're jumping, collecting 
 a whole lot of various items, blasting in barrels, smashing into enemies, overcoming various obstacles, 
 etc. In that sense, it's definitely a platformer. The puzzle element comes into play when you're 
 dealing with said obstacles/enemies and you have to figure out how to get past them. There's a 
 bit of strategy involved.
  
  The game is fun. Just straight up, unadulterated fun. The game starts off insultingly easy, which 
 is great for people like me who had never played King of Swing. By the end of the first world, 
 it was already getting challenging. From there, the difficulty does pick up, which is something 
 that's very welcome in this day of easy games. Now, it's not like how it was in Mario Hoops, where 
 the difficulty seemingly experienced steep spikes. The difficulty increases at a gradual rate and 
 as a result, you never really feel frustrated. The same goes for the different obstacles and types 
 of pegs and peg boards you encounter. As a side note about the difficulty, I was very happy about 
 it. It reminded me exactly of the DKC games, about how I slowly but surely made it through each 
 of the games because I occasionally got stuck in places. It was just like that. So I always took 
 it in stride, and with practice and many lost lives, I made it through. It was always very satisfying 
 when I beat a level.
  
  The graphics are awesome. Enough said on that.
  
  The minigames are great. They're pleasant, engaging diversions from the main game that are very 
 fun to play. It was nice to see that you could even play them to get high scores.
  
  My only real gripe about the game is the voice acting. DK sounds a bit goofy, Cranky is a crazy, 
 incomprehensible monkey ( waaay. WAAAAAYY! ) , and Funky is ... well, there are no words for what 
 they've made him sound like ( HEY MAAAAAAAIN! -_-) . Perhaps Cranky was better off out of the sun.
 
  But overall, the music is pretty good. I still have to say it was the part of the game I liked 
 the least, but that's not to say it isn't good, or that it's painful on the ears. I just didn't 
 really enjoy it as much as I thought I would. It does get the job done though, mixing well with 
 the levels' diverse atmospheres. And I will say that a few tracks really stood out, like the forest 
 ruins track and the songs that were remixes of songs from the DKC games. I was very pleased with 
 them.
  
  When I think about the game's overall value, I have to say that it's amazing. There is so much 
 to do! Even though the Adventure Mode is a bit shorter than I would have liked, you can still go 
 back and play the levels again just for fun. And then there's all the minigames. And don't forget 
 the multiplayer stuff. Now as I'm in a college dorm and I'm the only one I know of that owns a 
 DS, I can't play the multiplayer stuff, but if the rest of the game is any kind of indicator, it's 
 probably just as good.
  
  As for the tilt, I'm a hardcore DKC fan. The DKC-esque look and feel of this game is what drew 
 me to it and is why I enjoy it so much. If you find yourself in the same boat, then you have to 
 do yourself the good deed of getting this game yourself. From the moment I first saw screenshots 
 of this game, I thought it was going to be a great game that would bring back all the good memories 
 I had from playing the DKCs. It delivered this experience. And hey, it wasn't a bad game in and 
 of itself either... not by a long shot. So, if you loved the DKCs or you loved King of Swing or 
 you just have a thing for monkeys, then I HIGHLY recommend this game. =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seniorDK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The Good: great gameplay!, great graphics, great features, great stoyline, a improvement from the 
 first game!
  
  The Bad: doesnt use the touch screen all that much, a little confusing
  
  First off i want to say that just incase u dont know this game is the sequal to the awesome 
 game on game boy advanced called DK King of Swing really most of this review mi gonna compare dk 
 jungle climber to dk king of swing.
  You should look back at my very first review and see dk king of swing, i might of mentioned some 
 part in there about dk jungle climber never will be as good, but ofcourse i was wrong. one thing 
 i was a little disapointed about with dk king of swing was it was too short and too easy, but happily 
 this game (when i say this game im reffering to dk jungle climber) this game is not what i would 
 call just right but still an improvement fron king of swing.
  the many games on this game are more unique and addicting than the ones on king of swing, on king 
 of swing every mini game was really iddenticall to the other many games, but this game has very 
 diffrent (and all around better) mini games!!
  on king of swing the game was a little more basic, and every level took like a minute to beat, 
 they were such short levels, but on this game the levels are all very unique!!!! theres more than 
 just pegs ur climbing in the game ( i will try not to leave spoilers)
  on king of swing u had to beat the entire story line just to unlock diddy, and when u did unlock 
 diddy u had to beat it all over again and thats not very fun, but luckily on this game u dont have 
 to unlock diddy, which means u only have to beat the game once like all good games should be like.
 
  well the decision i made for my review on king of swing was a really good review, a 7.6 . and 
 like i said it deserves that its a good game, but since this game totally beats out king of swing 
 i will give it  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
