-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragon Booster
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/dragonbooster/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Good music.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Boring gameplay doesn't feel like racing at all.
 Clunky and imprecise touch screen controls.
 Ugly graphics.
 Limited customization options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  9, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.9
Critic Score: 3.4, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 4.5, 85 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Developer: KCE Hawaii
Genre: Rail Shooting
Date: Dec 7, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dragon Booster is a halfhearted and practically unplayable racing game with no redeeming qualities. 
 

  Dragon Booster is an animated ABC Kids show about a futuristic civilization where humans and dragons 
 coexistand race for some reason. Regardless of how improbable it might seem, racing dragons sounds 
 like it could be a decent premise for a video game. Apparently Konami thought so, at least, because 
 it has published a racing game for the Nintendo DS based on the show. However, Dragon Booster the 
 game is only a racing game in the most basic sense. There is a starting line and a finishing line, 
 and the objective is to make it to the end of the course before your opponents do. Other than that 
 there isn't much actual racing involved. You have no direct control over the speed of your dragon, 
 and steering is automatic. The result is a hollow and utterly joyless rail shooter with some ancillary 
 racing tenets tacked on, and it's one that should be avoided by even the most devout fans of the 
 show.  

          You've heard it a million times: The world is on the brink of a massive war and the only 
 way to stop it is by racing magical dragons.     

  The story behind Dragon Booster is a poor attempt at imitating some of the anime-inspired kids' 
 shows that have been successful in the past. The world in Dragon Booster is inhabited by dragons 
 and humans, who live in symbiosis thanks to some cosmic energy transfer between the two species. 
 Eventually the humans began to exploit the dragons and they started breeding specialized dragons 
 to be used to build cities and create all kinds of powerful weapons. As the humans developed their 
 power, they fought and nearly destroyed the world in what is known as the Dragon-Human War. A heroic 
 dragon and rider emerged and became the first of the so-called Dragon Boosters, and they saved 
 the world by showing everyone that dragons and humans could coexist peacefully. The game takes 
 place 3,000 years after the war, and the humans are making the same mistakes again. So, as you 
 might expect, you have to become a Dragon Booster and save the world from destruction by racing 
 dragons? What? OK, so it doesn't make a lot of sense, and the game does a terrible job of conveying 
 the story, but those are the least of the problems with Dragon Booster.  

  There are five modes to choose from when you start, including training, free run, grudge match, 
 mini-challenge, and all-city races. The majority of the action takes place in the all-city races 
 mode, which is basically a career mode where you choose a rider and dragon, and then participate 
 in a series of races to move up the ranks and eventually save the world. You start out as a class 
 C racer, and after you finish first in each of the six races you'll unlock a new dragon and rider 
 and move up to the B class, where you can do it all again at a slightly higher difficulty level. 

  You control a dragon and rider and you have to battle your way past five opponents to be the first 
 to cross the finish line. The races take place on long, winding courses set in dismal futuristic 
 settings like a desolate slum, a lava-filled cavern, sky-high cityscapes, and so on. You don't 
 have to worry about accelerating, braking, cornering, or any of the other stuff that makes racing 
 games fun and challenging. Here you can only jump, move left and right across the track, attack, 
 and use speed boost. The boost doesn't seem to have much of an effect on your speed though, and 
 if not for the white speed lines that appear at the edge of the screen, you would never know when 
 boost is activated. The dragons supposedly have different stats for speed, jumping, and power, 
 but they all have the same sluggish handling on the track, and none of them are fun to race. You 
 might think that a dragon would fly at least occasionally, but instead these dragons just plod 
 along on the ground, clumsily tripping over hurdles that are placed in their path, running into 
 walls, and falling off the edge of the course where sections of roadway are missing.  

  As soon as a race begins all of your opponents will just take off and disappear down the track, 
 so you always start out in last place. This is intentional because it forces you to battle your 
 way through the pack, taking out all the other racers until you're left in the lead. You only ever 
 encounter one other racer at a time, and you actually seem to encounter them in predetermined intervals. 
 Once you catch up to enemies, they will stick with you until the end if you let them. You can't 
 outrun your opponents, and even if they fall off the track or get tripped up by a hurdle they'll 
 instantly respawn right on top of you. Since you can't outrace them, you have to take your opponents 
 out of commission by attacking them. You can purchase special gear, including weapons that can 
 be used to take out your enemies, but mostly you'll just be using the basic attack, which involves 
 launching your human rider (tethered to the dragon by an elastic electric field) at opponents and 
 objects on the course. Do this enough and you will knock the other racer out of commission, and 
 you can keep racing for a little while before encountering the next rider in line. It never feels 
 like you're actually racing in Dragon Booster, it just feels like you're stuck in a lame shooting 
 gallery that requires you to hit the right targets at the right time over and over again on the 
 same few dull, repetitive courses.  

  By winning races you'll earn money, which you can spend on gear for your dragon. You can purchase 
 weapons and upgrades to increase speed and defense. There aren't very many items to choose from 
 though, and most of them are exceedingly expensive. Since you get no money for second place, it 
 takes awhile to save up enough credits to actually get any worthwhile items.  

  Dragon Booster has its share of control problems as well. Most of the time you'll control the dragon 
 with the touch screen and the directional pad. You tap the dragon to jump, touch objects or opponents 
 to attack, and slide an icon to initiate a speed boost. This method of control is clumsy and annoying, 
 because the touch screen isn't always responsive, which results in a lot of missed jumps or attacks. 
 FFor example, when you're trying to attack an enemy in close quarters the screen will sometimes 
 register your touch as a jump instead of an attack, since the two targets are too close together. 
 There's a minigame that plays like a side-scrolling shooting gallery where you have to hit colored 
 targets to earn points, but it isn't fun and it just serves to highlight the imprecision of the 
 touch screen controls.  

  The graphics in Dragon Booster look jagged and ugly. The scenery is repetitive and seems to scroll 
 endlessly without really going anywhere. Most of the time you don't really have much of a sense 
 of the race track either -- it just sort of appears in front of you as you run along, and there are 
 rarely points when you can actually see very far ahead. The animation is limited as well. Aside 
 from a clumsy gait, each racer has a single attack animation and that's it. There's nothing interesting 
 to look at here, but even if Dragon Booster had great graphics, the gameplay would still disappoint. 

          The racing consists of moving side to side and jumping once in awhile, which isn't exciting 
 at all.     

  The music in Dragon Booster is actually pretty good, but the sound effects are merely average. 
 The soundtrack consists of some nice, dramatic orchestrated themes that actually do a fair job 
 of conveying a sense of urgency. The sound effects, on the other hand, sound distorted, and while 
 they fill the noise void just fine, you could turn them off and enjoy the game just as little as 
 you would if they were on.  

  Dragon Booster is an exceedingly lousy attempt at making a licensed game out of a license that 
 isn't all that great to begin with. The single-player game is shallow and uninteresting, and multiplayer 
 is worthless. There's a two-player mode with single-card play, but the only thing you can do in 
 that mode is play a couple mini games against a friend, including the aforementioned side-scrolling 
 target shooting gallery game, and the other is just a truncated version of a regular race that 
 only has two racers total. Add it all up and you get a terribly clumsy game that should be avoided 
 regardless of age or affinity for the show.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 16, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  If you want to buy a good racing game to feed your appetite, then don't buy this game. There is basicly 
 no backstory to this game at all. When you see the opening credits, you will then see a short story. It's 
 really nothing special at all. It doesn't even explain any questions I had. I mean, they mentioned 
 a human-dragon war, but what the heck? If it's a human-dragon war, then why the hell am I riding a 
 DRAGON?! You're supposed to race to restore peace, but what the heck?! How does a frieken race restore 
 peace?! Now this one idiot, who made me waste my $30 on this crappy game (his name is Moncefdark) . He 
 gave it a 10. WHAT THE HECK?!! Dude, are you even sane?! He said you can eat humans. B. S.!!! You can't 
 at all. You just hit them and nock off a little speed off of them. He said to go and buy it right 
 away. Also, that the game is cool in all aspects, but you gotta be crazy!! This game isn't even close 
 to being fun in any way possible. Like he said, he wishes that more people realized how great this 
 game is. Well, because you love this game so much, (please don't spam this, I'll only use this word 
 one last time, I promise) **** you!! When you are racing, you'll really be wondering why the heck you're 
 even racing. I mean, as the crappy backstory said, you gotta race to restore peace, huh?! Once again, HOW 
 WILL RACING EVEN REMOTELY RESTORE PEACE ANYWHERE?!!! And how do dragons even battle humans?! They 
 don't even exist?! And what's up with the retarded adds on the top screen?! I mean, unless you can 
 actually go there, then why even show it? It would make more sense to put a map up there, or at least 
 something. The graphics are terrible, it doesn't even feel anything remotely like racing. Frustrating 
 controls, totally fake, and how can anybody even enjoy this at ALL?!!! I wouldn't buy this game ever 
 and don't even read Moncefdark's reviews, because if you trust them, then a lot of money will be 
 down the tubes. Just avoid this game at all costs.
  
  -Sk8more67 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moncefdark
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I do not know what game these people were playing but this game is the best game on DS bar none. 
 In this game you ride one of the most mystical creatures in the land, Dragons. Your dragon can 
 go fast or slow its tottally up to you which is really awsome. Dragons can sometimes eat humans 
 but in this game they got tamed dragons to ride. The controls on this game are like silk and make 
 you just feel really good about your life. I wish other companies would take note of this games 
 awsome moves and grooves. This game was really cool in all aspects. Sometimes you dont come in 
 first but it still like is fun because you tried your hardest. Please go to your local game store 
 and buy this right away 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Dragoon
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jul 31, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  This is the worst peice of crap of all time, ds and games period. The controls practicly require 
 3 hands, the graphics look like something on the N64, except worse. The game pretty much start 
 to finish is just about flinging your dude around and trying to hit crap. Really, really stupid. 
 Even the dragons look like crap, it reminds me of a mix between a dog and a rhino. Some ppl think 
 the saving graze in the game is the customization, well its not! You get to add three things, and 
 the dragon still looks like crap.
  If like the anima series, you'll still hate the game. Trust me do not buy this, it is crap, thats 
 being craped on. YAH ITS THAT BAD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogsuferer
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 9, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I do not know what game these people were playing but this game is the best game on DS bar none. 
 In this game you ride one of the most mystical creatures in the land, Dragons. Your dragon can 
 go fast or slow its tottally up to you which is really awsome. Dragons can sometimes eat humans 
 but in this game they got tamed dragons to ride. The controls on this game are like silk and make 
 you just feel really good about your life. I wish other companies would take note of this games 
 awsome moves and grooves. This game was really cool in all aspects. Sometimes you dont come in 
 first but it still like is fun because you tried your hardest. Please go to your local game store 
 and buy this right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 1.9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Booster is a very odd Anime show made for Toon Disney (yep that's right somewhere Walt disney 
 is screaming in his grave) anyway, It revolves around racing dragons, no that's no typo. This game 
 seems like it was released far too early like 2 years too early, the Graphics, Sound, and Gameplay 
 are so Horrific that this game would make a very good Torture device for police who are trying 
 to get a confession. And if anybody finds the annoying story to be anything more than crap designed 
 for retarded toddlers please come forward and tell me right away, i promise i will not call the 
 good folks at the Assylum to haul you away. With unbearable controls, rotten gameplay, and sound 
 that will make you ears bleed even the most dedicated fanboy will have trouble calling this a good 
 game. 
  
  CANADIANS, STOP MAKING ANIME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kidou
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 14, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Well, my nephew had it, so I tried it.
  
  Anyway, there's not alot going on in the game...
  
  Graphics - An abysmal. An absolute abysmal. 
 Everything about it just felt really rushed. Even in the cartoon the animation doesn't look particularly 
 good.
  
  Sound - Probably the only decent thing about this, but even that doesn't make it stand out very 
 much.
  
  Controls - I was confused how to play. You have 4 attack buttons, and you automatically accelerate 
 on your own, depending how good your dragon is. Your task is to jump and avoid obstacles while 
 your opponent tries to drive you off.
  
  Gameplay - It just completely lacks in here. There is nothing amazing about moving left to right 
 and jumping. Especially in a racing game.
  
  My Tilt - Don't buy this game unless you're a hardcore fan of this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elitegam3r
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  
  I bought this game 2 days ago, and compared to the video on gamespot it makes me confused. It's 
 not anything like the gameplay movie, so I was quite shocked when i first played it. It didn't 
 have laps it had time limits where you were supposed to reach a checkpoint before it ran out. Also 
 there werent racing teams to choose from, you just picked someone and their dragon, but alot of 
 the game doesnt make sense, it's addicting and i didint give up on it because i like te show. I 
 beat S rank and I thought I would get dragon booster, guess what -.- I didnt, and even by beating 
 all the races i unlocked a total of 0 passwords. You might wanna rent it but I wouldnt buy it unless 
 you're a big fan of the show, seeing how this is the only game so far.
  
  
  (This is kinda my first review) =\ 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
