-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/dragonquestmonstersjoker/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Wonderful visual style.
 More than 200 monsters to capture.
 Involving and addictive customization system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Level grinding can be intimidating.
 No online head-to-head.
 Could have benefited from a more interesting battle system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 669 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: TOSE
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Nov 6, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker feeds that compulsive need to customize as many monsters as you can 
 and is great if you don't mind a little level grinding. 

  The last time we saw a Dragon Quest Monsters game in North America was six years ago on the Game 
 Boy Color, when the franchise still went by the moniker "Dragon Warrior." Importers aside, then, 
 Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker for the Nintendo DS is a triumphant return to the Western world. Boasting 
 gorgeous 3D visuals, a plethora of monsters to capture, and a compulsive monster-breeding system, 
 this entry in the series should keep monster collection fans playing for hours on end. The emphasis 
 on grinding, however, will make newcomers want to approach with caution.  

           Let the mating... I mean synthesis dance... begin!      

  Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker 
 casts you in the role of a young monster-scout-to-be. You wake up in a prison cell, put there for 
 trying to enter a monster-scouting tournament. Your father -- who is the head of the supersecret 
 CELL organization and threw you in there in the first place -- sends for you and lets you join the 
 tournament to fulfill an undercover mission for him. You are then given your choice of starting 
 monster and head off to the tournament island via Jet Ski, where your adventure will begin in earnest. 
 Along the way, you'll go on a scavenger hunt, encounter other scouts who challenge you, and befriend 
 a mythical beast who has its own agenda. Kind of a weird set-up, but it fits the game's vibe.  
 

  Your quest is confined to seven islands, each of which requires Jet Ski travel to access. Exploration 
 is limited to the mountains, caves, and palaces on these islands. There's no wandering around large 
 continents or visiting various towns, so everything seems a little small in scope. However, there's 
 still plenty of gameplay on each island, so while the lack of an epic feel may perturb those who 
 were expecting a full-blown Dragon Quest role-playing experience, it doesn't take away from the 
 depth of the core game.  

  With these sorts of games, after all, the emphasis is on collecting and synthesizing the massive 
 roster of more than 200 monsters that populate the islands. Split across eight different known 
 families and eight letter grades, many of these monsters -- such as the lovable slimes -- are recognizable 
 if you've played through a Dragon Quest game. Within your first few encounters on each island, 
 you can expect to come across several new monsters to battle, with many more as you venture deeper 
 in. There's even a day-night cycle, so when you're outdoors, a whole different set of monsters 
 comes out to play during nighttime.  

  There are no random battles here -- each monster is visible on the world map, and you can ambush 
 or avoid them as you please. You stay completely out of actual combat and are limited to using 
 items, leaving the bloodletting to your monsters. You can have up to three monsters on hand at 
 any time, with another three to switch in when outside of battle. The rest of your critters hibernate 
 in a monster-storage vault. The turn-based battles are almost identical to those in other Dragon 
 Quest games, with the option to fight, defend, or use any of your monsters' myriad special abilities. 
 You can choose to take a hands-off approach by setting up such tactics for each monster as ordering 
 them to mix up their abilities or avoid using magic. This system may seem a bit simple and antiquated, 
 but "scouting" monsters -- that is, recruiting them to your side -- makes battles more appealing.  
 

  When you choose the scout command, each of your monsters takes a turn thwacking your target over 
 the head without causing damage. Each hit increases the probability, measured in an onscreen percentage 
 bar, that the target will join you. Even a weak party has a tiny chance of recruiting powerful 
 monsters as long as it hits 1 percent. Since scouting power is linked to attack power, you can 
 improve your chances by spending turns to boost up with support spells -- at the risk that the monster 
 will flee or defeat your party in the meantime. This makes you think about setting up "recruitment 
 parties" and keeping secondary monsters up to snuff, since some magic users lack physical strength. 
 This light strategy keeps things interesting and isn't overly complex.  

  When you scout monsters it brings them in at a high experience level, making them ideal for "synthesis," 
 which is the merging of two beasts to create a new one. There are a few restrictions, one being 
 that they must each be at least level 10. Each monster comes with a set of traits that determine 
 what skills it can learn after leveling up, and when you synthesize, you'll have to choose three 
 of the parents' traits for the new monster to inherit. You'll be thinking long and hard about which 
 monsters and traits to keep or toss. Interestingly, you can create the same species with totally 
 different abilities, and the possibilities are almost endless.  

  The caveat is that a newly synthesized beast starts off at a low level. Since you'll want to see 
 what the next synthesis will yield, you'll feel compelled to level up your new baby. This will 
 take a very long time if you want to keep everything synthesis-ready, but even without considering 
 that, each new area is already tough to fight through if you don't grind. With only a smattering 
 of nooks to explore and side quests to take, Dragon Quest Monsters doesn't do a very good job of 
 masking the grinding process. Be prepared to run around in circles fighting the same enemies if 
 you want to get a lot out of this game.  

  At least the game is a joy to look at as you grind. Akira Toriyama's trademark art style is represented 
 very faithfully via cel-shaded character models roaming about an entirely 3D world. The coloring 
 is vibrant, and most textures, while expectedly blocky due to the limitations of the DS hardware, 
 are very detailed. The frame rate is smooth, and pop-in and broken seams are rare. The audio holds 
 up its end of the bargain, with sound effects that are crisp rather than muddy and music that uses 
 high-quality samples. The melodies could use a bit more variety, however, and while catchy and 
 mostly cheery, they aren't entirely moving. Nevertheless, the presentation is still strong overall, 
 both aesthetically and technically.  

           This one, she's a looker.      

  The game takes advantage of the DS's Wi-Fi technology too, though not to its fullest. You can battle 
 and trade monsters over local wireless play, which is fine, but multiplayer battling over the Internet 
 is noticeably absent. Square Enix has tried to make up for it by letting you battle against downloadable 
 team data. By sending your team data online, the game will match it to five other teams on the 
 network and download their data for you. You can win new monsters and items through these battles, 
 or even just by signing into the network. It works well enough, and the items and monsters provide 
 incentive, but the more competitive scouts out there will still miss pummeling their friends head-to-head. 

  Even with the lack of competitive online play, there's plenty to do in Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker. 
 With such a variety of monsters to collect and ways to mold them to your liking, you'll spend hours 
 upon hours past the main 25-hour story scouting and experimenting. Although the grinding can be 
 a turn off, it's well worth the trouble if you desire the sense of satisfaction that comes with 
 a massive, customized collection of beasts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (55 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Zan_Puppet
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 8.5/10: There are plenty of places to go, monsters to get, skills to master. It's a bit 
 a level grinder though.
  
  Story mode 9/10: The game starts out lame but gets funner as your Incarinus transforms into it's 
 other forms. The final battle is a bit of a shocker and allows you to obtain the final boss as 
 a monster later in the game.
  
  Graphics 8.5/10: The graphics are pretty good except for some pixiles that appear large when to 
 close to an object. Monsters are done very well for example Mortamor (Deathmore 3) .
  
  Monsters 9.5/10: Monsters are really cool except for some monsters have pun names just like Spiked 
 Hair, Jargon, See Urchin, and Eveel. Some new monsters such as Don Mole, Leopold, Khalamari, Ruin, 
 Rhapthorne, Incarinus, and Captain Crow (the pirate from Dragon Quest) . They also revive classics 
 as Zoma, White King, Deathmore 3 ( now as Mortamor) , King Squid, Estark, and of course the Slimes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike5424
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 6:17 am PT
Review:  one of the best games the world has seen with around 200 monsters amazing 3d graphics a story that 
 blows you away definatly the best game it is so addicting so much to do so many hours spent playing 
 i cant describe the game without blowing my brain up it is facinating i love it i cant stop playing 
 this amazing game i would recomend this to every one 100/100 why did they make a game so good thx 
 for reading my review for this amazing game.
  
  p. s. plz buy this game its amazing and the money will hopefully go to a dragon quest monsters joker 
 2 wich will hopefully have more monsters more levels a choise of who you want to be and hopefully 
 you will be able to make the charecter look how you want. lets just say i would give it a 99999999999999999999 
 out of 1 so i would love it if everyone could buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game-Review
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  It depends on your tastes on weather you're going to like this game or not. If you like action/adventure 
 genres you're going to enjoy this very much. If  
 games suit you fancy, this game will not be on your favorite list.
  
  This game has great graphics and great variety in the monsters you will encounter on your journeys, 
 but it is clear that this game was inspired by pokemon, so some things seem ripped off. The islands 
 are beautifully designed, and the behaviour of the monsters was probably inspired by real animals, 
 then tweaked a bit.
  
  The storyline draws you in, and if you are like me, the scenes with Solitaire will annoy the heck 
 out of you and make you want to throw your DS at the wall (I'd advise not to, though: You could 
 break it) .
  
  I enjoyed this game. You may like it, you may not. It all depends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetaKnight50
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  there are a couple things why i dont like this game.
  
  adventure- Not many places to explore.
  
  After game play- there is not to do after the game, 
 maybe they should make it so you could go to more islands after you beat the solitare challenge.
 
  
  Synthesis- It just doesnt make any sense for some monsters. for an example, to get a Dragon Lord 
 you need the following: 
  Does anybody see what doesnt make sense? Why would i need a gem slime for a dragon lord? In fact, 
 in my point of view, it has NOTHING to do with the color gold.
  
  Monsters: Okay, they crossed the line. They took out some of the best monsters in the series like: 
 Orochi, Andreal, Sky Dragon, Wing Snake, and some others. They were like the coolest monsters in 
 the game, and breeding made sense in those games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skylark2012
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:16 am PT
Review:  Even with all the bad reviews about this game on other sites as well as gamespot- you can't ignore 
 all the hype and talk about how good this game is. I really don't get it- I was really disappointed. 
 This game offers a lot- and puts you through a familiar monster catching experience that feels 
 like a dream you've dreamt a hundred times before- the graphics are great and the music is really 
 good. But, the gameplay of it just makes you depressed.
  
  The atmosphere is a great boost for this game- maybe that's why everyone likes it (whoever does) . 
 Playing this game makes you feel really great, if not really different. It sucks you into it's 
 world and can make you feel adventurous and even creeped out sometimes. 5/5
  
  The graphics are to be reckoned- the 3D with the 2D really gives the game a good feel. The animations 
 are pretty well done and go well with the great artwork that is to be expected of the series. 4/5
 
  
  The music CAN get repetitive and annoying at times- but personally, I think it goes well with the 
 great and interestingly sad gameplay. Nothing to complain. 4/5
  
  The gameplay of Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker is not bad but not very good either. I feel that even 
 though the controls and feel of you walking around as that guy manages to do the job- sometimes 
 you just feel too congested to have a good time. As for the pokemon style battling- it does a good 
 job, but it can sometimes be a bit frustrating when you wait for the monsters to attack and you've 
 already done that 20 times before this. The slowness of the gameplay and lack of life in the exploring 
 just drains the life out of you- not to mention it can sometimes be confusing what exactly you 
 have to do. 2/5
  
  The story- as far as I have gone- bothered to go- is very good, for a cliche monster battle game 
 like this. I really don't like too much cliche in my games. he beginning is different from what 
 you would expect- if you weren't expecting much- and the story continues well for an adventurous 
 kid. Enjoyable. 4/5
  
  Overall, the game has some very good features- notably the graphics and animation (pretty well 
 done if compared to other ds games) , the art is also pleasant (except for some ridiculous monster 
 designs like the Shadow) . But for just the plain reason that I just feel bad when I play it- maybe 
 perhaps because of the severe level grinding- I hate this game. Not worth anything- except for 
 show (hey, look at my cool game- it looks nice- well, it isn't) . Don't play this. Go kill your 
 relatives- you'll get the same feeling.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostofluigi
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the most disgusting game I have ever played in my years of gaming, so far. 
 The only good thing about it was the graphics. The gameplay was mediocre as far as turn-based games 
 go. The leveling up your monsters was dumb becuase it took a long while and I mean long and was 
 frustrating. I had to stay on the same dumb island for 2 days to get my monsters to level up so 
 I could get to the next island. The creatures looked dumb and I hated the fact whenever you synthesized 
 your monsters, they went down to level 0 again. Couldn't they just keep the level of the higher 
 monster or something? Storyline was not very good as it related to the pokemon storyline. The graphics 
 were the only positive part of having the game. I'm ashamed that I even entered the game into my 
 DS. To conclude, Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker was a disaster of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bakanakaba
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 8, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  I loved Dragonquest 8 so I decided to get this game. Now this game wasn't awful, but it didn't 
 meet expectations.
  The graphics are the same as it was in Dragonquest 8, which I enjoyed so I'm not gonna criticize 
 it too much.
  Gameplay and difficulty was very similar as it was in Dragonquest 8, but with monsters this time. 
 If you played Dragonquest 8, there is no real difference so you'll get into the gameplay fairly 
 quick. If you haven't , just imagine pokemon and you'll get right down to it. The new monster synthesis 
 gameplay (basically fusing 2 monsters into 1) was fun, but also difficult to create some of the 
 better monsters in the game. The difficulty would change at certain points which I felt was right 
 about this game so it had some road blocks.
  Story this time around was pretty lame. There was no real reason to get excited about what was 
 happening because nothing really felt that it was gonna change.
  This is an RPG format, so it'll take some time to play throughout. If you liked the series or simply 
 want to play this game, it is fun and you'll get your share of entertainment. Just don't expect 
 too much on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persian_knight
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 1, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  this game is basically a grinder which means you have to keep doing the same battles over and over 
 to get stong enough to move on but it isnt actually ad bad as it sounds
  
  you start off with one monster then you have to train and capture new kinda like pokemon then fuse 
 them together to get a stonger one and you do that over and over but there is alot of different 
 monster to get
  
  which make the game extremely fun and alot of custmization becuase they have there own unique skills 
 and abillities and no two monster are alike which make they game great it would have been better 
 if there was more features and online play but the story is geeat apart from you can tell whats 
 going to happen if your used to theese kinda stories like i am but its a great game and theres 
 alot of fun to be had
  the only bad thing is the graphics are a bit weak but it doesnt ruin the game much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker is clearly an attempt to mold Pokemon in a different direction in 
 that the primary focus of the game is capturing and raising monsters who then do battle in a turn-based 
 fashion. Pokemon was always a good time waster but the combat itself was not terribly deep beyond 
 basic monster type matching. To these ends, Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker takes this already simple 
 formula, renders the game in 3D, raises the match to 3 on 3, and institutes a more sophisticated 
 set of monster statistics and easier breeding.
  
  Unfortunately, DQM: J then botches things up and loses appeal by making combat so lacking of influential 
 options. This is primarily the fault of forcing the player to slowly level their monsters up to 
 four moves and largely doing away with the importance of matching "types" of monsters to do battle. 
 As a result, DQM: J's combat feels fundamentally uninvolved and limited, little more than a pretty 
 interface on a simple 1980s Japanese RPG.
  
  On the upshot, at least Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker is presented better than your average Pokemon 
 game. After all, it's developed by Square-Enix, more specifically some of the same talent behind 
 the Dragon Quest series lately. I enjoyed both the familiar sounds from Dragon Quest: Rocket Slime 
 and the Akira Toriyama artistic style. It was really encouraging to start a new game to find my 
 glowering young protagonist rotting in his father's jail - the game has character, of that there 
 is no doubt.
  
  I just wish the gameplay itself matched the quality of the presentation. If I was feeling more 
 patient, maybe I could stick with Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker long enough for my monsters to evolve 
 some abilities that require some actual foresight to use. However, when combat plays out this slowly 
 and leaves me largely uninvolved, what we have here is a bona fide grind. 
  
  Grinds are unforgivable for any gamer who has burned out on them before. I have, and for me this 
 game is in severe need of a fast forward button. However, if you're not recovering from RPG burn 
 out, or just resoundingly patient, you might be able to get into this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack-shinobi
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  DQM Joker is a game where you play as a guy who's the son of a big organization head. Yeah... what 
 else is new. The character, in this case is you and seem to have a strange fasination in monsters... 
 So like many games have done before it you capture the monsters and use them in battle. You are 
 trying to enter and win a big tournament throughout the story and again... Catching monsters...
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  I thought the idea was cool of having a character walk around 3-D and then fight... But using monsters? 
 I mean really? It didn't work out for me. I think it would have been 5x better if the character 
 himself fought his own battles instead of his monster minions. 
  
  Also, I found it annoying when your catching monsters. Your monster has to show off to the other 
 one and if it likes it then it MIGHT join your team.. I didn't like this idea. 
  
  Graphics: 
  
  3-D sounds awesome. But in this case, I found the graphics to be a bit chunky 
 and hard to look around.. I mean when you can't tell where there's stairs there is something wrong.
 
  
  Over-all: 
  
  I bought this game for a low price. Anything above $20.00 is asking to much for this game...
 
  
  Buy it if your a hardcore DQM fan. If not then don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fdtoonsman
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 26, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  DQMJ, by itself, is a decent game. You trap monsters and use their abilities to fight other monsters, 
 eventually being able to master this skill. All in all, Pokemon is a good game. Oh, did I say Pokemon? 
 Yeah, that's right. This game is very alike Pokemon. I'm not completely claiming it as a ripoff, 
 but really. At least make it original. This game would get a 7 or 7.5, but it loses because of 
 the fact it's just a carbon copy of Pokemon with pretty 3D graphics. The only reason I tried this 
 game was because the nice graphics I keep hearing about. Yes, they're nice, but a crappy camera 
 ruins it. However, when you do run into a battle, the system is actually nice. You can set a specific 
 move for each of your monsters to do all at once, and then to whom. It's the most fun of the game, 
 and it's the shining point. All in all, the game's okay, though not original. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame4lyf
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker (DQMJ) adds an interesting twist to the beloved old-style Dragon Quest 
 Monsters games. The older Dragon Quest games were (for the most part) an extreme success. This 
 game continues the trend, but to a smaller extent.
  
  DQMJ has wonderful graphics, decent battle animations, and decent music. The main reason it has 
 such successful graphics is because the game is a 3-D environment. The character sprites are also 
 a nice change-up. The only complaint about them is that they resemble Dragonball Z characters. 
 The battle animations get really old quickly, but this happens in many games, so that does not 
 bring the caliber of this game down at all. 
  
  Gameplay is decent, but levelling up, as well as breeding (which is now known as synthesizing) 
 is extremely annoying, but necessary. The only way to level up is by fighting other monsters. While 
 fighting, your monster (s) have the option to try to recruit the monster (s) you are fighting. This 
 is how you add to your army of monsters. 
  
  Online play is rather... restricted. Unless you care to spend hundreds and hundreds of hours levelling 
 up and synthesizing the ultimate monster team, then you should not bother to play online. The only 
 real reason to attempt the online play is for the prizes. If you lose during the first round, you 
 still get a prize, which is nice. 
  
  Overall, DQMJ is a great game; if you were a fan of the series before, you should definitely get 
 this game. If you have not played the Dragon Quest Monster series before, you should give this 
 game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njfire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you get mad at cause you know it could of been better. It's its 
 own game and is nothing like Pokemon....... Pokemon's better anyways. However this game just felt 
 like the same thing over and over again. The way how a battle can go on and on is really annoying. 
 Some of the monsters were kul and the synchronizing was a good thing to have, but eventually it 
 just takes too long to get a stronger monster and I just didn't want to take all that time on that 
 game to do that. The game just felt weird.......... when I played it. However the story is great. 
 You start off in a jail because your dad locked you up. He agrees to let you go to the monster 
 tournament if you find all the crystals for him. From There on it is a journey that will keep you 
 hunting and synchronizing. All around it is a decent game, but I wouldn't get it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaBrownie
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 24, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  Dragon Quest games usually end up being some of the best games ever, but this on fails to reach 
 the expectations of fans and the height of the series.
  
  You are a young troublemaker whos father decided to send you off to do something with your life. 
 And that is to explore all the islands to seek out the strongest monsters to compete in the tournament 
 and become the best. On your first stop on the first island, you find a temple with another trainer 
 starting out like yourself trying to catch a strange looking monster you've never seen before. 
 Latter on, the beast asks you to take it with you to the other islands and go into their temples 
 so that the beast can regain its lost powers. The beast is a holy beast whos mission is to destroy 
 an ancient darkness that's starting to seep into the world from the dark world. After you compete 
 and win the tournament, that darkness becomese evident, and it's up to you and your team to stop 
 it. 
  
  The storyline is pretty good for this type of game, but the gameplay and content gets a little 
 old and therfore boring after a while. It's ok for the first few hours, but then the main game 
 gets a little old. 
  
  The main gem of the game is the ability to seek out monsters, capture them, train them, then fuse 
 them with other monsters to get a stronger monster. The possibilities from the monster synthesis 
 is mind blowing, and making the right choices early in the game leads to some crazy powerful monsters 
 latter on in the game.
  
  The graphics are ok for a DS game, but the soundtract sounds like every other Dragon Quest game 
 out there. Besides the storyline having a short experation date, it's pretty good. But the only 
 true reason that makes this game so good is the players ability to make multiple different and 
 endless possibilities by fusing their monsters. It's ok, but for people who like RPGs you should 
 try out other Square Enix games on the DS since there is'nt much adventure or storyline here. For 
 people who enjoy collecting and training little monsters, Pokemon is a much better choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8
Date: May 15, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  The most impressive thing about "jokers" is the 3D engine that they are able to pull off on the 
 DS. Just about every world object is in true 3D. Not 2D sprites in a 3D world. Actual 3D. And the 
 framerate remains stable when running around in the environments. The graphics are distinct -- 
 no fuzzies here -- and they are stylishly drawn. 
  
  The combat system is utterly standard in every way. You'll get some weapons that will do extra 
 damage to one creature type, but otherwise weapons are generic and ordinary. There' no armor or 
 anything like that.
  
  90% of the game is leveling up your "monsters" so that you can handle stronger monsters on the 
 next island you will explore. That's not as tedious as it sounds because you have quite a bit of 
 choice about what abilities your monsters will have (ice powers or fire powers) (attack bonuses 
 or defend bonuses) as you mate them with other monsters. Once you combine 2 monsters to make a 
 new one, you'll have to level up that new monster, so expect to quite a bit of level grinding in 
 the game if you do a lot of combining of monsters. There no compelling reason to combine monsters 
 -- you could beat the game only occasionally combining a few monsters. 
  
  The gameworld isnt huge (which is to be expected for a 3D game on a DS cartridge) but the islands 
 are varied enough to keep you interested. There's several interior dungeons too, and they are small 
 in size. Like the rest of the game, the dungeons are colorful and well-designed.
  
  The game doesnt punish you much for making mistakes. If your team dies you lose half of your gold 
 (you can store gold to avoid losing a lot of money) . Otherwise, your team is resurrected for free 
 and then you go back out for more combat. 
  
  The worst thing I can say about this great game is that it is basically a level-griding game. If 
 that doesnt sound like fun, this isnt the game for you. But for those who like developing characters 
 in a RPG-lite environment, "Jokers" is certainly worth a look.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: legendofmario5
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  While this game has been doing good on some other consoles, this particular game might prove to 
 be the best in the series of DQM. Instead of leveling up human creatures, you level monsters into 
 fighting shape. Think of it as Pokemon, with minor tweaks. This is a turn-based game, but there's 
 so much strategy involved in this game that you might not even notice the turn based part of this 
 game. Graphics look even better on the DS, with anime styled monsters garuntees the look and feel 
 of Dragon Quest. Although the storyline is a bit basic, but solid gameplay with actually good RPG 
 element cleans the mess up of this basic storyline. There are a few gripes about this game, but 
 nothing too serious. In short, this is one nice package and does a better job than Final Fantasy 
 on the other side of RPG games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gen_archer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: Very good gameplay. More control over what you do in the game, and the monster synthesis 
 is great too. Lets you create new monsters with the ones you have. 10.0
  STORY: another great story in this one, and another excellent job by square enix. Very catchy too, 
 except the whole father being the warden thing wasnt helping but it was still catchy. 9.5
  CHARACTERS: The hero of the game has great hair in my opinion, but wy would you punish someone 
 to save the world? The villian, Dr. Snap, played a good part, not a fan of emo boys hair though (sorry) , 
 and Solitare, the arch enemy, was excellent in the story to, but shouldnt the hero become the new 
 comissoner? 10.0
  OVERALL: Great game i recomend it to people who will stick to playing the game all the time. Another 
 great job by square enix and akira toriyama, the artist. 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archiearcher
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  This game has it all action, comedy, and that wierd boss thats hard to beat without some level grinding. 
 ive played this game for about TWO HUNDRED FIFTY hours now and i cant put it down. this game lives 
 up to the DRAGON QUEST name! a must buy for eny Dual Screen owners. i would only, however, recommend 
 this game if you have allot of free time. now lets take a look at the review.
  
  GRAPHICS-for the series amazing, for squareenix disappointing-3/5
  STORY-square enix yet again 
 blows our mind with a great storyline. but its realy just a twist on most breeding fighting monster 
 games-4.5/5
  MUSIC-the games sound track needs little intraduction some great remixes of DRAGON QUEST classics-5/5
 
  GAMEPLAY-another rpg... but with skill costomisation and several moves spells and abillities youll 
 keep wanting more. but this game also has multiplayer with wi-FI DOWNLOAD BATTLES and a ranking 
 system the wildcard world cup will have you striving to be the best-5/5. DRAGON QUEST MONSTERS 
 JOKER GETS A 5/5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I am not a fan of the Dragon Quest series (well now i am) and i bought this game cuz it sounded 
 interesting, when i first got it, i thought it would be a Pokemon wannabe like some people say 
 it is, trust me, its not. the battle system is kinda cool, and the graphics are awesome. 200 monsters 
 too scout is a pretty good roster. the game offers a unique way to capture or scout monsters. thankfully, 
 using the ds stylus is optional. the only bad thing is that sometimes the levels are intimidating. 
 wi-fi works really well too. this game is one of my favorites now. theres nothing not too like about 
 this game. it  pokemon is a completely different game. people 
 think just cuz a game is an rpg where u capture monsters is the exact same thing as pokemon, thats 
 just lame.
  
  
  
  P. S. the guys hairdo looks kinda like Kakashis, kinda.
  
  
  P. S. S thank u Nintendo Power for defending the fact that this game is not a pokemon pretender! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanligo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Take a Gameplay similar to Pokemon and add some Dragon Quest Roleplaying and their monsters and 
 you've got yourself one heck of a game.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Length and Replayability 10/10
  Sound 8/10
  Controls 10/10
  
  Pros- 
  Over 200 Detailed 
 Monsters to Collect
  Beautiful Detailed 3D Graphics
  Addicting Gameplay
  Synthing Monsters make your monster team just the way you want it to be
  Scouting is an easy 
 to learn way of catching monsters
  Many Hours of highly addicting Gameplay
  Pick Up and Go Learning Curve
  
  Cons-
  You may not get enough sleep when you are up at 1 
 am playing
  The music is a little annoying at some parts
  Wi-Fi doesn't let you battle people directly, only download ghosts
  The ghosts that you do download 
 can be hackers that ruin the Wi-Fi
  Could of Had a little more immersive combat
  Weak Story
  There will be a lot of Grinding involved 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Some of us probably think that Dragon Quest Monsters-Joker will be a cheap knockoff of Pokemon. 
 WRONG. Sure there are a few similarities, but in Pokemon, can you synthesize two monsters to get 
 a stronger one? Basically, you travel from island to island, defeating boss monsters in temples 
 to help a mysterious monster, otherwise known as the Incarnus. In between, you're scouting monsters, 
 learning new abilities and perfecting your team to prepare for the monster scout challenge.
  The good: ~The graphics in the game are 3-D and pleasantly so.
  ~Over a hundred monsters to collect 
 and synthesize.
  The bad: ~Storyline is a typical RPG storyline and pretty predictable.
  ~The battle system could use a bit of improvement to make it more interesting.
  
  All in all, 
 the game is pretty good and, If you're not already a Dragon Quest fan, this is a good place to 
 start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slime_crazy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  i'm gonna put it to you this way, if you would like stuff like Pokemon but hate the characters 
 because their cheesy, childish ect. YOU SHOULD GET THIS GAME!!! there is only 1 (count em') 1 bad 
 thing about this game... the level grinding, but that can be easily turned into a good thing. and 
 for those who like the cuteness they came up with something called a slime... I'm definatly a fan 
 of slimes... well anyway, this is soooooooooooo not a kids game because at the end of the game you 
 go through the gates of HELL!!! (but you don't die, you have to go there to kill someone you never 
 wouldv'e thought you would have to kill) and that is why this game is THE BEST GAME IN THE SERIES!!!!!! 
 (sorry I have a shouting problem...) okay, you might want to stop reading because the rest is gibberish. 
 gtfvtrdty gu yr6tfd5se tyegrw56h d twywryeyre yu re6yuretyu reyutr eyuitr6 t7gy8y tuhuih uyfdsgh 
 fuydsgfyu dsg yufgs dyugfyd gf6wtr cvytyewtr wy7tr72843rtyqegr yw fuwety rwetryew8tr ywir3 uf yeif 
 hdaj hufhd hw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  Enter monsters from the Dragon Quest series, and a gameplay experience similar to that of Pokemon. 
 These two add up to what Joker is. Despite being very 'leveling' centric, the game tries to be 
 as painless as possible. Such as your scout learning the abilities to transport out of the dungeon 
 or back to the last scouting post you visited. The story itself can be relatively short, predictable 
 and rewarding. Most of the time spent will be working up monsters to fuse them into even stronger 
 monsters.
  
  Gameplay 8- Solid gameplay, good enjoyment, and the controls work well through either use of the 
 buttons or touchpad.
  Graphics 7- The cel-shaded people and monsters look good, but the environment could use a texturing 
 upgrade. And there are frequent view issues with the camera.
  Sound 8- The music is gentle, and helps set the various moods throughout the course of the game.
 
  Fun Factor 8- It takes getting used to but Joker can be great fun and worth your time.
  Replay Value- 7
  
  My Final Score- 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gopatriots9
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  When I first got this game I played it for 8 hours straight!! It is so freakin' awesome. The level-grinding 
 actually gives you a sense of pride and happiness once you get used to the rhythm of it. If SquareEnix 
 is coming out with another Dragon Quest game anytime I would definitely buy it right away. The 
 only draw back were the Wi-Fi problems, but why does everyone whine about cause we sure got by 
 without Wi-Fi a few years ago. If you had to ask me Wi-Fi is way overrated and it is not the main 
 focus of RPG's so reviewers need to take that into account before giving a game a bad review because 
 of bad Wi-Fi. If you like RPG's or are thinking about starting and want to make sure you get a 
 good one, go out and buy this game. YOU WILL NOT BE  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bb0yd
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  According to my son, enough was said in that statement above about how much the game rocks. My 
 kids love this game even more than the Pokemon series. They have played this game for countless 
 hours with their friends and cousins. Having played Dragon Quest VIII on the PS2, I know the series 
 has some really good qualities a great team behind it. Looks like a great game and from my experience 
 it is great for boys.
  
  The basic jist of the game is similar to other monster collection games with a great twist that 
 is masterfully executed. The players can combine various monsters to make better monsters. The 
 playability and multiperson trading seem endless as players can talk about monster combos, scout 
 new monsters and trade monsters for weeks/months.
  
  Hopefully we can get the rest of the DQ series delivered to the DS platform here in the U. S. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imPERSONater10
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is a difficult one to place as far as playability goes. I personally have not completed 
 all of the game tasks and I am at 45hr of play. Although on the boards, there are some people that 
 have "sprinted" the game in as little as 10 hours. The game has plenty of longevity though in the 
 fact that your team of 3 monsters can constantly develop and get better. This game is a Pokemon-type 
 playing style, but it offers so much more as far as monsters go. Each team consists of three monsters, 
 each with their own pros, cons and skills. The real meat of the game comes from the ability to 
 "synthesize" monsters with each other. That way you can take two strong monsters, synth them and 
 make an even stronger monster. Since "synthing" resets your monster level to 1, this game requires 
 a lot of level grinding and that can be tedious for some. I personally enjoy it and find this game 
 to be a blast. With each upgrade their are new monsters to make and new levels to attain. Synthing 
 is one of the most addictive additions I have encountered for games. So in short, if you are looking 
 for a substitute for the Pokemon you have beat to death, pick this game up; it can be a quick jaunt 
 if you choose, or a worthwhile excursion. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sadlerstyle
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  After playing through it again with an unbiased mind setting, I will say this a very Very good 
 game. This game has an amazing replay value. The ability to create hundreds of monsters will keep 
 anyone entertained. Th Scouting option made the game a whole lot easier, not to mention a whole 
 lot cheaper on your characters pocket. Opening up the world was a good idea and the graphics are 
 amazing. Music is Awesome! I didn't like the synthesizing. Its not a new thing. Monster Rancher 
 for the GBA had it, and it was a pathetic way to explain why you original monsters disappeared. 
 The game also seemed like it was missing something. It wasn't a major thing, it was a small detail. 
 Maybe it was the Breeding selection or the Monster Farm.
  
  Now for the warnings:
  1. This is not pokemon, so if your an evolution person you will be disappointed.
  2. Not all 
 the monsters from the DWM series made it to the DS.
  3. This is a grinding game. Thats all you do for lvlin'.
  4. If you don't like Anime, sorry. 
 That's the aniamtion style of the game.
  
  Things I wish they'd included:
  1. Watabou
  2. The original monster types.
  3. The original monster names from DWM.
  4. Traveler Gates.
 
  5. The Great Tree, Bazaar, and King.
  ^. Monster Farm
  
  All in all this a buy game. If you're tired of pokemon, GET THIS GAME.
  Im glad i played through 
 it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevoiscrunk132
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I have a DS, and sure I've played the metroid and the Zeldas and what not. However, none of those 
 games are 100% yours to play. The developers have made these games linear with no way of actually 
 making the game yours. In Dragon Quest Monsters Joker, that is definitly not the case. 
  The amount of customization in this game is amazing. You start off by capturing monster, which 
 right off the bat you can customize they're abilities better then any game I've seen in a while 
 (and I'm an RPG freak) . However, the game takes a twist once your monsters reach a level of 10. 
 From then on you can breed new and superior monsters with better statistics and usually a better 
 class (the rating of each monster which ranges from F-A and then X for special monsters) . When 
 you breed new monsters, you then are able to choose which traits (or abilities) to give your monster. 
 The traits are carried on from the monsters parents. 
  That being said, this game wouldnt be great at all if you only had a few dozen monsters to play 
 around with. In Joker, it is possible to capture over 300 monsters! 
  The game also has an interesting scouting system. Each member of your team (you can carry a max 
 of 3 monsters) tries to persuade your foe to join the team. Depending on your monsters level and 
 class you can either impress your monster to join your team or aggravate it. This is somewhat annoying 
 once getting to the higher hours of the game. That being said it makes it all more addiciting trying 
 to capture the particular monster you would like to recruit. 
  The game looks simply gorgeous for a DS title. It would very much be an impressive looking game 
 even if it was on the PSP. It lags a bit year and there but somewhat not noticable. It carries 
 the same look that Dragon Quest 8 did, and I am very pleased with this decision. 
  The game lost the frustrating random battles of the older Dragon warrior monster games and now 
 you can actually see the monsters youll be facing. If the monsters see you in the game they shall 
 either (depending on your level of monsters) run after you or run away. This usually is a good 
 way to detect how the battle will commence. If the monsters run after you and you try to run away 
 you will probably not get the first shot at placing damage on the opposing monsters. Again, this 
 all depends on your monsters level. 
  The game, could have had alot more story elements in it to make it more of an epic storyline. It 
 is pretty much strait foward; go to an island gather crystals and go one to the next. There is 
 a side storyline that does play a huge part in the game that has to do with a unique monster in 
 the game and its need to grow stronger. 
  The game is virtually up to you how long it is. The way the game progresses you to do things is 
 extremely loose. And in a good way. It all depends if you want to have the best of the best monsters 
 and the way you want to breed them and where should you go to find the cool monsters on the island. 
 Its all up to you!
  However, the only huge problem in the game is all the level grinding you have to do. Most of the 
 game involves you picking fights with monsters just to get your monsters levels high enough to 
 either breed or take on the big bad guy in the temples on the island. 
  Overall this game is great, and would recommend it to anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bitnick
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 30, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  The game starts of a bit slow. You then when you slowly progress later on in the game, it gets 
 fun if you get monsters that you like. There's a lot of different monster synthesis you can make, 
 it even has good amount of abilities. The fighting system's alright in terms of gameplay. But it 
 seems like it's missing something very important. You won't be able to know what's it's missing. 
 I havent figured it out yet. The music in the game is not very enjoyable to most people. The storyline 
 is good too. The games short, I mean really short. It does have amazing replay value to buff up 
 you monsters. Even though it feels repeatitive at end game. If you're sure that the game will last 
 you a while it will, the replay value lets you stay into the game for awhile. Even though it's 
 repeatitive at the end. So i gave this game a 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkanary
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Here's what you need to know about the game:
  
  1) This is a monster hunting game, but it is not Pokemon. If you absolutely cannot stand monster 
 hunting, I suggest you look somewhere else. However, even a casual RPGer who was never interested 
 in monster hunting I think could find something to love here. The story is short but very mature 
 for the monster hunting genre and worth at least checking out. The graphics, sound, and world will 
 keep you rooted to your DS for some time.
  
  2) This is Dragon Quest. If you love Dragon Quest like I do, stop reading this review and go get 
 the game now. NOW!
  
  3) As should be assumed from #2 above, the battles are old school RPG, but in a great way. DQMJ 
 feels nostalgic while still playing like a modern RPG. It doesn't feel out of date or like there's 
 something missing from character advancement or the 3-on-3 battles, but it is able to stay rooted 
 in the classic turn-based fighting and standard XP level gaining that built this series.
  
  4) If you like to explore and wander, you've got a lot of room for that. The islands in the game 
 aren't DQ8 huge, but they're pretty expansive for a DS romp, and I wound up playing the game for 
 almost 80 hours before I beat it, but I am extremely thorough in my game play, and from what I've 
 read on the boards, most beat it in a quarter of the time I did.
  
  5) If you like to whip through a game as fast as possible, the game will cater to that as well, 
 as I have heard of some people beating it on the first run through in 10 hours.
  
  6) The game doesn't end at the ending. This is pretty much a given for video games now-a-days, 
 but even though I beat it at 80 hours, I'm currently almost 100 hours in and am still looking forward 
 to flipping that screen open and jumping back into pumping up my team.
  
  7) The game is wi-fi capable. Whether or not the wi-fi end of it is worthwhile is debatable, even 
 among hardcore fans. The crux of the argument lies in the fact that you cannot battle people directly 
 online. Instead, you upload your monsters' information to a database and the DS will download someone 
 else's monster information and you will fight against a computer-controlled version of that team. 
 I enjoy it, none-the-less. I almost prefer computer controlled because I am not a strong player 
 and could probably be easily tackled by even a slightly crafty player, whereas the computer controlled 
 AI is only as powerful as the monster team before me. Therefore, I stand a chance and my ego is 
 only slightly bruised most of the time. Plus, the prizes given out for winning or just logging 
 in to the wi-fi are pretty good, ranging from weapons and items to mundane and cool new monsters. 
 Also, to keep wi-fi from going stale, there is a special tournament you can enter through wi-fi 
 in which your monsters have to meet certain requirements. So far, the only requirement has been 
 "Rank F Monsters Only", meaning just the weakest rank of monsters. However, those requirements 
 are likely to change, such as "Just Dragons" or the like.
  
  8) Most important, this game is NOT JUST FOR KIDS! Monster hunting seems to be a genre aimed at 
 the little tykes, but this is a bit more rough and tumble than the cute pocket creatures that have 
 graced the handhelds thus far. The main character is a quite loner who begins the story in jail 
 at the hands of his own father. It's nothing terribly dark or deep, but the main character is more 
 Bender than Flexo.
  
  I hope I have answered any questions you have about the game. Keep in mind, I am a biased reviewer 
 because Dragon Warrior (the original name of Dragon Quest) was my first Nintendo game ever and 
 I am devoted to the brand like the pope is devoted to Jesus. Good luck, and safe hunting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lisalover1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker is a very fun game, and it was worth all the time 
 I played it, but the original games, DWM2: Tara's Quest and Cody's Journey [on the Gameboy Color] 
 had a certain quality about them that made them great. In fact, the reason I bought this game was 
 because I hoped it would give me another one of those games. I got what I wanted, I guess. DQM: J 
 is in 3-D, with a great camera. It automatically adjusts, so there's really no need to adjust it. 
 Second, the battle system is the same as the original, but with improved graphics, so that's actually 
 an improvement. The story in the original games was pretty stupid, and otherwise non-existent, 
 and the story in the new game is a huge improvement. I think Enix has learned how to make a good 
 story from DQ7. The gameplay is where this game falls in comparison to the original. The original 
 game had a completely nonlinear style to it; you didn't really need to do anything immediately. 
 You could even choose to go into whatever worlds you wanted to. There were even bonus worlds you 
 could visit that weren't necessary, but gave you some very cool items. Joker is very linear in 
 comparison, giving you only straightforward objectives. While some gamers may prefer this, I personally 
 like to do what I want in a video game. All in all, Joker may be a great game, but nothing compares 
 to the originals on the GBC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamemonkey
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  It is not as good as the original for the Game boy color but still worth the forty bucks. The combat 
 system is fun, but Pokemon seems to win in that department. The graphics are amazing for DS standards. 
 The new monsters look great in 3D. The shortcomings I mentioned earlier are that the sound track 
 gets annoying and repetitive due to the fact that it dos'nt change whatsoever. Another thing thats 
 bad is that the 3D graphics tend to cause unnecessary level grinding. Lastly, things get really 
 confusing because the monsters in storage level up on their own. If your willing to look past all 
 that you'll find a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jiggaloj
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I love everything Dragon Quest. When I heard this game was coming to the U. S. I was overjoyed. 
 I had no doubt in my mind that this would be a great game. I bought this when it first came out 
 and it did not disappoint. DQM is THE best game of its kind outside of the titan that is Pokemon. 
 
  
  DQM is very refreshing because of its style. This game requires quite a bit of level grinding but 
 that shouldn't be a big problem with the beautiful visuals of the monsters and the enviroment. 
 The graphics and visuals are definately a strong point in this game. 
  
  The story is just an average story. there isn't anything really special about it. There's this 
 kid who wants to become a monster scout and wants to participate in the annual scouting challenge. 
 There's also other events that occur but I can't say it without spoiling the story.
  
  The battle system is very similar to pokemon if you've ever played it. Think 3 vs. 3 battles. The 
 fights are very typical. You choose a command and the monster follows that command. 
  
  In this game you don't catch monsters you scout them. There are (I think) 200 monsters in the game. 
 Scouting depends on the rank of your monster and how powerful they are (determined by attack power, 
 if they have attack boosting spells used on them, or if they "psyched up") You can't scout all 
 the monsters though. In order to obtain all the monsters, you are required to do something called 
 synthesizing. There is no evolution in this game. Synthesizing is the only way to get stronger 
 higher ranked monsters. Synthesizing combines 2 monsters ( + and -) and forms stronger monsters. 
 Synthesizing monsters can also open up new abilties and spells you may use in battle. Synthesizing 
 good monsters take team but are very rewarding after you've done them.
  
  There is wifi in this game but is played differently. You don't battle live head to head with people. 
 You download teams and fight them. One good thing is that you can get prizes by winning. You are 
 also ranked in wifi. You send teams via wifi so other people can download them randomly and battle 
 them. You don't get ranked by the wins/loses you have. You get ranked but your monster's stats 
 (I think) . The bad thing about this is that the top 5 teams are hacked with max stats. The good 
 thing is that they can be easily beaten with the right strategies. The bad thing is that if yu 
 know the strategies, they get boring to beat. 
  
  Overall I think this game is a fun way to spend your time and should be recommended to everyone, 
 especially pokemon fans (you may find it easier or harder to play this game because there aren't 
 any iv's/ev's but replaced by an equally challenging sythesis) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutantchowder
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  like i said before this game cant go wrong. it has a wide variety of monsters that keeps you searching. 
 plus the fact that you can syntesise them together just makes it better and more fun for you. the 
 3-D graphics are awesome will have you addicted. the music is light, happy and unlike pokemon so 
 you'll love it. with all these fun factors. in addition to all this the game adds a new twist to 
 the beloved dragon quest series. i think this is the first one that allows you to control the monsters 
 that you meet and the scouting ring sets it apart from pokemon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 10:12 am PT
Review:  I was a bit skeptic, because I'm not too fond of these Pokemon-like games where you have to hunt 
 for monsters to turn them into party members. I did have a blast with Rocket Slime though, and 
 even if this was completely different, all I knew about the game through Slime Knights did have 
 me curious.
  
  So I finally sat down to play it, and I couldn't put it down for hours, until the urgency of doing 
 my college assignments kicked in.
  
  
  Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker (DQMJ for short) puts you in the shoes of a monster hunter. You begin 
 the game in prison. Your father is responsible for your imprisonment, because he is the leader 
 of the CELL organization, which forbids any member to become a monster hunter. However, there is 
 an assignment regarding the Monster Scout Challenge, and he sends you in under the condition you 
 will only become a Scout for the duration of the mission.
  
  Once you reach the main island and register for the Challenge, the adventure begins. Your main 
 quest is to find the ten darkonium crystals, so you will have to do a lot of exploring. In between, 
 there is plenty of fighting and a few key events here and there.
  
  Your hero doesn't actually fight himself (but you can use one item before your monsters' turns) , 
 he has monsters do the dirty work. But first, you need to capture monsters to fight with you. 
 
  
  This is done by "Scouting" while in battle. Scouting means all monsters in your party take a turn 
 to impress the enemy instead of attacking. There is a little meter that shows the percentage of 
 how impressed the enemy is. At the end of your party members' turns, a message will say if you 
 have successfully scouted the monster or not, and if you did, it will join you.
  
  
  You don't need 100% for a monster to join you, it's a matter of overpowering it. For example, you 
 might want to defeat any other monsters in that party before scouting the one you want, since there 
 will be a better chance to capture it. If you capture a monster with others still waiting to attack 
 you, those will flee once the other is captured.
  
  You can choose a particular stance for your monster to behave (such as don't use magic, use the 
 most powerful attacks, mix magic with attacking, or use only support spells) or you can control 
 them individually picking the targets to attack or buff first. If you choose to use the "Fight" 
 command, your party members will behave according to the stance you picked.
  
  Defeating monsters gives your monsters experience - obviously. Once a monster levels up, it gets 
 some skill points that you can allocate among its skills, customizing the way you want them to 
 perform.
  
  You can only have three monsters in your active party, but you can set three more to become your 
 substitutes. Your storage can hold as many as you can capture, including multiples of the same 
 monster.
  
  But why store monsters? To either trade for skill books for your hero or to synthesize new ones!
 
  
  Synthesis is an interesting part of the game, but you can only use monsters level 10 and up to 
 create new ones. You can synthesize at the scout outposts, combining any two monsters and picking 
 the skills for the resulting hybrid. It's a lot of trial and error, and once you combine any two 
 monsters together, they are gone from storage, so if you want to do a lot of synthesis, you will 
 be constantly capturing and leveling up more monsters. It's a very time-consuming activity.
  
  
  The game world is composed of several islands, and transportation is done via a jet ski. 
 Islands have different levels of difficulty, different sets of monsters and very distinct environments. 
 The monster sets also vary from day to night, so if you've already captured all the ones you see 
 in a certain place during daytime, rest at the outpost and you will advance to nighttime.
  
  Aside from all the monster collecting and searching for the darkonium crystals to advance, 
 there are other activities to keep you busy. For example, right on the first island you explore, 
 there is a tent where you can take the ten steps of the Monster Proficiency Test. These are little 
 activities that cost gold and at the same time, teach you about the game. For example, capture 
 a monster of a certain rank, bring back a synthesized creature, have a monster in your party that 
 only appears at night or reach a certain rank in the arena.
  
  There are also characters you can battle, but they appear randomly and in different areas. There 
 is a battle Arena as well, but the combat mechanics there work a little differently from while 
 exploring. You can only use the Fight command and there is no individual control over your monsters, 
 so the battles become a lot more challenging.
  
  The story also branches out when you encounter an injured monster. It will join you for a while 
 and ask you to lead him to a shrine, where it will then transform into something else, so eventually 
 you will have another quest to find all the shrines so this particular monster can undergo the 
 complete evolution. But no matter how much you like to use it in your party, make sure you level 
 another one, because you can't use this monster in the Arena battles.
  
  Moving on to the overall look of the game, DQMJ is a bit of a mixed bag. The environments look 
 great and I really enjoyed seeing the monsters and characters I knew from artwork come alive and 
 move around. However, during the battles the graphic quality decreases quite a bit and the backgrounds 
 look very pixelated and odd.
  
  I am still enjoying my scouting experience and every time I capture something new, I feel a little 
 sense of accomplishment that makes me verbally exteriorize my inner "yay!". Dragon Quest Monsters: 
 Joker may not be innovative and it certainly has its flaws, but it manages to draw you in and keep 
 you busy chasing after those 200 something monsters. 
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text, trailers and screenshots at 
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=dqmj 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Weekend
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest, this game is indeed a little tough on the opening. After my first 3-5 hours of 
 playing, my monsters are pretty weak in their stats and skills ... and i've got tons of monsters 
 on my storage waiting for their turn to see daylight ... this my fellow gamers is the life of someone 
 playing anything from the DQ series that deal with catching and breeding monsters ...
  
  This game is a very good title to invest in ... for the simple reason that you can expect to play 
 this for many hours and still get nowhere ... but for a good reason too, the game's challenge factor 
 here is quite high and puts your patience to the test. Unlike pokemon, this one is indeed very 
 much harder and will need proper time to invest into level grinding ... as agreed by the Gamespot 
 review written.
  
  I'm still quite early in this story, but it so far involves a few things; a secret mission, a tournament, 
 scouting, monsters and many islands and shrines ... crystal pieces to collect (no, not the FF ones) 
 and one talking monster ... sounds interesting already eh?
  
  So fans of the GBC DQ monster games or DQ main series, this is one title worth investing in for 
 the holiday season! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teeeooop43
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Some people say that this game is just a pokemon wannabe but it is more that I would hate to see 
 people miss out on this game just because they think it is a rip-off game. The only big complaint 
 I could see that people would have with this game is level grinding , so I would not recommend 
 this for someone who does not have a lot of patience. But for people that do have a lot of patience 
 and enjoy seeing their efforts payoff than I recommend this to them. This is one of the best rpgs 
 out their for the ds it has immersive gameplay, great graphics ,decent storyline and cool synthesizing 
 features. The latter will add the hours of game play which adds to the replay value. Another thing 
 that people may not like is lack of online play, but in my mind those are just minor flaws to a 
 great pocket rpg that is great for road trips. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arsyad00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  The game graphic is almost excellent but not as good as zelda : the phamtom hour glass. its in 3rd 
 person and does `nt have any flaw in the movement but the main char kinda slow and an island really 
 large. there`s some exciting secret in the game like encountering rare monster, pirate or uncharted 
 island on the map. the main story i feel kinda short. The spell for each monster is great the more 
 u put skill point the more stronger the magic .The monster synthesis when u get to A rank kinda 
 hard to make it become S . take a look at Gamefaqs. com for monster synthesis . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rika95
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 21, 2007 4:52 pm PT
Review:  Because I'm a devout fan of Dragon Quest video games, I got Dragon Quest Monsters to add to my 
 collection. Monster collecting games like Pokemon do not appeal to me, because they involve tons 
 of level-grinding. This game is no different.
  
  In the game, there are 7 different islands. Each island has different monsters, ranked according 
 to their power from "F" being lowest to "A" or "S" being highest. Going from one island to the 
 next involve a dramatic increase in the challenge in this game-hence, the need to level-grind to 
 increase the levels of the monsters in my party.
  
  Fusing monsters is a key element to this game. However, doing so is a bit tricky. Fused monsters 
 start off with stats that are half those of their parents. So, it's best to level-up the monsters 
 so that they won't be too weak when starting out.
  
  Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker is the third entry in the Dragon Quest Monsters series to reach America. 
 This game features many modifications. The player can now store up to 100 monsters in inventory 
 from the beginning. The monsters no longer have the WLD feature that makes them unruly or run away. 
 When monsters in inventory level-up, they gain skill points, which the player can allocate at leisure. 
 The player assigns skill points to certain skill sets for their monsters to learn. Each monster 
 can learn up to three skill sets when fusing them together. When both monsters know much of a skill 
 set, but haven't mastered it, their child can learn a more powerful version of that skill set. 
 Another major change to this game is that the player no longer uses meat treats to tame monsters. 
 Instead, the player tames monsters by using a scout feature, in which monsters attempt to impress 
 a new monster by displaying their attack power. It works fine at taming multiple weak monsters 
 at the beginning, however, the more of a type of monster a player has, the harder it is to impress.
 
  
  This game makes minimal use of the touch feature. Touching the bottom screen moves the map and 
 makes selections in inventory. The top screen shows the action in the game. I, however, tend to 
 play the game without touching the bottom screen at all. It's an optional feature that people can 
 use, if they want to.
  
  The most appealing aspect of Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker is the graphics. The game is full 3-D, 
 just like Dragon Quest VIII. Pokemanics craving monster collecting in 3-D can look here to get 
 their desires met.
  
  This game uses a wi-fi feature that ranks the player against other players according to performance. 
 The wins prizes for connecting to the network each day. The player can also battle copies of another 
 player's team, and can get a prize for winning, too. I have yet to try that, but I keep starting 
 this game over from the beginning. The further I go into the game, the more level-grinding I have 
 to do, and I *hate* level-grinding. However, folks that love level-grinding would probably enjoy 
 Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedracer216
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker is the latest in a spinoff series from Dragon Quest (also known as 
 Dragon Warrior) . On the heals of the critically acclaimed Dragon Quest VIII, DQM: Joker uses the 
 same cell-shaded visual style with original character designs by the famous Akira Toriyama (Dragon 
 Ball) . The game looks absolutely beautiful in full 3-D on the Nintendo DS. The colors are sharp, 
 the characters are creative and the Monsters look better than ever before in this series. Although 
 there is some very rare graphical pop-up, for the most part the game runs smoothly. Undoubtedly 
 this will be the basis for the engine to be used in DQIX.
  The gameplay is incredibly in depth and offers a much deeper experience than any other game in 
 the monster genre. You "scout" monsters by impressing them with your monster teams power. You can 
 also synthesize new monsters by combining the ones you have. The battle system is tried and true 
 with new twists and skills. The story is also much deeper than previous DQM games have been.
  Basically, if you like monster hunting, or you like RPG's this game will be well worth it for you. 
 It is an epically long quest with tons of variety and replayability. I have been a DQ fan for a 
 long time, but I can honestly say this game is for everyone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: citrus_oranges
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Anybody here ever played dragon quest monsters series before? If you liked it, then you will totally 
 enjoy this one as well. It features the new and throws some of the old away. I'm a little disappointed 
 they toss out the nice older features such as monster breeding because I'm really not feeling it 
 for this "synthesizing" seriously. I mean there still is the breeding process, but it's modified 
 differently. Such as breeding one of your monsters and a selected monster. 
  
  Not much new battle mechanics are introduce, although the tactics did get a name change or have 
 been different some how. Although I find the way to gain a skill for a monster is better. Selecting 
 it from the parents of an offspring and gaining skill points to enhance it gives more of a modern 
 RPG feeling. Now you can equip monsters with weapons making them even more effective and theres 
 a wide variety of weapons each with it's own good uses. Monsters gets a wide variety of traits 
 that allows each (actually some monsters have the same traits sometimes) monsters to be unique 
 in combat.
  
  Tired of throwing away wasted food to catch a monster? then this newly improved catching feature 
 is introduce in this game. It is scouting, it allows our monsters to impress stray monsters into 
 joining your party. A percentage scale shows the chance of you impressing the monster. I find this 
 a better way so we can get our hopes up even if we saw a low percentage such as ten.
  
  The story is not so great as it will get lame somehow. Though, the main course of the game is synthesize, 
 fight, and level grind with your monsters. You will even get a chance to duke it out with people 
 around the world if you got access to wi-fi. This game contains the great elements what made it's 
 predecessors so great to play.
  
  I recommend this to RPG fanatics and all those who adore dragon quest monsters series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alexander146
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Once again, Square Enix has given us a superb game. Like Dragon Quest 8, this game is an absolute 
 masterpiece, with only several, trivial flaws. Let's go down the list:
  
  Graphics: Remember the awesome cell-shaded graphics of DQ8? Well, their back, and they look amazing. 
 Still, the transition to the DS makes them a bit clunky, but all in all, the graphics are great.
 
  
  Sound: Even though Joker does not use orchestrated music like in DQ8, it's music is still amazing. 
 The music is basically remixed, modernized versions of old DQM music, specifically the battle themes 
 and sound effects. Very nostalgic, which is a good thing.
  
  Gameplay: Joker plays like a hybrid of class DQM and DQ8. The new scouting system is pretty good, 
 but can be frustrating at times. Also, the Skill System returns, and is better than ever. Each 
 monster has a specific trait that improves it's battle abilities by making it able to psyche up, 
 land critical hits more often, poison or paralyze an enemy when attacking, etc. Oh yeah, and there 
 are NO RANDOM BATTLES! That's right, you SEE the monsters on the field, and can fight or avoid 
 them at your leisure. Oh yeah, and the game takes roughly 15-30 hours to beat, which some good 
 replay actions.
  
  Overall: Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker is one of the best DS RPGs around. It brings new life to 
 the DQM series for the first time since Dragon Quest Monsters 2 came out. Despite the fact the 
 number of monsters is considerably lower, this game still fails to disappoint. I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone who is an RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spade_Crisis
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I'm actually suprised on how this game turned out to be. I never played any of the other Dragon 
 Quest games and i find myself quite suprised with the graphics and gameplay. With the lengthy storyline 
 and a massive amount of monsters to raise makes this game just as good as Pokemon (maybe even better) . 
 Nice 3D graphics and the ability to synthesis (fuse) monsters makes even more monsters to collect. 
 If you ever like Dragonball Z, you won't be disappointed with the graphics. Just think of as Pokemon 
 breeding (but much harder) and DBZ graphics makes a perfect combination. There is also a wide variety 
 of weapons. Swords, spears, staffs, you name it. To make it even better, Square Enix (company who 
 made Final fantasy) developed it. If you ever liked any of the Final Fantasy RPG games, then be 
 sure to check out this game because you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  Many monsters to collect, an over-the-shoulder perspective adds immersivenes to the experience, 
 ability to 'mash' two monsters into a third one increases the possibilities.
  
  The Bad:
  Can only save at predesignated save-point locations. Battles don't allow you to skip the attack 
 sequence graphics, forcing you to sit through the same hits over and over and over.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Most of the reviews found here and elsewhere are pretty much saying the same thing: it's a fun 
 game, that got most things right. I concur, and will simply round things out by mentioning a brief 
 list of reasons you should get this game if you are a fan of Pokemon:
  
  1) similar monster-collecting type of game, where you take a small crew out and find new monsters 
 to add to the collection
  
  2) gone are the annoying random encounters: here, you see the monsters as you walk around in a 
 full 3-d over-the-shoulder perspective. So, if you scope a monster walking around you've never 
 seen before, you can run after them to try and capture them
  
  3) monster mashing: you can take two monsters and morph them in to a new third breed, leading to 
 lots of new types to discover
  
  4) a different story: one of the biggest complaints I have about the Pokemon series is how similar 
 the events/story are from version to version. Here, you have something fresh to break things up.
 
  
  5) you can grind to your heart's content until your monsters are sleek fighting machines.
  
 
  6) lots of big environments to explore: 5 monster-laden Islands, each with several dungeons hidden 
 within. 
  
  If monster capture/collection games are your thing, you don't want to pass this one up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExileAegis
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 13, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker (heretofore reffered to as Joker) is one of the rare DS game that 
 I actually finished.
  
  Square Enix has done a swell job of executing the monster collection genre. Joker has a strange 
 mix of easily accessible, but deceptively tricky skills and breeding that help motivate the player 
 by rewarding work and hard work. The use of the DS is good, too. The top screen is your view, the 
 bottom screen is your menu. If you're wandering around, the bottom screen also doubles as a map 
 that you're able to scroll around with using the stylus.
  
  The sound is a mixed bag. The music and sound effects have a fair bit of iconic samples and reproductions 
 from previous Dragon Quest games. However, the music adds very little to the game's ambience, perhaps 
 because the doesn't ever change up moods on you that much. It's exploring, and exploring, and well, 
 end game.
  
  The storyline, and characters, are all pretty shallow. Your rival is horribly over the top, your 
 special pet is mysterious, honorable, and dull, and all the other characters barely enter the action.
 
  
  However, they're not really the draw. The monster list is very extensive, as is the skill list. 
 And you aren't forced to undergo some social trade gimick in order to get monsters unavailable 
 on your cartridge, but available on your friend's, who inevitibly buys the same cartridge and you 
 fume together at a local diner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3geogo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 5:03 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of the Dragon Quest series for a long time, but this game takes the cake of all 
 the DQ games. The cell-shaded graphics look amazing on the DS, and the controls aren't half bad. 
 The replay value is really high on this game because of the fact that you make monsters. Technecly 
 you're synthesising them, but you can make new combinations each time around. This is a game that's 
 not meant to be rushed, but taken slowly in order to continually make new and more powerful monsters. 
 Plus the online battle and trade mode makes a big difference towards making new teams. Get a new 
 monster to synthesis with another, or go against someone else to know your stading in the world. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsownge
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Please stop saying this is another Pokemon game. This game is a masterpiece and not only because 
 it is now in 3D but the game really has something great to offer that others does not have.
  
  Q: Why should I get Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker if I already have Pokemon?
  
  A. If you 
 love collecting monsters from little slimes to Dragons and Giants and you want to get more out 
 of breeding, that is what DQM: J is all about.
  
  Q: Pokemon has breeding too and you also get more from breeding like getting great IV and stuff 
 like that, so what exactly does your DQM: J breeding offer?
  
  A: Breeding in DQM: J is called fusing and it is not limited to its own race or a 2, but you can 
 combine any monsters you like and see what different monster results you will get and you can also 
 see the ranking. Monsters have ranking from rank F to rank S which will determine how strong your 
 monsters is before you start fusing them. The stronger the monster ability it has the stronger 
 the fused monster will be. You could combine certain monsters to get a stronger monster on the 
 same family. For example combining 2 Metal slimes will give you a Metabble which is a higher form 
 of the Metal slime, combine 2 Metabble and you will get a Metal king which is also the higher form 
 of Metabble and so on. You can also pass the skills of your monsters and you can allocate points 
 to it.
  
  As you can see Dragon Quest monsters is not a simple monster collecting game. It gives you much 
 pleasure on combining monsters and a very challenging adventure. Fight bosses and trainers. If 
 you want battle people all over the world with the addition of Wi-Fi.
  
  Sounds: The game has some of its old BGM from previous DQM games. Although the game only has a 
 few BGM for places it is quite good.
  
  Graphics: Colorful and very lively. Notice that characters look like they came from Dragon ball, 
 it is because Akira Toriyama the creator of Dragon ball made the character design. Battles are 
 in full 3d and the world you will start your adventure.
  
  Note: Pokemon is a great game and is worth owning. DQM has its own side and I believe everyone 
 should try it out. 
  
  Q: Another Pokemon game?
  A: Hell, No!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbo888
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  It is most definitely a lot of fun but there are so many grammar errors. Does the maker of this 
 game consist of elementary school students? They also must have used the word digress 5 times within 
 the first 10 minutes of play. Contrary to the review below me, this game does not put pokemon to 
 shame and it definitely doesn't have an as engaging story, because of the illiteracy of the creator. 
 The Incarnus transformations are quite stupid. Despite these flaws, the leveling and synthesis 
 is a lot of fun and the plethora of monsters to create is fun too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badfday
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  1. because the graphics's are amazing
  2. the breeding is alot better than evolving
  3. their is actually an adventure in this and not in pokemon that much
  a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker is a new monster based role playing game from Square Enix and a long 
 time rival of Nintendo's Pokemon series. The Dragon Quest Monsters (originally known as Dragon 
 Warrior Monsters in North America back in the 90's) has been around since the Gameboy days, although 
 most players would not know it due to the lack of hype for such a game, even though it made it's 
 debut in North America a few weeks before Pokemon Red/Blue. Since then there have been a total 
 of 4 games, however the Gameboy Advance installment Caravan Hearts was released in Japan exclusively, 
 which is a shame because these games are amazing.
  
  The basic concept of Dragon Quest Monsters is much like Pokemon, you can capture monsters and level 
 them up while progressing through the games main story, however Joker has a solid story, something 
 Pokemon games have always lacked. Another feature of DQM is the breeding system, now known as synthesizing 
 as the gender system has been removed. The removal of the egg system is a big plus, but unfortunately 
 causes for players problems when wanting to get a monster that is either a + or - which are essentially 
 genders now. To obtain monsters in DQM, you must now scout or breed them, in the previous games 
 you could capture monsters by using various types of meat to please them and once you knocked them 
 out, they joined you. However when you scout a monster, your scout guage will appear and each of 
 the 3 monsters in your party have certain success rates depending on the enemies level, you can 
 also only scout one monster during each encounter and the battle ends as soon as you capture a 
 monster.
  
  Joker is a full 3D game running on the same engine as Dragon Quest 8 for the PS2, which is also 
 being used for the upcoming DQ9 for the DS. The downside to the 3D feature is there are less monsters, 
 somewhere around 120 now as opposed to 200 in DQ2: Cobi's Journey/Tara's Adventure for the Gameboy 
 Colour. The gameplay is lengthy and the addition of online battles as well as local battles and 
 breeding gives you extended game time and always makes for an interesting time. The art direction 
 is obviously in the same vein as past the past two Dragon Quest games for the PS2 (7&8) , done by 
 Akira Toriyama who's claim to fame also include the Dragon Ball Z series which can be clearly seen 
 in DQM: Joker based on the character designs.
  
  As with most Dragon Quest games, the combat system is obviously turnbased, however it has been 
 enhanced over previous iterations of the DQM series. You can now openly control your monsters to 
 use specific skills, items can also be used but you are limited to one per turn which also adds 
 to the strategy of building a party. You want monsters who can use a variety of skills including 
 stat increasing, healing, offensive magic and physical attacks, mastering so will bring you great 
 success.
  
  The game is set on an ocean with several main islands as well as a number of random hidden ones 
 which have many strong creatures on them. You will encounter a few monsters on each island that 
 only appear once and a while, like on the first island you will meet a Gigantes and King Slime, 
 both of which you will not be able to scout until you have much stronger monsters since they are 
 much higher in levels, Gigantes will pretty much obliterate anything you have under level 12 in 
 one hit. On the desert island I managed to find a Skullgon, but was not successful in scouting 
 it due to my weaker monsters at the time. You meet a creature at the top of the first mountain 
 who will later on become a member of your party when you rescue him from an Orc, he is also the 
 first Lord monster in the game.
  
  There are several monster types in the game as well as a variety of skills to learn, each monster 
 has specific skills to themselves. You will encounter slimes, zombies, plants, demons, dragons, 
 materials, beast and the Lord (aka Incarni in Joker or ??? in previous games) . You will find yourself 
 back tracking a lot to level up any monsters you happen to breed, and breeding various monsters 
 can create the same monsters at times, so you must watch how you use your monsters for breeding.
 
  
  Overall Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker is a great game, with a rather tough difficulty over previous 
 games but is still none the less. If you love Pokemon and want something new with a twist, this 
 game is definately worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WermoSK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Monsters!
  
  Allow me to introduce myself. I love turn based RPGs, those with depth and where I'm severely unlikely 
 to battle the exact same monster (s) all the time and always have the exact same strategy to beating 
 them. I prefer being able to customize settings or having multiple ways of getting through a game 
 or situation. I like magic, and I like brawn, and often one at the expense of the other. I prefer 
 imbalanced parties. With Dragon Quest Monsters Joker you can probably beat the game with 3 slimes 
 or with the strongest meanest looking monsters you can find. That's quite a bit of customizability. 
 If you work hard enough you will undoubtedly reap the rewards, just like in Disgaea (though nowhere 
 near as demanding in terms of hours) .
  
  It depends on skills and stats and essentially levels. If you can make your monsters reach certain 
 magical numbers, you will very likely be able to beat the regular game with those monsters if you 
 have a little strategy. Though the right traits can go a long way too. Every monster has a trait 
 that belongs to it, much like Pokemon have had since their inception. This is new for this series.
 
  
  This game is turn based battles with a little simplicity for the first couple hours and more complexity 
 as it goes along. No battle is random though. That's similar to Dragon Quest VIII in that you have 
 to get to them to initiate battle. I was worried that I'd clear areas of monsters and would find 
 it tedious to level up my monsters. I've discovered it was an ill imagined worry and monsters respawn 
 quite frequently so if you're grinding you only need to travel here and there and if you keep moving 
 quite often new monsters will appear where they'd been slain previously. This is a good thing for 
 me.
  
  When booting up the game you are likely to see a slight graininess in the image, or at least I 
 do. There are still pixels involved in rendering games, especially 3D ones on the DS by the looks 
 of it. I also need to say that I'd prefer if the hero could run a tiny bit faster but that's probably 
 a hardware limitation. We're definitely not on the PS2 here.
  
  But when you travel around the world meeting monsters, I admit that I was a little shocked that 
 the monsters were as big as they were in the wild. I did not expect slimes to be as large as the 
 hero, and it lends a little extra ferocity. I also spotted a majestic bird flying around in the 
 distance and also a giant not very far from me too at one time, which made me consider options 
 akin to Final Fantasy XII where you can beat up on the easy guys or the strong guys in practically 
 every area. Like Wolves or Saurians you know? I really found the size and animations of the monsters 
 to be rather well made. They're not merely cute monsters, they look mean. Why else would they be 
 attacking?
  
  The game also seems to borrow a little of Pokemon in the choice of starting monster, though all 
 three are quite easy to scout in the first hour or two of play, at the very most. Though the game 
 seems to revolve around a championship, most monsters you will meet will be wild, though there 
 are a number of scout battles too. I faced one in the first 3 hours of play and I survived though 
 only with 1 monster left. It was great fun.
  
  With Wifi options to battle friends this game can please just about anyone. I don't believe the 
 difficulty is too high or too low and there's few restrictions in where you need to go and when. 
 There's some linearity to be sure but I think it's well done. I got to cut my teeth against some 
 tougher monsters before continuing with my more obvious line of travel and found I had to run away 
 a little more than I'd like so I retreated and continued to munch on lesser enemies.
  
  I admit also that I was a tremendous fan of the first games in this offshoot series and I feel 
 that I will enjoy this one as much as them once I start synthesizing monsters over and over. I've 
 scouted 15 monsters to date and have 3 +'s over level 10 but no -'s yet so I have to work on that. 
 Keep in mind that the first two games I replayed them once each and played for about 1500 hours 
 total, counting the fact it's three carts total. If I get to 500 hours with this one I'll be a 
 happy customer.
  
  Oh, I can't forget to mention something I found particularly interesting. All monsters can equip 
 weapons in this game which is probably the reason you get so much gold from everything. If you 
 wanted to upgrade weapons for your favourite 6 monsters say, you could otherwise spend a lot of 
 money and a lot of time generating that money if they didn't give you good money to begin with. 
 Not only do specific weapons have different attack attributes, but they also have certain monsters 
 they're stronger against. This offers a little bonus damage to those enemies and if you know they're 
 coming you can be ready for them.
  
  I suspect I'll be spending more time with this title than anything else in the foreseeable future 
 even though prior to it I'd been into MLB Pros and Disgaea 1 & 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  When it was first (finally) announced that Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker would, in fact, be making 
 its way to the U. S., I was ecstatic. The game had come out in Japan the year before, and I was 
 very envious of those folks who were already enjoying the game. The Dragon Quest franchise may 
 be the top RPG dog overseas, but it's still making a name for itself here in the States. So, I 
 wasn't even certain that Joker would see an American localization. Well, the game has arrived, 
 and it's a very welcome addition to the short list of quality RPGs on the DS. 
  
  Read almost any other review of Joker, and you're likely to come across comparisons to the Pokemon 
 series. Well, that is perhaps not completely unfounded, but Dragon Quest Monsters has a monster-collecting 
 approach all its own. I'm no video-game historian, but it's my understanding that Enix had actually 
 been toying with the whole monster-collecting thing (in Dragon Quest IV) well before the advent 
 of Pokemon. However, their first true Monsters game did arrive after Pokemon made its way onto 
 the RPG scene. Which really came first? Who cares? Both franchises have their points of interest 
 and both offer great fun, but we're here to talk about Joker.
  
  Yes, your monsters will do the fighting for you. However, the character you play as  a young kid 
 recently sprung from prison in order to take on the task of infiltrating a monster-battling competition 
  can also participate in battles in the form of using items on his monsters. The monster battles, 
 though, are played out in pretty much the same way as any traditional turn-based RPG. 
  
  You will need to scout monsters throughout the game in order to have them join your quest, and 
 you can either have them participate as part of your three-monster battle party, act as a substitute 
 for downed monsters, or send them off to storage. As your monsters grow in strength, you can begin 
 to breed them, yielding new, more powerful creatures. This aspect plays a much larger role in the 
 gameplay than breeding does in most Pokemon games.
  
  With just over 200 monsters to encounter in Joker, it's no surprise that much of the gameplay will 
 entail a sort of treasure-hunting approach. The strength of monsters, as well as bosses, ramps 
 up pretty fast, so you'll also be forced to do a fair amount of level-grinding. But the battles 
 are fun and, best of all, the enemy monsters are shown on the field. So, if you don't want to fight, 
 you can simply run past monster indicators. This seems to be a cue taken from the Tales series 
 of RPGs, and it's a welcome change to endless random encounters.
  
  Another, very fine addition to Joker is its interface. Since you'll be doing quite a bit of monster 
 collecting, you'll also want to keep track of what each creature has to offer. The game allows 
 you to view each of their stats, spells, experience, etc. You can also play a small role in molding 
 each monster because with each few times your monster levels up, it is awarded skill points that 
 you can then divvy up in a couple of different ways. Since you'll be breeding some of these monsters, 
 this aforementioned aspect offers quite a bit of variation in what you can create.
  
  Joker does a wonderful job of offering a tight pocket RPG for the most popular system in gaming 
 history, but it also does an even better job with its overall production. For starters, the game 
 looks great. Almost everything in the game is cel-shaded, and the character models are certainly 
 the most attractive I've ever seen in a DS game. Some of the backgrounds are a tad blocky when 
 seen up close, but such is the performance of the DS thanks to the lack of texture filtering on 
 the system. There are a ton of monsters in Joker, and each is given the utmost attention to detail. 
 It's the same, awesome artwork (albeit scaled down for the DS) we've seen in the critically acclaimed 
 Dragon Quest VIII. The frame-rate is smooth, and everything animates nicely. The developers have 
 taken a similar approach (and this seems to be the standard for Square-Enix) to Final Fantasy III 
 DS in how the creatures and characters interact with each other, and it's truly a huge treat to 
 see on the little handheld. During battles, you will see random views of attacks from both your 
 monsters and the enemies, and it lends a very cinematic feel to the battles. Also, when you're 
 on the field and encounter a monster, the screen will blur and slowly segue into the battle; that 
 too is a very nice touch.
  
  The game's aural aspects are also quite pleasing, made up of a wonderful selection of themes and 
 comical sound effects  fans of the franchise should recognize almost all of it. The sound is actually 
 one of the most quirky aspects of any Dragon Quest game, and it lends a lot to giving the games 
 their signature personality. Personally, I absolutely love the sound in Joker, but it's likely 
 not going to please everyone. The end of battles is oddly anticlimactic because there are only 
 a couple of sounds you'll hear and none of the victory music you may be accustomed to in most other 
 RPGs. But that too only adds to what makes Joker the silly goose of a game it aims to be.
  
  All-in-all, Dragon Quest Monsters: Joker is a sweet ride of an RPG and should give most players 
 a decent run, though the story isn't terribly long. However, there is some WiFi interactivity in 
 the form of battling player-based AI teams, downloadable from the Nintendo WiFi Connection hub. 
 There are also local multi-card battles. But as with Pokemon  and this is perhaps the aspect that 
 most warrants the comparison  most of your playtime will likely be consumed by your collection 
 ventures. I've been reading numbers from other players as high as 200+ hours of gameplay. That's 
 quite a bit of bang for your buck.
  
  That said, Joker is more of an old-school-type RPG and, though I think non-fans of the genre might 
 still find some appeal in its production values, it's a game that will likely satisfy hardcore-RPG 
 / Dragon Quest fans most. My opinions and scores are based on that fact.
  
  Thanks for reading, and happy gaming!
  
  GD
  
  The Breakdown
  
  Presentation / 9
 
  Stellar presentation of the visuals; a wonderful interface; and a solid story for pocket-RPG fans.
 
  
  Graphics / 9.5
  Certainly a game that earns its place among the "best-looking" games on the DS. Awesome character 
 models, vast (for the DS) environments, and extremely tasteful presentation of creature / character 
 interactions.
  
  Sound / 9
  Dragon Quest veterans get tons of fan service via the game's aural presentation, and Joker is chock-full 
 of familiar themes from past games in the franchise. Sound effects are quirky just the way you 
 like them. 
  
  Gameplay / 8.5
  A very tight turn-based RPG. Wonderful monster-molding capabilities and collecting aspects. Joker's 
 also a nice challenge. But it's an old-school RPG, and that means there will definitely be some 
 grinding.
  
  Lasting Appeal / 9.5
  The story itself is quite beefy for an RPG on the DS, but you also get the WiFi and local multi-card 
 interactivity. The collecting / breeding aspects, however, will likely extend this game beyond 
 countable hours.
  
  Overall / 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superdude687
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Along the years, many games have tried to mimic the simple game play of the Pokemon series. While 
 Most downright sucked DQM has always stood strong against the juggernaut. As you start the game 
 you find out you need to battle in a tournament &amp; are given a choice of 3 monsters to carry 
 out tasks on islands while getting a crew of stronger monsters to join you. This is as close to 
 Pokemon as it gets folks. You start breeding/synthesizing monsters, because unlike the giant these 
 monsters do not evolve. The game graphically is one of the best on the DS, Only second to Dementium: 
 The Ward. The problem here is sound quality... It kinda sucks. The sound effects are kinda blah 
 and the music is catchy but a tad generic.
  
  The story is great but short. most of your time will be spent gathering new monsters to destroy 
 the competition and synthing new monsters to get the most out of your time. Another con is the game 
 is on the expensive side. It should have only cost 30-35 dollars but SEI thought they could get 
 40 out of it which is I guess the norm for SE games. But when your game is short dont try to steal 
 my money k SEI?
  
  All &amp; all it is a new Monsters game, and if you are reading this you most likely know what 
 you are in for and will love it. Just dont go in to it expecting it to be as long as Pokemon &amp; 
 we'll be ok.
  
  8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hypercoyote
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Monsters initially began as Enixs answer to Pokemon. However, since its beginnings 
 on the Gameboy, it has grown into so much more than just a Pokemon clone. Dragon Quest Monsters 
 Joker has its own spin on the gotta catchem all philosophy. First of all, rather than using 
 pokeballs, you must impress Monsters using your Scout abilities to get them to join you. The 
 higher rank the monster is, the more powerful your team must be to impress it. Second, your team 
 consists of 3 primary monsters and 3 backup monsters. During battle, you are allowed to have out 
 3 monsters, but you cannot switch to your backups during battle, making for some difficult fights. 
 Monsters level up in the style of Dragon Quest 8, where you gain skill points in addition to stat 
 boosts that you can allocate as you see fit to the monsters skills. Monsters can use spells and 
 abilities just like in the regular Dragon Quest games. Third, rather than breeding monsters, monsters 
 are synthesized to create new breeds of monsters.
  
  The main difference between this game and the regular Dragon Quest series is that rather than have 
 random monster encounters, you can actually see the monsters on the field. This is great because 
 you dont have to go through the guesswork of having to encounter the monster you want as you do 
 in Pokemon. You can just walk around until you see it, then run up to it! Personally I like being 
 able to see the monsters before I fight them so I dont have to waste time looking for certain 
 ones. Also, the monsters respawn at a fairly rapid rate, so you dont have to worry about running 
 out of monsters to fight when leveling up. An interesting part of this is that as you explore, 
 you may notice certain strange objects in the area. These are actually indicators of rare monsters 
 that may show up in that area. For instance on an early level, you walk by a campfire and some 
 giant stones that look like dumb-bells. If you come back, you might encounter a Gigantes in that 
 area!
  
  As if that were not enough, Dragon Quest Monsters Joker also has an online battle portion where 
 you pit your team against other teams on a regional, national or global scale to find out whos 
 the best. Unlike other games where your only reward is bragging rights, this game has in game rankings 
 and you earn items and monsters for each victory!
  
  Dragon Quest Monsters offers solid gameplay on par with the main Dragon Quest series. With over 
 200 monsters to choose from, excellent online play and a great storyline, this is one game that 
 is not to be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle360
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard that this game was ganna come out on my favorite system i wanted to cry. Its 
 been over 7 years that square enix has release a dragon warrior / quest monster game. Infact, the 
 last one to come out was dragon warrior 2: Coby's Adventure and it was one of the best games that 
 i had ever played and it still is. Although many people told me that this was a crappy imitation 
 of pokemon, i ended up liking it more than any other pokemon game that i've ever played. C'mon, 
 you get to have up to 3 monsters out in the field at once and you get to keep 8 magic attacks not 
 like in pokemon where you only get to have one 1 monster in the field and only get to keep 4 magic 
 attacks. I'm not saying that pokemon sucks, i'm just saying that i'll rather play this awesome 
 game anytime anywhere over pokemon. And whats cool is that this new dragon quest for the nds features 
 3D graphics and old school enhance music. AWESOME!!! I freaken love their creepy little song that 
 they had for the gameboy color games. I can't wait till it comes out in english. I heard someone 
 say, I'll killed anybody in order to get this game and thats exactly how i'm feeling right now. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
