-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragon Ball: Origins
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/dragonballds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Detailed character models.
 Cutscenes include classic moments from the show.
 Large, fun repertoire of moves.
 Contains scenes cut from the English-dubbed anime.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frame rate stutters frequently.
 Imprecise controls when the screen gets crowded.
 Some of the original scenes are startlingly risque.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.8, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 185 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Bandai Namco Games
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 4, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's not only one of the best Dragon Ball titles, it's also a great action adventure game. 

 
  Over the past couple of decades, the Dragon Ball anime franchise has seen dozens of game adaptations, 
 each tackling the same stories in different ways. The Dragon Ball Z series has seen most of the 
 love with a plethora of fighting games on nearly every system. With all the brawling and screaming 
 in these games, some might not know that Dragon Ball hasn't always been about super beams and 9,000-plus 
 energy levels. Dragon Ball: Origins goes back to the beginning, when series star Goku was just 
 an innocent little boy with a tail, and re-creates many of the classic episodes through an entertaining 
 action adventure game on the DS.  

  In the original Dragon Ball series, fighting took a backseat to adventuring. With the exception 
 of Goku, who is really just along for the ride, most of the quirky characters have one goal in 
 mind: gather all seven dragon balls to summon the dragon and have their one wish fulfilled. On 
 their journey to collect the seven dragon balls, Goku and his friends run into all types of monsters, 
 misfits, and perverse old men. The outlandish characters are what make the story so much fun, and 
 the game does a great job of highlighting their quirky personalities. A good chunk of the original 
 series is represented here, from the first time Goku meets a girl to the World Martial Arts Tournament. 
 Each level follows a different episode of the show, and each episode is generously peppered with 
 cutscenes. The cutscenes faithfully re-create most of the moments from the show, so even if you're 
 not familiar with the Dragon Ball story, you can still follow along.  

           Those unfamiliar with the original uncut episodes might be shocked at how perverted Master 
 Roshi is -- he's a dirty old man.      

  Dragon Ball: Origins plays like an action adventure game, with a few RPG elements tossed in. Most 
 levels will have you navigating large maps or dungeons littered with light puzzles and enemies. 
 Though none of the dungeons are especially hard, they do feature plenty of hidden items and they 
 always force you to use all of Goku's moves to proceed. Since Goku unlocks a new move or ability 
 every few levels, you'll constantly be shuffling through his broad repertoire to complete the game. 
 Nearly half of the levels will pair you with Bulma, who is considerably weaker than Goku. Thankfully, 
 you won't have to babysit her too much, because she usually runs ahead to where she needs to go 
 and waits for you to find a switch or bust down a wall. The dungeon crawls are frequently broken 
 up with fun, short levels centered around single battles, flights on Goku's flying nimbus, or training 
 with Master Roshi. The main quest takes at least 12 hours to complete, but the level variety, constant 
 unlockables, and pleasant cutscenes keep the campaign from getting stale.  

  During your adventures through the vibrant forests and dank caves, you'll come across a variety 
 of enemies, most of which have made an appearance on the show in some form or another. The enemy 
 AI isn't very smart, and in most cases you can easily dash past them and skip the fight altogether, 
 but there are a few challenging enemies and bosses that require specific moves to beat. The final 
 fights in the World Martial Arts Tournament are particularly challenging because they strip you 
 of your weapon and healing items.  

  Everything in Dragon Ball: Origins is controlled with the stylus, though you can use the D pad 
 to move Goku if you want. By tapping an icon, you can quickly switch between hand-to-hand combat 
 and the power pole. Moves are activated by using the stylus in all sorts of engaging ways. Goku's 
 abilities are easy to execute and well implemented, and none of the gestures feel arbitrary. You'll 
 really feel as though you have full control over Goku and all of his moves. The stylus controls 
 work well most of the time, but they can be a bit imprecise when enemies get too close. Some moves 
 require you to tap Goku and then tap an enemy, but when the battleground is crowded, you'll usually 
 end up doing a move you didn't intend to do. It's annoying when it happens, but most of the time 
 the game provides ample space to maneuver away from enemies and set up your attack.  

           Most of the time, Dragonball Origins treats the duals screens as one, allowing for some 
 impressive camera angles during cutscenes.      

  Dragon Ball: Origins is a visually stunning game. The classic art style of Akira Toriyama is brought 
 to life in the detailed character models and lush environments. Goku and crew animate fluidly and 
 feature a broad range of facial expressions and graphical flourishes like animated hair and clothing. 
 In a nod to the original manga, the flashy attack effects are accompanied by a bright, comic-style 
 font. The environments make good use of mood lighting and bright colors, and they mesh well with 
 the character art style. If you're a fan of the show, you'll likely recognize many of the backgrounds, 
 animations, and characters, as they seem to be lifted directly from the anime. The game makes great 
 use of both screens, letting you see more of a level during gameplay and featuring dramatic camera 
 angles during cutscenes. The 3D engine pushes the DS to its limits, and it shows in the frame rate, 
 which can really take a hit when there are multiple enemies on the screen.  

  Like the visuals, the sounds and music are taken from and inspired by the classic show. The upbeat 
 tunes give the game a lighthearted, cartoony feel, while occasional voice clips from the original 
 English actors add a little humor to some scenes. Goku's grunts and cheerful exultations, in particular, 
 help sell the character as an endlessly optimistic little boy.  

  Dragon Ball: Origins is one of the most complete Dragon Ball game adaptations. It sticks closer 
 to the stories from the show than most Dragon Ball games, and it does so while also delivering 
 a well-polished and highly enjoyable adventure. With nearly a dozen extra levels to unlock and 
 hundreds of secrets and figurines to find, there's moderate replay value after you've had your 
 fill of the main episodes. Whether you're a fan of the show or you're simply looking for a fun 
 adventure on your DS, you can't go wrong with Dragon Ball: Origins.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: brianmelanie
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  First off let me say that I am not a Dragon Ball fan. I have never seen a single episode of the 
 anime and I have never played any other Dragon Ball game until now. I would imagine if you are 
 a fan of the series and liked the other games you probally would be interested in this game. But 
 even if, like me, you are not... let me assure you, YOU SHOULD PLAY THIS GAME! I dont think I have 
 laughed this much playing a game before. This game is excellent, and it has got to be one of the 
 funniest games ever made. 
  The story is really good, if a bit goofy at times. But my understanding is that it retells episodes 
 of the orignal anime. Either way it is told well and is suprisingly wity. The gameplay is very 
 similar to Zelda, but I truely liked this game ALOT more then i did Zelda. In fairness I should 
 mention that this story is pretty racey, and despite its childlike look, I believe this game was 
 meant for adults. Im pretty open minded and even I was finding myself laughing and thinking "OMG 
 I cant believe I just saw that!" Its racey but in a funny, light hearted way. Some might be offended 
 but I loved it and sure would like to see more games cater to grown up gamers this way.
  All and all I cant say enough about this game. I didnt really expect to like this game. I was just 
 fiending for something like Zelda and so I bought this. I got more then I bargined for. Start to 
 finish this game was awesome and I laughed the whole way thru. Games like this remind me why im 
 a gamer. DB fan or not, you should give this game a try. Now lets hope we get a sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chiyou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  I was amazingly suprised with this game, it not only makes you feel like you're watching a uncensored 
 version of the ol' Dragon Ball but it also does it extremely well! the graphics are very amusing 
 and its hard to keep a straight face, the game is fun and only let me down a couple of times in 
 the missions, like on level 3-3 they could have made it a little easier to flick a switch where 
 the sand drags you around it, it was akward and annoying! but other tehn that small area i didn't 
 find too many problems, not much use for the staff other then reaching far off rocks or to pull 
 yourself to a ledge, but as a weapon it was pretty useless, but that was ok because the hand combos 
 were fast and smooth with the pen! 
  
  The game is a must have if you're a fan of the Phantom Hourglass or are looking for a DS title 
 that has a bit of wit to it, as for me it was a amusing suprise to see all the twisted humour that 
 i didn't see as a North American child watching the censored version of Dragon Ball! i really really 
 do hope that they continue the Origins games, i feel that this is one of the most successful games 
 made for the DS, not because of popularity because if anything this game is underreconized, it 
 definetly should be taken seriously but its hard to blame the fans when they've been let down by 
 the brand before! However its you're loss if you don't play though this game! I give it a 9.5 out 
 of 10, its one game title i'll never forget! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-man246
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  this game is great! i didn't expect it to be so good. the story is great and even better if you 
 haven't seen the original dragon ball. there are many pros to buying this game such as great graphics, 
 great sound and excellent story. now as for the plot for this game... we pretty much all know this 
 but for the heck of it... Goku and bulma go in search for seven magical dragonballs so they can 
 summon the mystical shrenron and make a wish.
  
  Onto the gameplay now. the gameplay for this game is very similar to the zelda game n ds. you can 
 simply drag the stylus across the screen to attack but it is mch better than it sounds:)
  
  there are some flaws though to this game which is a bit frustrating such as the changing frame 
 rate. the game could be running perfect for about 10 minutes then the next it seems that it is 
 lagging. all up i would definitely a 9.5. this game is worth buying if you like games such as zelda 
 phantom hourglass, like dragonball z or like fun enjoyable adventure games in general 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlygottaDS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  ok, so, in my opinion legend of zelda, phantom hourglass was.... well... not good! it had no depth, 
 there were like 4 attacks and they wouldnt improve and there were no new weapons or upgrades and 
 it didnt give you the zelda feel. this game, dragonball origins i absolutely love. unlike zelda 
 you can control goku with the d-pad which still maintains the old school gba dbz games like legend 
 of goku. i was unhappy to here you could only attack with the stylus but its awsome! to extend 
 the power pool you touch and drag and then you can sweep and everything. the puzzles are just as 
 funny and less kiddy then zelda and it has more combat, items, upgrades, new weapons, harder bosses, 
 harder overall combat, better story and if your a dragonball or dragonball z fan..... you have 
 to play it... duh. its ridiculously fun and it takes the good things from all the games like ninja 
 gaiden, final fantasy chrystal chronicals and a little zelda to form the perfect game with the 
 best plot. the touch screen controls are on the dot and the animation is the best i hae seen on 
 a DS BY FAR! it gives you a psp feel with its deep gameplay and nonpixilated graphics and give 
 you that hands on DS feel with the stylus oriented attacking system. it doesnt have wifi but oh 
 well, and there could be a little more monsters to kill. that is why it doesnt have a 10. but i 
 gaurentee you will love this game if you have any taste in plot at all. dragonball and dragonball 
 Z are the 2 best anime series by far. naruto has become too popular but we all know who is still 
 on top !. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsgba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  I love this game. 
  because I like phantom hourglass. I'm gonna compare this game to 
  phantom hourglass. 
  Graphics 
 hourglass:7
  dragon ball 9
  Gameplay hourglass:9.5
  dragon ball:9.5
  
  Sound hourglass:8
  dragonball:8.5
  
  Story hourglass:10
  dragon ball 7
  
  soooooooooooooooo 
 
  so they re kinda the same. Dragonball would have been better if the story was longer and I guess 
 better. I dont want them to change the story i just want them to add piccolo and red ribbion. I 
 havnt finished the game but I heard rumors the game does not have that instead they have other 
 dumb stuff thats not even in the story. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
