-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragon Ball Z: Supersonic Warriors 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/dragonballz/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Accessible, fast-paced fighting action.
 Nice blend of 2D and 3D art.
 Solid selection of characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too similar to original Supersonic Warriors.
 Poor touch screen implementation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  9, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.9
Critic Score: 7.0, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 877 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Banpresto
Genre: 2D Fighting
Date: Nov 20, 2005
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though still providing some fun, fast-paced fighting action, Supersonic Warriors 2 lacks some of 
 the care of its predecessor and feels like a somewhat slapdash GBA-to-DS conversion. 

  Released last year for the Game Boy Advance, Dragon Ball Z: Supersonic Fighters managed to break 
 the trend of terrible 2D Dragon Ball Z fighting games that dated all the way back to the SNES. 
 It certainly wasn't the most technical fighter, but it was responsive and good looking, and it 
 generally captured the kinetic vibe of DBZ. Its sequel has now arrived on the DS, making a half-hearted 
 effort to adapt to the two-screen format and the greater technical muscle of the DS. It's still 
 a light and enjoyable fighter, especially for DBZ fans, but it's too similar to its predecessor 
 to get very excited about.  

          The Z Fighters team up once again to face the usual rogue's gallery of villains.     

 
  The general structure of Supersonic Warriors 2 is the same as its predecessor: Two fighters duke 
 it out in the appropriately overblown Dragon Ball Z style, flying through the air, throwing waves 
 of energy at each other, and occasionally turning blonde. The action is often team-based, which 
 means that you can swap out your fighters on the fly and occasionally call on your teammates to 
 perform special attacks. Switching characters and launching special attacks is all handled via 
 the touch screen, with the action always residing on the upper screen. The action is fast-paced 
 enough to make looking down at the lower screen awkward, limiting the usefulness of the game's 
 team tactics.  

  Supersonic Warriors was never particularly tactical to begin with, and number two doesn't change 
 that. A little button-mashing will get you far in Supersonic Warriors 2, and it doesn't take much 
 finesse to perform strong and weak attacks, throws, or energy attacks. The number of attacks is 
 fairly limited, and the game definitely favors high-energy ranged attacks over up-close fisticuffs. 
 The blocking system has changed since the first Supersonic Warriors, eschewing the timing-based 
 system for an endurance-based blocking mechanic. You can block with the B button whenever you please, 
 but every attack that you deflect adds to a meter that, when filled, drops your character's guard 
 and stuns him or her for a few seconds. Though perhaps not as elegant as the timing-based mechanics, 
 it still helps provide balance and keeps the pace of the fights going at a good clip.  

  There are a few different ways to play Supersonic Warriors 2. Those looking to familiarize themselves 
 with the mechanics and find the perfect team of characters can go through the tutorial and free 
 battle modes. If you want to go head-to-head with another real-life player, you can engage in an 
 ad hoc Wi-Fi match, provided both parties have their own copy of the game. The Z Battle mode puts 
 you up against some increasingly challenging opponents, while the story mode presents you with 
 unique "what if?" scenarios for each of the characters in the game. Playing through the different 
 stories is key -- you can unlock new characters and abilities -- but it's also astonishingly easy; 
 while the combatants will start giving you a good run for your money pretty early on, it's rare 
 to lose a match in the story mode.  

          The improvements made over the original Supersonic Warriors here are incremental at best. 
     

  Supersonic Warriors 2 takes the 2D character sprites from the original, which still look pretty 
 good, and places them in front of polygonal backdrops. The action is still limited to two dimensions, 
 but the 3D backdrops add some depth to the proceedings, and fairly well capture the familiar Dragon 
 Ball Z locales. The sound also features plenty of familiar synthesized Dragon Ball Z musical themes, 
 as well as voice samples of the American anime voice cast and sound effects from the show. It is, 
 if nothing else, authentic.  

  Dragon Ball Z: Supersonic Warriors 2 is still OK, but considering the orders of magnitude by which 
 the first Supersonic Warriors improved upon the gag-inducing Dragon Ball Z: Taiketsu, it's disappointing 
 how superficial the changes found here are. Those satisfied with more of the same, along with marginally 
 improved visuals, will do fine with Supersonic Warriors 2.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (70 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Nc23Nick
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:49 am PT
Review:  A great game has many characters, simple yet amazing game play that is true to the series. The 
 story mode is one of the best parts of the game, each (playable) characters has a story mode following 
 the original story, and has multiple "what if" scenarios. Z battle is the arcade style fighting 
 mode, select your character (s) , and fight other teams until the last match. Maximum mode is similar, 
 except that the enemies are predetermined, and you can start of at any battle you have competed, 
 it is also the biggest mode in the game, with 50+ fights data file shows all characters you have 
 unlocked, there specials, abilities etc, training is self explanatory, it contains the tutorial 
 and a practice mode. There are a few minor negatives however. 1st and the most important, is that 
 it doesn't have a wifi battle feature, which would have earned this game a 10, second is that some 
 of the characters DP levels (in game rank or tiers) are not true to the series SPOILERS for example 
 freeza has 2 DP where base goku, base vegtia, and piccolo has 3 DP base trunks, krillen, and #18 
 also have 2 DP, I also think that more forms could have been added, such as kid buu, or imperfect 
 cell, as super buu (called evil buu) functions as thin (evil buu) , super, all absorbed forms, and 
 kid buu, and semi-perfect cell acts as imperct cell, and semi imperfect cell. END SPOILERS and 
 as this is a fairly old game, it is pretty cheep, making a good buy in this time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faithbringer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 11:23 am PT
Review:  First and most important of all my comments: Gamespot keeps kicking down non-RPG games for DS and 
 while there's still good matches outside there. Anyway to the review:
  
  Graphics 6/10: I will be honest when a I say that it could have a better workout on the characters 
 introduced in the game, much of them were sprites remixed from the previous title ported on GBA (I 
 have played that too) and merely adapted to the port, the scenarios however were very well designed 
 with solid 3D models making a goodlooking stuff in all.
  
  Sound 7/10: The characters speech are fairly well done in the game, music althought some times 
 sounding a bit repetitive still makes a good mixing between action and the plot provided by the 
 game, despite the fact that could have been included some of the series original themes to make 
 the game more imersive. But in all makes a solid input.
  
  Gameplay 8/10: This is where the game truly rocks. Dragonball fighting game series in early consoles 
 version alway suffered from a terrible and dull control system, fortunally last titles have been 
 putting this issue of and this game is no exception. Unlike many of the series the game itself 
 doesn't put in the series original plot (as could in its prequel) , instead you play with the characters 
 in "what if" histories, posing several conclusions in each one perspectives, all guided in a map 
 mode as you choose your character. To unlock such scenarios sometimes you need to complete some 
 condition that is somewhat hinted in the dialogues inserted before the fights, making sometimes 
 more challenging that just beat your opponent until his life gauge is empty. The fighting scenes 
 are fast paced taking place in a sidescrolling screen but with enought freedom to fly over the 
 map without trouble. Another good inovation of this version is the fact that the game uses the 
 stylus to perform characters change (if it is a team battle) or special attacks (some of the rooster 
 are made exactly to this role) , and the add of the Ultimate Attacks, most of them made by the signature 
 moves of the DBZ universe, all good rendered. The only reason that a thought that it didn't make 
 more it's the fact that unlike in the prequel, characters loose some of their singularities (such 
 as Buu ability to regenerate overtime) , yet it's still puts some powers to fit the gap in a satisfatory 
 way.
  
  Replay 8/10: Since it provides plenty of stuff to be unlocked it makes you entertained for a good 
 time. Much of the game content (much of this are characters, their respectives abilities and of 
 course their stories) making you to aim in do so. Multiplayer support is fairly well concept to 
 test your content toward a friend, and since it's a fighting game with plenty action packed takes 
 some time until you decide to move on, but at the same time makes much of the same and could be 
 a bit boring over and over, yet makes a great experience, specially for the storywise fans of the 
 series.
  
  Overall 7.5/10: The game is smooth, and considering that there's so little good fighting titles 
 for DS (save for this game, Bleach and MK) you won't find better stuff until you give yourself a 
 shot of this. Could have been better looking characters, but it's great anyways, and gives a good 
 experience. Try it on if you want some action packed title and a good DBZ game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoppyfred
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z Supersonic Warriors 2 was the first ever Dragon Ball Z game I played, but not the 
 last. It is actually a nice introduction to the franchise. Of course, fighting is one of the main 
 aspects in the Dragon Ball Z story.
  
  When you first boot up the game in your Nintendo DS, you are witness to the fairly long, but skip-able, 
 introduction. It's noteworthy for being notoriously hard to read the first time round. The main 
 menu is bright and attractive. You will see that there are 8 different options for you to select. 
 It is likely that you will regularly visit 4 of them: Z-Battle, where your chosen fighters take 
 on random teams, Story Mode, which is self-explanatory, Free Battle, in which you choose both you 
 and your opponent's team, and ???, a mode you unlock, and is frustratingly hard at times.
  
  There is also an options mode, where you can adjust the difficulty level (there are 3) and 
 the damage level (of which there are also 3) . But when you first start the game, you'll probably 
 want to visit the Practice mode first to get through the tutorial, but the controls aren't that 
 hard, and you may be able to work them out by just diving into story mode.
  
  Onto graphics. The game uses 2D sprites, but at first glance, they appear to be 3D, due to amazing 
 shading on the artists' part. I haven't played the first game, so I can't vouch for their originality, 
 but they do look good  however, it possibly would have been nice to have the 3D like graphics 
 of Naruto Ninja Destiny. The environments are fantastic though, and appear fully 3D. If you fly 
 up, the environment will change view slightly so it looks like you are looking at the backgrounds 
 more from above. Fantastic. The battle effects are very good as well, and all look very showy, 
 but in a nice way.
  
  The sounds all are very futuristic, and you hear Japanese yells during fighting gameplay, but voice-overs 
 during story mode would have been nice, even in Japanese, in which case they could be saying any 
 old dribble for all I know.
  
  The actual gameplay is pretty darn fun. During ki-clashes, where your super attack clashes with 
 your opponent's super attack, you get taken to a cut-scene like action 'mini-game' in which you 
 are encouraged to button-mash to push your ki attack past your opponents. This can be virtually 
 impossible to do on the hardest opponent in the game (whom you find on the ??? mode) on the hardest 
 difficulty, but it's fun anyway.
  
  The actual fighting is much of what you expect... but, as you may have gathered from previous statements 
 in this review, you can fly up and down as well as left and right. You have a strong attack, weak 
 attack, ki-recharge button, ki attack, block, and special ability buttons. But through various 
 two-button combinations, you can have better attacks  for example, weak attack + block will give 
 throw; ki-recharge + block will give ki-shield; ki-recharge + ki attack will give strong ki attack; 
 strong attack + ki attack will give super attack. It's nothing to complicated, nothing like Tekken 
 where you have to remember complicated 6 button combos to do an attack, and you shouldn't struggle 
 with it, especially if you play through the tutorial  unless you have problems with pressing more 
 than one button at a time, in which case I recommend you try the classic Pong. The only problem 
 with the control scheme is that sometimes it doesn't recognize that you want to use a super attack, 
 but that is not much of a problem, just a bother.
  
  The story mode is a good rendition of the Dragon Ball Z story  for those who don't know the Dragon 
 Ball Z story. Ignoring the actual story-telling, it is a fun mode, but the story telling is pathetic. 
 It misses out many important parts, sometimes part of something, other times the whole thing altogether. 
 Before I learnt about the story of Dragon Ball Z, I didn't realise this, but once I got to know 
 the franchise better, it just glares out at you.
  
  Of course, you unlock characters by playing through the story mode, and for those that know the 
 Dragon Ball Z story already, this is a good incentive to play through it. But once you unlock all 
 the playable characters, there is not much point to.
  
  The actual gameplay can be any combination of fighters, up to 3 vs 3: so for example, you could 
 have 2 vs 2, or if you really want, 1 vs 3 or 2 vs 1. Fighters are ranked in tiers, with the generally 
 better ones being on a higher tier. You have a set number of points, of which you can unlock more, 
 to use for each battle (with the exception of story mode) . The higher tier ones naturally cost 
 more points; so for you to have better characters, you either need to have other ones worse, or 
 just have less characters overall.
  
  At first glance, it seems like there are a heck of a lot of characters: there are about 35 or so. 
 But then you learn that 10 of these are not playable, they are what are called 'Support' characters. 
 During battle, you use the touch screen to switch characters, but if you have support characters 
 on your team, if you touch them, they temporarily leap in to assist your character, by helping 
 you attack them, recharging your health or ki, or something of that sort.
  
  Many of the remaining characters are actually just 'forms' of the same character. For many of the 
 characters, you have them in their normal form AND their Super Saiya-jin form: ie. Two separate 
 forms, both playable, but the same character. But obviously, you aren't able to have SSJ (Super 
 Saiya-jin) Trunks AND Normal Trunks on your team. You even have three forms for Gohan: Normal, 
 Teen, and SSJ2, and for the non-Saiyan characters, you sometimes get their 'Mecha' forms.
  
  Story, Z-Battle and ??? will keep you occupied for a while, as well as the varying levels of 
 difficulty, but often the most entertaining thing is to find a thinking, breathing opponent to 
 play against. This game sorely needed Wi-Fi, but oh well.
  
  
  Attractive menus, original and interesting layout 
 for character selection.
  
  
  Brilliant backgrounds, charming characters, awesome attacks.
  
  
 
  Futuristic sounds, Japanese yelling. Nice sounds effects.
  
  
  SLIGHTLY repetitive after completion, but good 
 fun even then in short bursts.
  
  Lasting 
  You'll be kept entertained for quite a while by the various modes and the task of beating ??? mode, 
 and multiplayer is fun, even when on the end of getting killed by Goku.
  
  
  Quite possibly the best fighting game right 
 now on the Nintendo DS, and a good contender for best Dragon Ball Z game, or even best manga game 
 (with the exception of JUS)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: S-Gameboy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 7:31 am PT
Review:  This game shows the entire storyline of the DBZ series including the series with broly and "what 
 -if" scenarios. there are many modes in this game. There are story mode, free play mode, mutiplayer 
 mode, maximum mode, tutorial mode and Z-battle mode. I've already explained story mode, so I'll 
 now explain freeplay mode. Free play mode is a mode where you can fight alone or assemble a team 
 and battle against an opponent of your choice. Multiplayer mode is when you battle against a friend, (your 
 friend needs to have a Dragon Ball Z: Supersonic Warriors 2 DS game card.) Maximum mode is a mode 
 where you can choose a character or assemble a team and choose your difficulty rank and battle 
 against challenging opponents, but to play this mode you have to clear Z-battle mode. Tutorial 
 mode is a mode where you can learn the basic skills and techniques of fighting. Finally, Z-Battle 
 mode is like a tournament mode. You either choose a character or assemble a team and battle against 
 7 random opponents. Defeat all of them and you win the tournament and you obtain a prize of course. 
 This is a fun game which you have over 30 characters to choose from and believe me, if you like 
 action games this game is perfect for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolfyboy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Sequel to the GBA game, Supersonic Warriors blasts its way onto the DS.
  
  This game is good and that it. there's nothing new except
  1. The story mode is map based.
 
  2. Partner 
  3. Maximum Mode The game play is exactly the same with new attacks, but lack of Touch Screen action. 
 The new abilty to team up attack some one is good too, but not enough. Atari almost made it seem 
 like new, but it's just recyled material, which means nothing new to me. If you like the first 
 one check it ot, but listen, seeing how I play these games, very, personally.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archale
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  The DBZ: SSW videogame for the GBA, while not groundbreaking, was a decent stab at the fighting 
 genre. It took elements from Psychic Force, but with characters from the Dragon Ball Z comicbook 
 and TV series. The result was a fast paced game, that was fun to play, for many different audiences, 
 either the DB fans, the Fighting game funs, or those looking for a quick time waster. Now, Banpresto 
 brings us a second game, which changes things up a bit, some for better, some for worse.
  
  The graphics are.... well, really similar to the first game. The characters are bigger, and look 
 crisper, Brolly, one of the few new characters, looks great, I daresay better than the returning 
 cast. Energy attacks now look better, way better, but the backgrounds.... the backgrounds are amazing, 
 they look great, although a bit pixelated, they look great and provide a great backdrop for the 
 action. The animation is as good as it was in the first game, which means it is great.
  
  Now, there are more soundbytes per character, but still, they are way too sparse. The music is 
 , different, not particularily better or worse, but it fits the action, and the sound effects are 
 still good and fitting, reminiscent from those of the show.
  
  Now, the gameplay is relatively different than the one from the previous game. Now, you can no 
 longer choose many of the same character, not even forms. Which means, you have to chose Vegeta, 
 S. Vegeta OR M. Vegeta, and only once, which is a big bummer, since in the first you could, but, 
 in many instances throughout storymode, you'll fight/play as teams of three of the same character.
 
  Like the previous game, your team must not exceed a certain amount of points, however, as you 
 advance through the game, that is quickly put aside, as you break the limits. One cool feature 
 from the first game, was that when fighting, you could either tag on the spot, or tag so that the 
 character tagging in would be next to the enemy, at the expense of some ki. Not anymore, now to 
 tag in/out, you have to use the touchscreen, and the position is random. Same goes for Goku's teleportation, 
 it's random, which rends the ability useless.
  The game IS slower, and the characters feel heavier, however the impact from the blows now feel 
 stronger. Not all is bad though, the game now introduces ultimates... attacks that are executed 
 when you have only 30% of HP left, they look good and are fun to use. Another new feature is Support. 
 This are characters that can be used up to seven times (If you unlock extra uses) per battle. Their 
 abilities range from offensive attacks, to actual support, like healing HP or restoring KI. Some 
 characters also have special combos with some of these supports, and although they are too expensive 
 for the damage they deal, they look great.
  Something cool too, is that the AI has been enhanced. It's meaner and badder and hates you, and 
 won't hesistate to let you know
  
  Sadly, there's only 1 real new character, Brolly. He has an exclusive Spriteset, and skills. Also, 
 now we have Coola, who, let's face it, is just a Freeza swap. He plays like his brother, but his 
 3 specials are different. Also, some other "new" characters would be Normal Trunks, whose only 
 difference, besides shape/color of the hair to SSJ Trunks are the specials, which look cooler. 
 Still, it's hard not to feel that they took the easy way out, and added supports, to let you see 
 more characters, but not develop an new entire spriteset. Also ,the supports look vastly inferior 
 to the main cast sprites.....
  
  So in the end, we are left with a game that is really similar to the previous one, but feels different. 
 If I was to compare it, I'd say they are equally good, and although I graded (Rather, will) SSW 
 1 a 10, that was with the GBA market in mind. The DS has a bigger library, and at the moment I 
 am writing these (2008) , better fighters, heh, better anime fighters (Bleach, anyone?) . Still, the 
 game is fun, and if you like Dragon Ball, you can't let it slip. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spidey608
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:57 am PT
Review:  This game is a great fighter for the Nintendo DS. It has been a long time since it has come out 
 but I still play it every now and then. If I had to point out one obvious flaw in this game, it 
 would be that both players need to have the game in order to participate in multiplayer. 
  
  Other than its one small flaw, I have to say that this is a great game now and was amazing 
 when it first came out for the DS. The fighting system and ability to bring in other characters 
 at random moments reminds me of certain PS1 games early in the Dragon Ball series. It's simple 
 while remaining great by making the most out of the DS. In fact in the newest game Dragon Ball 
 Z Budokai Tenkaichi 3 they use a "dragon point" system used in this game where you make a team 
 with a certain amount of total points and every character is given a point value, which I first 
 saw in this game. Overall great game and if you can still find it, go ahead and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hukibeast
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I am a big Dragonball fan and when I realized that I could get a DBZ fighting game on my ds I was 
 stuck on getting it right away. This game sells for just 19.99 on target. com and comes with multiple 
 accesories and a carry case. 
  
  For gameplay itself there is a lot to this game, many possibilities. There are a multitude of characters 
 some of which are more like weapons than characters, these are called support characters. Some 
 examples; Bardock gives your character full ki, Zarbon shoots about 100 blasts at your enemy, Hercule 
 throws bombs into the area that only effect your opponent. Then each character has team attacks 
 an Ultimate KO and at least around 5 special attacks. You can even tag team with other characters 
 too double your odds as victory. This game also has more stages than the usual portable fighter, 
 15 to be exact. All non support character can also power up. Saiyans usually go super saiyan, others 
 such as Krillin use the KaioKen etc. It even has a maximum mode and about 100 story levels!
  
  Of course all the subtle fun things in this game, such as two blasts meeting and having too 
 mash to make yours over take the enemy, make it really fun for fans of DBZ. But even if you do 
 not like DragonBall that much you will still get a kick out of this great Nintendo DS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  Oh, my God, I love all the Dragon Ball Z games. This game is not perfect, but it has some good 
 things. The graphics are not good. I expected to be 3D, not 2D. Never mind, the story line is good 
 and strong. You can play almost all the character from the Dragon Ball Z series. The game is a 
 little easy, I mean, you win to easy and fast. I hate all the games which are easy.
  The multi-player is cool, because there, the difficult can vary. I wished in the game, you can 
 evolve. I mean at the beginning, instead of picking SSJ 2 Gohan, you can pick Normal Gohan and 
 in the battle you can transform him by using a lot of Ki Power, in SSJ 2 Gohan. 
  In general, the game is not good from my opinion. I was so disappointed, but I still play this 
 game, because it is fun to play as a Super Saiyan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themixta43
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Dragonball Z Supersonic Warriors 2 is the first Dragonball Z games to come out on the Nintendo 
 DS. With games on the GBA such as Legacy of Goku 1 and 2, Buu's Fury and a few others some thought 
 the first DS rendition of the DBZ franchise would follow suit and be a kind of Action RPG but this 
 game is a direct follow up to the better of the two fighting games on the GBA, the original Supersonic 
 Warriors opposed to that horrible game Taiketsu.
  
  Seen as there are enough 3D DBZ fighting games already out on various consoles, Supersonic Warriors 
 is a 2D fighting game that follows suit to early DBZ games on SNES such as Hyper Dimension and 
 games like Ultimate Battle 22. Supersonic Warriors 2 reinvents 2D DBZ fighting games though, being 
 kind of alike and very different to these games at the same time. The actual fighting in the game 
 is great. You can pick from a wide range of characters from the DBZ universe such as favourites 
 like Goku, Gohan, Vegeta and Trunks. Also, there are some characters that haven't been in many 
 games such as Broly, Cooler and Dr. Gero, which fans will love.
  You pick your characters depending on their Dragon Point rank. Better characters have more DP's 
 so they are usually found fighting on their own while characters with fewer DP's can team up in 
 teams up to three people. Your dragon points eventually build up and soon enough you will have 
 enough to have that team you always wanted. There is also a wide range of support characters to 
 choose from. Think like Marvel vs. Capcom style of support characters except you can choose them 
 and they take up DP and a place on your team. These characters range from the likes of Bardock 
 to Hercule to Shenron himself.
  
  Once you find the right combination your ready to start fighting. There are many stages to choose 
 from that will be familiar to any DBZ fan. Once engaged in battle you can of course start fighting. 
 Fighting consists of Light Attacks, Heavy Attack, Ki Blasts and, of course, your usual assortment 
 of Super Ki Blasts different to each character. There are also team combinations also like the 
 Marvel vs. Capcom series of games where I you can team up and unleash a devastating blast on your 
 opponent. Unlike MvC though, you have to have the right combination of characters to pull off these 
 fantastic moves and fans of the series will love some of the great moves you can do. Combinations 
 like Freiza/Cooler/King Cold (Support) will work and team up together to take down their opponents 
 but combinations like Gohan/Buu/Shenron obviously won't do anything. You'll have a great time pulling 
 off all these moves and they look spectacular.
  
  There are a huge assortment of modes in the game that will keep anyone busy. First off there is 
 Z Battle mode, like an arcade mode where you pick a team and battle you're way to the end. This 
 is great fun at first but will become old quickly. You probably won't be playing this for too long 
 since Story mode is the most appealing one and will keep you hooked. Story mode is just what it's 
 name says, going through the DBZ story from each characters perspective. There is a lot of game 
 play to be had here and there are also cool side "What If" stories to be had throughout it which 
 provide even more enjoyment throughout the game. If these modes are not enough, there is Maximum 
 mode, which provides a great challenge to any player out there.
  If your done with these you can of course go into Free Battle where you can pitch any two teams 
 against each other and battle it out. There is also a Practice/Tutorial mode where you can learn 
 the basics and advanced techniques in the game and just practice to your hearts content. Another 
 mode is VS Battle, one I'm yet to try but It's just like free battle except you can play against 
 friends who also own a DS and this game wirelessly. There is no Wi-Fi unfortunately but it was 
 never expected seen as this was an early title in the DS catalogue.
  
  The graphics and sound in this game are spectacular. Sure they might not meet the standards of 
 the 3D games on PS2 and Wii but the 2D graphics provide a new perspective on the DBZ universe and 
 it comes out looking great. The characters themselves look authentic and don't try and mimic the 
 anime exactly like the 3D counterparts. The levels themselves look spectacular and give the players 
 a wonderful feeling as they are battling it out in them. The sound is also great. The music is 
 your usually rocky soundtrack with a variety of original tracks to keep the action going non-stop. 
 Also, the character voices sound great but nowhere near as good as other games utilising the voice 
 actors. It still does great seen as it is a portable 2D game opposed to a 3D console game. Dragonball 
 Z Supersonic Warriors 2 is a great game to any one who has a DS out there. There is plenty of replay 
 value with the immense amount of characters, stages and play modes and the game play itself will 
 keep you coming back for more. This is by far the greatest 2D Dragonball Z fighter out today and 
 any DBZ fan without it can't afford to miss this gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5Winston5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z Supersonic Warriors 2 is a sequel to Dragon Ball Z Supersonic Warriors for the Game 
 Boy Advance. I have never played the first one, but I can say that Dragon Ball Z Supersonic Warriors 
 2 is a solid fighting game. The graphics for Dragon Ball Z Supersonic Warriors 2 are really good 
 and it has a nice mixture of 2D and 3D elements. For game play you can pick three characters for 
 your party. Mostly you use the buttons for controls. You only use the touch screen for switching 
 characters in your party or to activate a special character to aid you. There are a bunch of Special 
 characters to aid you. Some give you extra help to attack your opponents, while others restore 
 your health. If you have certain characters in your party you can touch the touch screen so they 
 do a Team Arts special attack. For example anyone who is a fan of the show knows that Cell is defeated 
 with the father-son Kamehameha. Well if you pick ssj2 Gohan and Goku that is their Team Arts Special 
 move. It is a pretty cool feature that gives the game some variety. The music in Dragon Ball Z 
 Supersonic Warriors 2 is great, but the dialogue in it is kinda quiet and hard to hear. The game 
 has a lot of options for single player you can have story mode, Z battles (which is just a series 
 of random opponents) , and Maximum mode (which is a battle against a bunch of different opponents) . 
 There is a multi player option, but both of the players need to have their own version of the game. 
 All in all, Dragon Ball Z Supersonic Warriors 2 for the DS is a great fighting game and I give 
 it a 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanw
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  I think Gamespot's review was a little biased in that they expected a whole lot of changes from 
 supersonic warriors 1. They gave that a 7.7. This game makes slight improvements over the last 
 and doesn't do anything to make the game worse, yet they rate it a 6.9?! I did not know which game 
 to buy, but I'm glad I bought Supersonic Warriors 2. It's a lot of fun for any fan of dbz fighting 
 games. The story is progressed through text, which condenses the dbz story from the raditz fight 
 all the way to the buu saga. The game is very fast paced, a bit more than the budokai games, mainly 
 because there aren't as many cutscene attacks. The music and sound are typical for DBZ and there 
 are many modes. They story mode only takes about an hour but you can go through it with 15 characters 
 and each time you beat it, new combos and characters are unlocked for free play etc. I've played 
 about 5 hours so far and I can see myself having fun with this game until it's beaten. Don't let 
 gamespot's score turn you away. If you like fighting games, this is one of the best for ds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke141eels
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  dragon ball z supersonic warriors is a great game but more importationaly its a great game for 
 dbz fans being my first dragon ball game on ds i had very low expectations i was wrong. it is one 
 of the best dragon ball games.
  
  this game has a lot of pros to it such as these graphics in the game are very good they make a 
 great blend with 2d and 3d. there is a wide range of characters to choose from. there is great 
 what if sitatuiations such as freiza wishing for imorataly. with story mode it makes the game even 
 better by having the characters different stories it makes the game so great
  
  overall the graphics are great the story line is great it is a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trunksrg
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  i think of dbzssw 2 as the best 2d fighting game on the nds.
  the controls are great.
  you may unlock a lot of charactors.
  plus you can do 3 vs 3 vs a friend, or vs the nds.
  efter 
 you pass most of the story, you unlock the maximum mode.
  there you can fight a lot of battles, and efter you pass a # of battles,
  you can use stronger 
 heros, in one battle.
  the game takes the sagas of vegeta throuht super buu.
  
  
  
  now the bad things of the game : the grathics are a little better then buu's fury.
  it's really 
 hard to unlock all heros.
  some of the battles in maximum mode are unfair.
  by unfair i say : the hero (nds) can shoot 10 hit balls in one shoot.
  also the rivel is a lot 
 faster then normal.
  the rival got more hp.
  
  
  but dont worry there are about 2 battles like that (brolly and goku ss)
  
  and the multi player 
 is only when you and you'r friend have the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayersdeath200
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 2, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  DBZ SS Warriors 2 has to be my favorite fighter on the ds platform it goes through the story of 
 Dragonball z but does miss out the garlic jr saga (like anybody liked it in the first place) .
 
  
  You can start off as any of the main characters and go through their part in the Dragonball z game 
 and you unlock moves and other characters as you progress which makes it fun visual when you do 
 a awesome finisher.
  
  The modes are really cool and give this game its edge you have your standard story mode you have 
 the multi player which is probably the best mode especially when you have completed the game and 
 the characters are at max so the battles between your friends is more interesting. Then you have 
 the zbattle mode which is where you unlock more stuff for the game and the battles get tougher 
 each time you go through it.
  
  overall another awesome game from the DBZ series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yellowdart42
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 7, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  I'm a newcomer to dbz and the plot really stinks, but the gameplay is far better than your average 
 fighter. I've never played a ds game that is this addicting. The story mode is horrible and riddled 
 with plot-holes and more spelling errors than I ever thought possible, but the other modes of play 
 make it worth the ten bucks I paid. I have to say the multiplayer is the best aspect of the game. 
 And my favorite part is the mania insane-hardness last boss that takes some real skill to beat. 
 In review: Cheap, bad story, typos, bad graphics, fun gameplay and multi player. The End ----ad 
 infinitum 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic8846
Rating: 4.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is just plain bad.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay consists of punch, kick, grab, specials, and helpers. The problem is, you can win 
 by continuously using helpers and special moves. The Ai isn't particularly bright either, and will 
 keep coming back for more.
  
  Graphics:
  These could easily have been torn straight from the GBA. Low quality.
  
  Sound:
  Grating 
 music that you will want to turn off. The sound clips are okay, but also infrequent.
  
  Value:
  Unless you have a friend to play it with (requiring two carts) this is not even worth 
 a rent. Heck, it isn't even worth buying for the multiplayer. It's just that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowmajin
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z Supersonic Warriors 2 is better than the original in some fields but it seems like 
 a cheap remake of an original game. One of the new features in this game: you can follow a characters' 
 storyline and unlock new pathways depending on certain variables of the fight. By advancing through 
 the game you are also able to unlock new characters and attacks, as well as team combos and abilities. 
 The game does a good job of featuring the series' characters and gives each one of them a unique 
 ultimate attack based on the character from the series. It also does a good job of giving the characters 
 their own list of attacks from the series and adapting them to the DS graphics. Some new characters 
 from the series are introduced that didn't come out in the first game. Overall, S. S. W. 2 is a good 
 game for DBZ fans, and might be a good choice to add to your collection if you are someone who 
 prefers fighting games. In the end it still ends up being repetitive and boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MannyPimpin
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 5, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  this is a very good game with a solid selection of characters. The gameplay is fantastic and will 
 keep you playing for hours! You can turn SSJ while playing, Even SSJ 3 for like 6 seconds! You also 
 get to play as a Berserk array of evil characters..... You even get to lock on your attacks like 
 in the SHOW! They even feature COOLER! The only bad think is that it gets too easy at times..... You 
 get to play as SSJ2 Gohan adult SSJ Gohan! Even Mystic until your KI wastes...... If you dont get 
 the gameplay you can just enter Tutorial mode! Tough they should have left the thing were you get 
 to smash someone in to rocks..... In this game they even have Ultimate K. O. s!!!!! And also what FU###NG 
 bugs me all the time is that a lot of characters that people cry to play as is a support character..... How 
 the hell can they put them as support characters but not as full characters! Thats BS! I wanted to 
 play as BARDOCK! Other than that just get this game! The gameplay will keep you playing..... the music 
 will drive you in..... The graphics will have good tone or complexion soooooooooooooooooo just get 
 it! You will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pure-ownage
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 27, 2006 11:44 am PT
Review:  when i first bought dbzsw2 for the ds i was rather frustrated at the lengthy tutorial and the way 
 the game handled but after playing it for a while and unlocking some more charachters i found it 
 a fun experience and a good game to play.
  they made it hard to unlock all the charachters aswell which is a bonus because it keeps you playing. 
 also the what if storylines add a new twist in the saga and can lead to you unlocking new moves/charachters 
 etc.
  
  also the maximum mode can be extremely tough to beat when you play it and can take months to complete 
 but it can be done in a flash with the right charachters.
  
  i was a bit dissapointed with the graphics as the ds is capable of so much more but it is fun to 
 play 2d fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romanator
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 7, 2006 2:57 am PT
Review:  Now, don't get the impression this is is a bad game. It isn't.
  
  Although the fighting mechanics of SS warriors 2 have not much
  improved, what there is, is enough 
 to keep you occupied
  for a good 15 hours or so. Each character has enough moves to get by, and will keep
  you entertained, 
 as long as you don't play for very long bursts
  (2 hours max) .
  The tutorial option is a good way to get a lay down on all the
  moves available, but if you continue 
 fighting for a while in any other modes, you will find tutorial hugely pointless.
  The A. I, I reckon, although you can change their difficulty,
  could of been a bit more tough 
 and tactical.
  Story mode is a good way to own skills, and the story for
  each different character is deep and unique, although
  it can get a bit dinky at times.
  The 
 touch screen stuff is a good idea, but there isn't a awful lot
  of sophistication in it and ends up largely pointless thanks to the
  standard ds buttons.
  
 All in all, SS warriors is a fast, deep fighter that
  will keep you occupied for a good amount of time, but sadly
  hasn't changed much from the original, 
 and thanks to the lack
  of ds touch screen specific commands, could of ended up
  being a gameboy advance game no doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torix9797
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 7:47 am PT
Review:  When I first saw there was a DBZ game for DS I said," I gotta get this!!!" I looked and looked 
 and finaly found one but my mom wouldn't get it through her head! Discontinued game!!!! But finaly 
 she got it for me. My cousin Mack, you might know him on gamespot by gogeta413, wanted to try it 
 all the way to my house. The characters in here are: Kid Gohan, Ginyu, Dr. Gero, Krillin, Frieza, 
 Teen Trunks, 18, Goku, Piccolo, Vegeta, Mecha Frieza, Teen Gohan, SSJ1 Teen Trunks, Incomplete 
 Cell, Cooler, SSJ1 Goku, SSJ1 Vegeta, Gotenks, Metal Cooler, SSJ2 Kid Gohan, Perfect Cell, Fat 
 Buu, Brolly, SSJ3 Gotenks, Super Buu, Tien/Yamcha, 17/16, Babidi, Dende, Dabura, Cell Jr, Bardock, 
 Zarbon/Dodoria, Shenron and Hurcule. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lester_vegetass
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks big time !!! and if u dont got it u better get it cause its
  better than psps shin budokai..
  Way better --
  storys
  characters
  and its challenging 
 and just plain fun!!!
  This game and everything about it rocks and its just unbeliveable!!!
  Sure the graphics an support 
 characters suck a bit but the story and the game is just a great thing!!!!
  the flaws
  Difficult in alot of areas
  support characters suck the good points of it are
  sound story 
 rocks
  the selection of characters is good
  WAY BETTER THAN PSP's shin budokai!!1 i think at least
  This game is  
 much fun in this game and i loved it!!!
  of coure ppl are gonna say this sucks, the same ppl said that saga sucks and sagas is a great game 
 too!! dont belive them cause this game is a must get for anyone !!!!
  The story portrays all the characters right.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jump_Man7
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 28, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z: Supersonic Warriors 2 is a great fighter for the DS. Players can play through three 
 different one player modes, and a vs. mode via WiFi. The story mode is one of the three one player 
 modes. This is a great mode where you can select a charatcer like Goku, or Freeza, and go through 
 their story in the DBZ saga. And some are what if scenerios. Like if Dr. Gero didn't get killed 
 by the Androids something different could of happened. Also, if you complete a certain level in 
 a certain way, you can unlock a secret level for that characters. These secret levels are the key 
 to unlocking moves, characters, and double teams. There's also a standard mode where you go through 
 a bunch of computer controlled opponents. And the last one player mode is a mode where you go through 
 many opponents, all grouped in a certain way. (example: Mecha Freeza, and Metal Cooler, or Trunks, 
 and Gotenks) There are three different difficulties to go through, each being unlocked after completing 
 the difficulty before it. This can unlock a few characters, gives a huge challenge on level 3 difficulty, 
 and gives you SP points. Now on to the fighting portion of the reveiw. The fighting is definitly 
 one of the best for any DBZ game. Players can choose up to three characters, or two characters, 
 and a support character. Each character has a certain number of points. You have seven points to 
 start with. Each character's points is subtracted from your points. You cannot exceed your starting 
 points. Characters then battle it out in teams. They can select a different character to step into 
 the fight by using the stylus to touch their portrait. Characters can use moves that drain their 
 energy. Character's moves depend on where you are. If you're above you opponent, you use a different 
 move. If your next to them, and different move. Characters also have specials that they can only 
 use once per match when their health is red, and they have a full bar of energy. These moves take 
 alot of damage. More then half of your opponent's health. Along with those moves, characters can 
 also do double team moves with certain partners. For example: Goku, and Gohan can do a double team, 
 but Goku, and Dr. Gero can't. You can use a double team move whenever you have a full bar of energy. 
 Some characters also have a triple team move. Goku, Piccolo, and Vegeta for example, can all step 
 in to do alot of damage. And a cool scene. In short, this game is a solid game, with great game 
 modes, and great gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeerRosh
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  A team battle game with lots of hyper fighting techniques and cool ways to overcome your opponents 
 with super team attacks. Blast them with a Kamehameha, or use your Super Galactic Donuts on them. 
 Punch them a couple times, switch, and do it again.
  
  Highly addicting and keeps you wanting to do it over again and again. Your characters can build 
 up power, punch them for more power, then launch a mean ultimate triple attack. Now, I wonder if 
 half of this is even possible in the DBZ series, as a lot of the combination attacks involve characters 
 that rarely team up, but then again. Maybe they do...
  
  Finish them with an ultimate attack to add to your score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Dragonball Z: Supersonic Warriors 2 is just a game about the whole DBZ saga and it's great battles. 
 I thought that everythign was placed perfect on the DS control system. It had barely above average 
 graphics and great sound to go with that. It brings back the heart-warming moments in DBZ and makes 
 the battles playable. The thing about the batles that disappointed me was that they only last about 
 10-20 seconds each no matter who you face. It is a minor flaw in the game and I know that Atari 
 will make adjustments if yet another sequel to the series comes out. The cool thing about the story 
 mode is that when you choose a different character to play with, your story is altered from the 
 other DBZ warriors in the game so you can try and beat all those cool missions in the game. I also 
 enjoyed the mode called "Maximum Mode". It is were you choose whatever charcter that is in your 
 list and choose 2 back-up men for help unless one is defeated in combat, once you win the 20 matches 
 you can go onto the next level up and after each time you win the 20 matches, you earn an unlockable. 
 You can also take it to the extreme with multi-card mode were you can duel your friends and show 
 off your skills. I would recommend this fighter game to any fighting gamers or any DBZ fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaaravsrocklee
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  this beat em up dragon ball z game for the ds is a good game at first untill you get tired of trying 
 to guess wut to do in the story mode. either than that the story modes do give the game more depth 
 and possible outcomes with other characters good or bad. the game also had a multiplayer mode but 
 it still kinda felt lik you were playing against the computer. there were other game modes that 
 added to the fun. there are also new attacks combos and the new team attack that gives you more 
 options on how to beat the other player, there are also hidden team attacks with some of the charaters. 
 wut would of made this game more fun and exciting is if you could play the game on wi-fi connection. 
 besides that i was surprised on how they took a pretty good game and added new stuff like support 
 characters and team attacks to make an even better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Born_Twiztid
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 21, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  As far as hand held fighters go, DBZSSW2 is fair to decent, and captures the free roaming feel 
 of DBZ pretty well. The combos are a little weak, and the game obviousely favors Ki attacks, but 
 all in all, it's a fun game. My biggest complaint was the graphics. The 2d is fine, and the animation 
 is good, but as has been said by everyone else reviewing this game, it looks like it was ripped 
 straight out of the first game, and the sound is god awful. I think they could have done better 
 if they had taken a little more time in production.
  
  The team attacks introduced thanks to the touch screen were fun, but no where near essential, and 
 i think there should have been more team based attacks than what there were.
  
  Bottom Line: A decent handheld fighters, but little replay value. Once you unlock all the characters 
 (which could easily be done in a few hours max) the game kind of looses it's appeal. Good bargain 
 though if you manage to find it for under $30 
::::::

::::::
UserName: power_of_2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty fun and easy to play but after a few months or so, u find urself not playing 
 it nearly as much as u used to. the graphics are pretty ok but i have definitley seen better. i 
 remeber b4 i got the game, everytime i went to gamefaqs, commercials and little pictures or brief 
 trailers would come on and make a really big fuss about this game so i expected it to own. truth 
 b told though, like i said, it's fun, but it wears thin after a few months and the story mode for 
 each character is none like i've ever seen. there were specifics like, u have to beat a certain 
 character within a certain time limit, or u have to beat a certain character with another character, 
 or even beating them with only a certain amount of health left. i personally, couldn't complete 
 it without looking at a walkthrough from gamefaqs. if ur considering buying this game, rent it 
 first and decide if u like it... b warned though, it's first appearance as far as attacks go is 
 pretty "hooky" so don't make ur decision 2 soon... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 6
Date: May 24, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  in one-on-one battles, supersonic warriors really isn't that complex. there are two atack buttons, 
 a block and various levels of k blast to pull off, there aren't really any complex combos. couple 
 of bad sights in the graphics. the attacks and backgrounds are ok but the characters are uninspiring. 
 boring on the part of gameplay, too repetitive. you'll play it to unlock characters, take a long 
 time but not that long, what a chore. sounds were not even close to the ones on the show. no blood. 
 not even a spill or a blot. c'mon. its fun for a while but too limited to the all-conquering dbz 
 game were hanging on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somaslayer
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 8, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Supersonic Warriors 2 is definately one of the better DragonBall Z games for handheld systems. 
 Unlike many others, you are able to create your own custom team of Z Fighters, the heroes, or evil 
 forces. You can even mix and match good and evil for the perfect combinations. Despite its gameplay, 
 Supersonic Warriors 2 skips over many important events in DBZ history. It is also filled with various 
 typos that make me wonder if the developers rushed a bit to much to put this game out on the market. 
 But the other aspects of the game make up for the story mode's failure. There are seven different 
 game modes in all (one for every dragonball) , and four of them are battle modes. The others include 
 training, options, and data file, where you can view the skills you accquired for your characters. 
 There are a few repetitive techniques, but each character is truely individual. But I recommend 
 this game for fans of the DBZ franchise, as only they can understand many of the situations in 
 the game. Overall, Supersonic Warriors 2 is good for any gamer interested in fighting video games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonkd
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  this game i think was made for fans of the series if you ask me because of the short story line 
 weak graphics and thats all i have to say about it i mean there's not much of a story here to behold 
 and to unlock missions you just have to pull off a fancy move the graphics look like gba graphics 
 and what was that sound the music disgusting but a nice selection of characters tough the ultimate 
 attacks were nice with the ultimate k. o. but it's not enough to keep you coming back unless you 
 are a fan of the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patd23
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  you could look at the lack of stylus use as a bad thing, but personally, i was glad it didn't. 
 call me old school, but i love a good button masher. the game didn't need it.
  
  THE GRAPHICS: for the nintendo ds, this game had pretty great graphics. and now, when someone goes 
 super sajin, it actually looks like they didn't dye their hair blond! just be glad all the characters 
 have four unique special attacks now.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY: immersive. you may be tired of all these fighting games and such. oh well. you start 
 playing and you just can't stop. plus, there's tons of unlockable levels and characters. almost 
 every character has they're own storyline, so you won't beat this game very soon.
  
  THE SOUND EFFECTS: no one talks during the cutscenes, but would you really want voice actors that 
 make everyone sound horrible? i'd prefer to read through, interpreting the many typos. the characters' 
 catch phrases can get pretty annoying after a while, but that's what the volume control's for.
 
  
  THE GOODER-NESS: the multiplayer is pretty cool, and wireless. and the data files on all the characters 
 are really helpful if you want the advantage on your opponent. z-battle and maximum are great ways 
 to waste your time and unlock a few characters along the way.
  
  this review has been written by patd23 from gamespot. com and no part of it has been copied and 
 such. if you don't copy any part of this and stuff like that, then we're cool.
  
  ~the patdster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windows101
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2006 11:51 pm PT
Review:  its perfect becuase people who want to see cooler in the game he is in there. and his ultamte attack 
 is pretty good but it dosent take a lot of health. but if you want to see a strong one do goku 
 ss1 ultamte attack takes a lot of health but if you want to surprise them just teleport (l+a you 
 must at least have more than 180 ki) then i teleport on thier left then sit back and KILL THEM 
 but if you think cells ultamate attack is useless your a de de de and also gohan (normal) is a 
 good move to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruipaulo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  I heard lots of each good and bad things about this game, so i decided to buy it and see it for 
 myself. Some people told me this game was totally seemed with DBZ SS Warriors for GBA, and that 
 it is too short and boring. However, I complitely disagree with those people. This game is AMAZING, 
 and the action never stops.
  ** GAMEPLAY: 
  The game play is simple: you have some battle modes at tjhe begining of the game; you can choose 
 anyone of those modes, excluding ine ???? mode which is unlocked as you advance in the game. TYhere's 
 a Z-battle mode, where you can fight several opponent's, practice mode, where you can practice 
 your techniques and learn the basics of the game (Tuturial mode) , a Free battle mode, where you 
 choose your characters and yourt opponent's as well and a Story mode, where you choose a character 
 and enter in his / her story. As you proceed in each's story, you obtain special abilities for 
 this character and the possibility to unlock another characters. The gampelay, during battles, 
 is totally diferent from GBA game. TOTALLY DIFFERENT. There are dozens of attacks, WHICH DIFFER 
 FROM CHARACTER TO CHARACTER. It's amazing and fantastic. Each one has its own attacks and team 
 attacks to develop, so you'll find this game very very very wonderful. Attacks are simplily developed, 
 so you'll have no trouble. Each character has its own abilities too. The attacks in this game ARE 
 MUCH MORE FANTASTIC than in DBZ SS Warriors 1. TYhere are lots of characters to fight with and 
 some support characters which cannot be fought with, but which help in the others characters battles. 
 Counting with these support characters, there are more than 30 characters to choose from. THE FUN 
 IN THIS GAME IS INFINITE.
  ** GRAPHICS: the graphics are quite good; however, the graphics of the characters in battle are 
 similar to the other game, and that's the weakest point of this game. However, ATK graphics are 
 AMAZING and very BEAUTIFUL; we mustn't compare both games, cuz this is much more fun and advanced.
 
  ** SOUND: There are great background musics in this game and the ATK sounds are fun and well developed. 
 Also, the voices of the characters are nice.
  ** VALUE: There are lots of modes you can choose from, and the STORY mode will leave you busy for 
 a long time. The action never stops, and if you enjoy this game, you'll allways want to fight more 
 and more and more.
  ** TILT: I love this game, and I think people give a lower rank to this game than the one it reallly 
 deserves. This game is different and amazing for everyone who enjoys it. But I can tell you one 
 thing: don't believe in those who says that this game sucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  This is the next Super Sonic Warriors coming on the DS as the other one was for the GB Advance. 
 Gamespot seemed to give it a preety bad rating I think for the game as it was like 6.1 or something 
 but its much better then they seem to think. The game features the same kind of style of fighting 
 but adds a few new surprises to the mix such as new team attacks which more then 1 member on your 
 team can do a special at once. For example Vegeta will blast a big bang attack, the guy will dodge 
 it and go into the air and trunks will slash him like frieza style and then teleport out of the 
 way as Vegeta does a final flash on the guy. There are also special 3 man team attacks as well. 
 The energy bar has gone up to 200% from the original 100% and adds a new feature also of ultimate 
 special attack where when your health is in red you can do your ultimate attack when you have 150% 
 energy. The Storyline gives more point in this game as through doing it you earn characters and 
 new attacks and new special appilities a new feature. For example if frieza loses and you have 
 cooler normal on your team, cooler will grow stronger as frieza was defeated. Graphics are preety 
 good, like the other game before it, but being a DS game you can't give a game of that system a 
 10 or a 9 as its just not build to support those type of graphics. If you were judging the DS alone 
 I would give this game a 9.5 on graphics for the system. Gameplay is smooth and easy to understand 
 after about 20 minutes of play or so, so its easy to get the hang of it. The game has characters 
 now as levels of different so gohan normal is level 1 character and cannot go any higher, other 
 then the last game where each character had 3 levels of style. This goes up to 7 levels but the 
 only difference it seems to me is the higher the level you are the more life you got. One bad feature 
 in my mind is that you can't choose the same character more then once for your team this also includes 
 characters who are different on the screen but are still the same person such as Teen Gohan, Older 
 Gohan, Super Saiyan 2 Gohan are different characters on there own levels so 1,4,6 but if you pick 
 1 you can't choose the others which makes it even less choice to choose it seems. A few new characters 
 added to the game such as Broly, Cooler, Metal Cooler and Imperfect Cell the 2nd version. Difficulty 
 is about average, but you can add the computers damage to you increased to they do massive damage 
 or in some cases in maximum mode or some story modes sections you will fight a uber character who 
 are Goku, Perfect Cell and Broly who can fire some new attacks you can't use as the normal versions 
 and they have super speed and no energy drain when using specials which kills. Also there attacks 
 are x2 bigger so its basically impossible to dodge, so blocking is the only way to go and you will 
 still take some damage. These guys you will need 3vs1 most likly really good guys as well. Goku 
 is the hardest of the three and is the last guy to battle in the maxium mode. Replay value is more 
 of the line once you got everything in a fighting game. This game has preety good replay value, 
 but nothing to great as the attacks are preety simple to learn so nothing like a Soul Calibur game 
 where you keep trying to perfect moves of characters. Also there are now support characters where 
 you can use them to support you but not much else. Some do damage others heal you, others screw 
 up your controls things like that and some of them can even do team attacks. In my opinion a extra 
 character is more help but some of them like Bardock giving you 200% energy right away and 5 uses 
 in 1 battle can be quiet helpful. The DS now has 2 screens so the double screen shows a list of 
 the characters you are using in battle and so with the touch screen you click on characters to 
 change them or click the team attack button when you can do one. Bad part of this, is that you 
 must touch the screen as theres no backup way to do those 2 things states above without doing so. 
 Being a fighting game you are busy and so using your touch pen you got to basically let go of your 
 controler leaving you wide open. You can also use this clicker for the screen that attaches to 
 your thumb but to me its more of a bother and tends to screw you up. So your left with touching 
 the screen with your own thingers which can scratch it, mark it up or something else I suppose. 
 Reguardless its a small problem. Whew all that typing has made be thirsty, Overall great game for 
 anyone and a must for a dbz fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedude19
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I love it! It's the best that's come out yet for the handheld consols!! I loved it soo much, I'm 
 still playing it today for the heck of it! This game is sooooo perfect! I keep playing it with 
 my pals at school and on trips! This is by far the best fighting game to come out for the DS yet! 
 I give it a 98% EXCELLENCE!!! I can't wait for the next DBZ release! My favorite characters are 
 Goku, Vegeta, Gohan, and Piccolo. They kick butt all around the game! Their techniuqes (or however 
 you spell that) are amazingly powerful! I wanna have powers like them but then again I'd have to 
 save the world all the time and im best at being a couch potatoe. Just in other words, THIS GAME 
 KICKS ASS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Davidhalo18
Rating: 6.6
Date: Mar 22, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Dragonball. Either the title of it will draw you away to another game or drag you in. After a few 
 dissapointments and a few uprisings, Dragonball fans have finally found there way into the gaming 
 world and being heard more and more.
  
  Nintendo released the absolutely abysmal Taiketsu and then another game called Super Sonic Warriors 
 for the original GBA. While not groundbreaking in it's own right, Super Sonic Warriors for the 
 GBA was definitely notable for having the sound and visuals that made Dragonball in gaming what 
 it is.
  
  The new game easily titled DBZ : Super Sonic Warriors 2, is the continuation of this game and is 
 a double edge sword.
  
  Graphically the game doesn't improve much upon the first in the series. While retaining sharp pixelation 
 the characters look like there series representation but given the power of the DS, could've been 
 easily more on the par with games such as Castlevania or even Princess Peach. The 3d backgrounds, 
 while a great addition, don't really improve much upon the original 2d backgrounds in the original 
 game. Give or take this is Dragonball and you can see it in the visuals but needless to say they 
 could've been much better
  
  The audio in the game is just as you ever expected it was, but less. Just as in the first game 
 you'll hear slight battle cries and quotes from the original voice actors leading in and out of 
 each fight and this is very true to most dragonball games. The music in the background however 
 is .. uninspired at best. The basic midi tunes of the series and original tracks are enough for 
 most but don't give off any flair or intensity of there own. 
  
  The battles for the most part however, are decent fun. You'll run into your normal cast of characters 
 in which are mostly based on there most powerful forms and play as them throughtout the most part 
 of the game in the battles and just go from there as usual. If your accustomed to Super Sonic Warriors 
 1, expect a couple new features such as Tag Team Attacks , which as stated in the title allows 
 two characters to perform a combination super move when they are fully powered up. These attacks, 
 while interesting, are ultimately only for show.
  
  The special abilities and even transformations ( while not many in the game and not all characters 
 can transform) is a nice edition to the game but doesn't quite cut it when it comes to a sequel 
 and feels more like aWe needed to do this to sell copies" type of deal rather then a "what would 
 the fans want" thought process.
  
  The basic controls are there and basic fun is there a well.
  
  Multiplayer as with most dragonball 
 games, is always the best part. Wi-Fi would've been a better addition to this game but was never 
 expected so I'll stick to the basics. Pummeling your friends is great fun as always but the limited 
 characters and types you can put on your team kinda makes you wish for no limitations when trying 
 to play your favorite dream team against your friend. 
  
  Overall Super Sonic Warriors 2, while still a fun game in small doses, grows weary quick if you 
 have no friends to play it with you. If you own Budokai 3 , Tenkaichi or Shin Budokai, quickly 
 makes you realize why your even bothering to play sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghangiskhan1
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Supersonic Warriors is a game you can easily just pick up and play. All you do is fly around and 
 mash buttons to send rays to opponent sor you can get near an opponent and do close quartered kicks 
 and punches. It's basically what you see in the Dragonball Z TV shows.
  
  The gameplay is simply, and immersive when you first start playing. The game isn't long but there 
 are plenty of unlockable characters to get, and the fighting is pretty fun. But it has little innovation. 
 We've seen tons of fighting games, tons of 2D fighting games, tons of DBZ fighting games. What 
 makes Supersonic Warriors 2 so different from the rest? Nothing. It's not really even a sequel. 
 It uses the touch screen little, only when selecting the fighter you are going to play as, and 
 the courses you ar egoing to play in and the menu options. Other than that, you don't use the screen 
 at all. The game is a tag-team game, so when one of your fighter dies you'll be another. You get 
 three fighters to play as and you have to fight three. 
  
  The graphics are just above Gameboy Advance quality. They are 2D, and this probably could've even 
 been a Gameboy Advance game. The music isn't really all that clear and repetitive with some of 
 the songs.
  
  Verdict: Overall Supersonic Warriors is a fun game while. it lasts, with little innovation and 
 a weak graphics engine.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed by it.
  
  Gameplay: In the start, you have tons of modes, a great selection of stories and a great combo 
 system. There are tons of unlockables which you can unlock and you can play against your friends 
 3 on 3 fight which is awsome. The only complain that I had with the game is that sometime you will 
 be very angry at the game becasue at some pointes, it will be very hard.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are actually pretty amazing for a Nintendo DS. Sure it could 
 be much better with a 3D engine but the animation in the game are fantastic. The ultimate attacks 
 and the team combanition are amazing.
  
  Sound: The sound will be very familiar for those who played the preview game on the game boy advance. 
 The sound in really well done and so is the music.
  
  Value: If you are a fighting fan or a Dragon Ball Z game then you can play this game forever. If 
 you aren't, then you will be able to play it for a couple of days. Althought the stories are short, 
 it is very challenging to unlock all the other stages in the story mode.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is one of my favorite Dragon Ball Z games of all time and you 
 should definitely want to go and try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matviper1983
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Lots of characters, lots of modes, lots of unlockables, multiplayer, what else need be said. The 
 thing that i personally like about this game is the scenery of the battles. There's some action, 
 a good amount of 3D, and reasonable amount of space per arena (though some require tactics because 
 they have either a low ceiling, or are short, or have WIDE open space where you can run away from 
 your opponent. DBZ: SS 2 pulls this of quite nicely.) Also if you pay attention to the animation 
 of your character you will notice that they follow your opponent. For example, when your above 
 your opponent, your character is looking down at them and the opponent up at you. They do not simply 
 swicth from left to right or vice versa that most 2D fighters do. 
  
  ******Spoiler******
  
  For the story mode, you have the standard line that follows what the 
 series manga actually did, then there are the "what-ifs". These are unlocked by doing a certain 
 attack or killing off one opponent before another or getting a perfect KO or pulling of a special 
 'ki' attack. Which can be extremely difficult in some cases. Now Maximum mode is what really challenges 
 the player in this game. You go from novice to hard to mania. Mania is exactly what it sounds like. 
 It is extremely fast fighting and extremely hard opponent AI. At some points I wanted to through 
 my DS out a window because of the hardness. 
  
  Through and through, this is one of the best fighters i have played in a long time. And i have 
 played many many many fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rawkhawk15
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 11, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  From the outside, one could mistake this for a quick, GBA-DS conversion. But when you look a bit 
 closer... you notice something rather special. While the core of the game remains pretty much unchanged, 
 the graphics have been given an overhaul, meaning that the moves and the backgrounds look nice, 
 but a little simple at times.
  
  There is about 15 more characters than there was in the last game (bringing the the number of characters 
 to around 30) . The character selection is different from the last game, as you now have 7 DP ( 
 Dragon Points) to select characters with. Each character has a number of Dragon points ranging 
 from 1-7. You can build a team of up to 3 characters, so long as the total DP is 7 or under. There 
 are also support character to use, for example Yamcha and Tien, but there support characters counts 
 as one of your team of 3.
  
  The gameplay reamins pretty much the same as before, with weak melee attacks, strong one, weak 
 ki attacks and strong ki attacks as well as super moves. You can also use special team attacks 
 when your ki is 200 and the characters are compatible.
  
  Overall, this is a solid game that will keep you playing for months, and is the perfect pick-up-and-play 
 title for the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heartless678
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 27, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  A brilliant game so far the best of ds yet, brilliant storyline, fast paced, and the team moves 
 and attacks are breathe - taking, my only concern is that there arent more characters to choose 
 from, but besides that a great game that every dragon ball z fan should have. Its aq great game 
 to have , it has replayability, great characters, and each character has a unique feel to it, and 
 controls differently so the gamplay doesnt feel repetative. Ever wondered what would happen if 
 goku ever lost, well now you can find out with the new "what if" storyline where you can play past 
 the tv series and see what happened after the good guys one and the bad guys lost. Its a great 
 game , but dont take my word for it try it soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ComicalGamer
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  What the hell is this i have to agree that this si a plain GameBoy Adance to a Nintendo Ds conversion, 
 the graphics were asouletly horror!!!!!!!
  
  Story Mode was the worst thing i can think of, i mean its jsut writing and battling... wheres the 
 good part in that?!?!
  
  The worst part is you only use the stylus for the menu and picking people that is just dissapointing 
 and should have never been put in the DS, ugh i hate to say this but ATARI makes a better job than 
 this using Space invaders!
  
  I ahve to suggest to DBZ fans, rent it first, but to animer people, See it first but like me, to 
 game addicts who play agmes for funm well... this is a bad part for your collection!
  
  My opinion is to not buy it, the only good part is the sound...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rachet-clank
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 11, 2006 4:52 pm PT
Review:  **** ****ww ****wwwwww  
 w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w w e e 
 e e e e e e e e e e e e L L LL L L L LL L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L 
 L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L L 
 L L LL L KL L L L L L L L LL CCCCCCCC C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C CD D D D D D D D D D D 
 D D D D D D D D A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A A 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akash23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  dragon ball z supersonic warriors 2 is a really good game which i thought to last a long time. 
 And it did!! there are 8 things in the menu. story mode, z battle, training, options, free battle, 
 maximum mode (which you unlock after completing z battle) , multiplayer and datafile.
  
  stoy mode is where you complete each of the characters storylines. the charaters include goku, 
 gohan, vegeta, future trunks, gotenks, cell, frieza, cooler, broly, dr gero, buu, android 18,17&16, 
 ginyu force, krillin.
  
  z battle is 7 continuos battles with random opponents and by completing it you unlock maximum mode.
 
  
  maximum mode has 3 levels of dificulty. each time you finish one difficulty mode, a new one appears. 
 each mode has 20 battles to complete but unlike z battle it isnt continuous, meaning you can cahnge 
 characters after every battle.
  
  datafile shows you all the moves you have unlocked with each character
  
  multiplayer requires 
 muticarts, so get friends 2 buy it and play wit you
  
  options lets you change the dificulty, amount of damage backlite on/off
  
  free battle is where 
 you can battle with characters of your choice
  
  training is when you do the tutorial or train against a dummy
  
  
  gameplay: 8/10
  graphics: 
 9/10
  sound: 7/10
  value: 9/10
  reviewers tilt: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timo710
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 3, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  That guy is me , I already red the review on gamespot , and I was a bit sad that his wasn't gonna 
 be the great dragonball game I was hoping for , but when I stood there in that gameshop .
  I decided to buy it , just because I realy wanted to check out if it was that bad a game .
  And 
 I'm just going to tell you that it isn't and I actually dare to say that I find it much more enjoyable 
 than Jump Super Stars , wich I also own.
  
  The game is based up on the dragonball Z episodes , wich is the biggest reason to buy it , but 
 this is not your avarage fighting game , no tournament mode wich will end in 20 minutes , no a 
 big storie mode wich can be played with all important characters between the napa and vegeta saga 
 and the buu saga , and every character has its own story to be told , I'm just writing this to 
 confince you that this game deserves more than just A 6.9 wich gamespot gave it .The game contains 
 a lot of characters , but when playing bad-warriors like Captain ginyu , will make you fight 3 
 characters and will be very hard , but this game will keep you going cause you will get that adrenalin 
 rush that you need , to select the stage again , skip the dialogue and try to kick some but.
  
  What if endings :
  
  This game contains what if endings , these are extra unlockable next 
 to the basic story line , they are cool but not realy special . The Side story where you battle 
 Broly is cool
  
  Touching :
  
  The touch screen could have been blank if they made use of the select button , on the touch screen 
 there will apear pictures of the characters , you can tab them and you will either summon them 
 or take controll over them.
  When your in a Team with a other character you can do a Team Atack by touching the touch screen 
 when you have 200 Ki
  
  The fighting:
  
  Here's the important part , why did the legacy of goku sucked ? you didn't got to do what you wanted 
 to do , fight . the fighting system is done very well but if you don't understand it , or dig it 
 . you wont like the game , you can find this game easy , but once you play the captain ginyu story 
 line , you will feel how hard it is , playing against, goku gohan and picolo is realy hard .
  The fighting works like this , when you press Y you will give a soft atack ( ex. a punch or fast 
 kick ) when you press X you will do a Hard atack (smash) or you can send back or block blasts , 
 holding B is blocking (B+R = power field) X + A = super atack ( kamehameha ) Y+B is throwing a 
 enemy , but they found a way to stimulate adrenaline , you can do ultimate atacks when your energy 
 bar has become red and you are have enough KI . this will result for exsample trunks to become 
 SSJ2 and do a Killer move that might make you win the battle , if you win that way you will get 
 suprised with a nice picture of the character at the end. 
  
  there are several other modes , and a great multiplayer option
  
  Conclusion :
  buying this 
 game will not be something you regret .
  If you are a dragonball fan , and have this nintendo ds laying around.
  buy this , and if you 
 own JSS , dont think that it compensates , I think this game is much better than JSS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enforcer-x
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Ball Z Super Sonic Warriors 2 is a great sequel to Dragon Ball Z Super Sonic Warriors for 
 the Game boy advance. When first playing the Dragon Ball Z Super Sonic Warriors 2 you need to unlock 
 characters to start enjoying the game but you get hooked into it. The graphics are a nice, the 
 gameplay in the game is awesome . The story is mode is great and it cool since you can unlock alternate 
 endings for each character. This game has many surprises and you will enjoy it and love the battles. 
 If you are not a DBZ fan, you will be after you play this game. The special feature that allows 
 you to have team attacks are great and the ultimate attacks are good as well. Everyone will enjoy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quantum_shift
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  Dragonball Z... what more is there to say about it that hasn't already been said. The games have 
 been... interesting and the show has had phenominal success here in the states, as well as in Japan. 
 But after playing Supersonic Warriors 2, it makes you think otherwise.
  Now don't get me wrong, it isn't a bad game. It has some interesting ideas in it (Ultimate Attack, 
 Team Attack, "What if" storylines") , but it also has some horrible ones (the touch screen use) . 
 
  I spent quite a bit of time with the game to know that it was pretty hard to unlock all of the 
 characters. Some very cheap missions almost made me break my DS, but I didn't, and that is how 
 i kept playing. I just wanted to see the glory of all the characters being unlocked, that's why 
 I kept playing (I never succeeded by the way) .
  If you're a fan, you might want to buy, but rent it first. It is a decent attempt, but it could've 
 been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamaicanBadBoy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is good like gamers like myself. The game playis good overall, you go through different 
 stages and various characters you unlock characters, you go along. The graphics are good, its like 
 how dbz portables are supposed to be, it is also much better than the original. I forget to tell 
 you this but the levels are hard to unlock, this is one of the things that brings the game down. The 
 sound is pretty good they have excellent voice overs, thats one of the reasons Ilove this game not 
 like those other cheesy games. I would reccommed it for dbz fans ,but if you are a not a dbz fan 
 don'tbother and go buy a different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanana
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the best game to rent. I rented it, never played before (so I could beat 
 everything myself) and it rocked, i had it for three days and only played a lot for one. I beat 
 a large amount of the game and it gets very repetitive it is still a great game but it is not flawless 
 whcih gets it its score.
  
  This game is also incredibly easy unless you play with a bad character on hard, even when playing 
 with such a character, it is either not fun (because nobody likes the character or it is still 
 easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2door
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  
  I loved the first one fast pace, exciting, very fun. Now we get the sequel, one thing that really 
 jumped at me was the presentation alot more colourful more effort put in production (presentation) 
 they could have put a mini video collection of DBZ scenes but hey the intro isn't that bad. The 
 graphics have inprove not too much but noticable a little interactivity with the environment would 
 have been nice. Music, the music has a good combination there are really 3 awesome midi and the 
 rest are eh there good. A bad thing about this game is the story mood they don't put the objectives 
 to get in certain special areas. If your not a fan of the series it might get really frustrating. 
 
  Also there a number a great number of fighter and assistance in the selection. Alot more attacks 
 esspecially of the energy type.
  But the biggest flaw of this game might be the AI this is because you might get an opponent that 
 you could use the DS microphone to blow him away and others that you might need a hammer to beat 
 them using the touchscreen (don't do this at home) . Replay more than enough, characthers plenty, 
 good numbers of maps, like I said the side adventures, multiplayer fun fun fun, would have been 
 nice if single pack was present but oh well. As DBZ fan you will really enjoy this game you would 
 be in the 8.0-9.0 zone if not it really depends how much you like fighters and how much you get 
 into it you would be in the low to mid 7.0 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanhalenn4
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is what i was waiting for since the ds came out, its a good old skool classic of 2d fighting. 
 Its a good thing the boy's at nintendo and atari decided to make a dbz game for the ds, the portable 
 consle hasn't had many great games yet but this is one excellent game. The game sticks to the fighting 
 sequence of the DRAGONBALL Z SAGA by adding the ability of a touch screen control. the game has 
 some of the best handheld graphics that i've seen, i mean when goku does his kaiokenx20 move the 
 speed and the full hardcore action onscreen really draws you into the game, and after your opponent 
 is defeated the pictures come up great on ds's screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Mystic_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Super Sonic Warriors 2 Is a Good Game, Far More Better then the first one. There are much Improvements 
 on the Game, Including Tag Team where you can play with 2 Characters, Switching them each time 
 to defeat your enemies. The Gameplay is Good, As you see on the Screenshots, It's 3D as Far as 
 i know which is good. It is almost equal as Budokai Tenkaichi. Except that the Characters on BT 
 Are more Better :p. The fighting Action is great and lives up the Battles that represents Dragonball. 
 There are More Characters and that's More Action! Dragonball Fans will Enjoy this game. So for 
 all DBZ Fans, Buy this game, It'll be worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fjgamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 30, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  The game I played the most this year had to be the original DBZ supersonic warriors. I was happy 
 with the fast paced action and ability to do my favorite moves and techniques from the show. It 
 was great seeing what-if stories for my favorite characters. It was fun, after just getting everything, 
 to just play the game and fight with anyone as much as you want. Now the sequel is out. It feels 
 like an update of my favorite game! This isn't a bad thing though, this "update" is the next best 
 thing that could happen!
  
  Let me just start with the graphics. Some of the sprites are imported from the last game. They're 
 given a nice gleam, and there are still a lot more sprites, not just reused ones. With the DS quality 
 and the look of the game these reused sprites look better. There's advanced pixel art of every 
 character, and they're not reused. They look incredible and give fluidity to the main storylines. 
 The backrounds to the game are mostly 3D. It's an incredible change from the original version. 
 The higher polygon count of the DS is a never before seen blend of our graphics to 64 bit ones; 
 which is why they look so amazing. You could stare at the backrounds. Not just because they're 
 pretty, but they also give your fight a good feel of realism, and a sense your playing the show 
 itself. The graphics are fine, perfect for a DS game. It may even show off it's capabilities!
 
  
  Next is the audio of the game. The music of this game contains battle music, which is different 
 for EACH STAGE, and menu music. I won't tell you about the menu music because you won't pay attention 
 to it at all. However, some of the stage music in this game is incredible. There's techno, rock, 
 and in one stage rap. The few rock pieces you hear in the game are pretty good, especially in the 
 Brolly movie stage. The techno is separated from slow and fast beats. Some of the stages have you 
 play in near silence, then bursts out with fast paced action music. Most of the slow tempo techno 
 is pretty bad, sometimes laughable at how bad it is! About half the stage music of the game is 
 good, and the other half is bad. Then there's the audio for the characters. Some of the characters 
 don't have the original voice actors. For example, Super Buu sounds like a little kid laughing 
 in a deep voice. Most of the characters have good voiceovers; you may be a little dissapointed 
 in some though. This isn't much of a problem though, because there are a lot of techniques in this 
 game. This didn't have to mean more audio, but they did it anyway. You'll feel like you're playing 
 as your character, because of all the little comments they make about their techniques, about the 
 opponent, and when they win, lose, or are about to fight. You won't be dissapointed in the audio! 
 This is probably the best quality of the game!
  
  Now the gameplay feels a little different. For starters, the game is less fast pased then the original 
 one in main combat. However, it makes up for this with a balanced fighting system, more time for 
 reactions, and a new powerlevel system. Let me start with the new techniques. You have the original 
 super attack depending on whether you're above, next to, or below your opponent. This can get the 
 job done, but there are much deeper techniques then this. First we have team powers. Depending 
 on what two characters you have on your team you can do great techniques that do high damage until 
 the other character you need is defeated. The downside is it takes 200% ki to do so everytime, 
 but doing it as many times as you want makes up for it. These attacks are well done and animated. 
 The first time you play you'll be amazed by them. Now there are ultimate attacks. When your hp 
 is red, you have to have at least 150% ki and go in a certain direction (above, below, sideways) 
 to perform this technique. These techniques are extremely powerful, and can give you an edge in 
 battle if they don't kill your opponent. This is a great idea because instead of being defeated 
 as such, you can leave your mark on the opponent by going all out and doing major damage before 
 you die if you don't kill them afterwards. Everyone also has special ki blast attacks, some being 
 really powerful and nicely animated, to others being long or annoying. Most are personalized for 
 every character. Then there's basic melee, which gives you much more ki and is redone to actually 
 be useful. It's harder to dodge special attacks, and guard is on another button. This is a traumatic 
 change from the original. If you don't get used to the new guard then be prepared to take every 
 blow from your opponent! I got 100% complete with the game not mastering the guard, but it definately 
 makes it faster and easier.
  
  There are a lot more stages in this game and you can choose between them. There are about 10 different 
 levels. Each is big and some of bigger or prettier. Something to note is that now when you take 
 a characters story, it'll go through the normal series. If you do special things in a certain fight 
 you go through a what-if story. The story mode in this game is transformed into a mission like 
 form, you can also skip to your favorite part of the story, and they're longer now. The final, 
 and very big change from the original, is the specific powerlevels of every character. Ginyu will 
 always be a low powerlevel, while SSJ 3 gotenks is probably the cheapest and most powerful person 
 in the game. There are 7 Dragon Points, or DP. 1 DP means that character is weak, whilst level 
 7 DP characters are very powerful and cheap; they're made for fighting against a large group of 
 people, even if they have 6 or 5 DP. This makes much more sense and makes for more realistic gameplay 
 in the terms of krillin fighting super buu.
  
  This is all I have to say about this game. It's an update of a classic and fun game. They managed 
 to take the flaws of the original, maybe get rid of a few good things from the original, but managed 
 to create a great game that surpasses the original. There are problems with this game, but it's 
 so fun and so good it won't even matter. This game deserves praise from DBZ fans, especially since 
 you can take this game anywhere! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thx4datips
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 1:35 am PT
Review:  DBZ supersonic warriors II is a good game on some terms. It certainly isnt the best game for the 
 DS but it certainly isnt the worst *cough* King Kong *cough*.
  There are more charecters, and a support system, as well as everyone has a special move, but when 
 it comes down to it, DBZ supersonic warriors, like most sequels, just isnt as good as the first. 
 I might recommend it to some people, definetly DBZ fans, however I would definetly recommend other 
 games above this one. 
  Overall, this game is pretty good. It could be better, but it is a fair-good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nills
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 11:25 am PT
Review:  Not bad. I got this game the minute i got my ds. True I am a dbz fan (not fan of show) . Still the 
 game isnt too bad. It is too much like the original. The gameplay in story mode can be quite frustrating, 
 you try to get to one of those extra levels but you don't always succeed. Also the touch screen 
 doesn't enable much. When you try to fuse to do a special move you cant. The graphics are almost 
 exactly like the original-ive compared them. If you are a dbz fan don't rush to get this game. 
 Get something else. But if you liked the original then go ahead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Otogi87
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 17, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  the learning curve is really how smart u are either u into the turtorial or try on ur own i would 
 recomend goin to the tutrtorial but ur choice. The game takes u thgough like buus saga and thats 
 it yeah lots of unlockable characters that good the best part of this game is the gameplay and 
 graphics not really good graphics but thats what i'm saying .Anyway that gameplay gets really really 
 repetitive u will find urself playing just to finsh the unfinishable stories some of the paths 
 u have to win some of them u have to get a perfect just to continue i would say this game is worth 
 a week rental u would probably beat it in 3 days though.
  
  Its incrediblty short there are a few modes though thats makes a week then nothing else it just 
 boring after that z battle is worth 30 min maximum mode can a while because its mad hard it took 
 me a while and now i wish i hadnt baught it but oh well its ok espially for dbz fans andd this 
 is my first review i wrote or anyone wrote on my account anyway yeah rent this on game fly if u 
 wanna by a game for ds get mario kart or animal crossing or mario and luigi parterns in time something 
 look at gamespot they will tell unfortunitly i loved dbz so much i prorded it oh 1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kag3thebest
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  this is one of the best games i have ever played for the ds its so amazing that they can take such 
 a game and transfer it to the ds like that. when you play this game you can see that its better 
 than 6. something. i would in fact give this game a 8.5 because it has good graphics good game 
 play more than one way to beat the game and the what if mode gets you into the parts of dbz that 
 you never thought would of happened we all know the dbz sstory and the what mode puts new imagination 
 into our head im just saying who ever gave this game this low of a score you suck and you suck 
 hard. you can honestly play this game and say it sucks this rally makes me mad because this game 
 really does rock you just have to have about 30 minutes of free time to learn to play and learn 
 to unlock al of the stages thats pretty much the only downfall of the game is that soe of the levels 
 dont unlock if you dont beat it within 1500 let the time run out or either win with an ultimate 
 k. o. overall nobody in there right minds can say thata this gam is bad come up to me and say it 
 is and i will smack you with all my might..
  
  sincerly,
  KAG3THBEST 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Optusnet
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:25 pm PT
Review:  DBZ is a funny when it comes to games. Some are luckluster and boring, others are exiting and fun. 
 This title is a mixture between the two, but does pull off more positives than negatives. If you 
 are a DBZ fan and have a DS, you will have fun with this
  
  Graphics: Nothing to really love here - a mild improvement over it's predecessors graphics, however 
 the DS is definitely capable of better graphics than this. Some blast effects are pretty but some 
 models look so pixelated, it's funny. Unfortunately the sprites are still a bit grainy but do the 
 job well enough. Animation is very quick and some effects are alright. Menus and charatcer selections 
 screens look kinda crappy.
  
  Sound: Nothing to love, nothing to hate. Definitely has that chime of SSW1 music but it's not as 
 repetitive and can be enjoyed. 
  
  Gameplay: All round - satisfying and very accessible. SSW1 succeeded because even non-DBZ fans 
 could have a punt and a laugh at this title. Same with this title. Still fun, still addictive, 
 still impressive. DBZ fans will enjoy it, and those who aren't will still enjoy it too. However 
 fans may be dissapointed in some restrictions. Some in-game transformations can only be done for 
 ultimate moves, which is dissapointing. It seems with a bit more time and effort, this could've 
 been a little gem.
  
  All in all, SSW2 IS fun. In fact very fun once you get into it and start experimenting with the 
 ultimate moves and stuff. Team attacks work and look cool, and there is a bit of replay value for 
 that short burst of time after you're finished everything in the game (which should take you 2 
 days) . Whether you're a fighting game bluff or not - SSW2 is a title for all ages and should appeal 
 - especially to DBZ fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaseykahnefan01
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2005 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Of all the DragonBallZ games i have played over the years on the Various Formats... I wouldnt say 
 it was the best... but certainly not the worst
  
  Altgough the graphics are something left to be desired... it cant be helped when playin on the DS... lets 
 face it... you arnt going to expect 3-D graphcs on a little hand held console... which is the basics 
 of them
  
  However The gameplay and Sound was Entertaining to a degree... listening to some of the tunes over 
 and over again can get a little repetitve and boring.... But thats why Someone invented the Cd Player.... or 
 the VOLUME button
  
  Gameplay was challenging to a degree.. you had to think on some parts... course most people just 
 use... Cough... Strategy Guides... Cough
  
  And some moves can get boring to see
  
  But all in all... its still can be a fun game to play
  
  so i give it a 7.. outa 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Console_Buster
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 6:54 am PT
Review:  The best series yet :) :P ultimate mode is 'super or hyper' mode which makes the fighter agile. 
 and powerful but the problem is it's hard to master this mode and there is no super sayan 3 or 
 4 but itz still da best !! the kontrols are simple and fast to learn but when battling using or 
 used against you super mode is destructive and has heavy affects and effects so be be careful when 
 usin it . if your a true fan of dragonball you be a little disappointed because there is no supersayan 
 3 and 4 but what will make you happy is the game is a masterpiece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nearinnt
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 2, 2005 6:20 pm PT
Review:  GOOD!
  
  I think this game is amazing, the variety in c haracters and attacks are awesome. The power in 
 attacks are much more powerfull than what can be seen in the first. The new stage by starge map 
 with alternate roots opened for undiscosed conditions ( perfect, use special attack, use team character, 
 etc.) is cool because its much more of a portable game, just play one level and its all saved and 
 you can do something else or continue, or better yet play the best ones over and over. The stages 
 are accuratly 3d modeled acording to the show so it looks as awesome as the revamped character 
 models. In the stages you can see other characters standing around like my favorite the anounce 
 from the tournement. Now in this game we get some character power up moves, like super saiyan, 
 that work alot like the original games kaoken or freiza ultimate form 5. Oh and the music is so 
 good its painfull to even hear the first games battle music. Now characters and there moves have 
 to be unlocked in story mode so the game will last longer and become more rewarding to play. Feels 
 just like the show.
  
  BAD?
  
  The speed in this game is vermuch less than the last. The controls are good but are not as easy 
 as the first. Muliti ki blasts are shot in 3-5 bursts instaed of contoled by the player. The lurning 
 curve in this game is now more than 30 minutes because you have to relearn the specail moves and 
 the tutorial is at leat 15-20min.
  
  FINAL WORD!?
  
  If you like fighting games, and/or DBZ, pick this up it might be on of the best fighting games 
 on a portable system to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak55
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 30, 2005 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Ok the game looks cool and it has flashy characters and moves, but it`s pretty slow. The game`s 
 graphics are simply amazing and colorful with tons of stages to look at. The game`s sounds needs 
 a crank up, but it is still pretty good with the original american cast for DBZ series and the 
 price on the game isn`t high. Now the gameplay, well, its DBZ. Let me explain something to Atari 
 here... what the hell?! The game is cool and sometimes fast-pced but it doesnt feel like a dramatic 
 DBZ battle, it`s obvious that after DBZTenkaichi was released they would have kept the 3D look, 
 but going toward full 2D and no teleport, also the game`s dificulty is WAY to easy, to enjoy this 
 game better, you must change dificulty to hard and it still isn`t very hard, I would atill say 
 DS owners need to check this game out if you need the best DS fighter out there yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ULTIMATEZWARRIO
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 28, 2005 6:45 pm PT
Review:  super sonic warriors 2 is an awesome game. it is really easy tp learn how to play just do the tutorial. 
 this game surpasses super sonic wariors one because this game has more replay value. The only peave 
 of the game is the story mode because some times it may take you eleven tries to get a what if 
 branch of a character. Some times in the story mode the opponents can be over whelmingly powerful, 
 but there is still a way to defeat them. Over all this is a great game if you are not a dbz fan, 
 and if you are a dbz fan then this game is a must 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shinobisoma
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 28, 2005 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I am a fan of Dragon Ball Z but his game could have been better. This game is the best fighter 
 for DS. Unless you have Jump superstars in Japan . i think this game is good but it is missing 
 a few things here is a list.
  1. better characters ( Tapion , Janemba , Bojak, etc.)
  2. Wi fi enabled
  3. team battles (real team battles super smash bros style)
  Hopefully they 
 will make SSW3 a little better. at least I hope they will make it come on Atari you can do better. 
 I even thought part 1 was more creative than this. Another thing the character branches were hard 
 to unlock on some of them.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 24, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  The DBZ franchise has seen its series placed into many iterations over many different consoles. 
 This lastest one on the DS is a continuation of the Supersonic Warriors from GBA. While I have 
 not played the first one, I can say that this is a solid game that is truely fun, even with controls 
 that come off as simple to execute.
  
  The game consist of 6 play modes, Story Mode, Z Battle, Maximum Mode, VS Battle, Free Play, and 
 Practice mode. Practice mode & free battle are just like any other version of the modes in other 
 games, Free battle is just a simple one time battle against enemies of your choice. Practice mode 
 has a basic practice and a mode where you play as Gotenks & go through all the game mechanics. 
 This mode is prefect for anyone new to the series or wants to pick up on new mechanics (like selecting 
 teammates for team battles) . VS battle is multiplayer DS action for 2 people that both have the 
 DBZ cart (why this needs two carts is beyond me) .
  
  Z battle is like an arcade mode where you progress along several battles. There is also Maximum 
 mode, which is just a more difficult Z Battle mode. This mode helps add replay value to those players 
 that happen to have grown tired of being able to rush through Z battles.
  
  Finally, there is Story mode. This mode features 15 different characters, 7 of which are selectable 
 at the beginning, whose stories from DBZ can be played through. The story line for each character 
 varies in size, naturally, as some characters (Goku, Gohan, etc.) are in the whole DBZ series, 
 while others (Buu, Ginyu, Dr. Gero) only are featured a short time. The story lines branch & a 
 few characters even have storylines that didn't ever happen.
  
  Gameplay- 8- While the game's controls are pretty simple, the different things that can be done 
 through position according to enemy on the screen, Ki power levels, life bar levels, team moves, 
 etc add quite a bit of depth to the overall gameplay. The team switching & team attacks are also 
 very simple, given the large area given to select each on the touch screen. Also, I like that there 
 are different character powers levels, so that you don't have teams of 3 over powering characters 
 against 3 weaker ones. Really keeps things even.
  
  Graphics- 7- The character sprites are all in 2D, but they look quite good, even when zoomed way 
 out. The backgorunds in the levels are in layered 3D, so you get a really nice movement effect 
 as you move around the screen.
  
  Sound- 9- The music is all intact from the show as are the character screams, calls, etc. Always 
 nice when they can keep true to the show like this.
  
  Value- 8- Plenty of modes and with the team battles, you can play hundreds of battles before repeating 
 the same match set up. I would give it a 9, but that multicard only multiplayer gets to me.
  
  Tilt- 10- I can't put this game down... I've logged a LOT of time for only having it 3 days.
 
  
  This game is nicely done overall, it has a couple things that stick out that I didn't like (No 
 single-cart play, support characters seem to cost too much to put in team) , but the rest of the 
 game gets way past any little things like that.
  
  26 selectable characters overall, 10 support
  6 modes of play
  $29.99 MSRP USD retail 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IChangedMyName
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 21, 2005 5:05 am PT
Review:  Drangon Ball Z SSW2 is just like the first, more enhanced mechanics and better drawn chars. The 
 style is very much alike its GBA preddesecor but now more addictive if i may. it has a wide range 
 of choosable chars of course the more known ones are always avaible at first. it follows the chars 
 story or you could tag it up with a friend for some 2 on 2 action the bottom screen isnt used well, 
 but is used creativly. this game when on GBA was fun for the same reason im reveiwing this one 
 now. we all want DBZ fighting games, and they released yet another great DBZ fighter to go for 
 the newer gen appeal. i would reccomend DBZ: SSW2 2 anyone who mat be a fan or anyone who feels 
 there DS lacks fighting style games it fills the gap that had been vacant for some time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antiblah
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  I have played a couple of the Handheld DBZ games and they were ok, enuff to keep me playing for 
 like a hour or so.... but i really like the DS alot so i wanted to get this for it, so i took back 
 my Lunar and said it was defective :D (basically it was, wack) ne how i got this game and it was 
 10bucks cheaper and sooooo much better. Its so easy to jump in2, even more fun and better lookin 
 then DBZ Budokai 2 the console version!!! 
  
  A bunch of characters to choose from.... played through Trunks stroy mode after going through half 
 of it, im in love with DBZ all over again. The Gameplay is tight and they use the duel screen perfect, 
 only when its needed with your team combo's which is freakin awesome or to call in another players 
 which makes it soooo easy, easier then Marvel vs Capcom/Snk. The movement was nice and smooth u 
 feel like you have real control over your character. They got smart and the fight always starts 
 in the air even when you move far apart they look sooo clean. They also make it really feel more 
 then just a 2-d Game because of how they make the characters rotate, its a great trick they pull 
 off and makes the world seem huge.
  
  The fighting was easy with the controls and so responsive. After a few fights i was doing stuff 
 i was amazed with, a couple of moves were right out of the cartoon like rushing towards your character 
 and dodging a projectile and zipping behind them and knocking them badly. The combo system is decent 
 as well, its not over the top just right were it should be. The use of the duel screen works perfect 
 for your team and and Team Specials, i was also amazed on how much stuff like Special Moves, Sayien 
 Upgrades and more they didn't miss, they got everything i loved about the DBZ series.
  
  the Sound it ok, but its ds im not expecting alot from the sound department but i think they sacrafised 
 alot of that for the gameplay because there is so much, o well its dbz sounds like the hitting 
 and everything else so im fine here...
  
  This is almost on line with Castlevania maybe more depending on how much of a DBZ fan you are but 
 a must get for all DS owners and DBZ fans alike 
  
  HUGE PROPS TO ATARI FOR PULLING THIS ONE OFF AND MAKING GOOD USE OF DBZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratchetcomand
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Dragon ball Z supersoinc warriors 2 is a sequal to Dragon Ball Z Super soinc warriors for the Game 
 boy adavnce . I been waliting for a sequal for a long time . When i first play the Dragon Ball 
 Z Super soinc warriors 1 i been up all nigth long . So left sart the review. The graphics are a 
 nice touch but could been beter ( like add cell shading for the chacthers ) . Banpresto also add 
 3-D Areas ( The Graphics were not that bad) . The gameplay in the game is ausome . The story is 
 mode is very fun it beter the story mode in the first game . Hower Frezia doesn't figth Cell like 
 in the first game. the other things that really bothered me about the game are the dialogue errors 
 and the really crappy training mode.
  
  You can't use your ultimate attack, you can turn the computer to AI, you can't do anything except 
 beat the crap out of a lifeless opponent.
  
  and the dialogue errors....... there are some words that aren't spelled right, no space between (likethis) , 
 and they call Supreme Kai; King Kai...... and the Supreme Kai's planet is called King Kai's Planet....
 
  
  Also that SSJ3 goku is attack in the game so is Vegito and coola final form . They could add more 
 chacthers like Bojack & Super andriod 13 & Pikkon & Janemba & Super buu 3 . 
  
  This is a fan must have game with a lot of suprises. If you are not a DBZ fan, you will be after 
 you play this game. Good Job Banpresto ! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
