-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/dragonquestheroesrocketslime/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique slime mechanics are amusing and well-implemented.
 Variety of monsters and music from Dragon Quest's past.
 Good tank-battle multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Game is easy to breeze through.
 Slime puns without cessation.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 20, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 8.2, 44 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 729 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: TOSE
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Sep 19, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rocket Slime is a simple adventure packed with personality, puns, and an oddly endearing hero.

  The humble slime is an icon among monsters in the console role-playing world, having appeared in 
 each and every Dragon Quest game since the series' inception. The little blue blobs are yours to 
 control in Rocket Slime, and the result is an action adventure that plays out much like the slimes 
 themselves: simple, easily defeated, and adorable almost beyond all reason. This isn't a very complex 
 game, but it doesn't really need to be, and it makes a fun little outing both for longtime series 
 fans as well as habitual monster collectors.  

          Slime hits your DS for two screens' worth of damage.     

  The game revolves around 
 Rocket, a cheerful young slime who's enjoying the good life in the peaceful blob capital of Boingburg -- that 
 is, until a crew of bushy-tailed monsters called "the Plob" move in. They're looking for a powerful 
 artifact, and when they don't get the information they desire, they kidnap almost every denizen 
 in town, bomb the town to rubble with a giant tank, and leave. As you might guess, the one slime 
 that escapes capture is Rocket himself, and you soon set out on a journey to rescue your friends 
 and fellow townies. One lone slime battling powerful plobioso with battle tanks seems a little 
 unmatched at first, but in the Tomb of Tootinschleiman (yes, it involves slimes and a flute -- don't 
 ask) , Rocket unearths the powerful Schleiman tank. With this legendary slime-shaped, grinning piece 
 of weaponry, Rocket can easily match the strength of his foes.  

  So, your basic objective is to save all your friends, and there's a couple ways of doing that in 
 Rocket Slime. The game consists of a couple of different modes. An action mode lets you hop around 
 a number of locations on the island of Slimenia, platformer style; the tank mode lets you climb 
 into the mighty Schleiman tank to do battle with the equally imposing tank of your opponent.  

 
  During action mode, you'll be moving back and forth between your home base in Boingburg and whatever 
 area of the island you're choosing to explore. Rocket has a number of simple moves, like hopping, 
 floating, stretching, and the ability to carry a number of items on his head. The DS touch-screen 
 isn't actually used for any gameplay outside of a painting minigame, so these controls are handled 
 exclusively by the d-pad and A and B buttons, which works just fine. While it's a limited moveset, 
 the game does a good job of introducing a number of different ways to use a single move. For example, 
 stretching Rocket out and then releasing the button causes him to catapult in the direction he's 
 facing. This move is good for breaking small obstacles and attacking enemies, but it's also how 
 you throw things in the air for Rocket to catch, and in certain areas you actually have to bungee 
 Rocket from a number of elastic cords to navigate. Carrying items is an important slime skill; 
 it's how you move rescued slimes to safety, collect items and monsters for transport back to town, 
 pick up weapons and ammunition, and solve certain puzzles. A nice touch is that you can stretch, 
 float, and attack enemies while carrying things (even though you'd think such a little slime would 
 be burdened while carrying objects) . So while the controls are very simple and easy to master, 
 the versatility of these moves helps things from getting so easy that they're dull.  

          He's just a little slime, but Rocket can really move.     

  While there are a few proper 
 boss battles in action mode, most of the game's big conflicts are carried out via tanks. The tank 
 battle mode has you running around in the Schleiman tank, loading up on ammunition and firing it 
 at your opponent. The top screen shows an outer view of the two tanks facing off, shows all projectiles 
 in the air, and shows any incoming enemies or moving allies. Tank health is also displayed here, 
 so you can see how much damage you're inflicting and taking. Your tank has two cannons, one that 
 will fire straight at the opposing tank, and one that fires upward in an arc. If your foes are 
 shooting at you, you can knock their missiles out of the air with your own. Tank ammunition is 
 composed of items that you either find in the action stages, or that you make yourself with alchemy. 
 While most give straightforward damage, there are also items that can mix things up, like a shield 
 you can launch that will soak up three or so hits before falling, protecting your shots behind 
 it from getting knocked out of the air. Holy water is useful against ghostly projectiles, and so 
 on.     

  You'll be guiding Rocket through your tank, picking up ammunition and then tossing it into your 
 cannons, handling all the action on the bottom screen while you watch the overall flow of battle 
 up top. Everything's in real time, so you'll have to react to your enemy's salvos as they happen. 
 This can start to make things a bit chaotic, but as the game goes on you'll have the option of 
 adding different slime buddies to your crew aboard the Schleiman, each with their own special abilities. 
 Some will help you load ammo; some will attack the opposing tank on their own; some will heal you. 
 Your teammates come in handy, especially as ammo flies fast and furious in some of the tougher 
 tank battles. It's another simple system, but one that allows for a fair amount of variety and 
 even some strategy as you work to sneak your shots through to the enemy tank. Once you've reduced 
 their health to zero, you can hop over to the other tank's engine room and destroy their engine 
 to bring an end to things. Tank battles are engaging and often comical, particularly when you load 
 up your friends in a cannon and blast them at your foe.  

          Tank battles are greatly amusing and even somewhat strategic. They also look great.    

  There are 100 slimes to rescue, both from the game's stages and certain tank battles, but they're 
 not the only thing to collect in Rocket Slime. You can send not only your friends, but also enemies 
 and items, back to town for sorting. Capture enough of one type of enemy, and it'll become a statue 
 in the town's museum. Items can be used for tank ammunition as well as components for alchemy, 
 which lets you make newer and more-powerful things. As you rescue slimes, Boingburg becomes more 
 and more bustling and fills out with a few minigames, which you can upload as demos through the 
 DS's wireless capability to people without the game. You can also play wireless multiplayer tank 
 battles with up to three other players who own the game, which lets you select any tank you've 
 previously defeated in battle and customizes your tank hit points and other parameters. Pitting 
 slime tanks against each other is quite amusing, and since you still have to board the enemy tank 
 and bypass any internal security to administer the coup de grace to the engine, a win is not necessarily 
 guaranteed, even if you hopelessly outclass your friend's ammo.  

  In presentation, the game is vibrant and colorful, each slime and monster distinct in appearance 
 and possessing a variety of endearing expressions. While the stages aren't what you would call 
 awe-inspiring in scope, many possess their own particular look and feel that works in the cutesy 
 milieu of the game. From the tanks -- who look like giant versions of Rocket Slime's cute monsters, 
 only bristling with gun cannons and sporting Band-Aids if they get too damaged -- down to the most 
 microscopic slimes you have to rescue, or the way cat enemies will sometimes ignore you to play 
 with a piece of catnip, a lot of personality oozes from the game's visuals.  

          A true hero of our slime. (At least one slime pun is required by caption law.)     

 
  That personality is matched by the upbeat music, which reprises many classic tunes and sounds 
 from the Dragon Quest series, as well as the writing. There are a large number of slime puns in 
 the text, from Tootinschleiman to the blessed Mother Glooperior and everyone in between. Some of 
 the turns of phrase are a bit on the dopey side, but when you're talking about a game based on 
 the adventures of a bunch of grinning blobboids, it's hard to take anything too seriously.  

  The game itself is average length; with the ease of gameplay and how straightforward the game's 
 stages are, you can easily rescue most slimes and overturn the Plob in about 10 or 15 hours. However, 
 there are a number of out-of-the-way items to collect, monsters to gather, alchemy recipes to dig 
 up, and other such tasks to encourage you to fully explore all over. So while the game's not difficult 
 by any stretch of the imagination, it does a good job of pacing itself and providing some neat 
 little diversions. If you're one of those people who likes role-playing action with cute critters 
 and a "gotta catch 'em all" mentality, this game makes a good fit. Likewise, if you're a fan of 
 the Dragon Quest series, particularly those smiling little blue gloops, there's enough nostalgia 
 and genuine amusement to make Rocket Slime worth checking out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (83 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Qwikman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  Rocket Slime is one of my favorite games on the DS, but like I said, it is very short, lasting 
 about only ten hours if you don't bother looking for all of the secrets and materials for tank 
 upgrades. If you DO decide to try to find all of the game's stuff (which I highly recommend you 
 do) , it will probably take you around 25 hours. 
  The gameplay is simple, using only the A and B buttons most of the time, along with the control 
 pad to move the slime dude around. Unfortunately, there is little to no use of the touch screen 
 whatsoever during the game. During battles, you command a tank (which looks like the slime dude) 
 and throw stuff into the cannons (or you can jump into the cannon and pray that you survive the 
 enemy's lobbed ammo :P) . Very simple, but it gets strangely addicting. 
  As with all Square games, the music fits into the game well at all times, and gives it an adventurous, 
 yet innocent feel. It is quite innocent, since you play as a gooey slime that bashes into enemies 
 that seem to offer no resistance at all. Fun. 
  All in all, it's a great game that offers a fun twenty or so hours of addicting and simple game 
 play. The only bad part I can see about this game is that it only has one game file to play on... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shy_Guy_Red
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:04 pm PT
Review:  While the Dragon Quest series is primarily turn-based RPGs, Rocket Slime takes it to the action-RPG 
 realm and also adds a fun new tank battle mode. The game you could say is separated into two parts, 
 the adventure mode, and the tank mode. The adventure mode is the heart and where you'll spend most 
 of your time so it has some problems, but you're going to have lots of fun with tank battles which 
 should make up for the medicore adventure mode.
  
  Let's start with this unique game by going around its basic problems. The length is lacking here, 
 as you'd expect from DS games. Will take about 15 hours to beat and the sidequests will only take 
 a couple more hours. The difficulty is also extremely lacking, especially in the adventure part. 
 You're not going to die at all in the adventure parts and while you'll get hit a lot, the bosses 
 and enemies do little damage to your health. The tank battles are a lot harder but you will still 
 rarely lose a tank battle. I only lost once in the game and it was because I made a careless mistake. 
 Then again, in the tank battles, one mistake can kill you. But like I said, it overall isn't too 
 hard.
  
  The touch screen isn't used at all. I kind of wish it was though I don't mind it. The 2nd screen 
 is used as a map and will be used for one or two bosses but that's it. The microphone also isn't 
 used, so if you don't like the DS features, you'll like this game.
  
  Now lets get into the Adventure Mode. In the Adventure parts of the game, you can stretch yourself 
 to move fast like an attack and you can also use it to hit items and enemies in the air and then 
 catch and carry them. Of course each enemy is different so you have to learn how to defeat each 
 one, but each enemy, no, each boss as well as just about every item and enemy in the game revolves 
 around this simple attack. There's an item that gives you an attack but you rarely find it and 
 yah, there are no weapons, no power ups, no new attacks, and because of that the game can get repetitive 
 and boring at times, but it isn't all that bad.
  
  But what are all the items for? Well, now we get into part 2 of this game: the tank battles. The 
 tank battles are easily the best part of the game. They are just plain fun. Basically, each cannon 
 has HP and two cannons and supplies of ammo. You have to run to the ammo, hit it, catch it, carry 
 it to the cannons, and thrown them in the top or bottom one. You'll want to go the same way your 
 opponent does to negate their fire with your fire and so you're constantly looking at the top screen 
 for where the ammo is going and which cannon to put your ammo in. It is real cool.
  
  Obviously you can put any item in the tank and use it for ammo which is real cool, and each item 
 has a different attack power and then some items have special abilities. You can also combine items 
 to make more powerful items and the tank mode has tons of depth. You also eventually get to put 
 other slimes into your tank to help you and as you may have guessed, each slime will do different 
 objectives and have different abilities. Some will help put ammo in, some will go to your opponents 
 tank and try to prevent them from firing. 
  
  Yes, there's another cool thing about the mode. While you'll want to load ammo and watch where 
 your opponents ammo is going, you or your opponents can travel on the ground to the other cannon, 
 or they can even shoot themselves to land into your cannon and sabotage it. Also, putting a tanks 
 HP to 0 isn't defeating it, you simply expose its weak point. You then have to either shoot yourself 
 into the cannon or run to the opposing cannon and hit it's weak point, although the enemy will 
 obviously try to prevent you.
  
  As a whole, the tank battles lack TONS of depth and are very very fun. Learning of ammo, how to 
 combine it, what to do during the battles, what slimes, etc. makes the mode something you'll want 
 to do. And don't worry, there are tons of tank battles throughout the game, as well as 2 bonus 
 tank battles after you beat the game that are extremely difficult, yet fun.
  
  The story is simple, bad guys stole the slimes and you're the last one left and while you try to 
 rescue them you come across a giant tank which helps you use defeat the villain. The graphics are 
 pretty good. It's all sprite stuff and pictures and it looks cool. The animation of some sprites 
 is cool to see, and overall, I like the art style.
  
  The music on the other hand can get repetitive. The game lacks different music and there are only 
 two battle tank songs which can get annoying to hear since there are a lot of tank battles. The 
 songs also can sound similar at times and I do wish there was more variety in the songs.
  
  Overall, you're going to like Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime, and for 15$, it is a STEAL! The 
 length, difficulty, music, and variety may be lacking, but in all honesty, I play the game in my 
 free time just to do a tank battle because they are so well done that I can't stop liking this 
 game. Graphics are nice, tank battles are a blast, and yah, it seems like the bad outweighs the 
 good from this review, but trust me, the adventure mode isn't that bad and solely for the tank 
 battles, I recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dr_doongy
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:36 am PT
Review:  As a relatively new gamer to the DS, I remember walking around some stores, trying to figure out 
 what to buy to entertain me. 
  
  At GameCrazy, two advertisements caught my eye:
  1. Contact DS
  2. Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime
  
  Ironically, the posters that advertised 
 the games were nothing more than enlarged cover shots of the boxart.
  
  Contact had yet to release, being as it was in October (which I later ended up purchasing the day 
 it released) , and Rocket Slime had a release date of one month prior to Contact. So I decided to 
 wait and go for Rocket Slime. The choices at the time were rather limited, because Advance Wars 
 Dual Strike, Phoenix Wright Ace Attorney, and Trauma Center had only seen a first round of prints, 
 and were extremely difficult to find.
  
  Because my gaming history was so limited, I had no idea what the Dragon Quest series was, or who 
 Rocket Slime was. Even much later into my career, my history's a bit fuzzy.
  
  Rocket Slime is the first game that I did not put down until I finished. Starting a game is always 
 the hard part for me, but waiting in an airport terminal for over an hour for my flight to leave, 
 I figured, "Eh, why not?" and popped it in. The cellophane wrapping was still on the game.
  
  And on a fully charged DS Lite, Rocket Slime took me from Long Beach, California to my first 
 layover in Denver, Colorado (2 hours) , then straight onto Washington D. C., where my parents lived. 
 It occupied my time during the ride from Dulles International, all the way into my temporary room 
 for the next two weeks in Rockville, Maryland.
  
  18 Hours. Straight. And my DS died only once.
  
  Rocket Slime is a charming game, a 2D RPG 
 much like The Legend of Zelda: A Link to the Past. Although there is no touch-screen capabilities 
 in the game, it does well to get by without them.
  
  The presentation is such:
  A world/mini map at the top screen.
  The playable character and the environments on the lower.
 
  
  You go around as a little slime, collecting monsters and saving the residents of Slimenia, in a 
 rather simple and easy plot to follow. Rocket goes around stretching and slamming into baddies 
 and objects, carrying them on his head, and launching them to wherever necessary.
  
  At the end of each stage, and also a very large secondary feature of Rocket Slime, is the tank 
 battling, which I found to be the most fun aspect of the game. You get these large tanks, and launch 
 weapons that are doled out by your arsenal at a steady rate and try to destroy the opponent's tank. 
 Once one of the tank's HP bar reaches zero, the opposing player can go into the heart of the opponent's 
 tank and destroy it. The arsenal and ammunition used can constantly be changed, as you receive 
 more types of ammo and recipes to build different kinds of ammo as the game goes along. You can 
 also select baddies to be your crew members to dole out the punishment.
  
  All in all, it was a delightful game to play. The music was pleasant, the visuals were spot-on, 
 the colors vibrant, and the gameplay addicting.
  
  My only complaint would be the depth of the game, and the ease with which the game was finished. 
 Replay value was low, as I was able to go back and complete everything, finish my libraries, the 
 formulas, the baddie collection, etc. all under 20 hours. It would have received a higher score 
 from me had it not been for this.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Heroes Rocket Slime is just one of the few rip-offs of the Dragon Quest Series. You 
 play as Rocket Slime who is in charge of saving the city of Slimania after the Plob invades. The 
 player, while battling the plob, will have to save 100 residents of the city. 
  
  At its core there are only two gameplay mechanics to the game. The first part is on foot combat 
 and platforming. It is here where you will find most of the slimes the player needs to rescue. 
 The combat consists of power bashing into enemies and boxes which in turn hold the slimes that 
 need to be rescued. The parts of the game when on foot were the funnest part of the game, and collecting 
 100 slimes isn't nearly as bad of a task as it sounds. The second part of the gameplay consist 
 of tank battles. For the battles all the player does is collect ammo from around your tank and 
 throw them into cannons to shoot at enemy tanks. Once a tank is defeated the player has to get 
 out of their tank and bust the heart open of the defeated tank. It might sound cool, but the tank 
 battles where the worst part of the game, and believe me, you will run into plenty of them along 
 the way. The tank the player uses can be upgraded and supplied with better ammo, and even helpers 
 can join in battle.
  
  Rocket Slime really shines in the graphical and sound departments. The graphics are very good for 
 the nintendo ds, and the colors are very bright and vibrant. This helps create a world in which 
 the player can immerse themselves in. The quirky music will also grab your attention, and that 
 only problem with that is the music will eventually eat out your ears. 
  
  Overall I found Rocket Slime to be good and worthy of a play through, but the game is not deep 
 at all and can be finished within 10 hours. I got the game for 10$ and I would say it is definitively 
 worth a shot at that price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpg_lover_freak
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  my reviews 
  
  genre 
  series ( if there is one or if ive played them) 
  overall
  
  the thing with this game is that it is a game that will never get old ive beat this game maybe 
 4-5 times and i still always love it. Why? because this game dose about 5 things i love. 1 it uses 
 the top screen a ton an thus makes it innovative 2this game has a drawing feature on it (great 
 for little kids who want to play games but cant actually play them) 3it has a fun quirky plot tat 
 is always fun and pleasurable to any age 4 the idea of an rpg with tanks for me was the best idea 
 ever (i love advance wars and rpgs just look at my name) 5the characters are fun and happy just 
 how rocket (main character) bounces around 
  the game could have been longer though other than that near perfect. and the feature of "make a 
 tank" etc would be nice too. 
  
  genre score 9.3/10 
  
  overall the game features some great tricks on the DS (2 screen use ) and not on others (touch 
 screen) but other than that this game is well over intact more like still usable. by anyone, and 
 should too its fun original and new age all st the same time overall score is 
  
  
  
  9.0 /10 (a little off because i can only do 9 and the game lacks some graphics too 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boater
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  This game got boring pretty quickly. It was charming at first due to its light-hearted nature and 
 bright colors, but the levels were too easy and the tank battles became more annoying than challenging. 
 Finished the game without spending too many hours and to make it worse, the game only has 1 save 
 file. After reading such great reviews, I expected a lot more.
  
  Not sure how games are receiving such high ratings, especially by users. The game was fun for the 
 beginning when everything was fresh and new so it gets a 5 and not above because the game gets 
 boring. To "lengthen" the game, they give you these recipes to make special tank items and the 
 recipes require players to spend lots of time repeating levels to get the "ingredients"/lesser 
 items... not a good way to make it longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  the game is basically all about slimes. a gang of platyplunks stole all the slimes and destroyed 
 the town, but they forgot u (why is a long story) , and now its your job to rescue all the slimes, 
 100 in all. the games controls are very unique. you stretch to destroy enemies. now the game does 
 offer some classic dragon quest monsters, i just dont think there is enough. now the main thing 
 about this game are the rocket battles, i wont go into details but there really fun.
  
  
  The Good: Tank battles are awesome, tank masters adds replay value, lots of tanks to unlock, basically 
 anything you can pick up in your tank you can fire at the enemy alchemy is cool, lots of different 
 kinds of ammo, u can have a crew for your tank which is a vital part to winning, u can have a lot 
 of ammo in yourr tank at a time.
  
  Bad: Music gets repetitive, slimes jokes are gay, not enough monsters, u cant unlock the angel 
 tank (dammit)
  
  All in all, a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason320
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 4:13 pm PT
Review:  Rocket Slime is a unique type of game that introduces a new type of gameplay, especially in this 
 Dragon Quest franchise. Anyway it isn't a big hit or a popular game. That's a pity though since 
 the tank battles are very interresting and fun. The game isn't bad and is better than average, 
 but the game terribly easy and there is a little if no thinking involved. You would think this 
 is a kiddy game by looking at the cover and judging by the difficulty level it seems it is there 
 isn't much rpg involved either besides custimizing your tanks, but even that is cut down to a few 
 simple options. I thought the adventure was repetetive although the music and backrounds including 
 the character design was good. This isn't a bad game and i'm not trying to say it is, but with 
 all the unique ideas it produced all it had to do was make the controls more interessting (this 
 game had not used the touchsreen) , improve the graphics and gameplay (make it more complex) and 
 make it more of a challenge. I think these are the questions the developpers should ask themselves 
 if they release a sequel. I think this was a pretty solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareEnix994
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  You probably remeber in the older days when the first Dragon Warior hit the market, well i do and 
 youre first fight encountered was a tiny little blue slime. forget the golems the eagles and the 
 goblins even a dragon dosen't hold a place in the dragon quest serie as big as the slime's role. 
 this game is the second spin-off of the main serie involving rocket slime as the hero. Sadly the 
 first volume was never released out of Japan.
  
  This Volume Begins in slimeria The kingdom of slimes when a giant tank invades and kidnaps every 
 100 citizen. so now you mission is to find a thank of your own and rescue every friend and familly 
 member...
  
  Graphic- The graphics are a simple 2d overview comparable to the snes era. they are no cutscene 
 or 3-D effect the game tend to focus on a retro style graphic.
  
  Sound- the music is as good as it gets each area as its own theme music and the soungs are pretty 
 catchy. there is option to use mono or stereo sound and bothe works well
  
  Gameplay- This is where the game takes a big drop on scale 1 to 10 i would have to say not more 
 then a six because not only the stylus is completly useless but the actual gameplay used is a strait 
 four dirrection command and the diagonal direction are poorly executed most of the time you will 
 find yourself frustrated of the gameplay.
  
  In Conclusion i think that if you are a diehard fan of the serie you havve to own this game. But 
 other then that you should deffinatly rent this game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rj5958
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  The difficulty is fairly easy but that's only for the normal gameplay (when just running around 
 as Rocket Slime) but the difficulty is much more balanced when you enter a tank battle. The tank 
 battle looks deceptively simple but once Rocket Slime (the player) gains enough loot battles become 
 a lot more hectic. At first (the beginning tank battles) the player only needs to load whatever 
 junk into the two cannons but as the game progresses, the player must take into account the countless 
 weapons needed to destroy the enemy and the crew that is needed to heal, infiltrate, man the cannons, 
 or defend Rocket's tank.
  
  Crew can be obtained either by rescuing fellow slimes or by capturing enough enemy monsters (which 
 eventually gives the player a monster ally, having each type of monster play a different role; 
 some monsters are infiltrators while others load the cannons) .
  
  Later in the game, loot can be combined to create new weapons.
  
  When not in tank battle mode, 
 the game is similar to "Zelda".
  
  The difficulty is just right when the easy normal gameplay is combined with the (sometimes) difficult 
 tank gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeppelin_64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  INTRO
  
  I bought this game for $25 because people told me it'd be like Zelda. Now I wouldn't sell it for 
 double its price. It is one of the best games on DS.
  
  10/10 GAMEPLAY
  
  You start off as a little slime playing with your friends. You all wander off and find the Warrior 
 Flute. This helps you throughout you journey. Then you're attacked by an evil group called The 
 Plob. You must move from place to place finding and saving all the slimes that were kidnapped by 
 the Plob. There is only one thing wrong with this game. It's much too easy. It only took me about 
 7 hours to save all 100 slimes. They should've either made it more difficult, or put more slimes 
 that need saving into the game.
  
  8.5/10 GRAPHICS/SOUND
  
  The graphics are very colorful, but just like every other DS game. The music is very happy and 
 bouncy. It fits the scenarios of the game well, I mean, you're playing as a slime who literally 
 always has a smile glued to his face.
  
  7/10 PLAYTIME/REPLAYABILITY
  
  After you beat the game, there's not much to do. You could get all 100 slime if you haven't already, 
 or become a tank master, I think that's what it's called. It's a very short game.
  
  FINAL RECOMMENDATION
  
  If you're a fan of the Dragon Quest series, don't buy this. It's completely 
 different from what I've heard. But those differences are what made me love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scurran007
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  I would say that this game might be fun with the under 12 crowd. But Unfortunately, I am nearly 
 35 years past that age. Yes, I am a gamer, but I expect to be entertained. Dragon Quest VIII was 
 great, so I figured Rocket Slime would be fun as well. Its cute, I guess. That is about it. Very 
 repetitive. I think I'd rather play another Pokemon game instead (So you can imagine how repetitive 
 it must be!) . Its just not my cup of tea... I bought this one at the same time I bought Phantom 
 Hour Glass, so at least I got one good game!. After about 3 hours of Rocket slime... I just hung 
 it up... I'll give it to my youngest daughter.. She'll finish it in a day or two.. I got this used... but 
 still paid over $20.00 for it... my mistake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_Smash_You_Bro
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Rocket Slime is about saving slimes from a nine tailed fox wait I meant duck. The more slimes you 
 free the more you can do. Most bosses are easy even the duck. And this duck has a gun. There are 
 combat and tank battles. And you can stretch that is the best thing ever right. Go fight ducky again 
 the fat princess comes back there asking for food again what a dame. so pretty much this is a awesome 
 game that is really really really fun. And if your looking for a game with ducks and slimes this 
 is that slimey game. yep this is a game for a duck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I bought this a second time just to give it another chance. I'm glad I did. This isn't the longest 
 of games to ever be released, but all the different pieces it pulls together makes for a great 
 mash-up of fun. And quite frankly, this is what the DS is lacking. I'd love to see more games that 
 are pure fun than rely on innovation to make them appealing. The entire game plays out like Zelda 
 3: A Link to the Past, where-in you gather items to increase your health bar, gain new abilities 
 to progress, and unlock access to new levels, but then you throw in the tank battles. These battles, 
 at first, look like mini-games based around fetching ammo and firing as fast as you can at the 
 enemy. This is true to the most basic extent. Once you begin facing more powerful opponents, you 
 learn the strategic side of the tank battles. It becomes a quest in itself to find better ammuition 
 and parts to upgrade your defenses. Later on, your slime friends will help out with loading ammo 
 or sabatoging the enemy tank... and even then you have to make sure you have everyone doing the 
 right job at the right time. Wrap all this up in a brightly colored, Dragon Quest-inspired world, 
 throw in a bunch of bad slime-related puns... you've got yourself the perfect game for a long weekend. 
 And that was the downfall. The main quest can be finished in roughly 12-14 hours. But worry not... there 
 are more diversions to keep you playing for at least another couple of hours... and of course there's 
 always multiplayer tank battles. Grab it up. You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkkend
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Rocket Slime puts you in the with the hero slime who's village was destroyed by tanks, at the end 
 of the thrashing of the village slime notices that most of the other villagers are missing, really 
 that's when your story begins. The game is about bringing your village back to it's prime buy bringing 
 everyone back and cleaning up the mess they left. Slime ends up finding a tank in some ruins and 
 that's when the fun starts. What made me like this game is it's like your a pirate captain, once 
 you start getting some of your fellow slimes to help you around the tank you really feel like your 
 leading them. Of course you can take care of loading some of the cannons and making sure the enemy 
 stays out of your tank (actually you have to since most of the time the AI can't handle the battle 
 on there own) . There are all sorts of weapons you can stuff in your tank from swords to shields, 
 which adds some strategy to the game so you can try and cancel out the enemies attacks towards 
 you. The game is a breeze to play through, that's about it's only downfall, also the fact that 
 the game can get boring at times since you do alot of back tracking which can be a drag. Overall 
 this game is great and I think everyone who has a ds should at least play this game, I think it's 
 worth the thirty-nine bucks (even though you would think it would be twenty-nine dollars.... square-enix 
 always sells there products for alot) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Banana_Kid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest is a huge phenomenon in Japan. It's the kind of cultural obsession rivaled only by 
 Americans with Madden, or Koreans with Starcraft. Some people will claim that's because of the 
 solid traditional RPG design, the Akira Toriyama art, or the well-told stories. Those people are 
 liars. The true reason Dragon Quest is such a hit is the greatest minor enemy ever crafted, the 
 humble slime.
  
  Square-Enix finally recognized that and made a game starring the little guy who's always been stealing 
 the show. It's a great game in many aspects. It's got a great, deep collection aspect that will 
 make completionists play for hours upon hours, a fantastic tank battle system, and a delightful 
 sense of humor. The script is bursting with puns, but not groaner puns. In most other games these 
 might be tiresome. But the sole fact that it's slimes that are saying them elevates it to legitimately 
 funny. Every word that could conceivably have slime squeezed into it does, and it never gets old.
 
  
  There's a reasonably long main quest, highlighted by the tank battles, which are easily the best 
 part of the game. Your tank is a giant slime, and your crew is either other slimes or enemies you've 
 captured and turned friendly. The whole system's deceptively deep. You can use practically anything 
 you've gathered in the world as ammo to wear down your enemy's tank, or you can just jump into 
 the cannons yourself and try to make it in, sabotaging them from the inside. It's a blast, and 
 you'll always be looking forward to the next fight.
  
  Rocket Slime is an extremely likeable game. It's got its great sense of humor, really solid gameplay, 
 and slimes by the dozen. There's no reason not to play it, unless you somehow hate fun, joy, or 
 slimes. It may not be the best game on the DS, but it's the most endearing by far.
  
  Yeah, screw you, Nintendogs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joshunar
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Rocket Slime is a fun action adventure game. A group of evil platypus like creatures 
 called the Plob come and destroy your town and kidnap all of the town's slimes. In the game you 
 play as a blue piece of strechy slime and your goal is to rescue all 100 of these slimes. You can 
 roam around inthe town of Slimenia and wander outside of town to the other worlds.
  There are plenty of monsters and items in the Rocket slime world, each colorful and nicely animated. 
 The game is very simple and can be played by people of all ages but may be too simple for older 
 gamers. Your rocket simes only attack is to strecth out his body to fling himself into monsters 
 to kill or items and rescued slimes to lauch into the air so that he can caarry them on his head.
 
  Another aspect of the game is the large tank battles in which you throw items into cannons to 
 try and destroy your enemy tank. You can also do this against a friend if they also have a game 
 cartridge, but sadly there is no single card play. You can use all the items you collect to use 
 in the tank battles and combine items to make more powerful items.
  The game will last you around 25 hours. There isnt really much replayability unless you have another 
 friend with the game to battle against. Thee game has nice colorful 2D graphics. The gameplay is 
 fun and addicting but can be too simple at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delcidanddarth
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 16, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  A slime by any other name is still a blob of goo. Unless it's a Dragon Quest slime. These cutesy 
 droplets of monochrome fluid make their solo album debut in the laughably-titled Dragon Quest Heroes: 
 Rocket Slime for the DS. And how! Of course, I thought stand-alone games featuring Final Fantasy 
 chocobos was a stretch (pun intended) , but this takes the cake, in a very good way.
  
  In this RPG/action/strategy/pokemon style game, you play as Rocket, the de facto embodiment of 
 Dragon Quest slimliness. In other words, you are a little blue slime. Yes, the same little blue 
 slimes that we, as RPGers, have immorally destroyed to go from level 1 to 2 in so many of the franchise 
 titles... so much so that the developers probably felt it was owed to the slime community to not 
 only make a game out of their culture, but also make the 1 HP 1 EXP 1 GOLD bag o' blue the star. 
 Anyways, you play as Rocket. In an incredibly quick turn of events, your entire village of slimes 
 is kidnapped, the town destroyed, and you are left to fight against an army of beings from a very 
 close branch of slime evolution, the Plob . Standard RPG fare, except for one catch, the Plob drive 
 gigantic tanks, giving this game the unique element it needs to be cool and not just fan service.
 
  
  How does a 1 HP 1 EXP 1 GOLD slime fight against an army of tanks? Without spoiling the story (which, 
 if you pay attention to, is hilarious) , you get a tank of your own. The game itself then condenses 
 down to top-down action adventuring, Legend of Zelda style, sprinkled generously with many boss 
 fights. The adventuring is pretty standard, although you are no longer controlling a person with 
 appendages, so you have to get used to blob mechanics. You attack by either throwing objects or 
 slingshotting yourself at opponents, and you have quite a few nominal puzzles in terms of carrying 
 numerous items around. You can carry up to three on your head (in totem-pole fashion) , the order 
 of which sometimes makes a difference. A primary objective of adventuring is carrying items (and 
 enemies, BTW) to the train tracks to be sent back to town for your collecting addiction. This is 
 the pokemon part of the game, wherein collected items will be used for tank ammo or alchemy. Additionally, 
 you will be rescuing the slime-napped townsfolk to help rebuild the town, as well as providing 
 tank support (explained next) .
  
  However, the unique part of the game comes from boss battles, or more accurately, tank battles. 
 Basically, a tank battle consists of you loading ammunition into one of two cannons. One shoots 
 straight, the other lobs and any ammo that successfully hits the other tank usually does damage, 
 or some special effect. A successful hit only depends on one thing, and that is if your ammo is 
 deflected by ammo being fired at you at the same time. The strategy thus becomes trying to block 
 the enemy salvo with your own (hopefully cheaper) ammo, and follow that up with very damaging ammo 
 that you have been saving for the right moment. The damaging ammo usually comes in varying speeds 
 (arrows being fast, giant mines being slow) , but you also have shields which deflect multiple salvos, 
 mirrors which turn back the enemy salvo (very useful) , etc. Obtaining ammo is also part of the 
 strategy, since you have several different ammo dispensers located on two different floors of your 
 tank. This sounds and is inefficient for actual loading of cannons, but in a game, provides an 
 interesting complication (especially since different tanks have different layouts) . The ammo is 
 dispensed randomly, so even though you allocated a handful of big bombs in your arsenal does not 
 mean you will actually get them right away. However, your ammo never actually runs out, so you 
 don't really need to conserve your shots.
  
  Another interesting twist to the battle is the ability to infiltrate the other tank. You can do 
 this either by firing yourself over (and risk getting shot down) , or by knocking on the front door 
 (which requires some hard knocking, i. e. blasting through) . You do the latter by literally running 
 outside of your tank to the enemy tank. Why would you want to do this? Well, it turns out, the 
 inside of the enemy tank is extremely vulnerable. You can destroy computers on the wall to slow 
 down ammo dispensing. You can generally mess with the enemy (as you would during the action/adventuring 
 parts) to prevent them from loading ammo. You can steal ammo and take it back to your tank. And 
 all of this can be done to you as well. As you can see, tank battles are not that straight-forward, 
 but it does make them extremely fun, and all of these different strategies combine for a variety 
 of ways to attack the enemy (and can be done online!) .
  
  Your support slimes are basically automated characters that act in a specific way. Such as loading 
 ammo quickly, or firing themselves out of the cannon, or infiltrating the enemy tank, or stealing 
 ammo, or protecting your tank against infiltration. They come in very handy, especially while you 
 are doing the infiltrating.
  
  All-in-all, the tank battles make the game better than your average adventure game. The cutesy 
 graphics and story, combined with reasonable adventure controls (you only use 2 buttons, surprisingly) , 
 make the game fun, but would be forgettable if not for the tank battles. Past the main story, there 
 are enough collectibles to make the game about twice as long, and the multiplayer does just enough 
 to ensure a more difficult game experience (the computer doesn't get too difficult, not even the 
 last boss) . I give this game two slimes up, and out the cannon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiitendo64
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  I first bought the game when my local EBgames store was having a tournament of it. Thus I heard 
 it was an alright game but, man is it amazing!.
  
  So, the game begins with you, a blue slime from the Dragon Quest series. One average day you wake 
 up in your home located in the peaceful kingdom of Boingburg. You , your sister, and your two friends 
 meet in the castle garden where your friend Hooly shows you a mysterious flute, in no time an evil 
 army attacks the kingdom. The invaders, the Plobs which are duck-like creatures come and take away 
 all the slimes of Boingburg, but using your Elasto Blast attack you esape being captured along 
 with the flute. After the attack you set out on a journey to rescue all 100 slimes and unveil the 
 flute's mystery.
  
  Controls work like this, you run (or hop really) around using the directional buttons, to perform 
 a Elastoblast hold down A while pressing the control pad for direction and then letting go making 
 to blast into opponents. Blasting causing them to get knocked out. While knocked out you can carry 
 up to three of them or items and treasures on your head. Then you can either throw'em or place 
 them on train carts located in each level (ill explain about that later) . Jumping is also done 
 by pressing A. To pull up the menu press X. B is used to talk and throw. The Y may seen useless 
 but once you're carrying a slime knight (a empty suit of armor that's counted as an item) you can 
 attack with it by pressing Y.
  
  Gameplay is amazing, you can tell its a kids game by how simple everything is but, its still fun. 
 You run around searching for slimes that are kept in treasure chests. After releaseing them you 
 must carry them to a railroad when empty platform carts roll by and into a tunnel. The carts take 
 them back into town thus scracting a missing slime off your list. Later in the game you are attacked 
 by one of the Plobs massive tanks. Using the flute you summon a massive tank of your own. (The 
 tanks are more like fortresses on wheels.) Items or that you throw on the carts will be added as 
 weapons for your tank. Enemies that you've placed on the tanks will also go back to town, once 
 you collect 30 of one kind of an enemy you'll be able to have him as a ally in tank battles. The 
 tanks battles has you and three allies run around in your tank grabbing items that you're collected 
 then firing them out your tanks cannons. Each item does damage to the enemy's HP. Once their HP 
 is gone you can infaltrate their tank and make your way to the tank's core. With a quick blow the 
 tank explodes and you win. The tank battles are great and very addictive. Playing the game on foot 
 is fun too as you enter different areas with bosses while going through a cool story. Eventually 
 you'll meet our rival Slival, a slime who also happens to own a really cool tank.
  
  Grapics are colorful and cartoony but its a perfect touch for the game. (It is a kids game) Sometimes 
 I find the backgrounds really refreshing.
  
  The sound is also cartoonish but like the grapics it just some how fits the game. The tank battle 
 music is also wonderful it puts you in the atmosphere on the battles.
  
  The game is a decent lengh it took me a week to beat it and find all 100 slimes, so it is very 
 easy. The game is very addicting but loses its value after beating it. Multiplyer is fun but it 
 would be better if it supported wifi (I'd give value a perfect 10 if it did) But besides playing 
 a friend all you can do in the game is collect more items, even rare ones, but still all you can 
 really do is restart your game to have fun again. The price was $34.99 which I thought was too 
 much seeing as the value didnt last that much, but a price of $19.99 is perfect. Check your stores, 
 you may be in luck.
  
  All-in-all its one of my favorite DS games. The game is so addicting and simple. I never thought 
 that a kids game would be so good, but Square-enix worked their magic to do so. I know that this 
 game might not appeal to you but I recomend giving this and Chocobo Tales a try.
  
  P. S. I came 2nd in the tournament losing to some 12 year old who had a bunch of rare items. Oh 
 well I got a kool t-shirt though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidgame4lyf
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Rocket Slime is a great game, but is very short. You begin as a little slime named Rocket, and 
 all of the other slimes that live in the same villiage as you have been kidnapped. Your mission 
 is obvious... rescue the kidnapped slimes.
  
  The main part of this game is to win tank battles, which is very easy after you get the hang of 
 it... and get your tank crew. The only tank battle that is actually hard is the final tank battle 
 against the final boss. I have a couple of complaints about this game... One is that the game is 
 waaaaaaay too short, if you want to beat it as fast as you can, it's possible to do it in under 
 8 hours. And my second complaint is that after you beat the game, there's almost nothing to do. 
 I mean, you can recruit a few more slimes and monsters to add to your tank crew, and get some new 
 ammo, but that's all. All things considered, it's worth getting Rocket Slime if you have extra 
 money and are looking for a DS game. Otherwise, it can wait until you have more money onhand... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime is an adventure game that revolves around Rocket, one of the 
 slimes that you would find in any Dragon Quest game. For those familiar with Dragon Quest would 
 know that Slime is the flagship character for the series and is one of the most basic monsters 
 in the game. So you are Rocket, a slime living peacefully in the kingdom of Slimenia when one day 
 the town is ravaged by a colossal machine called the Plattypanzer, piloted by the evil Plob, who 
 are bent on destroying and ruling over Slimenia with their giant tanks.
  
  The gameplay is fairly simple to understand and takes very little time to learn it, however mastering 
 certain parts of the game is the tricky task. Basically you get one attack, the Elastoblast which 
 later becomes more powerful and is entitled Master Blast. Basically this is your method of attacking 
 enemies and it allows you to pick up items and carry them on top of you, it is possible to carry 
 only 3 items at one time and if you get hit, you will drop all your items. After the first couple 
 of levels and getting into the story a little bit, you will be introduced to the Tank Battles, 
 which is how you will defeat the Plob and becomes a part of the core gameplay. There are many items 
 and things to do in the game. Mainly having to send 30 of each monster you encounter back to town 
 in order to fill up the museum with statues can take up a lot of time, as well as getting enough 
 items and recipies for the alchemy pot to create powerful weapons can take up a fair amount of 
 time. Plus you have the Tank Masters become available after you rescue one of the 100 slimes from 
 their captivity in the boxes, as the Plob have decided to capture everyone but you. Wireless play 
 is available once you find a certain slime and have access to your tank. You will find many items 
 in the environment as well as characters who will battle with you in the tank, all of which can 
 pretty much be commanded to do one of their two abilities like ammo theft, sabotage or tank healing 
 as well as loading up your canons or keeping bad guys out.
  
  The game itself should only take about 20 hours to complete if you want to get everything, however 
 aside from that, there is not an endless replay value of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  First of all, let me say I never played the Dragon Quest games until now. I was unfamiliar with 
 the series but when I got a DS this past Christmas, this game sparked my interest.
  
  This is a spinoff of the Dragon Quest series but features one of the enemies as the hero. You play 
 as a little slime named Rocket who lives in the tiny town of Boingburg. Then one day out of the 
 blue, the evil Plobs (Platypus mob) drive into Rocket's town and bomb the crap out of it then kidnapp 
 100 of the town's residents leaving Rocket all alone. Does Rocket sit around and cry? Hell no. 
 He sets out to save them.
  
  Despite the lack of limbs, Rocket can do a lot of things. He can stretch himself and attacking 
 using his elasto blast and also use this to carry items as well as fire himself out of cannons. 
 There's two ways you play. First, there's the standard adventuring where you travel on foot (does 
 he have feet?) through the land fighting baddies and collecting items and rescuing friends. You 
 can only save in your hometown however each stage has means of transportation to get back to town 
 quickly and these train cars can be used to send back friends, items or baddies.
  
  The real thing that makes this game shine is the Schlieman Tank. Shorly into the game Rocket gains 
 access to a massive tank and the items you collected in levels serve as ammo and later on, you 
 will find out you can combine items to make more powerful ammo for your tank. Also you will be 
 able hire a crew of 3 members either townsfolk you saved or baddies you caught. The enemy tanks 
 are creativly named and designed. One is called Chrono Twigger and shaped like a giant tree and 
 another one is a shameless self promotion for the up coming Dragon Quest Swords with the tag line 
 The Revolution is coming. Weeee!! 
  
  Overall this is one of the best DS games of 2006, even if it feels a little easy at times. Luckily 
 the game never takes itself too seriously and the characters good and bad can be comical. If you're 
 looking for a good DS title, I can't recommend this highly enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1yodsyo1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Rocket Slime hooked me real good. It was simple, yet fun. The first part of the game is pretty 
 boring, but when you get into the amazing tank battles, you'll be hooked for good. Rocket slime 
 combines humor and adventure at the same time. This game, however, does have its flaws. The move 
 you use most of the time is the elasto blast, and i kept wonderin' for an another move, but thats 
 it. Also, the game was too short in my opinion. Overall, its a solid game that should catch your 
 attention when you are in need of an another DS game.
  
  Score: 8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mariofan1314
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 9, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  As this being the first Dragon Quest game i've ever played I don't know what to expect so I'm just 
 go with telling you why I gave it what I gave it. The graphics I gave a 9, because they're really 
 good for a Nintendo DS game. The cartooney grahics make me feel... how do I put this... good. Trust 
 me it's refreshing to see some cartoon graphics after having to see chainsawsgoing through peoples 
 bodies and 3-D people playing guitars. Anyway, each character has its own uniques design, though 
 many characters are the same just different colors than the other it's still pretty nice looking. 
 The sound definitly isn't my favorite. I gave it a 7 because it's annoying as h**l. I'm sorry ,but 
 having to hear a boing sound everytime you hit the A button is SOOOOO annoying! The only good thing 
 about the music is that it is something you wouldn't expect from this kind of game. The value gets 
 an 8 because it's a good DS game. Non-like other DS games it's filled with puzzle, action, and adventure. It's 
 one of the only DS games that actually has thoses three and they're all good. The Gameplay gets 
 an 8 because of many reasons ,but here are a few. The tank battles are fun, but not fun. The tanks 
 are a little to cutesy for me and you barely even get to have tank battles which really makes me 
 mad. The Elasto Blast makes things A LOT easier because all you have to do is hold down the A button 
 and let go while pointing the Control Pad in the direction you're blasting. Since you can through 
 your slimey body as many times as you want it's helpful up against enemies. The boss battles aren't 
 hard which is pretty sad because neither are the tank battles. So where is the hard points in the 
 game? I have NO clue! If this game had some more challenging puzzles, bosses, or even battles it 
 would've got a higher score. So I give Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime for the Nintendo DS 7.8 
 slimey balls (I DONT MEAN LIKE THAT! I MEAN THE CHARACTERS!) out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_ness2000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  You probably wouldn't expect a game in which you play a slime to be that much fun, but thats exactly 
 what this game is  FUN! The game mechanics for the overall quest are okay, but lack any amount 
 of difficulty. Where this game comes alive is its tank battles. The tank customization and ammo 
 selection make it as much fun to collect pieces as it is to battle.
  
  The good: this game has a neat art style, quirky characters and excellent tank battles. There is 
 also an interesting sense of humour here.
  
  The bad: the story is uninspired, the game is too short and easy and the lack of online multi-player 
 hurt this game's chances at being great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tallsmartman
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Game play: -Good solid game play. -It has a story that moves enough, not too fast, but not too 
 slow. -When your on the map the combat is very simple. -When you get the the tank combat, it gets 
 more fun and more strategy is involved.
  -One problem with the tank combat is, if you use the right strategy, it is hard to lose until the 
 very final battles.
  -Once you can create items, it can get a bit tedious collecting ingredients for them.
  
  Graphics: 
 You wonder if this game could have been done in 3D, but when you think about it, it probably wouldn't 
 have been any better. The graphics are very smooth, and the cartoon style can be good. Even some 
 of the simplest animations in the game can be quite humorous. Sound:
  The sound effects are quite standard.
  The music is pretty ho-hum for the most part, but I have 
 to say, there are a few of the themes that are pretty good (especially the bad guy theme.)
  
  Value:
  You can get this new on Amazon for $25 and even less than $20 used. If you get this 
 for around $20 it is a very good value.
  
  Final Thoughts:
  This game is very good, and finishing it will take you a long time. Unfortunately, the game has 
 almost no re-play value except for multi player which I never tried, I guess the tank battles could 
 be quite fun playing against a non-AI opponent.
  
  Bottom line: If this game sounds interesting to you, you should get it, and you will probably like 
 it. It will provide several hours of fun gaming.
  
  -MW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Rocket Slime is based on the Slimes that you see in Random Battles in the last games 
 over the years. You play as a Slime called Rocket (Which is you) and you live in Slimenia in a city 
 called Boingburg. But one day these menacing monsters called The Plob come to destroy the city 
 and kiddnap all of your Slime friends and your the only one left behind so mostly your going on 
 an adventure to rescue all your friends and your main objective is stop the Plobs and rescue 100 
 slimes to save your country. You'll meet some strange charcters in the game like Ducktor Cid (Who 
 becomes your best friend) or The PlobFater (Don Clawleone the Leader of the Plobs) . But when your 
 playing the game you'll notice the story follows after the end of Dragon Quest 8 Journey of the 
 cursed king (PS2) . But the Gameplay is easy to control you can grab and carry monsters or Slimes 
 or treasure on into carts. The game is kinda easy but the Tank Battles are really good your fireing 
 items to monster tanks that have funny names too like Chrono Twig You can throw a sword or a 100 
 weight ton to destroy the enemies Tank. But in all Rocket Slime is surprisingly worth playing once 
 or twice the Slime kingdom rest in your hands. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Bright, vibrant visuals and sounds; lots of references to the DQ universe; lighthearted 
 humor; epic tank battles are pretty cool.
  
  The Bad: Multiplayer requires two cards; basic gameplay is too simple; collecting is monotonous 
 and gets old; boss battles are too easy; you're a stinking slime!
  
  DQH: Rocket Slime is a great game for little kids or the braindead. It's very hard to get into 
 because it's so repetitive and easy. It's got charm to it, sure, but really, the gameplay's just 
 okay, and it's not very fun to play for very long. Some people may enjoy its simplicity, but it's 
 ultimately not great.
  
  In Rocket Slime, you are cast as Rocket, a... well, a blue slime, which, in case you're unfamiliar, 
 is the lowest and simplest enemy in the Dragon Quest universe. It is akin to the goombas in Super 
 Mario Bros. If that seems like an odd decision for a main character, you're right - it doesn't 
 make for a particularly thrilling game. Rocket has exactly one attack, and it's not terribly exciting 
 either.
  
  At its heart, Rocket Slime is a gathering adventure. It's all about finding items, locked up slimes, 
 more ammo for your tank... yeah, it's all been done before. What makes RS passable is that it does 
 it well enough, and it has enough spunk to make it mildly interesting.
  
  The tank battles are pretty much the only notable part of Rocket Slime. In these epic battles, 
 you fire projectiles you have stored up at your enemy tank and keep the enemies from busting up 
 your tank. This is a rather amusing exercise, though a bit tedious. On a side note, multiplayer 
 tank battles can be enjoyed between two people who both own the game.
  
  Overall, Rocket Slime doesn't have a whole lot going for it. It looks and sounds nice enough, but 
 it just doesn't use the DS features to its potential, and it comes off being more suited for a 
 young crowd that doesn't mind repetition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twit92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I played this game for 5 hours unlocking stuff the other day and I decided I would go and beat 
 it. It was and oddly annoying and satisfying final boss like there are in most game. Plus I wasn't 
 expecting that you could still walk around town and stuff after you beat it. But I should have because 
 there is a thing you need to beatthe game to get, I guess I'm just stupid. For me this game had 
 almost no flaws, in fact I can't even think of one. The best part of this game by far are the tank 
 battles. Spoilers forgiven the final boss is a huge evil and annoying tank. If you get stuck you 
 can just go to the town and talk to all the slimes you saved. There are a couple of minigames like 
 one where you surf, and some random features like grafitti on a painting. If you dislike puns this 
 game is definitly NOT for you. The amount of puns in this game are ridiculous, the main bad guy before 
 the final battle is named Don
  Clawneone which is obviously a rip off of the lead character in The Godfather. The Slimes are also 
 randomly cute, especially when it has a surprised face. I also like the cartoonyness (not really 
 a word, get over it) of the game. It reminds me of one of my favorite animes of all time DBZ. This 
 game isn't meant to be taken too seriously because this game is practically based around puns. This 
 in all is an extremely great game and deserves a higher rating than it receives. This is all my 
 opinion of coarse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Wii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Rocket Slime is one of those rare games that flys (literaly) out of no where and suprises you in 
 a good way. In the game your town gets totaly wasted by evil monsters, which realy isn't cool, 
 but after that its upto you to save the day. You get to rebuild the town as you save your friends, 
 somthing that reminds me of my old PS1 days on Suikoden (if I spelled that right) , where you built 
 up your own castle.
  
  Now running about on the map can get a bit old, if you've played Zelda or any of the Secret of 
 Mana games you'll get an idea of what its like. Where this game realy shines is in the giant Tanks. 
 The fact that you get to run around inside your tank, board your foes and smash it up form the 
 inside realy adds a lot of depth to the game. I think other developers should look at this game 
 and see how fun Large tank/ship/vehicle battles can be if you just add the extra layer of an interior.
 
  
  Overall if your looking for a fun, solid game on your DS, somthing to keep you busy on the plane/train/boat 
 or other than Rocket Slime may be just for you. With well done graphics, solid gameplay, and an 
 inovative experiance Rocket Slime will keep you busy for a while (as long as any DS game realy 
 could) . Add a friend and the game gains a whole new demension as you fight eachother in massive 
 tank battles. Seriously give it a try, even if you just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This is a short, but fun game. Perfect for the DS. The main quest is fun, especially the tank battles. 
 It's not one of those games you sit down and play all at one time, but I played it just about every 
 night for about 2 months. It's a little addictive trying to collect all the monsters and different 
 items. The tank battles were a little more fun than the main quest, which is more of a zelda type 
 game, whereas the tank battles are a little more strategic. It could have been just a bit longer 
 to really take advantage of all the cool items you could collect and create The challenge level 
 could have been just a bit higher too, but it was worth buying if you own a DS. Just buy it used. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  When it was originally released, I refused to buy Rocket Slime on principle. Though it looked like 
 a very cute and perhaps fun game, most critics were saying that the multiplayer tank battles were 
 the meat of the game. The only way to enjoy those tank battles, however, is through local wireless 
 connection -- each player has to have their own copy of the game, of course. Either give local 
 wireless play that only requires one card, or put that game online where we will have little trouble 
 finding other players to play with, or do both... or make the single-player experience enough to 
 go on. Anything.
  
  That said, I was still interested in the game because of the mighty-fine reviews it received pretty 
 much all around. So, I bided my time until it came down in price, which it finally did here recently. 
 I found it online for $20 and, shortly after ordering my copy, Circuit City put the game on sale 
 for $17. So, I picked up another copy for my wife. Now we can enjoy the game the way it seems to 
 have been meant to be experienced.
  
  Story: Welcome to Boingburg (capitol of Slimenia)  that's right  the peaceful city of Slimes. 
 The character you play as, Rocket, is out one day with his pals slimin' around. They've gotten 
 their hands (actually, they have no hands) on a little something they're really not supposed to 
 be messin' with: the legendary Warrior's Flute. As chance would have it, a group of baddies, known 
 as the Plob, come to Boingburg on that fateful day to lay hands upon the great flute. When it turns 
 up missing, the Plob, in their wrath, bomb the city and trap all the inhabitants of Boingburg in 
 blue treasure chests and hide them throughout Slimenia. Rocket, disguised as a baseball bat  after 
 swallowing the Warrior Flute in panic  is overlooked and, therefore, the only one left to save 
 the day
  
  It's a silly story and the dialogue is even sillier. It's actually some of the funniest and most 
 endearing lines I've read in any video game to date. If there's one thing that should suck you 
 in about this game it's the characters and dialogue. The slimes, as well as the "Platiosi" (the 
 bad guys) , are adorable and hilarious. Most of the Plob characters speak (using unique word spellings) 
 with a New York Italian accent; your tank mechanic is German; one of your best slime buddies is 
 Scottish; and so on and so forth. There's never a shortage of comic relief and it's all lighthearted 
 and good-natured.
  
  Gameplay: The premise of the game is as follows: Rocket must rescue his fellow slime citizens, 
 combat the Plob and save Slimenia from its scourge. To do so, Rocket must travel to various areas 
 of Slimenia  via a hub of sorts  then seek out his friends and defeat baddies. Throughout a given 
 area, there are platiosi (any of the various creatures who are part of the Plob) that Rocket must 
 combat using his "elastoblast." The elastoblast is pretty much your only weapon in the field, and 
 to use it you merely hold down the A-button and stretch Rocket with the control pad in whatever 
 direction you want to blast; once you release the A-button, Rocket will go flinging into whatever 
 is in his path. It's simple enough, works well and is a lot of fun. There are some other clever 
 ways aside from whippin' baddy butt that the elastoblast is used. For instance, there is one obstacle 
 made up of bungee cords, located high above the ground, and the only way to travel along the cords 
 is to elastoblast into them and bounce your way across. Though it is Rocket's mainstay, the elastoblast 
 remains fun and interesting throughout the entire game.
  
  The elastoblast also has one other very important function and that is in picking things up. Rocket's 
 a slime and, therefore, has no appendages. So, in order to acquire and carrying items  including 
 friends and foes  Rocket must first blast them up into the air and catch them with his head. There's 
 not much to it and he can balance up to three items at a time, which ain't bad for a little blue-slime 
 dude.
  
  Though Rocket never levels-up or acquires new weapons or attacks (though he does gain the ability 
 to do a more powerful type of elastoblast later on in the game) , there is a very cool RPG element 
 in place. Now, you may have already read or heard about the tank battles, and collecting items 
 to use as ammo for your tank is integral to the gameplay. You'll find all sorts of goodies in the 
 field, and you'll also acquire many items from slimes that you rescue along the way. Additionally, 
 you'll gain recipes, which will allow you to combine items to make greater, more powerful ammo, 
 etc. As you can probably imagine, this aspect of the game really creates a ton of replay value.
 
  
  There are a few actual boss battles in the game, but they don't offer much difficulty. That's okay, 
 actually. The boss battles are still fun and a welcome change to the hunting and gathering that 
 makes up most of the rest of the gameplay. However, the tank battles are plentiful and, though 
 they, too, offer little in the way of challenge, they're a tremendous amount of fun. There's no 
 doubt that the tank battles are a huge inspiration to keep wandering around looking for "things" 
 to use in your tank. You can also periodically increase your tank's HP and you will need not only 
 gold but also various items in order to do so.
  
  The tank battles are initiated when you encounter a tank platform on the field. If you step on 
 up, a member of the Platioso will challenge you to a battle. If you accept, you'll toot your flute 
 and be placed in your tank
  
  Each tank has several rooms. There is the control room, where your cannons are located; a room 
 where lots of ammo is released from chutes; and the engine room, where the tank's heart is protected 
 (when a tank's HP drops to zero, all that's left to do is attack the heart) . Your job is to run 
 around your tank, grab up ammo and fire it  by throwing it into the cannons (of which there are 
 two)  at the enemy tank. However, you always have the option to infiltrate the enemy's tank, and 
 wreak havoc there.
  
  At the onset of the game, you'll be alone in your adventure, but early on you'll be given the option 
 of including a team of three to aid you in tank battles. Let me tell you, they sure come in handy! 
 Not only that, each character or monster has a different strategy to offer your team. Did I say 
 monster? That's right. If you collect up to 30 (I believe it is) of a particular monster  by sending 
 them back to town, using the TranSlimenian Railroad system (a system of train carts that appears 
 throughout various places on a given field area)  you will then be able to use that monster as 
 part of your team in tank battles. Each character / monster has three different commands, which 
 can be set-up during battle. So, there's quite a bit of strategy offered every step of the way.
 
  
  Of course, tank battles against the AI don't offer all that much of a challenge and it's the multiplayer 
 tank battles that really sustain the life of this game. Players can compete wirelessly, if each 
 player has their own copy of the game. Fun? Very!
  
  Graphics: Simply put, this is a GBA game. It's cute, it's lively and easy on the eyes, but the 
 game in no way pushes the DS to heat up its processors. Could the game have been better otherwise? 
 Mehwho knows? I'm okay with it, though. For the type of game Rocket Slime is, the 2-D graphics 
 work pretty well. There's absolutely no slowdown and transitions between screens are pretty darn 
 fast. Both DS screens are used and used well.
  
  Sound: Again, there's a lot of GBA in this game. The sound effects are nothing new, although there 
 are some character sounds that are a nice touch. But there's nothing that feels sub-par. The music 
 is very nice and definitely above the GBA standard; there's not a ton of variety in that department, 
 but it's all loveable and grows on you quickly.
  
  Presentation: The game box and manual are very colorfulfrom the outside. The inside of the manual 
 is done in simple black & white, but offers a lot of great info and reference material. The game, 
 itself, walks you through each step of the way, and both the game and manual work well together 
 to ensure the player has everything needed to fully enjoy the experience. In-game menus are first-rate, 
 in that every option you'd hope to be included seems to be there and is easily accessible.
  
  My one mammoth gripe: Where is the online play? OMG, this game screams for WiFi play. All the 
 customization that's made available for your tank, all the effort you put into hunting for junk 
 to fire from your cannonsI feel like a boxer with no one to fight. Sure, there's the local multiplayer 
 and my wife and I should be enjoying that for a long, long time, but, at the original price, who 
 in their right mind is going to buy multiple copies for this caliber of multiplayer gameplay? Understand, 
 the tanks battles are a huge amount of fun, but for $35 we should be able to enjoy them practically. 
 Local multi-card multiplayer just ain't practical, I'm afraid.
  
  That said, the game has come down significantly in price. Circuit City is  at the time of my writing 
 this review  now selling it for $16.95. At that price it's not only worth it for the single-player 
 experience, but if you know or live with someone who also has a DS it's now feasible to pick up 
 two copies. My final verdict, however, is that it's a great game at that price; at the full price 
  maybe not so much.
  
  Thanks for reading, and happy gaming!
  
  -GD
  
  The Breakdown
  
  Presentation / 8.5
  A very informative manual is included, albeit in black 
 & white; in-game tutorials and hints are very helpful and implemented transparently; menus are 
 easy to navigate, and everything you need is there.
  
  Graphics / 7.5
  The visuals are strictly GBA fare, but definitely the finest of what that platform had/has to offer. 
 The environments are very colorful and fun and everything runs smoothly. For slimes it works well.
 
  
  Sound / 8
  Some sounds aren't that great, but, for the most part, the sound effects are cute and bubbly and 
 very likeable. The music is very memorable and I suppose more so for alumni of the Dragon Quest 
 series.
  
  Gameplay / 9
  The adventuring is very fun and there's lots of it. The tank battles, of course, are  as many 
 folks before me have already stated  the prime offering of the game. There's a ton of customization 
 and the multiplayer is a (elasto) blast!
  
  Replay Value / 6
  Though the multiplayer is amazingly fun, that's only if you can get at it. I'm sure some folks 
 will boast about how they have a million friends who own DSes and are willing to each shell out 
 $35 for a copy of the game, but I don't. Keep in mind, though, that my rating of the replay value 
 is strictly based on the original retail price. If you can find a copy of the game cheaper and 
 also find someone to play with, that score will jump up substantially. It's a great game that's 
 somewhat crippled by the fact that Square Enix did not make adequate preparation for users to fully 
 enjoy what's there.
  
  Overall
  
  At the original retail price / 7.5
  At a discount, and only if you can find other folks to play with regularly / 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandasplatter05
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up from work and took it home along with Pokemon Mystery Dungeon. I played that 
 for a while and then started Rocket Slime. I could not put this down. It totally took me away from 
 Pokemon and i never really picked up pokemon again after that. This game was great. It stayed true 
 to the Dragon Quest series with its characters and its world and the gameply was tons of fun. The 
 tank battles were fast paced and exciting and the levels were full of puzzles and secrets. I always 
 enjoy a game where you can put a town back together, which is probably why I loved the original 
 Digimon World so much. The town was full of secrets and side quests as well and it all made for 
 a fun and exciting, though too short adventure. Id definitely suggest playing this although the 
 length keeps me from telling you to buy it. Gamefly it! I hope they make a sequel or more DQ games 
 like this (or even just more DS games like this) because it was one of the best DS games i've played 
 to this today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taggerung66
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has its moments but in the long run falls short. I found the game incredibly too easy 
 and monotonous. Everything was just a pattern of doing the same things over and over. I never was 
 killed in the game or ever offered any sort of challenging aspect of the game. The tank battles 
 were fun for awhile but sometimes relied more on luck than anything else. Even those got boring 
 after awhile. Beat the game in 6 or 7 hours. Way too short. Not really what I expected as a whole. 
 I knew the game wouldn't be hard but not to the extent it ended up being. Severely disappointed 
 overall. Wait for the bargin bin to get this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaKierad
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 3, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  Kierad Loves : Cute Character design, hundreds of characters from the dragon quest universe, Great 
 Humour, fun adventure that is enjoyable to the end, Tank battles are fun.
  Kierad Hates : That it is way too easy to complete, It is also to short, and there is not much 
 to do when completed to keep it going, no use of Stylus.
  
  Who would have ever thought that a game with a blob of slime would ever be reality, never mind 
 a great adventure game. Dragon Quests slimy mascot gets his own spin-off adventure gamewhere you 
 play as as Rocket, a young slime from the slime town of Boingburg. Your town is attacked by the 
 Plob who kidknapped all slimes in the village except you, who then sets out on a journey to find 
 all 100 slimes.
  
  The gameplay is pretty simple, as you find more slimes the more populated the village gets and 
 allows you to access new areas and items. Your character is controlled with the face buttons and 
 there is no stylus control, you can stretch you slime in any direction to attack enemies, hover 
 in mid-air to reach new areas pick up opponents and more. Personally I think that the touch screen 
 could be used perfectly for stretching the slime but it works well nonetheless. As you progess 
 through different Areas you will encounter some familar faces. You will encounter enemies such 
 as mad moles, jail cats and other regular Dragon Quests characters. You will fight many bosses 
 throughout the game, all of which are pretty easy. Most of thes bosses are also old dragon quest 
 characters such as a big Jargon, Evil Tree and many others.
  
  The tank battles play a big part in the game. Although at first seems like it is just a very simple 
 mini-game, it actually becomes a lot deeper. You pit your big slime tank against enemies tanks 
 in which you store your tank with different ammo. Basically you throw the ammo into the upper or 
 lower cannons to take off health of the other tank. The problem here is that the enemy has a crew 
 which will fight back, from throwing weapons at you or infiltrating your base when your health 
 has depleted. During the game you will gain new members for your tank who all possess different 
 abilities. This tank battle system is very well presented and adds more value to the game.
  
  Unfortunately the game does not last very long and is not difficult enough to make it a true 
 DS classic. Also the fact that it probably could have been done on the GBA makes it feel that it 
 is not reaching its potential. However cast these to the side and you have a decent 2D action adventure 
 that plays well enough to make it a worthy game to add to your DS library of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UndulationInc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  SquareEnix isn't known for putting out the best side-stories or gaidens to their DQ series. Normally 
 it's a random floor generating dungeon crawler not worth remembering. But Rocket Slime Heroes is 
 worth remembering! It has charm, action and enough puns to shake your head at! Truly worth a try!
 
  
  GAMEPLAY ~
  Rocket Slime Heroes (or RSH as I will now call it) Is a basic platforming title with an over-the-top 
 view point. Rocket is the games main protagonist, as you might have guessed, he is a slime. So 
 Rockets main weapon of choice is his elastic body.
  He can jump with A and even float for a short while if you hold the A during the jump. Using his 
 elasto-blast technique (tapping or holding B for charge) Rocket can take out numerous foes surrounding 
 him as well knock items into the air. When anything is made air-born, all Rocket has to do is place 
 himself under the shadow and catch the falling debris. Rocket can hold upto 3 items on his head 
 at once (interchangeable with the R button) and when you have the maximum number of items on-head, 
 you can send it all back to town on the rail carts. An what becomes of the items you send back? 
 The monster inhabit the town and the items become ammo and alchemy.
  Alchemy is used later on in the game (after level 3 I believe) to fuse different items together 
 to make a stronger item. Using a recipe given to you by certain slimes after their rescue you can 
 combine items and completely upgrade your tank for future, more difficult battles.
  RSH does add in a nice little extra that keeps the pace of the game up, its called Tank Battles 
 and Rocket uses his own tank called the Schleiman Tank acquired during level 2. Tank battles 
 normally involve a team, but can be battled one on one. Rockets team is a jumble of different 
 rescued slimes and even some baddies acquired when you earn their respect (see replay) .
  There are two main cannons in the Schleiman, Upper and Lower (each next to on another) and the 
 three additional teammates you choose all run on a programmed AI, normally having two options to 
 choose from. The ammo is presented in shifts from the varying different slides in the upper, lower 
 and back regions of the tank. As long as you can rely on your teammates, most battles are quick 
 and easy. I choose to storm the other tank and hold off the enemy from firing as my team decimates 
 them with a rain of debris.
  Once the enemy tank has reached zero HP, its time to storm the main engine and elasto-blast the 
 heart for the win! Very fun and exciting, a needed addition!
  RSH offers you a nice map on the top screen as well as an interchangeable menu which lets you cycle 
 through recipes, enemies collected, items acquired and a whole lot of other interesting and well 
 needed settings. Thought I do have to say, there was no in-game stylus usage, only during canvas 
 painting was it used... but sometimes, its better to use the DS for its engine than its hardware.
 
  In summary, RSH offers alot not seen in other platforming games on the DS system.
  
  STORY ~
  The inhabitants of Boingburg in the kingdom of Slimenia are attacked by surprise and 
 taken prisoner by the evil Plob (Platypus Mob) its upto Rocket to rescue them all and stop whatever 
 evil plan the Plob have in store for all of Boingburg!
  
  GRAPHICS ~
  RSH host a large assortment of classic DQ / DW enemies. From jailcats to bunnicorns almost every 
 well respected Akira Toriyama designs, but lets not forget the main reason we play Rocket Slime... 
 the Slimes! Yes these little gelatinous balls shaped like a hershy kiss is what makes the charm 
 of RSH work. There is around 5 to 6 base designs for the slime population each one repainted and 
 reused 2 to 3 times over.
  The only original designs are Rocket, the King, Rockets parents (Big Daddy seems to be a design 
 of either a solider from DQ3 or Ragnar from DQ4, while Mama Mia has the hat of the female witch 
 from DQ3) and Holly parents. There are also smaller tributes to other DQ games, especially DQ8. 
 During level 3 you enter in an ancinet temple with floor carvings. These carvings are of the Cursed 
 King's interaction with the Cursed Princess and the alchemy pot as well as the wagon from DQ8 fashioned 
 with a stuffed horse head at the front, nicely done SquareEnix.
  The enemies only get an initial design (each enemy has an annoying Platy-tail for some reason, 
 even when converted to your side they still have that tail...) with only the leader of the apposing 
 team in Tank Battles have a varying color.
  Tank Battles are nice with the top screen representing the overview of the two tanks (Schleiman 
 on the left, and whatever the enemy decides to drive on the right) and as you fire off weapons 
 they are displayed in micro version flying across the screen towards apposing forces. When you 
 decide to invade the enemy vessel you can destroy the surrounding computers and slow down the weapon 
 slides due to flames or what have you.
  RSH also adds in a Day / Night transition (like many other DQ games) in where as you progress, 
 on field day baddies fall asleep but tougher Night baddies may emerge. That is the only reason 
 I could see for adding in a Day / Night transition, Boingburg is always sunny and during the day, 
 so I have no real clue other than what I mentioned.
  
  SOUND ~
  RSH has a nice select tracks which are all properly arranged (by Koichi Sugiyama I believe) and 
 have that classic DQ feeling. Some even sound like rehashes from past DQ titles. I cant think 
 of any of the songs off the bat, but all are pleasant and worth a listen. The SFX are what really 
 drag you in, with enough oomph and silliness to convey the free feeling of this title. There isnt 
 any real voice-overs, except a few sounds of pain and alot of boings.
  
  REPLAYABILITY ~
  This is where RSH doesnt hold up well. The game does not offer a quick save 
 option, instead you need to make your way back to town to save at the church.. ah DQ how I didnt 
 miss doing that all those years ago. RSH holds around 15 hours of solid game-play and an additional 
 5+ if you choose to undertake the mini-games and bonus battles made available to you.
  There is a monster statue creating where if you gain enough monsters their statue will be displayed 
 in the museum. If you collect 30 you get a bronze statue and that monster joins your crew. 50, 
 silver, no additional support, and 100 nets you a gold statue and still no additional support.
 
  The Kingdom of Slimenia has 100 slime inhabitants in all and 12 monster freeloaders to collect. 
 This is very similar to DQ7s monster town in where you lore monsters into your town and they live 
 and make homes and stuff like that. Except RSH isnt as intense as that, its very layed back and 
 isnt necessary to collect even one monster. But its done so they join your tank crew eventually.
 
  Tank battling is the biggest addition especially when you rescue the Tank Master and battle in 
 different Ranked tank battles. An you dont even need to use the Schleiman tank, its all upto 
 you what tank you choose to play as.
  But once its over, it really feels over... unless you like upgrading you weapons or battling Sliva 
 one last time... its all upto you.
  
  OVERALL ~
  A great addition to any DS players line-up and if RSH becomes a franchise you can sure as heck 
 bet that Rocket will give Kirby a run for his money! Hands down one of the finest gaidens's Ive 
 played in some time! Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime is hard to describe. Ive never played anything quite 
 like it before. There are two types of gameplay in the game. The first is where youre walking 
 (err sliding) around in the levels in an almost platformer kind of way, looking for the 100 slimes 
 that have been kidnapped. The second type of gameplay is the cannon battles, which are a total 
 blast to play! Its hard to describe these though, you really have to try them out for yourself. 
 I can tell you this though: the game is a blast to play. Also, whenever you rescue a slime, he 
 will go back to your city, so its cool to see how the city starts out with basically no one in 
 it and then grows and has things such as shops and museums open up as you collect more slimes. 
 Also, the dialogue in the game is hilarious! I couldnt stop laughing. Theres lots of funny puns 
 to be found in DQH, so if youre looking for a game thats both fun and hilarious, you definitely 
 need to check out Dragon Quest Heroes.
  
  Graphics: Dragon Quest Heroes is an excellent looking game. Everything is bright and colourful, 
 which matches the mood of the game nicely. The game makes good use of the double screens as well, 
 having a map on the second screen during the platforming sections and displaying the two tanks 
 firing at each other during the tank battles. I really loved the look to the game, and which these 
 graphics could probably be displayed on the GBA, the look matches the overall cheery mood of the 
 game so much that its hard to consider these graphics as anything less than perfect.
  
  Sound: I loved the music in this game! Like the graphics, the music has that cheery tone that suites 
 a humorous game such as this nicely. The sound effects were nicely done as well. I wish there was 
 a sound room in the game where you could listen to the music though! But even so, Dragon Quest 
 Heroes has excellent audio.
  
  Value: Dragon Quest Heroes isnt exactly the longest game around. It took me about 13 hours to 
 beat the game (and collect 100 slimes) . However, even so, theres a ton of extras to be found in 
 this game! Theres a whole Tank League thing where you go in these Tank tournaments and try to 
 eventually reach the highest rank possible, and theres the museum where once you collect 30 of 
 a type of monster you get a statue of them and theyll join your tank crew, and you can just try 
 to find all of the different types of ammo and recipes for ammo. All of these things are completely 
 optional, but theyre just so much fun that youll most likely want to 100% the game by doing everything. 
 Overall, Dragon Quest Heroes will keep you playing for a long time.
  
  Tilt: Overall, Dragon Quest Heroes is like nothing Ive ever played before. Its an excellent game 
 that I recommend to anyone looking for a fun game that will make you laugh. Dragon Quest Heroes 
 was definitely better than I expected, and stands among the best DS games released so far. Dragon 
 Quest Heroes is definitely a must-have game, and definitely shouldnt be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexx88
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Positves- Colorful Graphics, Great Tank battles and lots of charecters
  
  Negatives- Some might be turned off by the somewhat kiddy music and graphis, and areas seemed more 
 like levels, than places, and fighting the opposition as a Slime seemed way to easy
  
  Gameplay- is excellent no control issues what so ever, except for the fact that you are a slime 
 you have to bump into things and knock them on your back to carry them XD. As for the Tank Battles 
 (which you dont recive till about the 3rd stage) they are about 50/50 chance because sometimes 
 you can just load ammo one after another and defeat your opponent or your tank is totally destroyed 
 and you are trying to keep your tank alive while still trying to destroy your oppnents tank. So 
 the gameplay is excellent. It also kinda faulters in use of the touch screen... but it does make 
 use of both screens with menus
  
  Graphics- Looks Great, except for the fact that it almosts looks like a GBA game... but the Tank 
 battles do look like they are in 3-d, and when the tanks blow up it looks great to
  
  Sound is average at best it sounds like an old adventure game for the SNES but its not terrible, 
 but i expected more from Square
  
  Value- Is great just need a little more than tank battles
  
  Tilt-gets boring once you beat 
 it but using alchmey to make the rest of the weapons and finding diffrent strategies to deafeat 
 oppnents can be rewarding
  
  Overall- A great Adventure Tank Battle game that almost any gamer can get into 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSORngr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 20, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I was not very interested, but as great reviews just kept coming 
 in its favor my interest grew. Eventually because of the drought of good DS games I decided to 
 buy this. I am glad that I did. The gameplay is simple (the A button is used almost exclusively) 
 yet amazingly fun. The tank battles are very fun, even if most are fairly easy. Overall it was 
 a little too easy and slightly short, eith maybe 10 hours to complete and a max of 20 hours to 
 get all 100 slimes (which is the ultimate goal of the game) . But after completing this section 
 of the game there is still a tank tournament to beat. Tank battles can be fought against your friends 
 through multicart play and little mini-games can be downloaded by other DS' with singlecart. This 
 game is very fun and ingaging and can be played in shorter bursts than many recent handheld games 
 have started to become. To add even more replay to this game statues of all of the enemies can 
 be obtained by sending specific amounts of each enemy back to town to help rebuild. Oh, and another 
 neat aspect of this game is the humor that was put into it, the ending is especially ironic and 
 funny. Hurry and join in the fight against the Plob! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartman86
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 30, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime has one of those titles that tells you nothing about the game. 
 At first you think its an RPG since it has the Dragon Quest franchise title. But in the end it's 
 really an action/adventure game in the same style as the Zelda series. Then you have Rocket Slime. 
 Which out of the game it makes no sense. Rocket Slime is the kind of game that you have to play 
 to understand.
  
  The game starts out with a little Slime named Rocket. Rocket and his friends are screwing around 
 when a race of duck creatures attack, destroy the village, and take all 100 of the other Slimes 
 including your family. It is your mission to rescue them and restore the town to its former beauty.
 
  
  While on your mission you will use your stretching powers to attack and pick up enemies. items, 
 and Slimes that you will need to take back to your village. The game is very forgiving and places 
 carts that return to the village for you. A very nice touch that makes the game far less frustrating 
 than it could have been. Taking these items back to town will add items to your stockpile of ammo 
 for what becomes the major combat element in the game. Tank battles. These tank battles consist 
 of you and 3 other teammates throwing items (each having specific abilities and power) at the opposing 
 tank. First to reach 0 hp has their weakness exposed and you now have the chance to destroy it 
 by infiltrating their tank. It's a very interesting concept that works very well. There are so 
 many different things to do and items to find and synthesize that anyone who plays will have a 
 different strategy.
  
  That leads us to the multiplayer. The game supports up to 4 players for a 2 on 2 team tank battle. 
 With over 20 tanks to choose from and ways to make the games more even this has to be one of the 
 most underlooked multiplayer games out there.
  
  Overall Dragon Quest Heroes is a very unique game that everyone with a DS should try out. It combines 
 the greatest aspects of Zelda with fun RPG strategy that has just enough action where anyone can 
 enjoy it. Your getting a minimum of 17 hours of gameplay for the single player and over 25 if you 
 wan't to get everything. Plus don't forget the multiplayer.
  
  PROS
  + Addictive gameplay
  + Tank battles are great
  + Good music and sound
  + Multiplayer is 
 awesome
  + Lengthy Quest
  
  CONS
  - There isn't much besides tank battles at some point
  - Would have been nice to see some touch 
 screen support
  - Is a little too easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VTG
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime (DQH) seems to have crept under the radar a little, in that there 
 was seemingly minimal fanfare up to its release and not many people, aside from user reviews here 
 on Gamespot, seem to know that it even exists, let alone many people having played it. Perhaps 
 this is due to the distractions posed by the near-simultaneous pre-Christmas money-grabbing DS 
 releases of Final Fantasy 3 and Children of Mana, which is a shame because DQH is infinitely superior 
 to the severely un-fun horror presented by Square-Enix's other recently-released Action-RPG. DQH 
 is presented in a very bright, confident and colourful way and is infusesed with something that's 
 missing from a lot of modern games; a happy, almost innocent, atmosphere. The game doesn't present 
 too steep a challenge and in modern terms could certainly be called quite easy but, in a way, that's 
 a big part of what makes it enjoyable. However, don't take that to mean that this is a game aimed 
 solely at kids, because us adults enjoy a straight-forward gaming experience too every now and 
 then. There are also plenty of in-jokes for the knowing gamer thrown in and a fair amount of extra 
 bits available to those willing to put in a bit of extra time. Should you not want to spend time 
 subscribing to the usual 'collecting everything' aspect that seems to be bolted onto nearly every 
 game these days for the benefit of the hardcore or terminally unsociable, there's still lots of 
 fun contained within DQH for the gamer who isn't so experienced.
  The music can get very repetitive so I've been playing mostly with the sound turned down, but many 
 of the effects are cute and fit the action very well. The real unexpected part of DQH is the sense 
 of humour displayed in the English translation, which is a brilliant example of thoughtful localisation 
 and displays excellent personality throughout. Some of the tank names and subtitles are sheer class 
 and whoever translated this game should be given a significant bonus and pat on the back because 
 they've done a great job.
  
  The structure and relationship between actions, plot revelation and expansion of locations available 
 to explore is just about perfect, with more than one thing available to do about 95% of the time 
 and various areas opening up at what feels like just the right point, usually when you're about 
 to run out of meaningful things to do. The way Boingburg gradually becomes more populated with 
 the game's personalities and reveals its charms and features as you progress is really nice and 
 never makes you feel like you've been playing for hours and made no visible progress. There are 
 optional collection aspects if you're that way inclined, but there is no aimless wandering here. 
 The tank battle ranking tournament is fun and provides a good extra challenge from the top of Rank 
 B upwards, even if most of the tank battles in the story part of the game itself are a little easy 
 once you've sussed which ammo is best against certain enemy tanks and ammo but they certainly aren't 
 merely a case of hurling more at your enemy than they can fire back in reply, because you can choose 
 a team of allies to perform strategic actions against the enemy. Three allies are available at 
 any one time, once obtained via the dungeon sections of the story mode, and abilities such as restoring 
 hit points to your tank, loading ammunition into the canons for you, preventing enemies from entering 
 your tank and sabotaging the enemy tank are available, among others. The tank battles make for 
 something a little different when it comes to what are essentially boss battles, although there 
 are a few more traditional platform game styled boss battles too, which unsurprisingly aren't very 
 difficult to beat, but that's kind of the point of the whole game. It's to be enjoyed and the in-jokes 
 to be savoured, rather than something that will make you swear copiously and throw your DS at the 
 wall in frustration.
  
  It doesn't matter at all that the game doesn't take advantage of any DS features save using the 
 top screen as a map and menu, the game even humourously alludes to that itself with its Nothing 
 to see down here! caption when you pause the game. This is a game that could easily be done on 
 a SNES, but that's no bad thing. It reminds me a lot of Enix's best days and their 16-bit ARPGs 
 such as Illusion of Gaia and Terranigma, in that DQH only provides a fair-to-middling amount of 
 challenge but still has enough to keep the experienced gamer interested. I also very much appreciate 
 that it's completable in about 15-20 hours, less if you completely ignore the few side quests available, 
 as without some heavy variations on the formula which would probably have diluted the purity of 
 the fun on offer, this game would have suffered from repetitiveness had it been any longer. For 
 what it is, and what it appears they've set out to make, Square-Enix have done a great job. Dragon 
 Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime is ace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeNnIs0710
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 14, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  A slime that's out to save his town from another race. Woo-hoo.
  
  At the start of the game, you're taught the only attack in this game: Elasto-blast. You blast into 
 enemies/objects and make them fly high. You can then position yourself under the flying enemy/object 
 to catch them, and throw them on to carts that runs through certain areas of a zone to send them 
 back to town.
  
  Why would you want to send enemies back to town? If you send 30 of one kind of enemy back to town, 
 there will be a bronze statue of that enemy built in the museum; 50 and you get a silver statue; 
 100 and you get a gold statue. Also, if a statue is built, the creature/enemy will offer to join 
 your battle tank crew (we'll get to that later) . If this sounds like repetitive work to you, it's 
 worse. Some of the creatures only shows in day/night, and some of them is extremely rare. You have 
 to hang around in a zone just to let the time pass to get to the night time so you can catch some 
 night time enemies, or have to reenter the zone multiple times just for the rare spawn enemy to 
 appear.
  
  Tank battle is fun at first, but it doesn't have much variaty. In a tank battle, you and your crew 
 can throw ammos into one of the two cannons, which have different paths, to fire at the enemy tank, 
 or infiltrate the enemy tank so they'll have a harder time throwing ammos at your tank. When a 
 tank's hp reaches zero, you can then enter the engine room and elasto-blast the engine thing to 
 destroy the enemy tank. If that sounds fun to you, you'll change your mind after three or four 
 tank battle rounds. The only variaties in the tank battles are that you have more hp later in the 
 game, and the ammos you get deals more damage; enemy tank structure and crew abilities are also 
 different. How do you get ammo? That leads to my next paragraph.
  
  All the item in this game can serve as an ammo, and each deals different amount of damage. You 
 get items that deals more damage later in the game. In addition to picking up items and send them 
 home, you can also use the game's alchemy system, which combine numbers of two items and make them 
 into another item. To make more of the better items, you will most likely be going back to the 
 same zone again and again just to get those items to use in alchemy. Thing is you most likely won't 
 need to farm those items to beat the game, as it isn't difficult.
  
  All in all, this game isn't that deep nor great. It has systems implemented that will consume your 
 game time (make you farm items/monsters etc) , but it doesn't have a great story or gameplay to 
 back it up. If you like some light-hearted pick-up fun, then this game is for you. Otherwise, look 
 elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acknowledge101
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Rocket Slime is an odd game. To tell you the truth, I've enjoyed all the past DQ main series games, 
 but wasn't overly looking forward to this one. It looked far too cute even for me. And if you only 
 go through the first ten minutes of the opening, you might say the same thing. Where Rocket Slime 
 wins is in its gameplay though; incorporating mechanics from Zelda, Pokemon and of course the simple 
 yet fun charm of Dragon Quest.
  
  If you like collecting things you'll spend many hours with this game. The premise of the gameplay 
 lies within the elasto blast. You press the A button, pull Rocket in whatever which way you want 
 to shoot him, let go, and he goes flying. Not overly exciting, eh? Well, once you hit enemies, 
 items, slimes they too go flying and you have to aim yourself to catch them on your back. You then 
 can carry up to three things to a Trans-Slimenian cart and drop them off and it all goes back to 
 town.
  
  Story? Um, well, the Plob (pun for Mob) has destroyed your hometown and taken all its 100 inhabitant 
 slimes, besides yourself, #101, aka Rocket. Basically you run around breaking open chests to get 
 your friends back and all the while carrying around enemies which you can return to your town to 
 join you. Also you get various items... and you may think once you get a certain amount of anything 
 you can just quit bothering with it? WRONG. Introducing... tank battles!
  
  I wasn't looking forward to the tank battles when I heard about them, I was never a big strategy 
 fan... but in the end, the tank battles have very little strategy involved. What you do is run 
 around inside collecting ammo to fire at your opponent, all the while trying to decide which cannon 
 to stick it in (probably the only strategy whatsoever) . When the opponent tank reaches 0 HP, you 
 move in and take out the heart of the tank. Now tank battles are the whole reason to collect other 
 things beside your slime friends. Just about every item you collect you can either use as ammo 
 or combine with something else in the alchemy pot to create better ammo. Also, when you collect 
 30 of each enemy type you can then use them as helpers in the tank battles. Once you collect 30 
 of every type of enemy, it doesn't have to stop there though, no. In the museum, once you collect 
 50, that enemy's statue turns from bronze to silver, and when you collect 100, it turns to gold. 
 Not everyone will want to complete this, it's definitely unnecessary, but it's a task indefinitely 
 for the completists (such as myself) .
  
  The game's dialogue is almost never without some kind of stupid pun within every sentence. Examples: 
 i've been eating too heartiblubbly (heartably) , much obubbliged (obliged) , bravery just OOZES out 
 of you, terriblubbly (terribly) , the doc told me to watch my blub pressure (you can figure that 
 one out) . I mean, they are all ridiculously bad, but that's part of the charm. Actually, it's all 
 of it, because no one ever says anything too helpful or important, they're all only trying to prove 
 they can speak weird. Gosh, you crazy slimes.
  
  Some of the bad? The game is entirely too easy. The difficulty does somewhat increase as you move 
 up, but it is never hard by any means. Even collecting all the slimes doesn't take too much thought. 
 If you're the kind of gamer that really wants a challenge, you should probably turn this one down, 
 but if you're the kind if gamer that can just grind and sit there for hours collecting things, 
 this is the best game on the DS for that purpose.
  
  Anyway, you could buy this game and enjoy the collecting and tank battles, but then you might start 
 to use really bad puns. Nobody wants to hear that. So save yourself a few beatings, and skip it. 
 If you don't mind a black eye or two? Buy it right now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Odysseycat
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 7, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime is a easy game to beat in a few days or less if you got a lot 
 of time on your hand. anyway, in this game you play as a slime name Rocket who have to save his 
 hometown from bad guys who went and kidnapped everyone and its up to you to find them. The graphics 
 are done excellently and they tend to use the same song over and over again for some levels. Not 
 only you fight them on the ground you also get to fight them in tanks as well to save the others. 
 This game is worth to buy if you are the fan of the Dragon Quest Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie_IV
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:45 pm PT
Review:  With it's constant rotating cast of heroes, one of the few recognizable faces from the Dragon Quest 
 series comes in the form of the slimes, the tiny smiling blobs that appear as low-level enemies 
 in every single DQ game. Therefore it's not much of a surprise that one of them finally manages 
 to land a starring role all of it's own. This comes in the form of Rocket Slime, an adventure game 
 in what's normally a role-playing series. The star of the game is none other than Rocket, a bright 
 blue slime with a big smile almost constantly on his face. Rocket's on a quest to save his family 
 and everyone else in town of Boingburg after they're kidnapped by the Plob, an evil criminal organization 
 with a fleet of giant tanks on their side. Rocket gains control of the ancient Schleiman tank for 
 himself, and uses it to ride into battle against them. There are two different forms of gameplay 
 here: the normal action-adventure mode, and the tank battles. There is no all-encompassing overworld 
 to be found here. Normally, you journey around one of the different stages looking for slimes to 
 rescue and items to collect. Every stage has a boss character at the end which you need to defeat 
 to open up another stage and move on in the game. These stages aren't open-ended, you'll usually 
 find yourself heading through different areas or rooms in the same general direction towards whatever's 
 at the end. In the meantime you'll usually find yourself collecting items and solving rather simple 
 puzzles to make progress.
  
  The game functions like a typical top-down action game. Rocket can attack his enemies by stretching 
 out and then releasing himself, causing him to shoot forward in a rocket-like manner. Contact with 
 enemies or items in this fashion will cause them to fly up into the air. If Rocket manages to maneuver 
 under them before they land, he can pick them up and carry them with him. Throwing items that he 
 carries is his only other form of attack, so the gameplay tends to feel a little on the simple 
 side, and possibly even a little repetitive at times. The only way to collect items or other characters 
 permanently is to take them to one of the train cars (riding on the Trans-Schlimean Railroad ) 
 or rafts that are inexplicably found heading into and out of tunnels that lead back to town. Tank 
 Battles are quite different. The controls remain the same, although pausing things will give you 
 the option to give out orders to your crew mates. Your job in these is to load ammunition into 
 the two cannons your giant tank has so that it can be fired at the opposing tank. This ammunition 
 varies depending on what you have loaded into it when you're in town; you can either decide what 
 to load it with yourself or have the computer choose it all for you. Different pieces of ammo do 
 different things. For example, some move faster, some do more damage, some are unblockable by most 
 conventional methods, and some block enemy fire. You can see the entire battlefield on your DS' 
 top screen, as well as the health of both your tank and your opponent's. You also have the ability 
 to select your own crew from both the slimes that you rescue and the enemies that elect to help 
 you after you capture a certain number of them and send them back to town. Each different character 
 will do different things for you, depending on who they are. This adds a second layer of strategy 
 to these battles. You can see the entire battlefield on your DS' top screen, as well as the health 
 of both your tank and your opponent's. After you reduce your enemy's health to zero, your job is 
 to run across the battlefield into their tank and deliver a final blow to the tank's now-exposed 
 heart-shaped engine to destroy it. Tank battles are always rather fun, and there is a good deal 
 of strategy involved in selecting ammo and crewmates, but it seems a bit too easy to simply break 
 into the enemy tank by either launching yourself at it or just plain busting down the front door 
 and then preventing the enemy from placing ammo into the cannons while your crewmates fire at it. 
 But this isn't for everyone, and it does make the fights seem a bit too easy and simplistic.
  
  Rocket Slime is a very cheerful game. Everything about it seems fun, from the cartoony graphics 
 to the comical dialogue and the almost constant puns found within it. It seems rather easy as well, 
 as it's possible to blow through the game without ever getting stuck or simply not knowing what 
 to do. This might disappoint folks out for a hardcore challenge, but it's not that much of a problem 
 in all honesty. Fans of the series will quickly notice all of the different monsters from the game 
 making appearances here. Nearly every different form of slime is represented in this game, and 
 many of the most common enemies in the series are to be found here.
  
  The game puts on a very good visual front. Everything is brightly colored and moves smoothly. There 
 are never any issues with graphical bugs or anything of the sort. All of the game's action normally 
 takes place on the bottom screen, while all of the relevant information can be found on the top 
 screen, which tends to keep things in order and prevent everything from getting too cluttered.
 
  
  The game's sound works well enough. Most of the music is of the orchestral variety, with different 
 songs for every stage. There are a few voice samples thrown in at different times, such as when 
 an item is discovered. Everything else is limited to various cartoony sounds that occur at appropriate 
 times. It's not anything spectacular, but it does the job.
  
  Dragon Quest: Rocket Slime is a surprisingly good game. It is a bit disappointing that there's 
 not much to do after you finish the game, other than making sure you've rescued all one-hundred 
 slimes and fighting tank battles either against the computer or against anyone else you may find 
 who happens to own this title. The main adventure takes long enough to recommend paying full price 
 for this game, as it's entertaining enough to make both fans of the series and total newcomers 
 happy with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitch-x911
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 29, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  One of the great games for the DS so your going to want to check this out at your local EB games 
 or gamestop. Well this is my first review so here:
  
  Gameplay: It surprised me because you were a slime ball and stretched and stuff. But when you get 
 deeper in the game it becomes better. Like instead of just saving people you get tank battles which 
 are probably my favorite part of the game. 9/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't to bad you have cartoony characters that are not that bad. Also, 
 you do not have very big glitches (that really stand out) . 8/10
  
  Sound: The game has some good music that goes with the levels. Also, has good music that goes with 
 situation that is happening. The sounds are good like if you do things like hit people. 9/10
  
  Overral: I would highly recommend this game for Dragon Quest fans. If your a dragon quest fan 
 or not you need it for your DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamepro2421
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 22, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  The Good: easy to pick up and play in short bursts; over 100 different blobs to free, each with 
 their own halarious personalities; plenty of side quests and collectables; tank battles are fast 
 pased and exciting.
  
  The Bad: little to no replay value; easy enough for even the most novice to play through without 
 a single death; lack of a variety in ways to attack enemies; minor visual bugs.
  
  Dragon Quest Heros: rocket slime is the opitome of a pick-up-and-play RPG. The game begins in the 
 town of Slimeville where your little blue blob learns how to attack enemies... which is pretty much 
 the only action you need to preform throughout the entire game. This creates a learning curve of 
 at most five minutes. Don't let this simplisity put you off! Once the story begins to evolve (around 
 20 mintues into the game) you will be hooked.
  
  The graphics are excellent. Very happy, bright colors cover every inch of the screen at all times. 
 Even with the dozens of Slimolions on screen at one time the frame rate never dips. There is, however, 
 a strange glitch that can be seen when you shift from one screen to another. The screen will go 
 black and flicker a bit showing you a glimpse of a different backdrop that you should not be looking 
 at. This is definietly noticeable, but in no way effects overall gameplay.
  
  The sound will be seen as great to some and annoying as hell by others. It is very.... VERY happy 
 all the time. This is nice and relaxing at first, but by the end of the game you kind of crave 
 an edgier tune during some of the boss battles.
  
  Overall, Dragon Quest Heros: rocket slime is an excellent RPG that will please fans of the Dragon 
 Quest series and newcomers alike. The game must be approached with an open mind and a bit of patience 
 at first due to its slow start and the more expereiced DS players should be prepared to trade in 
 the game after about a week since there is little to no replay value and it only takes between 
 12-15 hours to hit 100% complete. None the less, a must have for any RPG fan looking for a quick 
 fix to hold them off until the next epic 60+ hour Final Fantasey esque RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RainbowBrite
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 17, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  I've never played a Dragon Quest title before, and I probably wouldn't have considered this one 
 except for the high reviews I saw here on GS and in a couple of gaming magazines. I'm so glad I 
 got it - it's lots of fun! I actually enjoyed all the puns.
  
  My biggest complaint is that the game almost doesn't use the stylus at all. Flinging Rocket (your 
 slime) around would be a perfect task for the stylus, but it's restricted to buttons. It's easy 
 to do with the buttons (unless you're trying to go at an angle - then it's a bit harder) , but the 
 stylus would be easy too.
  
  It's great to be able to choose who you want to fight with you in battle, but I do wish more slimes 
 would fight! It's mostly enemy species (bring back 30 to unlock one) that will fight with you. 
 It's also annoying that sometimes, any member of your crew will purposely pick up and launch another 
 team member, especially if you're low on ammo. You can also accidentally knock a team member into 
 your cannons (or accidentally get knocked in yourself) , so be sure to take turns at the cannons!
 
  
  The game features a good mix of tank battles switching off with boss battles that you fight outside 
 of the tank. You'll be sticking to your tank - the Schleiman Tank - except in the unlockable Tank 
 Masters mode, where you can choose from a bunch of tanks that you've fought before.
  
  The graphics are adorable and the sound is great - it's one of the few games that I don't mind 
 leaving the volume up on. There's also plenty of play time - I'd echo the Gamespot review's estimate 
 of 10-15 hours, but that's without getting all the monster statues and items. If you want a perfect 
 game you can always try for that and get more playtime. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkstar_Sinada
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  Slimes have always been the weak, little opponents at the beginning of every Dragon Quest game. 
 They rarely have much of a role in the games, so Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime is a strange 
 title in the Dragon Quest universe.
  
  During the game, you play as a slime who must rescue the inhabitants of his town, who have all 
 been stolen and locked away in chests. The plot never becomes too complex, and returning these 
 slimes is your main goal through-out the entire game.
  
  The gameplay is simple at first, but later becomes a bit more complex. As the main character, you 
 can jump, float, elacto-blast and throw items. Just the D-Pad and two buttons are ever used during 
 gameplay, making for quick learning. You spend time grabbing monsters and items to return to town, 
 and solving a few puzzles here and there. The gameplay style is closely related to old-school Zelda 
 titles.
  
  The complex gameplay comes in the form of Tank Battles, the meat of Rocket Slime. You equip your 
 tank with ammo collected through your adventures, and later on, with a crew of slimes or monsters 
 you've managed to collect. Ammo does different damage, and some do effects that can turn the tide 
 of battle. The ammo pours out of chutes in your tank, and you collect it and then launch it out 
 of the high or low cannon. Your crew can be told to do one of their two functions , helping you 
 defeat the enemy. Loading ammo isn't all you can do, as you can also step outside to battle enemies, 
 or invide their tank and cause havoc.
  
  The sound-track is familiar to any that have ventured into the Dragon Quest realm before, so therefore, 
 it's amazing. Up-beat tunes and fitting sound effects crowd Rocket Slime, creating a pleasant, 
 enjoyable atmosphere.
  
  The graphics are nothing special, but they do the game justice. Cartoon-style sprites run about 
 performing actions, and while nothing fancy, still looks good. Many characters are recognizable 
 from the other Dragon Quest games too.
  
  The game is rather short, about 10 to 12 hours to blaze through the main story. Tons of replay 
 value exists, including collecting all the monsters, ammo, and recipes you can. Multiplayer exists, 
 so this extra time won't go unrewarded. Only one save file exists though, so if you want to play 
 through the story again, you'll have to delete everything.
  
  Overall, Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime is a great break from normal games. Blending Action, 
 Adventure and RPG-elements, the game will keep you hooked. Fans of Dragon Quest games will obviously 
 get more out of the title, but newcomers will enjoy the simplistic yet enjoyable gameplay. Definately 
 worth purchasing, especially if you can find some friends to battle against. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintendo_holic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  DQ: Rocket Slime is just so fun. This game can take you a long time to finish if you want to collect 
 all the tank members, statues and weapons. This game doesn't use the stylus but it's ok because 
 using the stylus or not does not affect this game. In fact, I think some times game developers 
 pay too much attention to the use of touch screen and forgot to concentrate on the gameplay and 
 story. Anyways, the story of this game is great and funny! The enemy cat running around the cat 
 nip always makes me laugh. I strongly recommend this game to all DS owners and you don't have to 
 be familiar with the DQ series in order to enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodychimp
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Rocket Slime was the first game I bought for my DS, and it is a purchase I will never regret. This 
 game is ridiculously fun, and the horrible slime puns just make it all the better. The gameplay 
 is divided into two portions, adventuring through the game world and tank battles. The adventure 
 portion of the game sets you on a quest to save all the slimes kidnapped from your village. The 
 tank battles against monsters in the game put you and three companions inside your slime-shaped 
 tank, where you toss all kinds of objects into your cannon to shoot at your enemies. This combination 
 of gameplay types makes Rocket Slime a unique and very fun experience.
  
  The graphics in Rocket Slime, while simple, are very colorful and suit the game well. The soundtrack 
 is also very good, and is filled with happy and upbeat adventure-type music. The sound during tank 
 battles does get a little repetitive sometimes though.
  
  Overall, Rocket Slime is a great game that I would highly recommend. Even after you beat the main 
 adventure (which is about 13 &amp;#8211; 18 hours long depending on how fast you go) , there is 
 still a lot of content to explore and tons of tank battles to fight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evil_cm
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 11, 2006 6:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is really good. I play it all the time now. its not very hard but its awesome. kind of 
 like pokemon RPG but rather then poke battle its Tank battle. collecting amunaton for tank is really 
 fun.. swords, bombs, rockets and even u can use ur self as a bomb and launch at enemy.. I think 
 this game should be populer as Pokemon and final fantasy but the name Dragon quest sounds really 
 crappy and geeky. It has nothing to do with Dragons?? . it just needs to be known, so i think it 
 needs comercials and add's. I only have one thing to say, U try , U'll like and U'll buy.. if u 
 didnt notice i said will. aniway off to playing dragon quest... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rage01aba
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 8, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime is a relatively addicting quest through the world of Dragon Quest 
 on the DS. Honestly this was a very satisfying DQ experience that was almost Zelda like in game 
 play, but a few unique twists do make this game stand out. In order to give this game its justice 
 I will break the review down into the categories of sound, graphics, story, and game play. Without 
 further a do here we go.
  
  Sound: This game has all The sounds of the DQ series that you wound want and expect. Everything 
 sounds crisp clear and great on the DS. The sound gets a 10/10.
  
  Graphics: The visuals are top notch for the hand held. The game uses both of the screens quite 
 very well at times. Although the player will be ignoring the top screen at most times, but most 
 DS games have you ignore one of the screens. So this I can easily excuse. The graphics receive 
 a 10/10.
  
  Story: The game play driving story is a typical adventure game story. The player has to collect 
 the 100 slimes that were kidnapped by the evil plob. The game makes many sometimes humorous sometimes 
 corny jokes involving the godfather. Typical but passable story the story gets a 9/10.
  
  Game play: Addicting very addicting easily the greatest part of the game. The game flows quite 
 nicely in adventure mode. Tank battles are paced very quickly letting you stay in the heat of the 
 situation and they are very addicting. The game plays awesome, but its too short for a DQ game. 
 I realize that its a hand held game, but a series whose console counterparts are about 70-90 hours 
 depending about how fast you play through. However, DQ Heroes Rocket Slime barely eeks out 20 hours 
 come on people. The game play gets a 10 despite the shortness.
  
  The game also has only one save slot that is a huge pain. In conclusion , Dragon Quest Heroes: 
 Rocket Slime is an extremely addicting albeit short ride that should not be missed by any DS owner. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Texcap
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  The Dragon Quest universe, as a whole, is a heck of a fun place to visit. Its simply chock full 
 of wonder, be it found in the heroes that sacrifice all to save the day, the numerous creatures 
 that roam the land, the intricate locations themselvesor any number of the many addicting aspects 
 of the gameplay itself that have been offered. But perhaps the best part of the deal is that potential 
 players are offered the chance to take up the roles of these great adventurers (heck, you even 
 become the hero with several nameless characters) and experience that wonder yourself through a 
 variety of different means.
  
  The latest opportunity to jump right in and experience a universe that millions have come to enjoy 
 is found in the form of Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime for the Nintendo DS. In the game you 
 play as Rocket, one of the inhabitants of Slimenia who has seen his town blasted nearly to ruins, 
 and his family and friends kidnapped by the hands of a ruthless gang known as the Plob. To what 
 end? Thats for you to gather your gumption and find out, and its definitely a journey worth embarking 
 on.
  
  It didnt take much to convince me after seeing some of the gameplay mechanics, character designs, 
 etc. that this would be another DQ game that I was going to enjoy, but I was completely sold at 
 two different points on the game prior to its release. The first thing to really get me on the 
 bandwagon was a pre-release trailer by Square-Enix that animated the basic premise of the game, 
 which I explained above. Towards the end there is a moment when Rocket is introduced to a massive 
 tank at his disposal, and his sorrow slowly turns to hope that perhaps he can save his townfolk 
  and his frown turns to a smile. Once inside, we see him taking a moment to gather his bravery, 
 by remembering his parents, before loading himself inside a massive cannon and flying through the 
 air to attack the enemy. Sold! I knew I definitely wanted to be there to experience that adventure. 
 The second instance came in the form of a gameplay explanation that Rocket would be able to infiltrate 
 enemy tanks, cause massive amounts of destruction to themand in many cases, march right up to 
 the enemy, attack, and load them into their own weapon to find themselves flying away much to their 
 dismay. If I wasnt already convinced, there was no question upon reading that. A large portion 
 of the gameplay in Rocket Slime is in the form of tank battles consisting of yourself, your crew 
 and an opposing tank (filled with humor) . Your goal is to whittle down the hit points of the opposing 
 tank to 0 and then deliver the killing blow to the tanks engine which results in its explosion 
 and a reward for all your efforts. Strategy becomes a must in these battles as the enemy is just 
 as busy trying to destroy your tank, as you are theirs. Cancelling out their attacks with your 
 own is necessary, as is gathering up your mettle, and marching over to their tank to do some damage. 
 The challenge grows as you progress, and executing the battles more effectively is one of the more 
 entertaining aspects of the game. Aside from the aforementioned tank battles, much of your time 
 is spent exploring levels throughout the game, collecting ammo for your tank, and in completing 
 other tasks. As you travel, you encounter the many foes standing in your way and in slimey fashion, 
 you defeat them by using the unique abilities at your disposal, namely, stretching yourself and 
 blasting them left and right. Its a simple ability, but it holds hour upon hours of entertainment 
 as you learn the ins and outs of what you can do, what you need to do to progress, grow stronger 
 et al. Dont be fooled though, its not a simplistic game for some of its simple features  despite 
 the playful tone  there are moments when youll have to employ strategy to stay in the game, and 
 youll need to invest some time into being prepared for your next step. The graphics in the game, 
 as ever, are inspired by the designs of Akira Toriyama and they vividly come to life on the DS 
 platform. If youve enjoyed the best that the Legend of Zelda has had to offer in its top-down 
 view, then youll know what you have to look forward to here. And if youre new to any of these 
 conventions, then youre still going to enjoy it Id reckon.
  
  If youre looking for a game that you can pick up and play anytime, that youd like to invest some 
 time with, or simply because it looks like a lot of fun, then you cant go wrong with this one. 
 Its recently won widespread recognition as Game of the Month in several publications, including 
 Electronic Gaming Monthly and IGN. If youre new to the world of Dragon Quest, welcome aboard  
 and if youre returning with this game, welcome back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  The Good - SIMPLE GAMEPLAY!! When dealing with slimes, anything more complex then the gameplay 
 would be out of place. Square Enix got this one right on. Enough elements to avoid repetition but 
 simple enough for a slime. Also, the simple, clean graphics make for a good presentation and uncluttered 
 screens.
  
  The Bad - The bad part of this game is probably the ease of the bosses , levels, puzzles and most 
 tank battles. Not really an issue for some gamers who play for the story and gameplay (i. e. ME) 
 but those who love a challenge better look elsewhere.
  
  What I would Change - Not to much really. I would tweak the difficulty of the boss battles and 
 put in a few more puzzling elements into the levels.
  
  Verdict - I am enjoying this game a ton (because I'm a huge DQ8 fan, and slimes rule) and will 
 until I've collected every monster and item. TheCarl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jordan5319
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  By Jordan5319
  
  I must admit that its hard to write a review on a game series that is known by some and not known 
 by others. If youve ever heard the Dragon Quest name (a RPG series) , you should instantly think 
 of the insane popularity Japan has with this series created by Yuji Hori and art designed by Akira 
 Toriyama (familiar name for anime fans out there) . Its instantly more popular than that of Squares 
 Final Fantasy, but due to the lack of fan support here, very few times will you ever see a Dragon 
 Quest title appear in the United States. Square Enixs attempt this year (Dragon Quest VIII being 
 the first) takes place in a whole new system, that being the successful handheld, the Nintendo 
 DS.
  
  Slimes have always been around since the original Dragon Quest (Famicom) and have ventured forth 
 in many new directions from being just an enemy. Rocket Slime takes it one step further and puts 
 you in the role of the slime, a slime called Rocket. With the ability to change his name for a 
 more personal experience, Rocket sets out to find his friends, family and neighbors from an evil 
 mafia organization naming themselves, The Plob. These raccoon tailed fiends arent going to get 
 away with what theyve done to the little town Slimenia because Rocket has a plan of his own. 100 
 villagers have been kidnapped and whats Rocket to do all by his lonesomewhy elasto-blast (stretch) 
 himself of course! The main attack of the game and many other operations are performed by simply 
 using the A button, why canceling menus and talking to locals is just as simple as B. Touch 
 screen use is well. absent; not a big loss though.
  
  While your little town is almost totally demolished, your blue slime self will have to venture 
 off to 6 other areas to unleash your comrades from the treasure box prisons theyve been locked 
 in. Throughout each area youll notice numerous tracks of carts heading back to Slimenia; this 
 is where Rockets carrying ability comes in. Almost every item in the game can be sent back to 
 town through this transportation system, all it takes is Rockets attack to hit and bounce what 
 ever ones after on top of his head. Enemies can be sent too and eventually themselves become citizens 
 and local crew members. Its good to say, that this isnt the only main factor or plot in the game; 
 its time for some warfare, tank warfare. You wont have the option right away, but at least an 
 hour into the game tank battles begin to pop up. Throughout each of the levels rivals await for 
 a challenge, walking up and pressing A is all it takes to initiate the fight. Tanks bring their 
 own sort of customization in a world where you can collect almost everything because thats what 
 everything is for, your ammo and crew members. Found in the town, an alchemy pot (Dragon Quest 
 VIII reference) helps to manipulate your items and recipes youve collected to create totally new 
 weapons in combat. From shields, to swords, to missiles and bombs each varies to create more strategy 
 than meets the eye.
  
  Tank battles are actually played out differently than one would think; its all in real time, which 
 gives a real thrill when played aside from the main quest of the game. Inside tanks are 3 main 
 rooms that produce random sorts of ammo that have been customized, by you, to be used in your battle. 
 Rocket must hurry through out the tank and collect the ammo (A attack once again) collecting 
 up to 3 upon his head. Rushing back to the upper cannon room, you now have a choice between 2 cannons, 
 up or down. Each cannon is another strategy of the tank, as you never know where you enemy plans 
 to send their ammo either. More strategy comes into play from choosing your crew members; each 
 one carries their own task and commands that can be chosen just by pressing start during battle. 
 The more slimes saved the more youll have to choose from, whether its having them help you load 
 ammo or even firing themselves at the enemy tank. The games A. I. is a tad bit awkward (doesnt 
 always follow commands) , but most of the time theyll get their job done.
  
  Now to the last part of tank battles; after you or your enemy has depleted the HP (hit points) 
 of either tank, the goal is now to infiltrate and destroy its inner core. This is pretty easy because 
 running in and finding the right room (usually always located in the back of the tank) and using 
 your elasto blast to pummel the enemys core (heart shaped) isnt too difficult. The difficulty 
 in tank battles is always get their HP to reach zero, with so many items and baddies rushing towards 
 the tanks, its hard not to get pummeled yourself.
  
  The game does feature multiplayer for both players with and without a game cartridge. Those without 
 will have to live up to a surfing minigame, its fun, but nowhere as fun as tank battles. Having 
 more than one game cartridge will allow up to 4 players in their own tank warfare. 4 players have 
 to split into teams of 2 and battle it out from there. Its nice to see, but Wifi, would have made 
 a greater impact on those who cant find other players.
  
  After all the talk about tanks, Rocket Slimes other sort of activity is running around the surrounding 
 landscapes to save, collect, and figure out a few puzzles along the way. I must admit the game 
 was easy, but it was actually a lot of fun. It even featured a few boss battles, but not on the 
 challenging side. Its writing and animations featured enough laughs to keep you going and just 
 had that bright and cheerful quality that couldnt keep me away. Tanks battles were very addictive 
 lasting from 5-10 minutes and as Ive said before, the concepts of the game are just so simple 
 that there isnt anything that will keep you from not playing it. It is really up to the player 
 on how long this game can really last, whether 15 hours or 30, finishing the game is entirely up 
 to you.
  
  One major aspect of the game that shouldnt be overlooked is the graphical quality, each and every 
 sprite is highly detailed and animated to the point where it does look good, but the game still 
 suits a GBA style of detail. With 100 characters, more than 35 items and about 40 enemies, Square 
 Enix wasnt too lazy with the overuse of sprites. Even the tanks have their own individual flair, 
 theres a variety of over 10 which eventually you have the power to choose.
  
  The landscapes that surround Slimenia are detailed themselves, but are on the small and bland side. 
 You will see many of the same enemies appear in different areas, but a variety of enemies appear 
 later on. A neat aspect while exploring is the use of a day and night time line located at the 
 bottom of the screen; as you move and explore the landscape colors themselves will change and sometimes 
 sport new enemies. Like most DS games, the upper screen serves as a detailed map; the bottom is 
 where the game play is at. If youve played any of the past Dragon Quest RPGS the soundtrack will 
 instantly hit you as familiar. Mostly orchestrated tracks, the sounds and background music are 
 fairly catchy, simple, and cheerful no matter the situation. Sound effects range from the many 
 of the characters simple voiceovers, to the repetition of Rockets attack and tank explosions. 
 It would have been nice to see more variety than what was there.
  
  In conclusion, the Nintendo DS is really a perfect place for this handheld game, and so far Ive 
 enjoyed my DS more than any handheld. Videogames are meant to be fun, and Rocket Slime lives up 
 that; dont think because it looks childish the game isnt for you, do yourself a favor and try 
 it. The Dragon Quest series stands out as being very simplistic, yet deep, and that is why it remains 
 popular in Japan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  Review: Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime
  
  Well I Loved Dragon Quest 8, and that game reinvigorated my love of the series. Will Dragon Quest 
 Heroes for the Nintendo DS Continue my fondness for the series, or start another descent into seeming 
 ambivalence?
  
  Story:
  You are a slime, and your family, and the entire town gets kidnapped by the platypus mafia whom 
 is after a flute that finds its way into your possession while playing in the castle before the 
 castle is attacked.
  
  Graphics:
  The Graphics are bright and colorful, what retaining the cute and comical look that this game strives 
 to achieve. So essentially it looks like a Dragon Quest Version of the Mario and Luigi RPG's, only 
 cuter.
  
  Music:
  The actually the same music that was used for Dragon Quest 8, usually I would consider that cheap 
 but in this case I didn't find my self minding at all since I loved the Music in Dragon Quest 8. 
 The sounds and effects in this game are what really make it great from the cannon fire, to the 
 grunts and groans of your enemies as you whack them with your rubbery body, to the shrieks of joy 
 and jubilation of your kin as you save them.
  
  Game play:
  You heard me comparing this game to the game to the Mario and Luigi games earlier as it pertained 
 to graphics, well there is a good amount of similarity in the game play as well, in that the games 
 is easy to b pick up an play, (perhaps even more so with Rocket Slime) , but there is still a difference. 
 Instead of controlling 2 characters like you do in the Mario and Luigi games you control one character, 
 whose game mechanics are very different to the Mario Bros, you pick up the enemies to use as ammo 
 later in the massive free for all tank battles, where you use everything not strapped down (including 
 yourself, and your allies, and enemies if they are dumb enough to wander aboard) as weapons. Tired 
 of using your elasticity as a weapon? Pick up a slime knight and hack and slash those critters, 
 pick up weapons you find along the way to help solve puzzles in each area.
  
  Design:
  You can tell from the second that you pop the cartridge into you DS that the designers considered 
 this to be a labor of love, this is a extremely well crafted game that will hold on to you and 
 wont let you go until the ride is over. It is a shame then that there is an ending, and further 
 more it comes too soon I feel. It took me a good weekend to beat this game, in between 8 hour shifts 
 at work, but I can guarantee that the game will keep you hooked like it did me, with its story, 
 and craftsmanship
  
  Action Adventure fans this is a game for you, if you own a DS be sure to check this game out!
 
  
  Graphics
  8/10
  
  Game play
  9/10
  
  Sound
  8/10
  
  Fun factor
  10/10
  
  Tilt
  9/10
  
  Average score
  8.8
  
  Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime:
 
  Pros:
  Good graphics
  Good soundtrack
  Engaging story
  Addictive game play
  
  Cons:
  Not much use for the Touch Screen
  Not much replay value beyond arena tank battles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guile176
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 3:28 am PT
Review:  Up until last June or so, I had never heard of Rocket Slime. However, that all changed once the 
 focus of Slime Knights (a Square Enix promotional team im part of) changed from Dragon Quest 8 
 to Rocket Slime . So, since then my interest in the game has peaked since learning more about it. 
 Fortunately, despite not even owning a DS as of yet, I bought the game off someone who was ready 
 to trade it in. I was able to use a DS off someone in order to play through the game enough to 
 write a review though. While I havent beaten the game as of yet, i've played more then enough to 
 give my opinion on it.
  
  Ok, the first thing that came to mind when I booted this game up was that it looked like Zelda. 
 A Link to The Past to be exact. Only Link looked like a blue slime (Rocket) , rather then a Keebler 
 Elf in white tights. And while I did feel the gameplay different quite abit from the Nintendo classic, 
 I think Zelda fans would do good to check this one out. From all i've played, your character Rocket 
 can do quite abit to get him through his journey. Being a slime not restricted by bone, he has 
 the ability to stretch his self, stun enemies by snapping into them, and lift enemies and objects.
 
  
  Perhaps the best aspect of RS is the tank battles. These are pretty deep, but not deep enough to 
 scare off newbies or young kids There's various ammo types players can use for their tanks, and 
 you also have the ability to customize your tank somewhat by using rescued allies to enhance it. The 
 whole tank aspect of the game is something i'd like to see more of in a sequel someday. Heck, i'd 
 love to see a RS game based entirely on it.
  
  Musicly, the game has sorta a bouncy soundtrack to it. While I didn't feel much of it was too memorable, 
 I also didn't find any of it annoying. Best of all though, it fits the content of the game, and 
 thats important.
  
  In the end, I would highly reccomend Rocket Slime to anyone looking for a fun, lighthearted adventure 
 for their DS. Even if you have never played anything in the Dragon Quest series, you'll most likely 
 enjoy the game. Phantasystar77 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  The DS has really lacked in RPG's, especially good ones. It's nice to see Square step up to the 
 plate. Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slimes is a fun, cute adventure. You play the role of Rocket 
 and your out to save all your Slime buddies. There are 100 slimes in total so saving them all won't 
 exactly be a short trip. Not to mention there are a lot of other things to do along way. Gameplay 
 is mainly an overhead style action/adventure similar to the original Zelda. There aren't any brain 
 busting puzzles to solve to make your way through the worlds, but there a decent amount of area 
 to explore and things to collect. You aren't only out to collect Slimes, but also items to use 
 for the alchemy pot (after you acquire so many slimes it becomes available) and also enemies that 
 become available for use in your tank after gathering 30 of a kind. The whole game isn't simply 
 adventuring though, there are also a number of tank battles. These battles don't really vary in 
 any way from each other, but personally I found them fun all the way through. Basically you get 
 in a tank with 3 crew members of your choice and you battle an enemy tank. You use items you've 
 collected or cooked up in the alchemy pot to shoot at the enemies tank and drain their HP. After 
 their HP has reached zero you run over into their tank and then take it out at the heart.
  
  
  There's a ton of these to do to collect all the slimes and on top of that after retreiving 
 a certain slime you can enter a tank battle arena which features another 15 or so tank battles. 
 The story isn't very deep, so hopefully you aren't looking for that. It's got a bunch of old Dragon 
 Quest references and even some Final Fantasy ones so thats fun if you catch them. The sound is 
 pretty nice. Just what you'd expect from a Dragon Quest games, features lots of the classical sounds 
 actually. All in all I'd say it's a fun experience if you're looking for something to occupy some 
 time (you know, since FF3 got pushed back TWO MONTHS.) It's got a lot of good material so check 
 it out and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WermoSK
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 29, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Rocket Slime for the DS has stormed in from Japan with a pleasant little quest that unfortunately 
 for a seasoned gamer will take just around 10-15 hrs to complete the main quest. This is a title 
 that will appeal to a broad audience, despite its cartoony and childish look. There's also plenty 
 of delicious tidbits of Final Fantasy, Dragon Quest, and other Square-Enix titles for fans of the 
 company. I borrowed a DS Lite for this play through but you can rest assured that spoilers will 
 not flow through me, most definitely not any heavy spoilers.
  
  TYPE OF GAME
  
  Action/Adventure; like a 2 dimensional Zelda but with an added twist of Tank battles.
  
  STORY
 
  
  The game begins with a young slime and his friends playing in the city when the plumed mob, named 
 the Plob, kidnap all the slimes in Boinburg, leaving our little blue slimey hero Rocket alone, 
 for a reason I won't divulge. It is pretty entertaining.
  
  DIFFICULTY The game is accessible to all ages, and in fact sports a one button control scheme that 
 is simple and yet all that appears to be necessary. Why make Tetris with 10 button control? Neither 
 do you need multiple buttons to control this little game.
  
  Probably because of this accessibility, the game is pretty easy to complete as I mentioned previously, 
 but is very rewarding if you know others who have the game. Tank battles can be played with multiplayer 
 (2 or 4 players) and it can be a much more energetic experience to play with friends than with 
 the AI. For that feature alone the price of the game is well worth it.
  
  Though I've said the game is easy, it does have some tricks up its sleeve and one does have to 
 think in several areas, two in particular, to get all 100 of Rocket's friends.
  
  VISUALS
  
  The graphics are splendid, vibrant and colourful and show remarkably how hard the 
 designers and programmers worked on this game. There is nothing short of this that can be said.
 
  
  SOUND
  
  Long time Dragon Quest fans will absolutely love the sound in the game, from all the DQish sound 
 bytes when climbing stairs, and the monster attack sound and the music. For those who have never 
 played any Dragon Quest games, then either you're too young or shame on you (in my opinion) . Rent 
 if you must Dragon Quest VIII and you'll see what I consider to have perfect sound. I'm sure the 
 DS's sound capabilities also limited its score in this area.
  
  VALUE
  
  The game is a lot of fun to play and there are many challenges and little things to collect even 
 after you've finished your game. Do you want to load your tank with nothing but Swords or Shields 
 or only Peppers? Who do you want on your Tank Team? Again, if you have someone else you can play 
 against, this is a very fun game to get and is more than worth your while to obtain. If you live 
 around trees and rocks without a single soul near you, then it depends on what value you attach 
 to having a game that lasts likely at most 25-30 hrs with all the little extras. It is a lot of 
 fun and I could not get into any other game I own until I finished this one. It's that good.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Do you like 2D Zelda like adventure you will undoubtedly enjoy this title. 
 The simple controls make the game easily accessible and yet unlock most gamers' potential to become 
 true heroes.
  
  The tank battles are where the game shines with strategy; mainly against human opponents. I found 
 that although I was nearly beaten twice during the entire game, I otherwise found the AI not so 
 good at beating you to the ground. For example, the enemy would not come into your tank for anything 
 other than defeating you or stealing your ammo. Never did it focus on what I did in its tank: keep 
 the enemy from loading their cannons. It would have been interesting to see if the AI could have 
 been programmed to do this.
  
  It is only too bad that the game does not use Wifi to connect with other players. It could have 
 become a phenomenon this way.
  
  TILT
  
  Rocket Slime is a thoroughly enjoyable game that will have lasting value for notice and veteran 
 players if they enjoy collecting things, including monsters. And if upon a rental or the purchase 
 you find that you love the tank battles, then you're set. Just get some friends to get the game 
 as well and you're off to tank parties! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2shark
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Heros: Rocket Slime
  
  I waited for this game since I finished Dragon Quest VIII. I'm happy they finally decided to bring 
 this title to NA. This is actually the first game I pre-ordered (mainly because of the keychain 
 that came as a bonus!) . I have to say I'm glad I did. This is a great game on its own. The fact 
 that it's on a handheld is amazing.
  
  Gameplay:
  The learning curve isn't very long; you can perfectly control your little Slime friend before the 
 first boss. The gameplay is very simple, yet very fun! It's amazing how this game makes you hop 
 around for hours. But that's until you get to the meat of the game: Tank Battles. Tank battles 
 are basically the boss battles. You get in a slime formed tank and shot ammo (ranging from rocks 
 to missiles and from apples to swords) you collected in earlier levels at the enemy's tank. Battle 
 isn't as simple as it first seems and difficulty jumps up quite quickly. First, you have two cannons 
 to shoot from, as does the enemy. Basically, one piece of ammo blocks one of your enemy's. Some 
 block more. You have to time the ammo shooting to even get to hit the enemy without getting hit 
 yourself. Once your enemy's HP is down to zero, the game is not over, you have to infiltrate his 
 tank and destroy the tank's core . Only then is the battle over. And did I mention you can get 
 into the enemy's tank in the middle of the action to do a bit of sabotage? I never thought such 
 a little game could hold so much strategy! One thing I didn't like? No use of the stylus. None. 
 Except for a little bit of drawing but you can play the entire game without doing that... Graphics:
 
  Graphics are quite simple and very colourful. I had to wait till the boss battle to get a WOW 
 effect. The tanks and characters are well done. It has great graphics for a DS game. I didn't really 
 expect more or less from the game's looks. Sound:
  The sound is actually very good. When you hop around at day, you get the nice are joyful song, 
 but when it's night, music gets spooky! Same thing with Tank battles, when your against your first 
 enemy, it's a normal music, but when you get to fight badass enemy's, you get BADASS tune! Nice 
 to see some classic Dragon Quest sounds too, like when you save at the church.
  
  Value:
  The game doesn't take that long to beat if you only try to recruit the 100 slimes. It took me around 
 14 hours and I took my time. I guess it can be done in less than 10. But there are so many things 
 you can do even after there is no more slimes to rescue! I just can't stop! Great replayability.
 
  
  Finally, I really enjoyed my game; I hope more and more people get to discover this great game. 
 Dragon Quest ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nofriendo1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime is the latest Dragon Quest game for the Nintendo DS and the sequal 
 to Slime Mori Mori for the Gameboy Advance. Like it's predesessor you take on the role of an heroic 
 slime and rescue your fellow slimes from capture from the evil Plob. This time around you have 
 the aid of a tank to go into battle with the enemies tanks. It's an extra feature that really works 
 well. This game may be on the easy side and perhaps geared more for kids but it's still a lot of 
 fn. with great gameplay and music and the fact that you can play against your friends in tank battles, 
 unfortunatly not through WiFi, this game is sure to please everyone young and old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FirstbornDragon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, at first I was rather disappointed in how simple the game seemed. After all, you're a blue 
 slime (The most common monster in all of the DQ games) , who jumps, and stretches to attack enemies.
 
  
  But then the tank battles came into it. And wow did things change FAST! Not only dose the item 
 collecting become more important, (Especially after Alchemy comes into the picture) but the importance 
 of monster collecting comes out too.
  
  Tank Battles themselves are the best part of the game. You can't simply reload and shoot, or you'll 
 never win. You'll be out gunned. To win tank battles takes some work. Eventually you get an amusing 
 group of co-pilots and the strategy part of the tank battles REALLY kicks in.
  
  The game itself is disappointingly short, but still fun even after the game is over. With bonus 
 battles to fight, and unlockable tanks, there is plenty to keep you busy.
  
  One MAJOR drawback is the less then intelligent AI. Especially in tank battles. With a bit of work 
 you can cripple some foes dead easy. Especially with a team group involved.
  
  Overall thought, this game will keep you busy for a good 20 to 30 hours just to beat it. With all 
 the extras (And multi-player tanks battles) you could spend far longer enjoying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaimp12
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 27, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Well where should i start how about the story. You play as rocket a slime who is playing with a 
 flute when the plob attack your village and take all of your 100 friends, This is where you come 
 in after the discard you, you end up in a forest and are determined to find them. The game play 
 is really easy but it is really fun. You use the a button to jump, guild, and electro bash. The 
 b button is used to pick things up and throw things. For an extra bonus you have to throw 100 of 
 each enemy on a cart or throw wings at them to get a nice bonus. But yea the gameplay is easy but 
 it is fun it will not disapoint even the most die hard fan. The game really gets fun when you get 
 the tank, Any item you pick up on your journey and send back to the village can be used as tank 
 ammo. The tank battles are fairly easy and get better when you have 2 or more people playing. So 
 if your a die hard dragon quest fan or just loking for a great game this is the one for you. I 
 will leave the mini games for you to find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucifer3999
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  A small summary of this game would be that its a slightly Zelda-ish game with a cute story about 
 a blue slime instead of a green little hero. The boss battles are basically about giant robots 
 (that sometimes hold cute and clever cameos of games made by square-enix) . 
  
  Throughout the game you'll be saving your slimy friends from evil. Most of them have been kidnapped 
 and you'll have to fight a giant robot to get him/her/it back. Saving these little guys is important 
 because certain parts of your town are blocked off until a certain number of slimes are saved.
 
  
  These battles are the most unique thing about the game and can be really challenging, but at the 
 same time its extremely fun and doesn't really get old. The plot is charming but its not really 
 that important, however chances are you will grow to like this blue little slimy protagonist by 
 the end.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kastalas
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 27, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  DQH: Rocket Slime Review by Kastalas
  
  Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime is an incredible game! The game itself plays a lot like some 
 of the past Legend of Zelda titles. Little Rocket's town has been ransacked by the Plob and he 
 must go out and save all his friends and family. He manages this by elasto-blasting , or stretching 
 himself out and then flying like a rubberband into enemies and objects. He can catch and carry 
 up to three things at a time and bring them back to town for the rescue or to be used later on 
 as ammo or alchemy fodder. This in itself is alright at best, but the fun really takes place during 
 the Tank battles. Rocket and up to three of his friends take control of a huge slime shaped tank 
 and start blasting all sorts of things at the enemy tanks. Ammo can range from rocks to arrows 
 or even one of the crew! The Tank is fully customizable with upgrades to HP, type of ammo and who 
 will be in the crew. The music is decent for a DS title and the characters are fun and lovable. 
 My only qualm about the game is it's length. It takes roughly 5 to 15 hours to run through depending 
 if you are trying to complete all the sidequests. If you like adventure and roleplaying games and 
 don't have a lot of time to spare, this is the title for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rika95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  Rocket Slime is ball of laughter and fun. It is full of puns and goofiness. Throughout the game 
 is silly dialog amongst members of the Plob who act like well intentioned idiots. The music during 
 these encounters shifts to emphasize the goofiness of the Plob gang trying to act cool. At various 
 points in the game, you battle in tanks. The titles and subtitles of the tanks are puns and comedic 
 references that pertain to American culture and Square Enix games. Even the sound effects of the 
 main character, Rocket, amuse the ears. I love the boing sound that Rocket makes when bouncing 
 around. The colorful cartoon style of the graphics completes the package of emphasizing the light-heartedness 
 of Rocket Slime.
  
  This game is a spin-off title of the Dragon Quest series, which are normally RPGs. However, Rocket 
 Slime differs from the series because it is an action adventure title. Unlike most Dragon Quest 
 games, Rocket Slime can be conquered within far less than 100 hours. It took me 28 hours to beat 
 the game, and most people complete it within 20 hours. The straightforwardness of Rocket Slime 
 hinders replay value. Another drawback is that starting a new game requires erasing the old game 
 file, first. Folks wanting to start over, but keep all past progress saved, are out of luck.
  
  I like the challenge presented in Rocket Slime. It is neither too hard nor too easy. Enemy 
 movements during the adventure portions of the game are predictable enough to dodge their attacks. 
 After clearing considerable portions of a level, you can jump into warp holes to open short cuts 
 to earlier parts of the stage. This makes it easy to save the game &amp; quickly return to the 
 same point at a later time. At various locations, Rocket finds fruit that increase his max life. 
 Just like in Zelda, hearts represent life. Unlike Zelda, Rocket doesnt use a bunch of tools during 
 his adventure. Rocket uses his body as a weapon. Also, most enemies dont hurt him unless their 
 attacks hit him. In general, it takes three physical attacks to kill an enemy, but an even quicker 
 way to take care of a baddy is to drop it onto the train to Slimenia. He does that by first ramming 
 into an enemy. This bounces it into the air. If Rocket catches it, he then carries it on his head. 
 Rocket can carry up three monsters/items on his head at one time. He can throw the bottom item/monster 
 at any time, and he can rearrange their order with a shoulder button. Some items give Rocket special 
 abilities when he carries them on his head. For example, a SlimeKnight allows him to fight with 
 its sword, and cloak makes him invisible to enemies. When Rocket throws an item/monster at an enemy, 
 it inflicts damage. However, tossed enemies resume attacking Rocket once he no longer carries them 
 on his head.
  
  The challenge in Rocket Slime is greatest during tank battles, which require careful planning ahead 
 of time. You pick all the ammo to use in your tank, and you decide which three characters would 
 accompany you for tank battles. You acquire ammo during the adventure portion of the game by sending 
 various items home via the train to Slimenia. Better ammo can be created through the use of alchemy. 
 The characters that join you during tank battles help by loading ammo into cannons, launching themselves 
 at the enemy tank, sneaking into the enemy tank &amp; sabotaging its weapons system, healing your 
 party, etc. Each character can do one or two of these things, hence the importance of careful planning 
 ahead of time.
  
  At some point, you can participate in tournament in which you fight other tanks, but you get to 
 pick any tank to use during battles. You could also compete against friends in tank battles. However, 
 folks like me that dont have friends close by are out of luck, because there is no wi-fi for multiplayer 
 battles. Other bonuses in Rocket Slime including a surfing mini-game and paintings you can draw 
 on. In the surfing mini-game, the goal is to collect as many coins as possible within a limited 
 time frame. When drawing over paintings, you use the touching screen to draw directly onto it. 
 (That is probably the only time the touch screen is used.)
  
  Rocket Slime may not make much use of touching the touch screen, but the game makes good use of 
 the dual screens visually. During the adventure portion of the game, the top screen serves as a 
 menu, while the action appears on the bottom screen. During tank battles, the top screen shows 
 the ammo being launched from each of the tanks, while the bottom screen shows Rocket and the area 
 he is at. You manually load ammo at the bottom screen, but use the top screen to strategize on 
 which cannon and ammo to use. Not using the touch screen much keeps the game simple enough for 
 practically anybody to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trevdawg1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun simple game. Its not simple as in Super Princess Peach simple, but as in simply a 
 harmless adventure game with tons of collecting. Some of the puzzles actually take a bit of thinking 
 and planning. There are 2 main parts of the game, the adventuring and the tank battles. The tank 
 battles are kind of like the Boss battles (although there are boss enemies while adventuring too) . 
 The adventure sections support the tank battles as you collect your ammo while Sliming out in the 
 world. Hows the game go? Basically like this: do a level, go back to town, unlock some stuff, tank 
 battle, do a new level, back to town, unlock something, backtrack in an old level and get somewhere 
 new, yada yada, etc.. You know the drill, and you love it! The characters are all cute and funny 
 so things are kept lively and upbeat. Its all good fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morridor58
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 26, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Square Enix hyped up this game a lot with Nintendo's help. You saw it in Nintendo Power magazine 
 two months in a row as well as having a fold out poster in the magazine. Video games sites had 
 this game as their Number 1 most popular games on release day. Magazines labeled it Game of the 
 Month for Handheld systems. The question is does it hold up to the reviews?
  
  The town of Boinsburg is under attack! Giant metal balls are destroying the buildings and every 
 slime except for Rocket has been captured in treasure chests. The Plob has taken over Slimenia 
 and is trying to get rid of slimes all together. How can you save your slimey friends?
  
  As Rocket, you go around Slimenia looking for the treasure chests that contain your slime friends. 
 Then you pick them up and throw the on the TranSlimenian Railray to send them back to town. The 
 main point of this game is to repopulate Boinsburg (the Slime's town) with your slime friends as 
 well as collecting as many objects and monsters as you can.
  
  Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime has so many different things to do in the game that It's gameplay 
 is just amazing. It was based off of Zelda games, so it is a little simplistic and easy to pick 
 up and learn; however, that's what makes the gameplay so much fun. There's the normal attack which 
 is called Elasto Blast, but as you go through the game, you realize exactly how much you can do 
 with just this one attack. Because of the Elasto Blast, you can put things on top of your head 
 to carry. There is an extremely large number of items and monsters you can put on your head and 
 what makes the game even better is that some objects do different things when you throw them off 
 you head. The heavy weights shake the ground and flip some monsters over; Chimera Wings fly objects 
 or monsters back to town. However, will all of that just by putting things on your head, there 
 are also Tank Battles you have to play! These are quite fast paced and very fun. You use objects 
 that you have collected as ammo to shoot at the enemy tank. Not only that, but you can shoot yourself, 
 your friends, or your enemies out of the tank as well. You can infiltrate the enemy tank and destroy 
 their computers. This is one of the best parts of the game. The tank battles provide a lot of fun 
 as well as a good challenge. You can customize your ammo and upgrade your tank and you can play 
 the tank battles as much as you want until you are satisfied. You also get items for replaying 
 tank battles so that you still get rewarded!
  
  Tank battles can be quite challenging and whereas it's rather difficult to actually die, the tank 
 battles actually are hard to win. The difficulty of the puzzles in the game are somewhat easy as 
 well but they do make you think about what you're doing.
  
  The soundtrack to the game is very fun. There are tracks that will give you nostalgia to the older 
 Dragon Quest games, but there are new tracks that you love to listen to play for hours. There is 
 one track that is a little weird because of the vocal noises that are played in it, but it fits 
 the situation that it plays in. The music adds to the enjoyment of the game as well as the immersion 
 into the Dragon Quest world.
  
  The storyline is rather simplistic, but it's the simplicity that makes the game amazing. Even though 
 the storyline is basically rebuilding the town, there are conflicts and different situations that 
 add more depth than you would think out of such a cute game like this. Overall, this game is very 
 addictive just because you want to collect everything. I actually got stuck playing this game for 
 4 hours straight before I realized that I had homework to finish. Even then, I didn't to put it 
 down. There are great little references in the game to pop culture and other video games. One of 
 the tanks that is a tree is named Chrono Twigger. The small little Easter Eggs like this just make 
 you smile. This game is filled with comedy and it's overall a very enjoyable game. This is a treasure 
 that might be buried in the DS line-up and it's much better a game than it comes off as. It lives 
 up to the hype it had and the high reviews don't lie. This game will make you addicted to it where 
 you'll want to play it every chance you get. I never played my DS on the train before until I got 
 this game. I just couldn't go that long without playing it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dargondarkfire
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 26, 2006 12:04 am PT
Review:  A Game good for all ages with fun features and characters. exploring, beating up bad guys and collecting 
 items is really fun. The tank battles however can start getting fast paced and this gives younger 
 players a challenge while giving older gamers a fun game that can be equally challenging to finding 
 out what deck of ammo is best and the task of completing all the challenges and item collecting 
 in the game. As well the reactions characters make during events can ber rather funny. There is 
 also
  references to other games in the game such as DQ swords and DQ8.
  
  I think this game is one for everyones game collection and would be enjoyed by everyone.
  
 
  Dargondarkfire 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kindakirby
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 25, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  When I was in Japan a couple years ago, I managed to pick up a pretty cool game called Slime Morimori 
 Dragon Quest. It was, I will admit, a major impulse buy, seeing as I understood literaly no Japanese 
 at all, and it seemed like a game that might need at least a rudimentary understanding of the language. 
 But I played it, and -- well, the experience transcends the mortal realm. Slime Morimori Dragon 
 Quest is that good.
  
  That fact was also the reason why I was so excited that SQUARE-ENIX was going to bring Dragon Quest 
 Heroes: Rocket Slime to the Untied States. One could only imagine the possibilities that came with 
 understanding the game, I reasoned, and so I was extremely hyped up about Rocket Slime. And when 
 I finally got my hands on it, I had, I admit, certain expectations beyond belief.
  
  I was not disappointed.
  
  Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime is a spin-off of the Dragon Quest 
 series starring the arguably most well-known character in all RPGs -- the lowly blue Slime. It 
 all revolves around a Slime named Rocket, who is determined to stop the invasion of the bird-platypus-monster-thing 
 Plob creatures, who have pretty much ransacked and destroyed Rocket's hometown of Boingburg just 
 for the heck of it. They've also captured everyone in the city -- everyone, that is, except for 
 Rocket. And so, Rocket sets out to stop the Plob, and rescue his fellow Slimes -- with a giant 
 Slime-shaped TANK.
  
  Yes, a tank.
  
  The Schleiman Tank, a rather large piece of machinery, is the perfect weapon for Rocket to use 
 against the Plob army -- and part of what is probably one of the most exciting parts of Dragon 
 Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime: the tank battles. By running around inside your Schleiman Tank and 
 grabbing ammunition, Rocket can blast away at the Plob forces, with the top screen showing an outer 
 view of the two opposing sides (with various enemies or allies) . The bottom screen is basically 
 where all the controlling takes place -- what with Rocket moving about the Schleiman Tank, finding 
 and loading ammo and blasting away at the opposing side. This can get pretty chaotic, and the Schleiman 
 will definitely take heavy damage sometimes -- which is where partners come into play.
  
  Later on in the game -- or rather, after the beginning of the game -- Rocket can recruit Slime 
 partners to aid in Tank Battle. Some of them will rush about with you to find ammo. Others will 
 find themselves at the helm, attempting to crush the other tank. Still others manage to heal your 
 machine -- which can prove invaluable in many cases. Truly, these guys and girls are pretty useful 
 -- not every battle is a cinch, and without your team, you'd most likely (scratch that, you will) 
 fail to defeat your enemies. Not to mention your partners are rather humorous, too -- they can 
 be loaded up into your cannons to fire at the enemy, dealing quite a bit of damage.
  
  After you finish off the other tank's exterior, Rocket can invade the interior and effectively 
 end the battle by eliminating the other tank's engine -- and in later battles, this can take quite 
 a while, what with enemy security. However, these battles are diverse enough so that boredom is 
 pretty much nonexistent, which is amazing.
  
  Though gameplay is definitely Rocket Slime's strong point, the game has several other pros as well 
 -- much of the music is quite familiar, especially to Dragon Quest veterans, and is wonderfully 
 remixed for the avid gamer's ear. The art is cute, albeit primitive by DS standards, and the dialogue 
 is rather interestingly written -- it's more than a little bit childish, with more cliches and 
 puns on the word Slime than one would have previously thought possible. Nevertheless, the art and 
 dialogue both suit the world of Rocket Slime, so all is forgiven. Besides, is it possible to be 
 mad at these little Slimes?
  
  The only thing that puts a damper on what is otherwise an excellent game is the length of it. Unlike 
 its numbered Dragon Quest cousins, Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime clocks in at a mere ten to 
 twelve hours, which includes rescuing all the Slimes that the Plob captured. However, just like 
 its cousins, Rocket Slime contains a wealth of side quests, such as the gathering of various recipes 
 for the Alchemy Pot of recent Dragon Quest fame. When that's all well and done, however, the game 
 truly meets its end.
  
  Rocket Slime summons forth nostalgic tears in Dragon Quest veterans' eyes, and a refreshing experience 
 in the hearts of other gamers. Overall, Dragon Quest: Rocket Slime is quite a marvelous game, as 
 all have come to expect from SQUARE-ENIX, and is one that both Dragon Quest fans and Nintendo DS 
 gamers should take a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robzombiex180
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 25, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Rocket slime is the newest dragon quest game to hit the U. S. and is completely hand held. You start 
 out as rocket a slime who is the only survivor of an attack by the Plob. The Plob is an evil organization 
 bent on world conquest and they have captured all of the slimes in the land and now you most help 
 Rocket rescue his slimy brethren. Rocket Slime features many new things like tank battles where 
 you battle in your tank verse the plob at the end of every level. As you save more and more slimes 
 they will be able to help you do new things with your tank like increase your tanks damage or HP. 
 You can launch Rocket and Friends into the enemies tank to destroy it from the inside as well as 
 just blasting it away from the out side. You can also buy new things at stores or make new items 
 with you alchemy pot to help your tank in its fight against the Plob. Later in the game you will 
 unlock a side quest known as the battle pit where you put your tank against the computer or your 
 friends. The graphics are great for a hand held game and the sound is spectacular. The multi player 
 function is one of the greatest gem of the game and it cost a decent price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 25, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  I've become a member of the Slime Knights community only recently, not even a month ago, and it 
 was there that my interest for the game starting growing. After reading fact sheets, press releases, 
 news, viewing artwork and screenshots, this was something I had to try, if not just for the cute 
 factor, for the interesting tank battle concept.
  
  Lucky me, I got a copy a day or two after the game's launch, and only 45 minutes in I was already 
 finding it tough to put it down.
  
  Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket Slime stars a lowly monster from Dragon Quest, the slime. The story 
 takes place in the kingdom of Slimenia, a peaceful land now invaded by some evil-doer group naming 
 themselves the Plob. The Plob attacks the capital city of Boingburg and kidnaps all its slime inhabitants, 
 and now their fate rests on the only survivor, Rocket. Rocket has no choice but to accept the tough 
 task of rescuing his fellow slimes and ridding the land of the Plob.
  
  At first, Rocket may seem like a harmless, useless little blue blob, but he is far from that. Initially, 
 he only has a special ability called Elastoblast, where he stretches to charge and then attacks 
 enemies. Later in the game, Rocket will go through the Goonin trials to improve this attack and 
 be able to break crystal walls.
  
  When attacking something, that item or monster will rise up in the air. He can then carry whatever 
 he catches on his back. This is how you collect items and monsters, you carry them and toss them 
 on the train that leads to town.
  
  The different areas of the world map offer varied landscapes, with forests, mountains, cliffs and 
 caves to explore and a large number of enemies, slimes and items to find. There are many obstacles 
 that incite environmental puzzle-solving: breakable rock walls, wells that work as shortcuts, streams 
 with currents that drag you, crystal walls, cannons for shooting sand sculptures, and much more.
 
  
  Collecting is the major part of this game. There are 100 slimes waiting to be found and let out 
 of their prison chests, tons of enemies and many more items. When visiting each new area you get 
 an overview of it on the world map that says how many items, monsters and slimes are left to find 
 and how many you have collected already.
  
  Further collecting includes all sorts of monsters to create statues in the museum (bronze, silver 
 and gold, depending on how many of each monster you collect) and any kind of items to use in the 
 recipes for the Krak Pot. The Krak Pot introduces alchemy to the game by allowing you to mix existing 
 items in order to create new and more powerful ones.
  
  Every time you save a slime you are rewarded with a thank you note and either a useful item or 
 a recipe to create an item. Every item you collect can be used as ammo in your tank, and depending 
 on the item, some will do a lot of damage, others will hardly hurt your opponent.
  
  You can say that the game is divided into two parts: exploration and tank battles. Tank battles 
 happen when you encounter a member of Plob who has his own tank. You can then summon your Schleiman 
 Tank and challenge him to a fight.
  
  The mechanics are simple. You pick up items that come down the ammo chutes, carry them up to the 
 top level and fire them off the cannons. The whole battle is a frenzy of running around carrying 
 things back to the cannons and tossing them in. However, the enemy also has an upper and a lower 
 tank, so there's a bit of strategy involved since you shoot to defend yourself and intercept the 
 enemy's armor. Once the enemy tank's hit points reach zero, you have to run over and attack their 
 heart (the tank's engine) with an Elastoblast to win the fight.
  
  Battles become much more involving when you start using recipes to create better ammo and when 
 you have three other crew members to help you out. Some of the slimes you have will join you, and 
 any monster that you have collected 30 of will also join after you talk to them in the museum. 
 You can set the crew in the garage and their functions at the beginning of each battle, and let 
 me tell you, it's useful to have someone who can infiltrate and sabotage with someone who can heal 
 and someone else who just keeps firing.
  
  The Schleiman Tank can also be upgraded with more HP and ammo carrying capacity, and much later 
 in the game you will be able to fight arena battles where you gain ranks and special items for 
 your tank.
  
  One of the mini-games in Rocket Slime is a Wi-Fi multiplayer tank battle. The other is a little 
 surfing game where you try to collect as many coins as possible, and you can share it with friends 
 via download play.
  
  A great feature of this game is its humor. You will find hilarious dialogs, funny remarks and silly 
 names all over Boingburg and adjacent areas. The music is quite nice, I found myself humming it 
 along after only 15 minutes of gameplay, and I particularly like the military tone of the tank 
 battle theme. Graphically, the whole game is presented in a too cute art style, with bright and 
 colorful characters and environments, and it's the little details that make the town so appealing 
 and worthy of exploring.
  
  Rocket Slime is a pleasant, exhilarating title that escapes the ordinary. Its light-hearted and 
 humorous nature make it a fun game for all ages, and the collecting part ensures a good amount 
 of hours for the completist gamer.
  
  If you haven't picked it up yet, I think it's time you thought about it.
  
  Reciew text part 
 of Grrlgamer. com. Full text and screens at:
  http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=rocketslime 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prince0fAngels
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Dragon Quest fans or not will adore this game! You play as a blue slime named Rocket, or whatever 
 you wish to call him. You venture out into different levels rescuing your slimenapped friends from 
 a platypus gang called the Plob. The more slimes you rescue the more you unlock.
  
  The game sort of plays like the classic Zelda from NES days in the sense that your life meter consist 
 of hearts and the monsters are just wandering around. The tank battles are what makes this game 
 it's own!
  
  The tank battles are one of the highlights of the game! With alchemy you are able to create various 
 types of ammo with their very own affects and power. With only one cartridge you can have a friend 
 demo a tank battle against the computer. With more than one cartridge two players can actually 
 duke it out in a tank battle!
  
  Most of the music and sounds are recycled from past Dragon Quest games, but the music was never 
 bad in any of those games so take this as you will.
  
  The downside to this game is there is only ONE save slot. Meaning if you have a friend who wants 
 to play the game they would have to completely erase your game in order to start a new one.
  
  Overall this game is enjoyable fun and easy to play. There is so much to do in this game it 
 would be near impossible to get bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaimaouSaro
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Story: 3/5
  The story is pretty basic. Basically one day a cartel called The Plob invades Rocket's home of 
 Boingburg. They kidnap all the citizens. Rocket must fight back against the Plob and save his friends, 
 one by one. The good thing about the script however is that it is very funny, albeit very pun-intensive
 
  
  Gameplay: 4/5
  The gameplay is relatively simple. As Rocket you must go to various stages and clear the level. 
 During this part of the game the gameplay . Most of the game's action uses the A and B button. 
 Rocket can use a stretch attack and can also throw items at enemies to deal damage.
  
  Then there is the tank mode. The tank mode is fun. Basically you must infiltrate the enemie's tank 
 and damage their engine. Before you can do that, you must deal damage to their tanks. You have 
 two cannons: One that deflects the enemy's artiliary and the other that deals items. You load various 
 items (or your allies) into your cannon to use as ammunition. Different items have different effects. 
 Music: 5/5
  Koichi Sugiyama does a terrific job again. The soundtrack consists of both returning songs from 
 the main series and original work exclusively composed for this game. The soundtrack overall is 
 very playful, just like the game itself is.
  
  Graphics: 4/5
  The graphics are reminiscient of their GBA prequel, Slime Mori Mori. They are 2D overhead, much 
 like the older Zelda games are. The graphics are very detailed and colorful.
  
  Misc: 3/5
  The multiplayer is fun and sure to make players keep on playing even after they rescue 
 all of Rocket's friends. If I have one gripe with the game though, it is that the game is way too 
 short. One could easily beat the game in a devouted weekend. Thank god for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArchAngel2284
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 23, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Well so far I've played about 2 hrs n 17 minutes or so of Rocket Slime and I must say the game 
 is quite entertaining. The game has a lot of comical elements to it which will give you a good 
 laugh while you're progressing through the game. You will also recognize many familiar monsters 
 that are well known in the DQ world. The tank battles are really fun too. Instead of just plain 
 duking it out you can run out to the enemy's tank and infiltrate it and make your way to the engine 
 room to blow up the tank quicklier! Overall the story is excellent and the gameplay is superb! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXEnvyOurLoveXx
Rating: 8.3
Date: Sep 23, 2006 3:19 pm PT
Review:  After the huge success of Dragon Quest VIII in North America, audiences get to be treated to something 
 fairly different. While nothing like the main series, being a spinoff and all, this game still 
 provides an exiting adventure, and is just what some have been waiting for on the Nintendo DS!
 
  
  Meet Rocket, he's a slime. That's right, a slime. This game stars slimes (and other fiends from 
 Dragon Quest!) . They live in their own little world, peacefully and happily. As expected, all of 
 the characters are filled with a lot of character, which is one of the things that makes Rocket 
 Slime so appealing! Just about each character has come to life through some of the best localization 
 in years! The cute creatures and their home island are brimming with life!
  
  The gameplay is fairly standard. Rocket Slime does not feature much touch screen use (aside from 
 some really engrossing minigames!) . The gameplay is fairly standard and you will be able to do 
 just about everything with the A button. While difficult to explain, you can pick up enemies (and 
 allies) with the A button as well. There are also puzzles and the sort. This simply gameplay can 
 get extremely addicitng, but what's more stunning is the tank battles!
  
  Eventually you and your enemies will roll into their tanks and have a free for all. This is when 
 the game gets exiting as there is action flying all over the place. The game gets fun, crazy, and 
 all out whacky! There is also a lot of customization for RPG Enthusiasts, such as ammo, tank, and 
 character options.
  
  The graphics, while only a step above GBA graphics, look great. (Especially on the DS Lite! Note 
 to everyone: GET A DS LITE!!!) The world of the slimes is brilliantly created. Animations are also 
 whacky and fun.
  
  The sound is fair as well, tunes are happy and fun, suiting this game's overall theme.
  
  Rocket 
 Slime is at best, simply put, fun. While the game takes only a dozen or so hours to complete, those 
 who want everything will be spending MUCH MUCH longer. This game is perfect for kids, those looking 
 for a fun DS game, RPG enthusiasts, Square Enix Fans, or Dragon Quest Fanatics. GET ROCKET SLIME 
 NOW!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wittkamp01
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 22, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Don't let the kiddie look deceive you; Rocket Slime is one of the most enjoyable games for the 
 Nintendo DS, and will entertain gamers of all ages.
  
  Play as the loveable slime, Rocket, as he sets of on a quest to rescue 100 of his kidnapped friends 
 and restore peace to the kingdom. The game is played from an overhead perspective, and plays similarly 
 to the 2D Zelda games.
  
  You'll encounter characters from the Dragon Quest series, but unlike most spinoffs, this is an 
 excellent game that doesn't simply rely on cute homages to its big brothers.
  
  Rocket Slime should fulfill any DS owner's need for Action-RPG until the new Zelda game arrives 
 next year, and will no doubt be just as enjoyable even after that point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razelDK
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 22, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the best games that I have played on the DS. Its easy to pick up, but 
 hard to put down. It isn't hard to learn controls or concept. There are allot of familiar tunes, 
 all good, and don't ever seem to get repetitive. The tank battles are fun, you can choose in-between 
 a number of Partners, each with his/her own roles to do, such as filling the cannons with ammo 
 or Sabotaging the enemy tank, and steal some of their ammo :) . The Graphics are, really bright 
 and cheerful; the movement of sprites is fluid, and some of the best 2d graphics I have seen on 
 the DS. If you get the Chance, pick this up, you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xero_Maverick
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Rocket Slime places you as every ones favorite Dragon Quest mascot, a Slime properly named Rocket. 
 Although the learning curve and kiddie antics might turn off 1337 gamers, this title appeals to 
 all. The tank battles are enough to keep someone playing even if the adventure portion is a little 
 unintuitive. Create your own weapons and command your own team of slimy partners to blast away 
 to competition. With over 100 other slimes to rescue, after the city of Boingburg gets attacked, 
 it will keep you entertained for hours, at least until the next great Dragon Quest game hits the 
 shelves. All in all a great game, with that old fashioned slimy goodness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloudsdream2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 22, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  Well the graphics are one of the best I have seen for the DS, also I love the double screen actiona 
 and I love my rocket very much! The tank battles are awesome and well the whole game is coming 
 together pretty cutely. I think that this game is a very good tittle to make dragon quest/warrior 
 very popular in the USA!!!!
  
  The plob is going to pay for confusing rocket as a worm! I love the way he ectoblasts and the way 
 his cuteness floats when you press aa. I love the fact that some of the monsters have plob-like 
 tails, the game is adorable, but not just for kids, I think that the Dragon Quest fans will not 
 be disappointed with this tittle its slimetastic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theveryfatman86
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about the idea of a game based on the DQ universe's least important character 
 I didn't think much of it. Then I became of member of a site http://www. slimeknights. com/slimeknights/? u=db013616 
 and found out more about it. Yesterday I finally picked up a copy, and I must say that I was blown 
 away. This is a great game right from the get go. You are tasked with finding all 100 slime in 
 your village who were kidnapped when it was attacked. You do this by taking control of your very 
 own slime. He starts out just being able to smash into barrels and enemies. But then you realize 
 that anything you can smash into the air can be collected and used as ammunition for your tank. 
 This feature alone is one that is a great step in video games. I would have to say that the way 
 this game mixes platforming and strategical tank warfare is absolutely amazing. I was very happy 
 with the controls in this game as they are very responsive as well. I also would like to say that 
 the graphics in suit with the sound are amazing, and the use of the DS to display your gameplay 
 on the bottom with your stats on the top is simply amazing as well. Overall this is a great game 
 with my only gripe being that it is over too fast. However replayability will be something, along 
 with multiplayer, that will keep breathing more life into this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vegetaxxssj4
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 20, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  After a few hours of playing this game I am very happy to have bought Rocket Slime. The game has 
 some old school elements that Dragon Quest fans will pick up on right away along with some new 
 things as well that new fans will enjoy. The game play is cute and very entertaining as you control 
 one of Dragon Quests most famous monsters, a slime. The slimes name is Rocket and it is his job 
 to save 100 of his townspeople who are also slimes from the Plob. The Plob is a mafia type group 
 run by Don Clawleone. The control of the game is fresh and entertaining and takes only a few minutes 
 to get acquainted with the basic controls of Rocket. Rocket is able to pick up objects to throw 
 them, smash into them, and also float around. Rocket can also unlock and explore a cute little 
 world filled with creatures. Another really fun aspect to the game is the Tank battles. These battles 
 are very entertaining as you take your tank, The Schlieman Tank and battle various members of the 
 Plob on your quest to save your fellow slimes. You use ammo that you collected from dungeons and 
 such and control Rocket while shooting 2 cannons at your enemy. The tank battles also use items 
 you have found and or created in the game using alchemy to combine items into more powerful items. 
 The tank battles also have a fun multiplayer option to battle your friends and their own tanks. 
 The graphics in Rocket Slime are not pushing the envelope for DS capabilities but and great none 
 the less. This game is perfectly suited for the DS and I could not imagine this game being capable 
 on any other system. Sound/music in Rocket slime is very cute and upbeat. Fans of the series will 
 notice little chimes and sounds from previous DQ games. The sound does a good job in playing on 
 the feel of the moment and is the type of music that you will catch yourself humming though out 
 the day! Overall the game is very entertaining and a great addition to the Dragon Quest series. 
 You meet lots of cute characters, the story is filled with a little bit of humor and subtle clich&eacute; s, 
 and the look of the game is a welcome addition on the DS. If you are a fan of the Dragon Quest 
 series, Zelda (Yes I did say Zelda) or just looking for a great little adventure game you owe it 
 to yourself to pick this game up! On a score from 1 to 10 on this game, this game gets a solid 
 9.0. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
