-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragon Quest IV: Chapters of the Chosen
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/dragonquestiv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Captivating, uniquely presented storyline.
 Impressive dual-screen presentation.
 Detailed sprites and 3D environments.
 Additional chapter and optional content add depth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Battles a little too easy at the start.
 Minimal monster variety early on.
 Save system can get a tad annoying.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 384 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: ArtePiazza
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Sep 16, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dragon Quest IV: Chapters of the Chosen is a fitting update for a revered NES and PlayStation classic. 
 

  Dragon Quest IV: Chapters of the Chosen marks the first time that the popular PlayStation update 
 of the NES original has reached American shores. It's thoroughly engrossing and highly addictive, 
 featuring all of the basic updates that the game saw in its PlayStation release along with a dual-screen 
 presentation and improved 3D environments. Developer Arte Piazza has also brightened up the game's 
 color palette and included a new translation. It boasts fun and unique regional dialects, offering 
 a familiar but fresh experience that should prove a welcome treat.  

           Explore 3D towns and dungeons beautifully displayed on both screens.      

  Dragon 
 Quest IV casts you as a hero destined to save humanity from a powerful evil, but it doesn't immediately 
 thrust you into battle; instead, the game is separated into five chapters, with the first four 
 focusing on a different character. While this format might seem confusing, it effectively and painlessly 
 familiarizes you with the game's mechanics and expansive world map before turning you loose in 
 chapter five. Each chapter opens with a brief cutscene that introduces your new character and chapter-specific 
 goals, which are far more engaging than the usual tasks of leveling up and slaying bosses. For 
 example, in one chapter, you spend time as a merchant busily making money and avoiding combat, 
 while in another, you're a globe-trotting princess solving problems for the local towns. Exploration 
 occurs on a detailed world map and is aided by a convenient color-coded map on the top screen that 
 fills in areas as you progress.  

  As with most role-playing games from this era, battles are random, turn-based affairs that appear 
 on the bottom screen along with command prompts. Character data is displayed on the top screen 
 to make the area more informative and less cluttered than the PlayStation version. The game now 
 enables you to set tactics for allies either individually or across the board, so if you'd rather 
 order a magic user to focus on healing instead of issuing the heal command every round, you have 
 that option. Likewise, you can now flex a little control-freak muscle and directly order each teammate's 
 attack -- a delightful adjustment that allows for more strategic play.  

  Another convenient feature is that your nonactive party members gain experience whenever your handy 
 wagon is in tow, which generally keeps your whole crew in the same level range. This is extremely 
 helpful because you'll often cycle through party members for different dungeon or boss strategies, 
 and having lackluster benched characters at level 15 when your primaries are 30 would essentially 
 handicap you each time you adjusted your strategy. The wagon boasts a second feature that makes 
 it even more invaluable: You're then able to change party members during battle, which is fantastic 
 when your allies are dead or suffering from status ailments. It's also a great way to manage AI-controlled 
 guest characters that are causing you problems, which is another solid improvement.  

  Dragon Quest IV suffers from only a few minor irritants that might turn some players away. While 
 monsters and bosses do require a bit of strategic planning, those in the first half of the game 
 are so simple that you can usually get away with mashing the attack command and casting the occasional 
 heal, which makes early battles shallow. There's also not much monster variety until chapter five, 
 with the exception of the popular slime types. Dialogue, which for the most part consists of charming 
 asides or enlightening discussions, can get painfully repetitive when you're trying to save at 
 the local church because the residing priest feels the need to bless you before and after saving 
 your game or removing your poison. Thankfully, you can utilize the quicksave feature to bypass 
 the priest's pointless drivel when it inevitably becomes tiresome.  

  The most striking element of Dragon Quest IV is that its DS remake received more than just a face-lift: 
 The game is significantly brighter and clearer than its PlayStation predecessor. It also boasts 
 vibrant, colorful environments vividly presented across both screens. You're even able to maneuver 
 the camera to give you a better view of hidden objects and secrets, which is an impressive feature 
 that rarely slows down the game. Towns are charming locations with detailed buildings and flora, 
 as well as full of adorable 2D citizens in clearly visible clothing and accessories.  

  Enemies have received new animations, with some sporting abilities that cause the camera to turn 
 and move toward an opponent during an attack. This causes your foe to appear 3D for a moment, providing 
 a subtle but impressive effect. Moderate changes were also made to dungeon environments and battle 
 backgrounds to make them more aesthetically pleasing. The franchise's traditional in-game clock 
 makes a reappearance, with battle backgrounds adjusting to the time of day. Battle sounds have 
 been updated as the beeps of yesteryear have been replaced by satisfying sword slashes, while spell 
 effects are both flashier and more believable. The music is boisterous but superb, with a different 
 theme for each chapter and an intense battle song for boss fights.  

           Monster animation and spell effects have both been updated.      

  Though the story's 
 five chapters contain roughly 40 hours of gameplay, you could drastically increase that time by 
 completing side quests, collecting medals, and taking part in other activities. You can visit the 
 casino to play poker, check out the slot machines, or bet on the local fight. The pioneer town 
 side quest has been modified to feature multicard wireless support. This enables you to "chance 
 encounter" a friend who has also started a town and is in chance encounter mode so you can both 
 unlock secret shops. Arte Piazza included the two additional chapters initially seen in the PlayStation 
 version to up the replay value a bit and explain some of the game's events. One chapter serves 
 as a brief prologue, while the other is a complete, if short, epilogue that includes new storyline 
 events and a bonus dungeon. You'll also find that several towns have experienced changes since 
 you're last visit, and it's always fun to return to old haunts for the latest gossip from familiar 
 faces.  

  Chapters of the Chosen is a charming, absorbing, and addictively fun role-playing game that offers 
 the best chance Westerners have ever had to experience Dragon Quest IV.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Rej72380
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Just about every fan of the Dragon Quest series knows about this particular installment -- The game 
 was released in North America as Dragon Warrior IV in 1993 only to have very few copies sold and 
 forced Dragon Quest V and VI to stay in Japan. With the new DS version of the game, it comes with 
 a complete bang.
  
  
  
  Graphics-wise, the game is top-notch. The towns of the game have been given a 3D style and perspective. 
 The buildings are so much improved that you'd have to rotate the camera just to find the door to 
 the weapon shop. The battle are much better-looking, with most of the monsters having detailed 
 animations while the trademark monster, the slime, attacking in pure 3D.
  
  
  Regarding sounds, they're very pleasing. The music is a vast improvement from the original NES 
 version. Even the title screen theme is played with a full orchestra. The sound effects are not 
 too shabby, either, the series' usually battle cries and magic incantation
  
  
  Control-wise the game is very good. Although the touchscreen of the DS is not used in any way, 
 it is really not needed to move the party around and move through the various menus. As mentions, 
 you can rotate the camera while in towns and castles by pressing either the L or R buttons, allowing 
 you to get a better view of your surroundings.
  
  
  
  As far as gameplay is concerned, this is where the game shines. The game is separated into five 
 chapters, giving the storyline an epic feel. Also, there is a substantial amount of post-game content 
 after you intiitally beaten it, adding a ton replay value. The game even has various casino games 
 to take a break from the usual level-grind, ranging from the traditional Poker and Slot Machines 
 to the betting on the monster battles, where it's monster vs. monster and controlled by the A. I. 
 to determine the results.
  
  
  
  Overall, Dragon Quest IV: Chapters of the Chosen is a very solid RPG that should not be missed 
 by both fans of the series and fans of role-playing games alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Though there are a fair amount of lackluster games out for the Nintendo DS, but one area that seems 
 to shine is the Roleplaying genre. 
  
  Dragon quest is a long running Japanese RPG series that has had success in both markets. Dragon 
 Quest IV was originally on the Nintendo and has since got through a remake on the Playstation 2. 
 This version, has enhanced graphics and sound.
  
  Dragon Quest IV starts the game off with many different characters but this game is slightly different 
 because instead of starting off with one character and following them through the entire game, 
 the game plays off with chapters. Each chapter puts you in the lead with a different character 
 and then eventually, they will meet in the final parts of the game together. It was sort of a put 
 off that I had to start off at level one so many times and fight the same weak enemies over and 
 over. It was really gratifying to start off the chapter where all the characters finally meet each 
 other but until then, there was a loss of accomplishment starting over each chapter.
  
  With enhanced graphics, the game does look really beautiful on the handheld system. It's vibrant, 
 bright and colourful easily setting the mood no matter the environment. The sun rises and descends 
 and it's never a problem trying to identify where you are or where you're going. It's similarly 
 easy to see where you're going in dungeons as both of the screens can be used for viewing. There's 
 very few hangups and very few areas with slowdown but in some areas with lots of sprites, the game 
 considerable frame rate issues.
  
  In addition to that, each time you enter a town, instead of wandering around town trying to find 
 the item shop, you can press a button and get a map of the town. This little feature is very helpful 
 and should be implemented in further RPGs.
  
  Battles are of the old-school variety where wandering around in dungeons and the overworld will 
 lead into random encounters. The battles are all turn based and have your heroes on the bottom 
 of the screen with the enemies slightly above. On the top screen, are the stats and what the characters 
 will do that turn. Unfortunately, the graphics are lacking in the department regarding your characters 
 as all of their attacks are simply animated by lines. Spells are more explosive as fire effects 
 are large bursts of red attack your enemy. Enemy attacks are much better and never seem to slow 
 down the battle.
  
  Soundwise, the game is okay. The music is delightful and sets most environments very well. Sometimes, 
 the battle music can get a little annoying because you will be running into so many random encounters 
 and the boss battle music could be a little more intimidating. The sounds of battle are frequent 
 and adequate but could have been improved. Other than the same sounds over and over again, it would 
 have been nice to have some different sounds.
  
  The game will probably take you about 20-25 hours to complete and maybe an additional 5-10 with 
 all the extra content that has been added to version. The game is virtually the same as the original 
 Nes version except with a few new side quests and some new items. There isn't a lot of incentive 
 to go back as the game is fairly straight forward with a few side quests to further increase the 
 time playing this game.
  
  In the end, Dragon Quest IV is a competent RPG for the DS. There have been many remakes that are 
 good representations of their former selves except with updated graphics and playability and Dragon 
 Quest IV, is another one of those games. If you're looking for a better than average RPG for the 
 DS, give this one a whirl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lovely_beauty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  
  There was time when Dragon Quest and Final Fantasy are staple in the competition over Japanese 
 Role Playing market between Square and Enix. That ended with the mergence of the two firms and 
 both titles have continued to play the role of trump-cards in Square Enix's policy ever since. 
 Along with the development of new versions and expansions, they have been published on new platforms 
 one after the other. On NDS, Final Fantasy has its IV version while Dragon Quest presents Chapters 
 of the Chosen (DQIV) , 16 years after its first appearance on NES.
  
  DQIV is the most famous of the trilogy about the legend of Zenithia because Enix has never distributed 
 DGV and VI outside Japaness market because of their difficulty during the 1990s. Unlike its brothers, 
 DGIV has a very original story line consisting of many small tales in each of its chapters instead 
 of a series of consecutive events. These tales may seem incoherent at first sight but the hidden 
 thread connecting them will gradually be revealed along your adventure. Therefore, you will one 
 by one make acquaintance with several characters like knight Ragnar McRyan, Princess Alena, merchant 
 Torneko and two sisters Meena-Maya before the playing part of your main character. All of you will 
 unite in the struggle against Evil force to preserve the peace of this world.
  
  DQIV still retains the most distinguished features which have established its reputation so far. 
 At the heart of its gameplay are still turn-based random encounters which are implemented from 
 first person view angle, an unmistakable characteristic of the title. Real time factor (day and 
 night) also appears in the game in strict relation to some particular events of the plot. However, 
 the developers have obviously made effort to renew this instalment with new features. The most 
 important of those is that from chapter 5 on, when there are a number of characters in play team, 
 players can switch control between them easily. That means you have full control over all members, 
 not only giving them general directions like before. Additionally, different frequency of usage 
 of characters is not a problem, since unused ones still gain experience when the game progresses.
 
  
  Apart from that, saving mechanism is cute in this publishment. In addition to fixed check points 
 in certain locations, players can feel free to quick save any time during the adventure. Of course, 
 quick save points can be reloaded later.
  
  In terms of control, unfortunately DQIV still depends on the old method of the series and overlook 
 touch screen feature of NDS. Another limitation is the balance in difficulty level of chapters, 
 with the beginning seemingly too easy and interesting points of gameplay revealed too late (after 
 chapter 5) . It takes nearly 30 hours to finish DQIV, not including the time spent on its various 
 side quests; quite satisfactory for an alluring title like this.
  
  On a new platform, it's not surprising that multimedia of the game is a long step forwards. Graphics 
 presents a colorful 3D surrounding with detailed 2D character models, much more beautiful than 
 old versions on NES (1992) and Play Station (2001) . Characters have more sophisticated costumes 
 and lissome movements while familiar monsters become more lively under Akira Toriyama's brush. 
 With both screens utilized and additional ability to rotate camera angle, it becomes much more 
 convenient when the adventure comes to narrow caves or roads. As for music, old song tracks are 
 still retained with some remix to match the capacity of NDS. Overall multimedia is a very strong 
 in DQIV.
  
  From the view point of either old fans or new beginners, DQIV is still a high quality product on 
 NDS with unquestionable fascination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poopinhammer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:20 am PT
Review:  To start off, i have a working NES copy of this game and have played it almost every year since 
 it came out.
  
  That being said, i was more then excited to hear that it was coming out for the DS.
  
  Graphics 
 - Looks like Dragon Warrior 7. The sprites were probably taken from the game. Maybe you could relate 
 more to a cheerful version of Final Fantasy Tactics
  
  Sound - Very 8-bit. very nostalgic.
  
  Story - It definitely does a better job of bringing 
 the 4 chapters together then the NES version. Maybe i wasn't paying attention but everything is 
 pulled together nicely. I could of did without the dialects though.
  
  Extra content - Short but still good. Its an interesting alternate ending.
  
  All in all, if 
 you like rpg games that you absolutely have to grind to live. This is the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkeplinger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Back when I was only fourteen years old I purchased the original Dragon Warrior IV (US version) 
 and spent unimaginable hours playing it.
  
  Each chapter told a tale of its main characters. Though in chapter five, none really made any sense 
 as to why other than Nara and Mara, all the characters eventually join the hero, and fought to 
 the bitter end with him (or her) .
  
  Dragon Quest IV: Chapters of the Chosen relives the original tale with updated personalities of 
 the characters. What kind of slang or accents they used by region. Sadly though, they never improved 
 upon why the other characters would eventually join them.
  
  The graphical updates and sound improvements added to the retelling of this classic tale by breathing 
 a new dimension of life into it. Much of the experience gained and gold earned were left in tact 
 and some much needed adjustments were made to improve upon the flow of the game. Not to mention 
 the shortening of chapter 3 with Taloon getting more treasure chests dropped from the monsters 
 to help him along the way.
  
  All in all I gave the game a 9.5 because there's no such thing as a perfect game and no game deserves 
 a 10. Every game has a flaw somewhere. And this game improved upon it's 14 year old self just right. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 6:30 am PT
Review:  Dragon Quest IV: Chapters of the chosen is a port of the PS2 remake of the original NES release. 
 Confused? Well all i needed to know was it's the first time it had been released in the UK and 
 decided to give it a try.
  
  The story to DQIV is typical of a game made over 18 years ago, that is to say pretty basic and 
 overall instantly forgettable. The Lord of the underworld is reviving and his monsters are out 
 to kill you as your character is the legendary hero / heroine (why? You just are) and everyone 
 knows it at first glance (why? they just do) and it's your job to stop him.
  
  At the start of DQIV you get to choose your gender before playing a brief prologue that essentially 
 tells you the paragraph above. After that however it was about another 15 hours before you get 
 to pay as the main character again, no i'm not joking. Similar to Wild Arms 3 and Suikoden 3 after 
 it, Dragon Quest IV plays out different chapters with characters from their perspective before 
 finally forming your main party, to show how they got to there so to speak. The problem with this 
 is that it's 4 chapters with a surprising amount of dungeons and even when you get to play as the 
 main heroine (in my case) you then have to go around the world map gathering them all up with little 
 or no direction.
  
  Which leads me straight onto my next gripe about DQIV, The game gives you few hints in some cases 
 as to where to go next, and those that you get are often vague, almost cryptic. For example one 
 time in the game *minor spoilers* I had to find a man to entertain a king and the only hint i got 
 was: "I met a man in the town i last visited called Tom Foolery, I wonder where he is now" and 
 that was it. It's a big world map to have to check every town, believe you me....*spoilers end*
 
  
  While slogging through dungeons on your quest, obviously you will have to fight monsters and the 
 like, this at least while old school is still a lot of fun. The bottom screen of the DS is used 
 to show the enemy you are about to fight while the top screen shows each of the four party members 
 you chose, their portrait as well as what action you have told the previous characters to take. 
 It is a pretty simple game but challenging, you get to choose attack, magic, item or run away with 
 all spells being preset per character gaining them when they reach the appropriate level. Like 
 many old school RPG's if you get stuck, grind a while, there aren't many other options except for 
 moving party members around, but at least this isn't that grind heavy for a game of it's age.
 
  
  Like most RPG's as you beat monsters your characters gain experience which leads to level ups and 
 improved stats, there are also seeds to be found a plenty that can be used on your characters for 
 minor permanent stat boosts. In towns there are plenty of shops to buy and upgrade your equipment 
 as well as buy medical supplies. To anyone who has played an RPG before it's a standard affair 
 but also easy to pick up for new comers.
  
  While the gameplay and story haven't changed, the graphics at least have and they are surprisingly 
 good. The artwork is, like pretty much all DQ games done by Akira Toriyama of Dragonball fame with 
 some great artwork and some bright colours to boot. While the character models and world map are 
 all done in 2D, the towns are all done in full 3D and while it looks great there is occasional 
 slow down when moving the camera around, but i literally only experienced this 3 times in the game, 
 so overall i was certainly happy with the visuals.
  
  The sound also fairs well, with updated music, all of which was suitable for each area, there is 
 no voice acting in the game and pretty basic sound effects though these don't lessen the enjoyment 
 any.
  
  The game took me just over 40 hours to finish, however after you can save it and load that file 
 for a hidden 6th chapter with more enemies, dungeons and bosses i never bothered to finish so it 
 certainly is good value for money that's for certain.
  
  All in all I had good fun with DQIV, however while the graphics and sound were updated it takes 
 slightly more then that to make a near 20 year old game fully playable, more dialogue, character 
 development and a clearer direction of your next objective would have made this update a real keeper. 
 I still recommend it though.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsgba
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  I was very happy when I got this game. I mean I played dragon quest monster joker and I thought 
 it was really good...... {9.5} ..... so .......... i thought i was gonna give this game the same 
 score but nnnnn was i wrong. I mean this game is good but not that good enough to give it a 7.0 
 or higher. The graphics are bad bad bad bad bad bad. If you played dragon quest monster joker it 
 had the best graphics in any ds game so farrrrrrrrrrr. Its like you were playing a psp game even 
 though I ve never played a psp. I just see some random games in gamespot and I pretty much know 
 how the graphics look like. Anyyyyyywayyy back to the game .The graphics are really really horrible. 
 That was a main reason I didnt like this game. Story is ummm kinda great well ya i guess kinda 
 great is right . Actually its great . {Too lazy to delete} Only the third chapter was not great. 
 What I liked was you get to play with a lot of characters. But the bad part is you always fight 
 weak enemies. I mean you always start off with lvl1 .and when you finish the chapter you are lvl 
 20. Borrrrrrrring until chapter 5..... FUN!!!!!! huh whats chaptersss???? Oh yeah I forgot to tell 
 you how this game works. There are 6 chapters in this game. I think or 5. or even more. well i forgot. {Sorry 
 for the grammer} back to the game. In every chapter you play as new charcter otr characters. soo 
 yeah now you know I think im about to finish my report well no i forgot something. The other thing 
 that annoys meis when you fight an enemy you cant see your self . All you see is your enemy. It 
 looks dumb. Not ds. Yes nes. In ff4 you actually get to see your self........ Sooo yeah.. and now 
 my final review.........
  
  graphics.. 4
  story,,,,,,,,,,,8
  gameplay...7
  sound...... eh i guess 9 well the sound is normal and if i gave it a 5 then it wouldnt be a 6.5. 
 Total6.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  Great game with a great story and great game play. The game plays in chapters where you learn the 
 back story of all the main characters that would be assisting the hero in the game. i really liked 
 this idea because the constant changing of the story and characters really made the game feel like 
 a new experience with each chapter. the only gripe i had was that there were a few slowdowns with 
 the frame-rate at parts in the game and the bosses towards the end are strung out a little too 
 long for my liking but still a solid game. also the bonus dungeons and ending are short but still 
 fun not that much though added on to not be considered a remake/port. I recommend when playing this 
 game to really try to interact with all the characters because this was a game that every character 
 was somehow intertwined with the story. One more gripe i had with the game was the lack of multi-player. 
 if this game had multiplayer it would have been an instant classic but since it doesn't it makes 
 it feel like once your done with the main story all that is left is very few side quests and very 
 little to bring you back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitaltiger
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Finally I get to play Dragon Quest 4 and what do they do? They release it on the DS. For me personally 
 it was the worst game system to come out on but I do understand why they did it, MONEY.
  
  All that aside, it is a good game and I ended up playing it for 56 hours before I was done. The 
 graphics are good and there was minimal eye strain. Sound was good but for the most part I had 
 it muted because I was listening to sports games while playing. The game play was old school turn 
 based combat and the management of your party was very limited. No customization at all and this 
 was very disappointing. Overall it was a fun Game that I enjoyed playing but it is far from perfect. 
 Dragon Quest 8 still remains my favorite Dragon Quest game.
  
  Game Play = 7
  Graphics = 9
  Sound = 7
  Value =8
  
  Overall = 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danwarecritic
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Hey everyone, Dan here. I'm giving you a review of Dragon Quest IV for DS. It's awesome.
  
  
  Concept
  
  From a narrative point, Dragon Quest IV is fairly different from other Dragon 
 Quest games. First, you play as the hero's future companions and then you play as the hero himself (or 
 herself) . This method of storyteling is effective and interesting. Each adventure feels like a 
 different game. It's also not overly complicated so you can jump in at the start. I love the early 
 moments of RPGs so getting to play four short adventures before one big one is a dream come true 
 for me.
  
  9
  
  Graphics
  
  This is actually a port of the PlayStation remake. So it looks better than the original NES version. 
 In fact, it looks like the PSone's Dragon Quest VII. The character sprites are great and the character 
 designs don't hurt either. And when you're in batle the enemies are fully animated like in Dragon 
 Quest VIII. But in battle you can't see your characters. Just potraits on the top screen. So that's 
 kind of a minus point. The characters also walk in place even when standing still. Which just looks 
 weird.
  
  8.5
  
  Sound
  
  The BGM is impressive. The sound effects are good. But there's no voiceovers since this is a remake 
 of a NES game. But because it's a remake of an NES game I'll let that slide.
  
  8.5
  
  Playability
  
  If you expect something inovative and cutting-edge by today's standards, I already 
 said, "It's a port of the PlayStation remake." And that PlayStation remake is of an NES game. But 
 for the rest of us, the gameplay works well. It's not overly complicated so you can jump right 
 in. Unfortunately, you'll have to grind a lot for new levels and weapons. But it was orignally 
 on the NES.
  
  8.5
  
  Entertainment
  
  Dragon Quest IV for DS is for more than just nostalgia. Good gameplay, Great music, and a story 
 that's told in an effective and interesting way make this game easy to recommend for RPG fans and 
 awesome game lovers alike. My favorite part of the game is Alena's adventure. It's fun to have 
 a runaway princess in your party. Don't believe me? Play the game and get to her adventure.
  
  9
  
  Replay Value
  
  This game has plenty of replayability. It's fun. I shouldn't have 
 to say more.
  
  9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Square-Enix have remade yet another classic RPG gem. There is good news about this and bad news. 
 Let's start with the bad news first. The bad news is that this remake is not of Final Fantasy VII. 
 Some day my friends.... some day. The good news however is that this remake is of a true NES classic. 
 What's more is that Square-Enix have also decided to remake Dragon Quest V and VI on the Nintendo 
 DS to satisfy those who were disappointed to find that the Super Famicom originals were exclusive 
 to Japan. Thankfully, the series is more popular this time around. North America hasn't seen Dragon 
 "Warrior" IV since the NES release back in 1992; Japan hasn't seen Dragon Quest IV since the PlayStation 
 remake back in 2001; Europe (and Australasia) on the other hand have never seen Dragon Quest IV 
 before, making the DS version the first PAL release. Because I live in a PAL region, and I was 
 a young boy when it originally got released anyway, the Nintendo DS remake marked my first experience 
 with this charming adventure, titled "Dragon Quest IV: Chapters of the Chosen".
  
  The storyline is split up into five different perspectives. You'll be able to play around with 
 the hero for a short time during the prologue. This time, you are able to choose the gender of 
 the main character, and like always, is unnamed. This green-haired Hero/Heroine has recently turned 
 eighteen, and you find out that he/she is "The Chosen". The game will roll on to Chapter 1 after 
 doing a few things around your home village. Chapter 1 revolves around Ragnar McRyan, a knight 
 in a very manly pink armour. This captain of the Burland is trying to solve a mystery of disappearing 
 children across the land. A tomboyish princess of Zamoksva that goes by the name of Alena stars 
 in Chapter 2. After sneaking out of the castle, she is accompanied by Borya and Kiryl to explore 
 the world. In Chapter 3, you take control of Torneko, who is on a quest of being the best merchant 
 in the world. You start of by working at a weapon store, and then you look towards getting your 
 own shop. Chapter 4 is based on two sisters. Meena, a fortune teller; and Maya, a dancer. Their 
 father got killed by Balzack, an evil king. The two plan to avenge their father and defeat Balzack. 
 You will finally be able to take control of the green-haired protagonist again in Chapter 5. Unfortunately 
 while hiding, his/her village is burned down by Psaro the Manslayer, who is a main villain in Chapters 
 of the Chosen. Eventually, these characters will join forces to stop Psaro. The Hero and his/her 
 allies will come across many more key villains during the fourth "Dragon Quest".
  
  The gameplay mechanics in Dragon Quest IV don't introduce anything new to the turn-based formula, 
 but it's still as classic and addictive as ever. For those of you who aren't familiar to the gameplay 
 mechanics of Dragon Quest, it's turn-based much like Final Fantasy. You will have allies that can 
 use different abilities and have their advantages and disadvantages. Battles are always first-person, 
 with the enemies on the bottom screen and faces and stats of the allies on the top. One thing that 
 bothered me a bit was the frequent button pressing. Every time you go through a block of text during 
 battles, you'd need to Press A to move on. You would find yourself mashing the button sometimes. 
 Fortunately, my thumb never got sore, but the A mashing did get slightly annoying. Monsters lack 
 variety during the beginning of the game, but that eventually increases later on. Of course there 
 are the slimes that make all of us happy. I don't think I need to explain any more on the battle 
 system. All I really need to say is that it's just as good and charming as usual.
  
  There usually aren't a heap of bosses in Dragon Quest games, but hey! Quality over quantity, right? 
 Bosses are usually pretty tricky, and it's vital to train to a certain level before even attempting 
 to confront such beasts. The truth is, level-grinding is very common in RPGs, but Dragon Quest 
 games especially. Sometimes, you'll even need to level-grind for foes in a certain cave or dungeon. 
 Level-grinding however is a little less frequent than in other Dragon Quest titles. I noticed that 
 the allies take less time to Level-Up than usual. Anyway, back to bosses. As I've already established, 
 the bosses are usually pretty tricky. Their outrageous hit ratio and spells, and sometimes two 
 moves per turn make it a rather unfair match. Fortunately, when all your allies die, the game isn't 
 over. Instead, you are re-directed to the last church you stepped in and you will lose half your 
 money. Therefore, your progress through a certain area won't have been lost.
  
  Then there's the rest. You may find that Dragon Quest IV isn't that great for the first 8-10 hours 
 of gameplay. This is about how long it takes to get into Chapter 5, when you can finally take control 
 of the Hero again. Once you're into Chapter 5, you will respect the game a lot more. There's a 
 lot more to explore, and it simply feels better. Once you get all the allies, you can build a proper 
 party and explore more locations with confidence. There's less dying and frustration too. Exploring 
 in the world of DQIV is fantastic. Until you get the ship, it's usually pretty straight forward 
 on where to go or what to do. Once the ship is available, you get stumped more often, but the good 
 news is that you can explore a lot more which will include level-grinding, "colouring in your map" 
 and of course finding hidden treasures. Something that don't see every day in older RPGs is camera 
 control. In towns and some other locations, a 360-degree camera is there to help you in your need 
 to look for ways to go. It's not a very hard game. It's pretty tricky Pre-Chapter 5, but the difficulty 
 starts decreasing once you progress through the game. But then again, it depends how much level-grinding 
 you've been doing. As I mentioned earlier in this review, Level-Grinding isn't needed as much as 
 in other DQ games. One thing I have never liked about the series is the save system. In other RPGs, 
 you will be able to save out in the overworld, and you can find save spots before bosses or halfway 
 through a dungeon. In DQ, the only save spots are churches, where you confess your work to the 
 "Goddess". This can get a tad annoying, especially if you muck up in a dungeon. I doubt this will 
 be changed anytime soon however, and I've gotten used to it. The hours of gameplay varies on what 
 you do. The main story is roughly 30 hours, but side-quests can easily add on to that.
  
  Side-quests are indeed present. You won't come across any until later on, but once you get there, 
 they're pretty cool. One that is a good mention is the Mini-Medals. If you have played any other 
 installment in the series, then you will most likely be familiar with these. You collect a certain 
 amount and give them to the King of Medals and he'll give you a prize every time you give him a 
 certain amount. Many more hidden side-quests can be discovered during the adventure. Sadly, no 
 monster parties this time.
  
  You might be disappointed when you find out that there is no touch-screen availability whatsoever. 
 I thought there could've been some great ways to use it. It would have been pretty cool if there 
 was the option of controlling your character with the stylus like you could in the remake of Final 
 Fantasy III and The Legend of Zelda: Phantom Hourglass. Another place where the touch screen would've 
 been a great addition would be the battles. Despite this complete absence of the touch-screen feature, 
 this does not minimise the greatness of DQIV.
  
  Square-Enix have done very well to make the graphics of Dragon Quest IV "DS Material". They haven't 
 improved very much from the PlayStation remake (after viewing screenshots) , but they still look 
 glamorous on the two screens, and have obviously improved A LOT from the NES original back from 
 the Early 90's. They are mainly 2D, with some 3D background, therefore making it a "2.5D" game, 
 which was actually very common for JRPGs back in the PS1/N64/Saturn era. How 2.5D works is as follows: 
 Characters are usually drawn; these 2-dimensional characters would explore a 3-dimensional world. 
 The overworld is an exception, which is fully 2D. Battle graphics are also 2.5D. Maybe a bit more 
 detail for the characters would've been nice, and possibly some more times when you see the character 
 portraits. Hopefully, this will be the case for the upcoming remakes of DQV and VI. Nevertheless, 
 because I'm a huge sucker for 2.5D graphics, I have to say that Dragon Quest IV looks very nice, 
 graphically.
  
  Want me to be completely honest? I've never been much of a fan of the soundtrack in the DQ series. 
 It isn't very memorable, and some of the songs are far too repetitive. I like it when songs I love 
 are constantly repeated, but in Dragon Quest's case, no. If you've played a DQ game, then you will 
 definitely recognise some of the jingles, such as the Main Theme, the menu, the resting, the saving, 
 and a few more. Sound-effects are pretty cool, and they might also be familiar to you. There is 
 no VA in the game whatsoever. I thought it would've been a nice addition to the remake, as I am 
 quite a fan of the European voices in DQVIII. V and VI possibly?
  
  Square-Enix have definitely done a good job modernizing Dragon Quest IV. It's also good to see 
 that younger gamers can experience this NES classic now. It is a very addictive adventure, promising 
 you 30 hours + of excellence. Best thing is, DQIV is just the tip of the iceberg. Dragon Quest 
 V and VI will make their first appearances outside Japan in 2009, along with the upcoming Dragon 
 Quest IX. There's a lot to look forward to, DQ-wise. Dragon Quest IV: Chapters of the Chosen may 
 not remain my favourite in the series, but it's still a charming adventure worth picking up by 
 any DS owner.
  8.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fareru
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  The classical RPG, as they were back in the 80's and 90's, was a game of immersive worlds, intriguing 
 stories, classic characters, and hoardes of monsters. Level grinding, buying equipment, fighting 
 epic bosses, and having revelations about the world as it is.
  Dragon Quest is one of the greatest games to have ever been introduced into the RPG stream. Its 
 insane popularity in Japan combined with its balance of grinding and adventuring creates for a 
 pleasurable RPG experience. While it may not be the biggest gaming franchise in the North American 
 market it is certainly one of the best.
  The series has a history, much like Final Fantasy, of recreating the classics on to newer consoles 
 and bringing new elements to the game. Some astounding examples are the Dragon Quest I & II on 
 the GB and the Dragon Warrior III port to the GBC. Dragon Quest IV, however, has been ported onto 
 the Nintendo DS and is a wonderful representation of the beginning of the Zenithian Saga in the 
 Dragon Quest series.
  Now, I never played the PS1 port of the game so the first thing I noticed was the improved graphics 
 from the original NES version (obviously) , which are charming and pleasant. The sprites remind 
 me of those that one might see in an Atlus PS2 game, such as Phantom Brave for example. 
  The music is classic as well. It has that traditional Dragon Quest feel to it. It may not be a 
 sterling soundtrack but it is certainly well done.
  The gameplay is traditional as well and this, to me, is very refreshing. It is a traditional RPG 
 with village and dungeon exploration, traditional turn based combat, and traditional classes and 
 movesets. In other words, the gameplay creates a heaven for RPG players who crave those classic 
 feelings.
  Finally, the plot. It isn't the most amazing and astounding piece of work but it is, however, a 
 Dragon Quest game. The plot is enough to move you through the challenges and is enough to compel 
 you to the end. It may not be complex and in depth like the Final Fantays series, but it is satisfactory 
 and classic.
  In totality, Dragon Quest IV: Chapters of the Chosen for the Nintendo DS is a remarkable title 
 with much to offer in the means of classic RPG greatness. If you love Dragon Quest or you're just 
 looking for a nice fun classic RPG then this game is highly reccommended for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiz007
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 18, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This game from the "old" school styles of RPG's. If you like older type graphics & level grinding, 
 this game has what you want. The adventure is set in the classic style. You have villages to go 
 visit. Buy armor, weapons & items at shops. Recover hit points & magic by staying in the inn. Venture 
 out iin the world & fight random battles. Explore caves & other places to gain specific game objectives. 
 In these objectives there are game Bosses. As the game play goes along you & your enemies get stronger.
 
  My big fault with the game is there are way too many button pushes required to play. This could 
 have been streamlined down. The original Jap version long ago might have taken all the button clicks 
 to play. However, with the modern tech that today's games have the number of times the button has 
 to be pushed to battle could have been reduced. The text could have come up in larger amounts, 
 also reducing needless extra pushing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soilworkcob
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game back in '92 I was immediately blown away by this RPG and its whimsical 
 fairy tale style. Of course the game has been rebuilt with better graphics and some sound updates 
 but besides that the game is nearly 100% of the same as it was back in 92. I don't know what to 
 say, it's just a really fun RPG that kept me coming back for more until I completed it, and now 
 I'm totally craving going back through it again. I feel like I've just added a treasure to my collection 
 of games and I'm very happy about it! 
  
  The only draw back is that the game feels easier and shorter than it was in the original. I do 
 believe that Square-Enix, increased the walking speed of the characters so you can blaze through 
 dungeons a lot quicker than you ever could in the original. Not to mention that that also makes 
 the game feel shorter, though I do believe that the brisk pace was a good idea from the developers.
 
  
  This is a great game. It'll be part of my collection for as long as my collection exists!
  
 
  -Adios! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SinperCub
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I've often wondered as a gamer what it would take me to want to say "This game is a classic" and 
 the good news for me is I've seemed to have found it.
  
  Dragon Quest is the name of Japanese name for what we used to call in America "Dragon Warrior" 
 and to date I have played almost all the Dragon Quest/Warrior games for at least an hour and enjoyed 
 them and especially the original Dragon Warrior IV, which earned a rare 10 rating from me on this 
 very site. When I heard that there was going to be a remake of the NES classic I was hoping that 
 it would live up to my lofty expectations and it did... almost!
  
  Dragon Warrior IV was the first game I ever played that incorporated a "Chapter System", that is 
 it had a section of the game that was devoted to each character and they had a mission that was 
 separate before eventually joining a hero/heroine, which you name at the beginning of the game 
 and get to control briefly in a newly included prologue chapter before entering the first chapter.
 
  
  The gameplay has been upgraded with the addition of the four extra buttons, but I've one question 
 that boggles me a bit: Why is it that I still get a "talk" command on the menu when the "A" button 
 does the same thing? That was a bit of a curious decision, but not a big problem that made me upset 
 or deduct points. One of my minor quips that did was when you realized that the characters moved 
 a lot faster than they did in the NES game and therefore it could cut down on enemy encounters. 
 This is good in theory, but what about if you need to level up and you have characters basically 
 walking around like they drank about a case of "Mountain Dew"? I'm sure the developers didn't see 
 this as a problem, but when you want to level up it sometimes made it more difficult because the 
 monsters didn't show up as quickly as you may have wanted even when night fell.
  
  So right about now my "10" would be knocked down to a "9.75" and now for the other issue this game 
 presents: The dialects!
  
  Understand this: I have no problem with individuality and attempting to give each region and character 
 its own personality, but if you try to read some of the dialects out loud (raises hand) you'll crack 
 up laughing at how broken the English sounds. I watch BBC America and the different dialects the 
 people use there don't sound nearly as off as some of characters in this game. It made me wonder 
 if when I was playing the game the people programming the dialects were watching the 3rd and 4th 
 seasons of "Sailor Moon" in English and thought to themselves *Hey I like how ridiculous those 
 people sound... let's do that in this remake, but with accents!* and if they did its unfortunate 
 becaue the whole thing about this game and its series that were made appealing to me is that its 
 done during the Medieval period and you typically hear people say "Thee" or "Thou" and not language 
 that makes me wonder whom was programming the text... I'll stop that thought there!
  
  Outside of those quirks the game does a lot of things that made the original great. The "Mini Medal" 
 side quest and "Casino" return along with an immigrant town that the player can build up to a castle 
 and bring in citizens through the remainder of the game. This was a bonus for me as well as a bonus 
 dungeon the game gives you to compete in should you complete the original game and its just as 
 fun as the standard game.
  
  On a whole I enjoyed this game as much as the original and if you are a "Dragon Warrior" veteran 
 you can't go wrong and if you want to see what the big deal about "Dragon Quest" is then I strongly 
 recommend the game and be ready to lose yourself in one of the few "Games of the Century". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fdtoonsman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  I haven't always been a fan of the Dragon Quest series, but I still buy the new installments because 
 they always seem to have something new and interesting for me to try. In this remake of Dragon 
 Quest 4 for the NES, this is evident. The graphics are high-resolution animated sprites, and the 
 world around you is a lush, beautiful 3D landscape that can be twisted and turned to new angles 
 with a touch of the R or L buttons. The battle system is great. Battle animations are quick, and 
 menus can be navigated quickly so battles aren't painfully dull like in some other RPG's. The main 
 problem, however, is the fact that the story doesn't really keep you playing for long. This is 
 mainly a personal thing, but I've never really felt interested in the storylines of any of the 
 DQ RPG's. This causes the game to become boring and repetitive fast, and that's no good. However, 
 fans of the series will probably enjoy it more then I did. I say, if you want it, rent it first. 
 If you're still having fun after 2 or 3 hours, pick it up. It's a good RPG.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Story: 5/10
  Gameplay: 7.5/10
  Replay Value: 4/10
  Value: 
 7/10
  Overall: 7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rage01aba
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  In the United States Square Enix's Dragon Quest series could easily be considered the often times 
 forgotten mild child of the Square Enix rpg family. Completely opposite is the way the series is 
 treated in Japan, the series must be released on a weekend so there is no lost productivity. Its 
 almost like a national gaming holiday. Dragon Quest IV was series defining when it was released 
 in 1988 will it remain a classic when it is repackaged on the Nintendo DS. Well here is my opinion 
 maybe it will help you.
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are really true to the series. I like how Square made the game 
 take advantage of both screens the DS has to offer. At all times, both screens are important. Also, 
 the graphics push the DS pretty far. The graphics receive a 10/10.
  
  Sound- This is purely one of the Dragon Quest series many strengths. There is video game music 
 and then there is video game music. This music is very much pleasing to the ear and very much enjoyable 
 to listen to outside of the game. The sound gets a 10/10.
  
  Story- The story is somewhat unique because it is broken up into chapters with each chapter having 
 a new main character that you play. This is somewhat mildly annoying because you still have to 
 build up each character and the items at the beginning of each chapter. The story does take place 
 in one overarching world so I am guessing they probably connect in so way I'm guessing (not there 
 yet though) . Dragon Quest IV story gets a 10/10.
  
  Game play- This is classic turn based role playing game action and classic Dragon Quest. The game 
 play gets a 10/10.
  
  Dragon Quest IV is the series defining game it always was and now for the US audience it comes 
 with a bonus chapter previously only released in Japan. Another plus it has now is it is now portable. 
 Even if you own it in its original form you still need it for the bonus content. If you are a Dragon 
 Quest fan but don't already own this title its now affordable. If you have ever wanted to try a 
 Dragon quest game this is a perfection introduction. The bottom line is if you love any RPGs you 
 need to play this. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grandstream
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:03 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who's played a Dragon Quest game knows its one of the simplest RPGs to play. But also, the 
 stories tend to stand out purely because they're the most basic stories. So what makes Dragon Quest 
 such a big RPG series? It's because its a simple RPG plus it has a basic story. It's one of the 
 first to get that, and it stuck with it well for several installments. Now, DQ4 came out... and 
 does it do the trick?
  
  As always, you can play a nameless character. One new option is you can be a male or female. The 
 way the game works during the first couple of hours is it introduces you to four particular cases 
 involving four perspectives. Basically, these involves a knight in pink armor, a tomboyish princess, 
 a merchant with ambitions to be the greatest arms merchant in the world, and two twin sisters after 
 their father's killer. I won't say any more since these perspectives introduce many chars that 
 you'll soon meet with your original Hero and fight alongside. But once those perspectives finish, 
 the story resumes.
  
  The gameplay is basic. Attack, Defend, Item, Magic, Flee. It's all basic. And battles occur in 
 a first person view of your enemies on screen. So it is nice to feel like you're part of the action.
 
  
  The graphics look as 2D as it gets. You have the birds eye view of the world, of the towns.
  
 
  So why did I give this game an 8/10? Because this game is simple and its enjoyable. Not difficult. 
 No weird storyline to follow. It's still another "Grand adventure to rid the world of evil" story. 
 But that's what Dragon Quest, like many other stories, is. It doesn't change anything except the 
 influences that contribute to that concept. All in all, anyone who wants to enjoy another classic 
 RPG should give this a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Next to the Final Fantasy series, Dragon Quest is the most popular franchise of Square Enix. As 
 they made a remake of Final Fantasy 4 just recently, they now bring 
  Dragon Quest IV: Chapters of the Chosen to a new generation of gamers, who will experience another 
 well executed classic Rpg. You wont be displeased with this remake as it offers notable 
 new features like the full-face make-over it got and visually improved this game will please almost 
 any Rpg fan. However, having played Dragon Quest 8: Journey of the Cursed King before, the series 
 was nothing completely new to me and I was hoping to face something similar. I nearly finished 
 the game once and it left me very impressed. The fact that you may enjoy it on the go now and the 
 new graphics are simply great.
  
  Dragon Quest 4 is split into five parts of short adventures providing new characters while you 
 proceed. First of all you may select a female or a male hero you start playing with. As the story 
 unfolds you control an army captain named Ragnar, whos mission is to find children who had gone 
 missing. Furthermore you will get to know more likable characters like Alena, Torneko, Meena and 
 Maya. As a result there isnt a real core story which you will face from start to end and 
 you wont see characters evolve that much. Its more like a string of miniquests played 
 out separately from one another until everything ties together in the end. Anyways, as the storyline 
 continues you will notice that beginning a new chapter and therefore get to know a new character, 
 brings you to level one again. 
  So it might feel as if you just started the game, whereas you will have to do some level grinding 
 again to progress. Anyhow you must do that if you want to make your way through the story. You 
 will encounter many enemies as the random encounter is high, so that you have always the possibility 
 to level. This is necessary as your foes grow stronger and you need a certain level to kill them. 
 Good news though if you like that sort of thing. Battles are challenging and after some hard bossfights 
 you might feel unbeatable afterwards. And this can be a nice feeling, too. Apart from that you 
 will see many different enemies that are all nicely drawn.
  
  As it is a remake of a classic Rpg the turn based battle system is typical for this genre and you 
 wont have any problems getting into it. Its easy to handle unless you never played 
 an Rpg. Being familiar with this genre you wont have any problems managing the menus and 
 therefore euip your character and so on, either. But you wont be able to use the stylus 
 for that as this feature was completely left out. It would have made things a lot easier though. 
 So unfortunately Square Enix didnt make any use of the touch screen, which would have been 
 helpful for navigating through all the menus.
  
  The overall visual design is amazing and reminded me of Grandia on the PS1 somehow, but managed 
 to be more detailed and smooth in movement. However, its nice to look at as the upper and 
 the lower screen show ingame graphics. Thus you may see your surroundings on both screens. 
  Dragon Quest 4 is a 3D game and they replaced the dusty two dimensional style from the original 
 version. Luckily you may even rotate the camera, so that you might enjoy your adventure in any 
 camera angle you like just by using the L and R button. By pressing the Y button you will see a 
 handrawn map which is quite useful to orientate. To that the worldmap is 2D and offers a different 
 map which helps to orientate, too. 
  One of the notable updates (besides the option to rotate the camera) are the bright graphics that 
 are colorful and are given a fresh paint. If you like the character-design of Dragonball you will 
 rejoice with this game as characters, the environment and monsters are concerned. All are created 
 by famous Akira Toriyama.
  The music and sounds are nice to listen to and you will notice that the theme music is simply great. 
 Its the same old classic soundtrack sounding much better now.
  
  Old game, new shape. Dragon Quest 4: Chapters of the Chosen is another well executed remake by 
 Square Enix, which delivers traditional Rpg elements and likable characters along with an utterly 
 amazing new visual design. Dragon Quest fans and Rpg fans will love this game alike, although it 
 may quite possibly not appeal to everyone as it shares some oldschool charms and nostalgic feeling. 
 Anyhow, its oldschool design might polarise opinion because it is not a step forward for games 
 in this genre nor does it benefit from the DSs strenghts. But a very amazing game in total. 
 I highly recommend this game especially for fans of this genre, but its also suited to new 
 players.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethdeal
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  I love everything Dragon Quest. I have been a fan from day one when I was a kid. This game looks 
 great on the DS and is fun to play. However, do not try and compare it to Dragon Quest 8 or Dragon 
 Quest Monsters - Joker, both are better games with more replay value. Keep in mind this game has 
 not been released in America just yet, so I am reviewing the Japanese version using an action replay 
 to access the patched English language available. The game just has too many towns and too many 
 people to talk to. I enjoy Dragon Quest much more when it is all about the monsters and grinding 
 to level up. Now that is present in this game, but as I progressed and played through the game 
 I just got sick of jumping from town to town to town to town.... you get the idea. I can only pray 
 a complete remake of Dragon Quest 1 gets done in all its simplistic glory. Some people love this 
 game, I find it to be OK, that being said it still get an 8.0 rating in my book for simply being 
 Dragon Quest and thus I enjoy playing it with its shortcomings. The music is also just OK. I am 
 usually blown away by music in Dragon Quest, the battle music is very underwhelming. You can change 
 the overworld music by who is the leader in your party, but the choices range from OK to annoying. 
 One plus though is the end boss fight is simply fantastic. I saved right before passing it the 
 first time, so that I could go back and fight that battle over and over, quite an epic battle that 
 never gets old. If you have played Joker and are going to play this next, then the end boss fight 
 should be that much more satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giraku
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  The original was good but the ds version has greatly improved upon it. The graphics are sharp and 
 the new camera control (rotates the upper screen 360 degrees) is helpful and useful for finding 
 treasure chests and such. The story line itself moves smoothly and although it may seem to go fast, 
 the pace is just right to keep you interested unlike many other DQ's that seem too drawn out and 
 can bore you quite easily. Warning: You will be addicted
  
  The game has an intro and 5 well-rounded main chapters. (Note: not really a spoiler because it 
 is the general info included in the intro booklet) 
  The game starts with the main character, a young girl/boy who is loved by the people in the village. 
 However, the intro ends as you go home to eat dinner and rest. 
  The game then proceeds to the first chapter where you will play as a veteran soldier. 
  As you 
 finish the main task, you will move on to chapter two where you will play as a tomboy princess 
 and her two subjects. 
  In chapter three, you will play a merchant with a dream to have the most famous store in the world. 
 
  In chapter four, players will be able to control twin sisters set on the revenge of the death of 
 their father. 
  Finally, in chapter five, you go back to the main character who is destined to meet with the previous 
 characters to fight the evil in the world (of course) .
  
  A must have for any Dragon Quest fan! For all those who still have not played Dragon Quest and 
 are still unsure, Dragon Quest IV is a great starting place!
  
  As you near the end, you will be sad to be leave its world.
  
  Two big thumbs up!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
