-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dragon Quest V: Hand of the Heavenly Bride
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/dragonquestv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Satisfying plot that has stood the test of time.
 Impressive dual-screen presentation.
 Great enemy variety and inventive attacks freshen the battle system.
 Addictive monster taming.
 Strong replayability due to storyline twists and extra dungeon.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A little difficult to target specific monsters to recruit.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 13, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 183 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: ArtePiazza
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Feb 16, 2009
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Dragon Quest Vs compelling North American debut offers a gripping story and enthralling gameplay. 
 

  Dragon Quest V: Hand of the Heavenly Bride is an impressive remake of the Super Famicom classic 
 that capitalizes on a highly addictive monster taming system and an enticing plot. Developer Arte 
 Piazza has also integrated a fresh translation, a huge graphical overhaul that results in a beautiful 
 dual-screen presentation, and a new museum for trading personalized knickknacks with friends. Though 
 it took nearly two decades for Dragon Quest V to reach North American shores, its engrossing gameplay 
 and great visuals make it worth the wait.  

  One of the game's most distinguishing features is its strong, absorbing plot, which spans multiple 
 generations and casts you as a lonely boy. After suffering numerous tragedies, you begin your adult 
 life attempting to reconcile your broken past with a grand destiny that's riddled with intriguing 
 twists, family drama, and life-altering decisions that keep the story interesting. The storyline's 
 personal nature makes progression more satisfying, as the plot is much fuller and goes beyond defeating 
 the bad guys and other dull tasks typical of the genre. A new playable character (one of three 
 you can choose to marry) with cutscenes tailored to her has also been added, giving another incentive 
 to play through the game more than once.  

           Strap on your sword and shield -- it's time to lead these adorable sprites to victory.  
     

  An expansive world map is always displayed on the top screen and fills in areas as you progress, 
 making exploration convenient. You also have instant access to a specialized map that gives you 
 greater environmental details, as well as sketched town maps that mark all shop and save locations 
 for expediency. These maps contain a full stock list that immediately lets you know if the current 
 town holds any items of interest, so you're never forced to waste time browsing shops that can't 
 help you. You'll spend the rest of your time in town engaging the locals in charming dialogue that 
 should smoothly guide you to your next destination, and the included party chat -- which was cut 
 from the American localization of the Dragon Quest IV remake -- should give you plenty of hints if 
 you run into trouble.  

  As is standard in most role-playing games, battles are random and turn-based. Character information 
 is outlined on the top screen, while enemies and lush 3D battlefields are confined to the bottom. 
 You're given full tactical control of your party and can either issue commands individually or 
 instruct all allies to heal, conserve magic, or attack at full strength. The latter option is a 
 reliable method for handling AI guest characters or plowing through weaker enemies. Battles are 
 rarely boring because of the remarkable enemy selection. Foes vary according to continent, region, 
 and time of day, which enlivens exploration because you're often forced to adjust your battle strategy 
 to suit different enemy types. Enemy attacks are also varied and look good, and they're more inventive 
 than simple swipes since monsters have received new attack animations and rely heavily on special 
 abilities. These maneuvers briefly appear 3D because of perfectly timed camera positioning and 
 shaking, which produces an attractive effect that pairs well with aesthetically pleasing attack 
 sounds and new 3D spell effects.  

  The game's most interesting element is its addictive monster taming system, which enables you to 
 recruit more than 50 different monster types by defeating them in battle. All monster party members 
 can wear equipment, cast a variety of spells, and level just like their human counterparts, though 
 recruiting seems to occur almost randomly, which is frustrating when you're targeting specific 
 creatures. But even with numerous creatures to tame there are still many you can't persuade to 
 join you. When you've filled all of your eight party member slots, you're given the option to send 
 any new recruits off to a monster daycare, where you can store more than 70 creatures, so you don't 
 have to worry about running out of space for any new monsters you stumble upon.  

  The wagon, a fan favorite from previous Dragon Quest games, fortunately reappears and prevents 
 monster training from becoming an aggravating chore. The wagon grants even those inactive party 
 members experience points when you're on the field; this feature is important for monster management, 
 because any monster you recruit begins at a vulnerable level. Storing all your low-level monsters 
 in the wagon therefore scores them easy experience and protects them from overpowered foes. The 
 wagon also enables you to switch between party members for more strategic play, which is convenient 
 when your active members succumb to deadly status effects.  

           Gorgeous environments span both screens.      

  Like in the Dragon Quest IV remake, 
 the detailed 3D environments in Dragon Quest V span both screens and radiate vibrant, cheerful 
 color. You can rotate the camera to explore every section of the intricately designed towns, with 
 minimal to no slowdown despite the energetic, colorful sprites that clutter the streets and bustle 
 through castle corridors. Composer Koichi Sugiyama's score has also been slightly reworked, with 
 fantastic, boisterous music enhancing the action during battles. Soft, euphonious town melodies 
 and powerful trumpet solos accompany exploration, and though they aren't of the highest fidelity 
 they still sound good given the DS's hardware limitations.  

  You'll spend at least 40 hours completing the primary quest line, though you'd likely double that 
 amount experiencing everything the game has to offer. Item collectors will enjoy hunting for mini-medals -- which 
 are traded for special equipment -- or spending hours building a formidable monster army, though 
 stocking a private museum full of beautiful trinkets should prove to be the highest treat. Taking 
 advantage of the multicard wireless support, you can even design your own items by exchanging your 
 precious knickknacks with friends. If you ever feel the urge to take a relaxing break from saving 
 the world, you can pass the time in several casinos, in a new stylus minigame, in a giant sugoroku 
 board game, and even in a bonus dungeon.  

  Dragon Quest V: Hand of the Heavenly Bride's gorgeous presentation, cleverly designed plot, and 
 fun monster taming system create an addictive, thrilling adventure. It's unfortunate that the original 
 Super Famicom version of Dragon Quest V and the PlayStation 2 remake that followed 12 years later 
 were never released in North America or Europe, but now that this great DS version has arrived, 
 you really have no excuse not to experience this role-playing gem.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: apolloooo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 3:14 am PT
Review:  from the title above Dragon quest :hand of heavenly bride is a remake of second series in "zenithian 
 trilogy" that appear in SNES in 1992
  and the first game in this trilogy is Dragon quest IV :chapter of the chosen, and the last is dragon 
 quest VI: Realms of Reverie , but the release date is still TBA.
  
  Dragon quest :hand of heavenly bride has an unique feature in it like monster recruit and several 
 minigames like Tn'T board
  from the story we start from little heroes that travel with his dad to find his mother and this 
 Journey just begin. After beating several vilain the hero's dad is dead and he spent 10 years as 
 a slave make him have a strong heart and brave. with the help of his friend , harry they can escape 
 from being a slave.
  and the most insteresting feature is "wedding" as you can see the heroes is going to marry someone 
 and there is 3 girls than you can pick and they have different battle technique the first is very 
 strong magic weak physical , and second balance and vvery strong physical attack but ,whoever you 
 will chose will not interfere with the storyline but it just change your kids haircolor
  the main story is you to search the legendary hero to save the world from the king of underworld 
 "grandmaster nimzo" and find your mother. and there are still many insteresting and great story 
 that you will find in this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-Thief-09
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  After 17 years, Square Enix finally release this beauty to the rest of the world, with a marvellous 
 remake, and thankfully so as it turned out to be an epic game, and probably my favourite RPG on 
 the DS now that I think of it. This is the DS after all, so that's already saying a lot.
  
  Dragon Quest 5: Hand of the Heavenly Bride (DQ5) has a '2D-point-5' view. Nice looking 2D sprites 
 (characters) , with beautiful 3D environments, rendered with a lot of polygons on both screens, 
 and a superbly rich colour pallet. To me, this is easily one of the best looking DS games, if not 
 the best technically. 
  
  As you travel they environments/dungeons are very varied; you never feel as if you've been somewhere 
 before, which helps differentiate places you may need to remember as you progress through the story, 
 if that area may have been cut off previously. You couldn't ask for more, the dungeons are nicely 
 done. Some of them have small puzzles, most puzzles are easy but sometimes you may come across 
 some cryptic puzzles, though very rarely. The world is large, and after a while you will get the 
 ability to quickly travel to most cities in the games world, but you must visit them first. You'll 
 get a boat long in the game, among other interesting methods of travelling. 
  
  This is a classic style RPG, which means random battles. There will be a lot of them, an you have 
 the basic options: flee (if the enemy allows you to) , and fight. They aren't that bad during the 
 beginning, but towards the end of the game the random battles can become a bit tedious. However, 
 they are also rewarding because they give you experience points and good amounts of gold which 
 is needed to buy new weapons/armour which helps defeat the enemies. Though you can use Holy Water 
 to deter monsters from you, it's only for lower level monsters than yourself, as as you go through 
 the quest the monsters are tough and usually fight in groups so the deterrents effects aren't felt. 
 However, I have played many worse games when it comes to random battles.
  
  The battles are turn based, but you don't see your characters on the screen, only the enemies/monsters. 
 This may be a let down to some people who like to see their characters during battles, but the 
 game makes up for it with fluid enemy animations, each monster is interesting, enemies have good 
 animations, and they keep the moves varied so it keeps you concentrated during a battle because 
 you don't know what type of move they'll do.
  
  After defeating a monster (s) , one may ask you to join the party. The monsters can be very helpful, 
 some monsters strong in battles, some are better at magic/spells, and some are good with both. 
 They will help ease you through your adventure. You get a maximum of eight (8) people in your party, 
 which means you may need to drop some monsters off to a monster carer if you want to have new monsters 
 in the party. That's all the monster carer is good for, this isn't like Pokemon where they level 
 up with a carer, they just stay there and keep the same level, though the game makes up for it 
 for being able to have party members in your wagon (i. e. not actively in battle) and still gain 
 experience points. You just may find that the earlier monsters will feel weaker towards the second 
 half of the game, and you want to switch to more powerful monsters.
  
  DQ5 feels rewarding, with steady levelling up and a decent save system. I say decent because you 
 can't save in a menu, you have to talk to a priest to save, but it's better than some RPG's. You 
 can die, but still continue from the most recent town/village. Dying is the only time the game 
 feels punishing because it takes away a huge amount of your gold. The item system is a little strict 
 at times, some weapons/armour you'd think you could equip can't be, but others can. You can easily 
 tell which party member can be equipped with something when buying it from a store.
  
  You follow the story of a young boy, as he grows up and matures in this slowly degrading world, 
 and you'll eventually get married and have kids. It may seem pretty basic "evil dude trying to 
 take over the world", but just describing it like that would be just wrong, it goes way beyond 
 that and it will be a story to remember.
  The story itself is well told, though it doesn't have any full motion video (fmv) cutscenes or 
 voice overs, the game makes up for it with superbly well written dialogue which sucks you in; there 
 is never a dull moment. That is a good thing, because this game will keep you occupied for weeks. 
 It took me 36 hours to complete, and you get a bonus boss after completing the game. Every town 
 is of importance, and discovering a new town/village, no matter how small, is always a good moment. 
 You'll meet some interesting characters on the way, who may be able to help you later in the game. 
 Overall the story is well driven, and the game never feels stale.
  
  The music is beautifully done, with a mix of classic soundtrack and some nice orchestrated music. 
 Some soothing melodies in peaceful towns; and moody music during dramatic times. The music is something 
 to be appreciated, though it will sound familiar, and some music gets repeated a lot, but it is 
 mixed up well. This is a great conversion to the DS of the original soundtrack. Sometimes though, 
 the sound effects feel weak and uninspired, this is more noticeable during battles.
  
  In the end, DQ5 is a must buy RPG for RPG fans and especially for fans of the series. Boasting 
 amazing graphics, rewarding gameplay, a superb script, a great classic sound track, and a lengthy 
 campaign. It's hard to think anyone could go wrong with this game. Buy this game. Support good 
 games. Support good developers.
  
  Graphics: 10 | Gameplay: 8 | Sound: 9 | Story: 8 | Value: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QueenOfGaming
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This was my first experience playing a Dragon Quest game. I played 4 after this for the DS too.
 
  
  The graphics are great, there is a lot of attention to detail. I wish there had been more video 
 cut scenes though. 
  
  The storyline is excellent with many twists and turns throughout the game. I won't get into it 
 because it's in the reviews and the game description but you play the part of a boy throughout 
 his young adulthood meeting new people along the way and battling evil.
  
  The battle system is good old RPG style done in a great fashion. You upgrade your armor, shield, 
 weapons, and buy potions. Level up with experience and level up your magic skills.
  
  The only problem I had with the game were too many random battles . On the map it's every 4-6 steps, 
 it's annoying when you have to walk far and don't have enough money or magic left to heal yourself. 
 In the dungeons it is the same case but the monsters are more difficult. Basically you should take 
 time to level yourself up but it's annoying at times when you want to get through a task and you 
 keep on getting interrupted with random battles. 
  
  I would definitely recommend this game. I don't know if I will write a review for number iv but 
 it would basically be the same as this one a must getter too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:45 am PT
Review:  Dragon Quest: Hand of the Heavenly Bride makes its way out of Japan for the first time. After Dragon 
 Quest IV it is the second game of the DQ series approaching on the DS. But is it just another remake? 
 Certainly not. An entry that never hit other shores before got a face-lift resulting in an amazing 
 dual-screen presentation.
  
  In the fifth installment of the Dragon Quest franchise you follow a journey that crosses three 
 generations of a families legacy. Within progress you will explore different landscapes, get to 
 know likable characters and lots of various monsters. Sounds like any other PRG? Anyways, where 
 Dragon Quest V really stands out is the plot: What starts as an childhood adventure of a young 
 hero and his father quickly leads to an amazing RPG experience of a young man travelling through 
 the world while he has to make decisions that directly influence the future. As you proceed you 
 may recruit many monsters and even choose your own wife!
  
  Basically Dragon Quest V looks like DQ IV on the DS. Which doesnt mean its bad. The 
 graphics create a nostalgic feeling and they are very colorful. In addition to that you might rotate 
 the camera 360. Unfurtunately occasional slowdowns might happen. As both screens show ingame graphics 
 you will hardly miss anything of interest onscreen. However, as you come to the worldmap you will 
 see a 2D visual design. 
  The game delivers classic RPG style and therefore it has a classic turn based combat system as 
 well. You encounter enemies in a first person view, so you wont see your heroes fight. It 
 is very similar to Dragon Quest IV and it offers random encounters, too. But fighting is almost 
 never boring thanks to enemy selection. Foes vary due to continent, region, and time of day. To 
 that enemy attacks vary a lot and have different animations.
  
  What makes Dragon Quest V better than average RPGs is its great monster taming system, where you 
 recruit more than 50 monster types by defeating them in combat. All of them might wear equipment, 
 cast spells, and of course gain Experience points. After filling all of your eight party member 
 slots, you can send any new monsters which you recruited off to a monster daycare. There you can 
 store more than 70 creatures.
  
  Dragon Quest V: Hand of the Heavenly Bride is an amazing remake that approaches on the DS delivering 
 addictive gameplay along with a great presentation. It has a great plot and the monster taming 
 system offers high replayability. As you will play 40-45 hours through the main story the gameplay 
 will keep you busy for more than that. The twists in the storyline add even more replay value. 
 It is a gem on the DS which I recommend to anyone who likes RPGs and if you enjoyed Dragon Quest 
 IV you will like Dragon Quest V even more.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
