-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Draglade
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/draglade/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Incorporates several varied gameplay elements.
 Beat combo system adds a unique spin on fighting.
 Single-card and online multiplayer modes are nice additions.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Each gameplay element isn't as engrossing as it could be.
 Story mode seems like a wasted effort, with lots of characters having nothing to offer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 14, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 27 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 110 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Developer: Dimps Corporation
Genre: 2D Fighting
Date: Dec 4, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Draglade's rhythm-based combat isn't as robust as it could be, but the story mode and competitive 
 online play are still fun. 

  Mashing together fighting-game mechanics with rhythm-game ideas sounds like one of the stranger 
 genre combinations you're ever likely to find in a video game. Nevertheless, in Draglade, you'll 
 be fighting to a musical beat while also enjoying some light adventure and collection aspects. 
 However, none of these aspects -- most notably the rhythm mechanics -- are very robust by themselves, 
 which leaves you with a game that is merely decent when it could have been much more.  

  Draglade shows you the ropes via its single-player story mode. You can choose from one of four 
 available characters and guide him through his quest to become a major grapper, a professional 
 fighter that uses a specialized weapon called a glade. Each of the four characters' stories follow 
 the same basic template, which involves the same tournaments, the same optional quests, and the 
 same generic, sinister organization bent on harnessing the power of dark glades. If you've ever 
 seen an anime series or played an anime-themed game, you wouldn't be missing anything if you chose 
 to skip the forgettable dialog.  

           Skipping unnecessary and generic dialogue like this might improve your experience with 
 the game.      

  There's rarely any motivation to talk to townspeople, anyway; most don't offer anything but recycled 
 combat tips. You'll sometimes hear tales such as the two lovers who were from different social 
 classes, or an old potter whose lost vase turned up in the hands of a mischievous child, but you 
 can never help them out. Some towns have many areas and people, but given that you can't do anything 
 with them, you'll wonder why the developers even bothered with it all. Don't be surprised to find 
 yourself ignoring everyone and going straight to the fight.  

  Combat in Draglade is quite simple. All characters have light and hard attacks, each of which can 
 be modified to knock the opponent either into the air or down on the ground. You also use up to 
 six different "bullets" in battle, which are special moves you can equip before battle, including 
 fireballs, electrical bolts, and even health-restoring dew drops. Usage of bullets is governed 
 by a regenerating energy meter at the bottom of the screen, which means that you can't throw an 
 overpowered bullet at your enemy over and over again.  

  Via a rudimentary combo system, you can chain light attacks into a heavy one, perform moves that 
 hit multiple times with a single button press, or hit foes one extra time as they come down from 
 a fall. It never gets as complex or as tactical as a Street Fighter match, though, and instead 
 opts for a feel that mimics Super Smash Bros. or Power Stone. This is exacerbated by the fact that 
 there's no distinction between blocking low attacks versus high ones.  

  The beat combo system is where the rhythm-game aspects make their way into Draglade. As long as 
 you've got energy stored up, you can send your character into a beat mode by tapping the L button. 
 This activates a horizontal note chart -- the beat score -- at the bottom of the screen. It begins 
 scrolling when you execute a light attack, after which you must continue to hit the light attack 
 button in time with the notes. Do this successfully and you'll complete the beat combo, which can 
 cause massive damage if it connects. If your timing is especially good, you'll do even more damage. 

  Aside from being able to perform one in the air, there's not much more to beat combos than tapping 
 a single button in time. For the majority of the game, beat scores last only about three seconds 
 long. Furthermore, being limited to the light attack button makes it feel even more simplistic. 
 Due to the loose nature of the combo and blocking system, you can't reliably chain into a beat 
 combo from a normal strike. Unless you exploit moves or bullets that leave your adversary stunned, 
 nailing someone with a beat combo relies on chance a bit more than we would like. However, in a 
 fun twist, you're able to create your own custom beat scores: Taking someone down to the riff of 
 "Kung Fu Fighting" never gets old.  

  The simple fighting mechanics make for a relatively easy experience, but this at least makes the 
 game more accessible. Furthermore, even if it's not necessarily deep, on the surface it is quite 
 varied. The wealth of bullets you collect during story mode cements that notion, considering that 
 there are a hundred different attacks you can buy or find throughout the towns you visit and the 
 side missions you take. The side missions, all of which are optional, boil down to guiding your 
 character from left to right and beating up creatures that stand in your way much like you would 
 in a one-on-one match. This is, again, very simplistic in that it rarely throws any more than two 
 threats your way, and you'll start to wonder why the developers couldn't put some interesting platform 
 elements or secrets in there. Finally, there's absolutely no way for you to backtrack and complete 
 missions you've failed previously until you start over with a new character.  

           Customize your own beat score and you'll be flattening foes to a Mario riff in no time. 

  Regardless, you'll want to put up with all the side missions and complete the game with all four 
 characters if you want to fully enjoy the multiplayer experience in Draglade. Finishing the game 
 with each character not only increases his hit points and attack strength, but also unlocks a character 
 from his story for usage in versus mode. DS wireless play makes a standard versus mode available 
 along with a cooperative campaign and a lobby through which to trade beat combos and bullets. The 
 versus mode features single-card download play, which is a nice addition despite its limitation 
 to the four principal characters. It's subject to occasional stuttering but holds up well enough. 
 You can also fight online, with the option to limit your encounters to anyone within your skill 
 range. Leaderboards are a nice touch, as are the achievement medals you earn for such acts as winning 
 a match very quickly, exploiting beat combos, and successfully defending against repeated onslaughts. 

  There are a lot of neat little things about Draglade, but they're not taken advantage of as much 
 as they should have been. Therefore, Draglade ends up being enjoyable but hardly robust. If Ultimate 
 Mortal Kombat and Bleach DS aren't enough to satisfy your fighting-game bloodlust on the DS, Draglade 
 is a worthy game, but don't go into it expecting anything too intense or complex.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: 14td
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  This game is fun and colorful. Yes it is very easy but none the less the gameplay is to much fun. 
 If you don't like short games I say wait till the second one comes out but in the mean time if 
 you are looking for fun gameplay and don't car about the horrible stories BUY THIS GAME it is worth 
 it. There are diffrent modes like story mode, cpu vs. mode, practice mode, and it has wi-fi!!!! 
 I've played the Wi-Fi and it is like playing a cpu just more challenging!!!! You collect bullets 
 which are the battle moves you use in combat. there are a lot!!!!! There is something in the game 
 that makes a grapper a grapper!!! The beat combo!!!! Which you can customize so sound and move 
 like you want it!!!! i Highly recommened this game for gameplay NOT the story!!!!!!! Overall this 
 game is new and unique!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link_1994
Rating: 1.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  I don't think I need I need to make this a long review. This game SUCKS, the charecters and plot 
 are dull and unispired. If you want a cliche anime game with the possibly worst out of the dumpster 
 charecters then this game is just for you. However if you would like the complete opposite then 
 you know you wouldn't want this game period. Now it's time for the full review of this game. 
 
  
  Story: What this piece of crap is a story?! I've seen better from Calvins Revenge. Do Atlus a favor 
 and pick out a less crappy game. Honestly it literaly SCREAMSLAWLZ I'm a cliche rip-off of most 
 Shounen anime, but I'm sure I'm twice as cool as they will ever be." 
  
  Charecters: Suck even MORE than the story itself. And you can't have a good story without charecters. 
 
  
  Graphics: I'll give this game some credit the graphics are a bit decent but not the best I've seen. 
 
  
  Gameplay: Now the gameplay is the only thing in this game that isn't cliche. From Customizing attacks 
 from beats of your rock music to buying bullets or special super attacks. 
  
  Overall the game SUCKS don't but it or rent it and if you did buy it Return it run away from it 
 as fast as you can cause this game is like a nuclear bomb of fail. DON'T BUY DRAGLADE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siasat9077
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  This game is actually awesome but there are some flaws that may ruin the game but it is still good 
 somehow. This game is all about your hero and Grapping. Grapping is the new word in town and it's 
 all about fighting. Your goal in this game is to become a Major Grapper and a Major Grapper is 
 the World's best Grapper.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  
  If you Enjoyed the battle style of Summon night you'll also enjoy this. The Battle style is on 
 a Platform and you get to walk around and find enemies, do not worry there is no surprise Battles 
 here you get to see your enemy. This game barely uses the touchscreen and mic of the DS which reduces 
 its gameplay score by 2. The buttons are used all the time so don't worry if you lost your stylus.
 
  
  Story 10/10
  
  
  This game has four Major Stories that's why it's fun to play and the story isn't boring at all. 
 Your story depends on what character you choose either the Fire Hero, Thunder Hero, Water Hero, 
 Earth Hero. Well it's up to you to discover the stories of these four heroes. The Stories have 
 only one Main Goal here and it is to become a Major Grapper.
  
  Graphics/Sound 4/10
  
  This is one of the flaws I'm talking about. The sounds will really make it a GBA game but it is 
 for the DS. The pictures do not look pleasant to the eye and also the background you cannot see 
 any 3D Graphics here just only 2D . I think that GBA can handle this game. If only the creators 
 improve the quality of the sound and improve their graphics this can make a big Difference, I guess 
 this would be a Hit if that so happens.
  
  Play Time/Replayability 9/10
  
  It took me about ten hours to finish one character's story so I guess it had taken me about 40 
 hours to finish all of them. The game is not repetitive because you can do some Grap Festa on Wi-Fi. 
 Wi-Fi makes this game more better because you can see the top Grappers around the World. There 
 a lot of things to do in this game like collecting Bullets that adds to the addicting element of 
 the game.
  
  Final Recommendation
  Buy or Rent?
  
  Like what I said earlier it took me 40 Hours to finish it so just buy this game. It is not boring 
 because of Wi-fi and big Replayability. If you rent this you'll end up paying the same amount of 
 money of it's cost. Just buy this and It'll add to your game collection.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowed_Valor
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 8:16 am PT
Review:  "Draglade" for the Nintendo DS certainly isn't Mortal Kombat, but it's got that certain something 
 that clings the user into the game automatically. Maybe the anime-looking characters or the ability 
 to use "bullets" to knock your opponent out, but the main reason this game isn't at the bottom 
 of the bargain bin at the moment is that you are able to make your own music, called "beat combos," 
 and kick the crap out of the other guy using that tune. For example, you could get a seven hit 
 combo out of "Mary had a Little Lamb" or an eight hit combo with the theme from "Sailor Moon".
 
  
  Okay, girly examples, but you'll be the one crying when you are wiped away by the combo beat to 
 the tune of the Barney song.
  
  Story: -Iffy-
  Each of the four main characters have their own storyline and background, but they are all either 
 too bland or expected. You've got your wanting-to-be-the-best Fire Hero, the I'm-gonna-plunder-yer-riches 
 Water Hero, the PETA Earth Hero, and the Sasuke Uchiha Lightning Hero. Nothing majorly different 
 happens in each story, just the character's outlook on the situation, and that's about it.
  
  Gameplay: -YAHOO!-
  The controls are simple and easy to learn, X and Y are light and heavy 
 attacks, B jumps, A uses your magic juice called "bullets," and R blocks. However, the L button 
 is what makes this game tick.
  Once you press this button, you have initiated your "Beat Combo". All you have to do is go up to 
 your enemy and press the Y button repeatedly to initiate your beat combo. It's set up so it judges 
 the timing of your hits, like DDR. They rate it on a "Cool!", "Good!", and "Bad!" rating (and "Bad" 
 isn't a good thing in this case) . It's impossible to get a "Cool!" rating all the way, let alone 
 during the THRILL OF COMBAT, so just deal with button mashing at this point.
  
  Multiplayer: -Time-fufilling-
  Yes, there is a multiplayer mode! No, there's no 4-player tag 
 team, however this game manages to hold up on it's own in this area somehow. What's more interesting 
 than making your own beat combos is seeing what other people have come up with! Either based off 
 of a cartoon or something completely original, no two beats should sound the same, unless you traded 
 them with someone already. Other than that, nothing special in this area. Find a person, kick their 
 butts, move up in the rankings. That simple.
  
  Looks: -Kinda bland-
  The colors are very vibrant and outright as the characters duke it out, however the same can't 
 be said for the backgrounds. More often than not, the crowd in the background looks like a painting 
 of the superbowl made in a 4th grade kindergarden class. But who cares about background when the 
 costume variants of the main characters covers all the colors of the rainbow?
  
  Difficulty: -Insanely easy at parts-
  Not including the side quests, this game is easily beatable. 
 It'll only take you two hours to beat one character's story if you skip the cutscenes (maybe two 
 characters) . The animals you defeat, called "Variants", are one reason why you eat through this 
 for breakfast. They're not really adversaries so much as living punchingbags. However, the "grappers" 
 (opponents) you face make up for the lack of challenge.
  
  Overall: -Good if you give it time-
  This game is like a rainstorm, it may look bad, but just 
 give it time to pass and you'll see some good things from this title. If they do make a sequel 
 and improve on what has been done already, then we may be seeing a really cool franchise for Guitar 
 Hero fans and Mortal Kombat groupies alike!
  
  -SV 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
