-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Drawn to Life
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/drawntolife/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Drawing mechanic is surprisingly effective.
 Cute, colorful graphics.
 A lengthy adventure with plenty of stuff to unlock.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Overly simplistic gameplay.
 A few quirks with drawing that make it more restrictive than you'd want.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 17, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 599 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: 5TH Cell
Genre: Adventure
Date: Sep 10, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it's a fairly rote platformer with some coloring-book underpinnings, Drawn to Life's drawing 
 mechanic is undeniably unique. 

  Drawn to Life for the Nintendo DS is probably the best $30 coloring book you'll ever play. In a 
 nutshell, the game is a platformer that allows you a bit of freedom of artistic expression. It 
 lets you use the stylus to draw and design a variety of things, from the weapons you use, right 
 down to your very own avatar. It sounds like the picture-perfect concept for a DS game, and in 
 most ways, it delivers on its promise. You can indeed draw and design lots of unique images, even 
 if some of those images are limited by static outlines provided to you. If the game has any flaw, 
 it's that it's not necessarily that interesting as a game. It's the kind of plain-and-simple platformer 
 that's been done to death, with a few fetch quests tossed in to pad out the experience. However, 
 for less experienced players, the overly familiar gameplay won't be as big of a deal. Even with 
 some limitations, the artistic aspects of the game are undeniably cool.  

           There's something a little bit weird about playing as a god-controlled mannequin.     

  The premise of Drawn to Life involves a breed of adorable cat/rodent-looking creatures called raposas, 
 a cheerful race that has fallen on hard times due to a viral darkness plaguing the land. Dark clouds 
 are choking the life out of the raposas' modest village, specifically due to the destroyed pages 
 of "the book of life," which is a book that literally contains all the items needed for living 
 (the sun, night, time, rain, and so on and so forth) . Also absent is "The Creator," the god that 
 the raposas worship, who evidently abandoned them sometime ago. Wouldn't you know it, but that 
 god is  you , and after you decide to start speaking to the young daughter of the town's mayor, 
 the once-downtrodden raposas are suddenly bristling with excitement and asking you for favor after 
 favor to help rid their town of this pesky darkness.  

  Of course, no god worth its salt actually does all this work itself. Rather than just wiping out 
 all the darkness with one fell stroke, you instead dig up a mannequin that's been locked away inside 
 the town's library. This is where you get your first taste of the game's sketching abilities. You're 
 given the task of crafting this mannequin into a character of your own design. Using either a selection 
 from the default character templates, or the available color palette for drawing and coloring, 
 you create whatever kind of goofy hero you want. Whether you want a fairly by-the-book superhero 
 or something that looks like a cross between Mega Man and Gene Simmons, you can make a pretty good 
 approximation of whatever you want. The limitations of the game's drawing mechanics do become somewhat 
 apparent here. Though you can zoom in a fair amount for more precise drawing, all the art is done 
 with fairly sizeable pixels, so it's difficult to avoid slightly jagged-looking designs. In addition, 
 the touch screen doesn't always recognize the stylus with perfect accuracy. Sometimes you'll attempt 
 to color one very specific spot on the touch screen by pressing the stylus directly to that spot, 
 and the color will appear a few pixels over. Nevertheless, though it isn't perfect, you'll be amazed 
 at some of the nifty creations you can concoct with this simple mechanic.  

  Designing a character is just the tip of the artistic iceberg. As you play through the game's levels, 
 you'll frequently come across easels that ask you to design something to help you traverse the 
 next section of the level. These can range from clouds that you can jump on, to vines that you 
 can climb on, to seaweed you can hide in. With these types of objects, you can draw anything you 
 want. It may ask you to draw a cloud, but if you'd rather draw a snarling devil face or a picture 
 of your favorite kitty cat, it's within your power to do so. The way you interact with these created 
 objects is pretty cool. The objects you design animate just a bit when you jump on or around them, 
 and though the stuff you draw tends to look crude in contrast to the sharp, colorful in-game graphics, 
 there's nothing quite like jumping up and down on a sweet liger or robot head you drew instead 
 of the cloud you were supposed to be drawing.  

  Unfortunately, not all of the game's drawing aspects are nearly as free-form. In a number of cases, 
 you'll encounter objects and devices that come with preset outlines. You need a surfboard to get 
 across a body of water, or a rocket ship to dive into a random shooter level (more on that in a 
 moment) , and consequently you're given an outline of a surfboard and of a rocket ship. All you 
 really get to do is color them in as you please. Although there's nothing wrong with getting your 
 coloring book on, it certainly would have been more fun to design your own rocket or replace the 
 surfboard with any number of  objects.  

  Though drawing is a big component in Drawn to Life, you spend a great deal more time jumping around 
 a bunch of modestly designed 2D levels, as well as wandering around the raposas' village. Sadly, 
 neither of these parts of the game is exactly captivating. In the main game, gameplay consists 
 almost exclusively of generic platforming levels. The level designs aren't bad or anything, but 
 they're extremely repetitive. You'll find yourself exploring over and over again what feels like 
 the same nooks and crannies for the same items and the same captured raposas required to exit the 
 level. Enemies are extremely simple and require little more than a few bops on the head to dispatch. 
 You have a gun that changes with each world, but save for a few high-up enemies that are difficult 
 to hop on, the guns aren't very useful. Every now and then the game changes things up by morphing 
 into a scrolling shooter for a short bit, or having you draw wings on yourself to tackle a few 
 stages, but these aren't necessarily significant improvements to the game design. Again, it's not 
 that the platforming stuff is bad. It's just so simple that it's hard to imagine anyone experienced 
 with the platformer genre getting too excited about it.  

           The platforming isn't very interesting, but the things you can draw within the world to 
 aid your quest are.      

  When you aren't hopping or drawing, you're hanging out in the raposas' village, fetching things 
 for people and having a lot of conversations. The village is essentially the hub area for the game. 
 Although the conversations you'll have with the various raposas are interesting enough and written 
 fairly well, it just isn't much fun to have to constantly run back and forth for the sake of talking 
 to one guy, just to be sent to talk to another guy, and then engage another cutscene that forces 
 you to run all the way back across the village. The game clocks in at around 9 or 10 hours, but 
 you have to envision that it'd probably be closer to six or seven without all these fetch-quest 
 sections.  

  Drawn to Life is ultimately best served for players who haven't spent their lives playing the variety 
 of different platformers this game borrows from. Its drawing mechanic is something anyone can appreciate, 
 but the gameplay itself is so simplistic that older audiences may get bored with it after an hour 
 or two. Still, it's easily charming enough to win over younger kids and casual players, and it's 
 an innovative and unique piece of work that's certainly worth at least a cautious look by any DS 
 owner.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (47 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: louielouiee
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 5:26 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game and I'm amazed! I mean, the graphics are the cutest I've seen this far on 
 DS, the frame movements of the characters is very welll finished, this was certainly a game made 
 very carefully, the sound effects are fitting just fine and the musics aren't annoying.
  Well, I didn't finished it yet, to tell the truth I played for almost an hour only, but I was really 
 amazed, if I was a kid I'd play Drawn To Life over and over.
  The story's told about a village that is under darkness 'cause the Creator (some kind of God, and 
 that's YOU) is missing for some long now. Then, after years of praying, a little girl gets to talk 
 to the Creator and he accepts to help the village. To do that the Creator decides to make a hero, 
 and you, my dear player, is the on who draws the hero! I liked that, puts the player even more 
 inside the game, and so the game is even more personal.
  
  Later I write some more, just wanted to say for parents or big brothers, or if you like kid's game, 
 that Drawn To Life seems to be a good call. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSFanaticNerd
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Like I said before, it's a fun game. Drawing your own hero and naming them is what makes the game 
 have it's own style. The stylus is pretty much only used to draw, otherwise you use the buttons. 
 Which isn't a hassle, seeing as you just have to put the stylus away until you're drawing something. 
 I would not recommend using your finger. That works for some games, not this one. The fact that 
 you can name your own town, character, draw your own stuff (that being weapons or things for around 
 the town) gives you a chance to use some creativity, but it is still limited. No matter what you 
 do the town will look like it did in the beginning, the characters will have the names they have, 
 and the game will always have a level that you complete five mini-places, then a boss. That's where 
 we hit repetition. 5 mini-areas, a boss, the mayor has you draw a new part of town. Each 5 mini-areas 
 contain 3 people, you move them in, you go to the next mini-area and do the same thing all over 
 again. You might want to consider if the game really is worth your time or not before you buy it, 
 if you already have it and don't like it, sell it or give it to someone after erasing your data 
 if you can. Think before you act (buy in this case) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeveefan93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Drawn To Life Is Quite Fun When You Can Be More Creative While You Play! Drawn To Life Is Basically 
 A Game Were You Draw Your Hero And Save The Creatures Called Raposas! Draw Items Through Out The 
 Game! You Can Still Be Lazy And Make Your Hero A Stick If You Want! Or Be More Creative And Draw 
 Someone More Then A Stick! And You Can Also Draw Rockets, Sleds, Swings, Swords, Etc. Through Out 
 The Game! You Also Can Edit This Stuff Later To!
  
  What I Really Like About This Game: Is Were You Can Draw Heroes And The Stuff I Mentioned Above, 
 There Are Many Levels, And There The Drawing On The Title Screen!
  
  What I Really Dislike About This Game: Is When You Get Hit Your Hero's Body Falls Apart, And The 
 Ending Song COMPLETELY SUCKS!!!
  
  So Drawn To Life Is A Great Game For Creativity And Practicing Drawing Pictures! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Y-1
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Well i think this game is a almost complete copy of MArio bros series. It has "worlds", inisant 
 minons to kill (mario: goomba, Drawn to life: Baki) Bosses to defeat (duh, but still similar) , you 
 have to collect coins, and it uses almost the exact same moves (jump on bakie to get a coin) . But 
 it has some ups to it too like...
  
  
  LIKES
  1) Create your own character (fun)
  2) The idea of the villain (nice)
  3) pretty much customize everything you use (weapons, ships, wings 
 ETC)
  
  DISLIKES (a lot)
  1) not enough customizing of the Hero (like giving character special abilites)
  2) The fact that 
 it's exactly like the Mario bros. series.
  3) You can only color most of your creations (it gives you the rough draft and you just color it 
 )
  4) the cheesesness of the backround
  
  So in all don't run out and buy the game. The only fun of it is the fact that you can Customize 
 (color lots of times) . See yea later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: griffinboy846
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Story: 4.1/10: You are the creator, and you create things. But then you stop, and darkness takes 
 over the land you created! Pretty basic stuff. Then again, it's a kid's game. So? Gameplay: 5.2/10: 
 You must create a character (you can create your own character, or choose from a set number if 
 pre-created characterts. I created Master Chief.) and clean up the city by going on a 2-D adventure 
 to save the town. While playing, you must create different things (such as a vine, and a sub) . 
 This gets boring quick. You can make random things on stuff you create, too. Still, it gets old 
 pretty fast. The graphics are ok, and the AI can sometimes be pretty tough, and you'll hate it 
 when you have to play a level over again just because you died.
  in the end, drawn to life is an ok game. Worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazystitch
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I first saw the commercial for this DS game and I thought it was going to be amazing. I got so 
 excited for this game, I couldn't wait for this release. I finally got it for my birthday and I 
 couldn't wait to play it. I ran to my DS, popped the game in and let me say, my high expectations 
 weren't close to what i thought it was gonna be. It was better.
  
  The first thing you see when you turn on the game are a couple logos then you see some weird bunny 
 people and on the bottom screen you see some other bunny and it says draw. There you can draw all 
 over him and junk, but whatever. So anyways you create a file and basically these bunnies think 
 that you are the creator of everything and everyone. Story also says that the creator (You) abandoned 
 the bunnies. Let me stop here to say the bunnies are called Raposas. So, after abandoning them 
 everyone leaves town except for the main characters, Mayor, Jowee and Mari. They ask the creator 
 to make a hero, that's when you draw one and set out on your adventure to save the town.
  
  This game is extremely customizable. You can draw a ton of things such as your hero, a submarine, 
 a rocket, a cloud, a gear, a snowball gun, an acorn gun and an awesome sword. The only reason this 
 game took so long to complete is because the cut scenes are soooooo long. The first time you play, 
 they aren't that big of a deal but if you delete and make a new file (Like I did) The cut scenes 
 can get very annoying.
  
  The music in this game is amazing, Theres danger music that makes you in a rush, theres happy music, 
 sad music, fast music, slow music and a lot more. Theres also a music shop in the game so you can 
 listen to the music over and over again.
  
  The graphics aren't all that great but, that doesn't really matter to me, thats why this paragraph 
 is so short. But it's a DS game, not much if any have good graphics.
  
  The story is amazing. As I said before you are the creator of this town, this world. These Raposas 
 want you to rescue their town and make it better by drawing a sun, clouds, beach balls, the moon 
 and even the crops for them. You see most of these throughout the town, which I thought was cool, 
 seeing my drawings everywhere.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone with a DS, especially if they like to draw. This game is practically 
 Mario but you can draw the platforms and stuff. Overall I have to give this game a 9.5 out of 10. 
 Almost flawless. The game could have been longer and Wi-Fi would have been pretty sweet like a 
 story mode online or a creations exchange. But other than that, this game is purely amazing. Buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolvingmayhem
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  I bought my DS Lite a week ago looking for something good to start off with and this was probably 
 the best choice , of all games that I've played on the DS this has to be one of the best so far!
 
  
  I completed it in approx. 2.5 days as it was quite addictive.
  I think they exaggerate on the draw your own everything side of things , but alot of the important 
 or cool features of the stages you play are what you draw , be that , you can also jeopardise what 
 the game wants you to draw and just draw something bloody awesome lol!
  
  i. e one part of the game requires you to push a boulder , screw that , I drew an 8-Ball .
  Just 
 cool things like that!
  
  Draw your own guns , hero (edit n create 3 of your liking) , platforms .. alotta stuff!
  
  
 Definately a game you shouldn't miss out on , really addictive! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newlemming
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 12:14 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of Drawn to Life I was slightly interested, I had a childlike curiosity to see 
 a game where you drew things like main characters, objects, etc.
  
  D. T. L. is more a kids game than anything, since it would more than likely thrill kids to draw their 
 own adventures, but as I began to play this game I found my own spark of charm.
  
  The game itself has a very simple platformer engine, which allows users to do about as many things 
 as they can in a Super Mario Bros game, only with slightly more customizable details.
  
  The story is simple but interesting, as "shadow drawings" have been formed against the Creator's 
 (the drawer of all life) will. The game starts off in a small town of Raposa (humanlike creatures) 
 who's numbers have dwindled down to 3 people.
  
  All in all there isn't much to say about this game other than it is a decent attempt at making 
 a game where gamers can express their creativity.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gc619
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2008 11:23 am PT
Review:  Initially i was put off the idea of having to draw all the important aspects of this game, seeing 
 as I can't draw to save my life! However, once I used the aid of the provided templates, I'd drawn 
 a semi-decent character and I was on my way. The character you draw is accurately represented in 
 the game, even though the way it moves can take a bit of getting used to (arms really shouldn't 
 swing that much!) The storyline isn't exactly unique, a village is in disarray after a really evil 
 guy tears pages from a book & casts the village in a cloudy darkness, and its up to your created 
 hero (or heroine) to save the day. Once you start the game, you'll be mesmerised by the bright 
 colours and surprising depth of gameplay. Creating various play points in the game, including cloud 
 platforms, sledges, hang-gliders, submarines, rocket ships & so many more is great fun.
  I think that the developers managed to find a great balance with this game. It's hard enough to 
 challenge grown-ups, whilst not being too hard to discourage younger gamers. 
  All in all, this game should entertain you for many hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jamez634
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 17, 2008 12:30 am PT
Review:  Drawn to Life is extremely customizable. As you probably know, you can draw your own character. 
 But not just that. You can also draw weapons like swords and guns and rockets and submarines and 
 - well, you get the picture! (get it?! Get the picture? LOL) So that's pretty cool but you know 
 the DS touch screen is a little small which is why I put in the cheat to get aliens and kids drawn 
 for you. And then I just draw on him the way I want. I'm just telling you the truth. Unless you 
 find the DS touch screen easy to use then you won't be able to make a detailed picture. Even if 
 you're a good drawer, it will be hard.
  Getting into the story, an evil shadow, that used to be a citizen in your town, wants to take over 
 the world, so you have to save it. I found the story quite good to follow as there are some points 
 that keep you very entertained (for example: the mayor dies) .
  Now we come to the gameplay. Now let me get this straight out of the way - it's 2D. Now, some of 
 you might like 2D games, and when I say that I mean REALLY LIKE IT so if you do you might as well 
 stop reading this review. 
  I just find 2D gaming on the DS to be a bit of a letdown. And I would've expected a level designer 
 where you can draw your own levels, but there isn't.
  Overall, I don't blame THQ for the 2D gameplay. After all, you can't make a drawing 3D!
  
  
 Or can you?
  
  Check out my blog for other reviews on other great (and not so great!) DS games!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't be too confident in this, but I'd say THQ's best work. If you know what I'm talking 
 about, THQ is known mostly for tagging along to movie or cartoon licensed games. They also helped 
 in Sonic Advance (another success) . But Drawn to Life proves that THQ can survive on their own 
 (with 5th cell) , they just don't most of the time. You draw a character to save all the little 
 bunny things (Raposa) from a dark world. Actually, you can draw 3 per file, but there are only 
 2 files and if you work too detailed on a character, it just ends up looking weird when you play 
 as him/her (I made Venom from Spiderman, Sonic the Hedgehog, and Slash from Guns 'N Roses) . Eventually 
 you draw weapons, platforms, even full-out vehicles. The story and everything is somewhat little 
 kiddish but given a kind of Kirby-like storyline and a bit of a darker ending. Too bad though, 
 the platforming wasn't amazing and most that you'll draw will end up to no use or just a bunch 
 of stuff you'll be walking on or jumping off of. It's also not hard or worth it to beat and get 
 everything in this game. But still, it's got some weird magic to it that makes it worth the pay.
 
  
  PS Don't expect the upcoming Spongebob edition to be just as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -White_Knight-
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  A little Raposa-village is "under the impression" that it's being attacked by a demonic Rapo named, 
 Wilfre. (For the many people who don't know what a Rapo is, just think of a cat-rabbit thingy.) 
 Wilfre has torn lotsa pages from the "Book of Life" and scattered them throughout 4 worlds. It's 
 your job to get them back. Uhhgg...
  
  The main flow of the game is rather simple: the rapo-mayor asks you to get a specific page for 
 the book of life, you enter a level, you kill pathetic enemies while rescuing rapo-villagers and 
 hunting for 4 pieces of paper, you return to the town, you talk to the mayor, you color a new town 
 item, and finally, you tap dark clouds away to reviel new parts of the village.
  
  You can draw and color up to 3 playable characters, 17 rapo-village items: (the sun, trees, building, 
 ect.) , 6 equipment items that your character uses in the levels: (gun, sword, wings, flippers) , 
 and MANY in-game objects that helps you get through the levels (clouds, springs, ect.) .
  
  There are 15 normal levels, and 4 boss levels. I , sadly, had ample challenge on only 2 of those 
 levels, (Windy Hills, Shadow Lair)
  
  Thankfully there is a shop in town that lets you buy (with the money that you get in levels) patterns, 
 stamps, music, minigames, and special abilities.
  
  More later, I haven't the time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8more67
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  This game really is pretty boring. There isn't really much to it, and it's WAY too easy. I didn't 
 really enjoy it, so I stopped playing it. The drawing is good but, the game isn't even challenging. The 
 storyline is pretty bad, and it barely has enough violence to make it interesting. You might like. It 
 seems really weird to have a manacin run around and save people, don't you think? The graphics aren't 
 very good and cheesy. I think it was anticipated too much and it really bummed me out, so maybe you 
 want to think about getting another game and save your money. I lost my money, and I don't you to 
 be bummed with the game. The game has nothing to it and is simply lame so I don't want to keep it. I 
 think I'll sell it. If you buy it and don't like it at all, don't blame me. If you really like drawing, you 
 will like it pretty well, though. The drawing is pretty limited, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  The Good: drawing mechanic works well. crisp 2D graphics. easy for kids. 
  
  The Bad: too easy for adults. generic and outdated platforming. 
  
  The Review: I'm suprised 
 it took this long for them to make a DS game like this, but its about time they did. As you probably 
 know, you get to draw your own hero, then play as that hero through 2D platforming levels. You 
 also get to draw your weapons sometimes and obstacles in the level, like clouds, to help you get 
 through. Well, the drawing mechanic works great, and the fact that you edit your character and 
 even save up to 3 hero's per save file is really great. You can have a total of 2 save files too. 
 There is a story to this game, and in between levels, you spend time briefly back at the village, 
 but my kids mostly play this game, so I don't really know what the story is about, lol. The animations 
 and background graphics are cute and nice here. This game reminds me alot of Super Princess Peach, 
 and a little of Yoshi's Island, the way the 2D platforming works. As the GS review said, the actual 
 level gameplay is really easy, generic, and provides nothing new to gaming. Only the making your 
 own character part is new, which is enough to give this game a look, and I'm sure will be a hit 
 for any children under the age of 10. The music is kiddy and Nintendo-ish, but probably more repetitive. 
 The levels are not very linear, which is cool, but also pretty easy, which is also cool for young 
 kids playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodbyethumbs
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 5, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  Drawn to life is a strange game. Not in it's content or gameplay or anything like that, it's just 
 hard what to make of it. If you strip it down to the bone it's just your standard side scroller. 
 However, when you add the character creation into the mix the game suddenly becomes more than just 
 your bog-standard side scrolling adventure, suddenly the level of customization is drastically 
 increased making the game an enjoyable experience.
  Now "what if i can't draw?" i hear you say...
  Well for the less artistic of the DS gamers there 
 is also templates to use and colour in how you please, and nifty little add-ons like sunglasses 
 to unlock later on.
  The gameplay is great, plenty if fun characters to jump on, blast or slice your way through and 
 also some beautiful and strange scenery to go with it. Obviously creating your own characters adds 
 to the most part of the appeal but gameplay wise it is a generally good experience, with a pick 
 up and play feel to it that the DS was made for.
  The plot of the game is also rather unique, well, at least i've never seen anything along the same 
 lines.
  The sound quality is also crystal clear.
  All in all, a good game and something to build on and improve in sequels or similar games to come. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onekewlguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Reading several other review on this board, i wasn't sure what to expect when i picked up my copy 
 of Drawn to Life. Luckily, i am very glad i bought it! Although it is not nearly as unique as any 
 Mario game, this little platformer raises the bar for others of its genre.
  
  Basic gameplay is as follows:
  You have a small scene in the main town where you will be asked 
 to talk to a town member, draw something, etc.
  Then, you will play one of 16 side-scrolling levels. (This is the main 'meat' of the game)
  
 
  In my opinion, this is one of those games where it's fun to maybe complete one level per day, 
 but too much of this game gets somewhat repetitive.
  
  I would definitely suggest this game to a younger audience. It's very simple, and has many possibilities 
 for creativity. I definitely would NOT suggest this game to anyone who's looking for a fast-paced, 
 action-based game.
  
  Drawn to Life maintains a fairly interesting story involving the 'creator' (You) , who is trying 
 to help a small town get rid of dark shadows and save the members of the town. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tancred8120
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  Drawn to life is a platforming game for the Nintendo DS, developed by 5th Cell and published by 
 THQ. The game was obviously made for a younger audience, but it succeeds in entertaining the older 
 gamers as well. The platforming is simple, but the unique drawing mechanic makes the game stand 
 out from the crowd.
  
  You are cast as the spectator of a village of cute, catlike creatures called raposa. They are a 
 cheerful race, but their village has been plagued with darkness, due to missing pages from the 
 book of life. The book of life is literal, its pages contain necessities in life (sun, moon, rain, 
 ect.) . The creator, a godlike figure who the raposa worship, had also abandoned the village, much 
 to their despair. You may not know it yet, but the creator is you. After you speak with the daughter 
 of the village's mayor, the raposa have hope again. 
  
  They end up taking you to the library, where you are given the task to put life into a mannequin. 
 This is where you get the first taste of the drawing mechanic. You are given an outline of which 
 you must stay within. This restricts the drawing a little bit, but you can still be creative. You 
 can choose from a default character, or create your own. You can select several different colors 
 and tools from the template on the right hand side of the screen. It can be a little hard to get 
 the exact precision that you might want at times, so it can be a little frustrating.
  
  So at this point you (or really your mannequin) embarks on an epic quest to rid the lands of this 
 darkness. You enter through a gate, which brings you to world one, similar to super mario bros' 
 worlds, and there is a few levels in each world, and they all follow up with a boss fight. In each 
 level, you will have to rescue 3 raposa, and find 4 templates that create a page in the book of 
 life. As you go, the darkness will clear slowly in the village and more of the village will be 
 accessible. The platforming in levels are dull and repetitive, but are by no means bad level designs, 
 just repeated a lot. You will frequently bump into an easel in each level that requires you to 
 draw something to get through the level. For example, it may ask you to draw a cloud to hop onto, 
 and give you an outline to draw it in. But the best part is that you don't actually have to draw 
 a cloud! You can draw anything that would fit in the outline, and it would accept it. For example, 
 you could draw a happy face, or a devil, or a cat, but it doesn't really matter. For each world 
 you go through, you get a different gun (snow world: snowball gun, ect.) , and you can always go 
 to the town's creation hall to edit your drawings. For the most part, the game is pretty easy, 
 but there can be some annoying enemies that are hard to take down, and it can be difficult learning 
 boss's strategies and weakpoints. But it still evens out to make it easy, but that really isn't 
 all that bad, considering it is meant for a young and/or casual player. And in my book, an easy 
 game is better than a very hard game.
  
  There really isn't much to say about the graphics. They are nice, clean and crisp. They are very 
 cute and colorful as well, which does a good job of capturing the childish feel of the game.
  
  The sound does that as well, mainly the music. The music maintains a happy upbeat all the time. 
 Boss fights are an exception, with their epic, yet playful music. Sounds effects are quite what 
 you could expect from any game, but nevertheless, they are good.
  
  There are 4 worlds that each have about 5 levels (excluding the last one) that include a boss fight. 
 Saying that, the game can last you 4-6 hours to complete the main quest. That is pretty short, 
 but Drawn to Life encourages more playthroughs because it's fun to make new creations all over 
 again.
  
  With all of that said, Drawn to Life is a great game. When you look past the drab platforming, 
 it is an exciting and unique game. It should not be dismissed by an older gamer, or anyone for 
 that matter. If you want a great DS experience, you should consider picking up Drawn to Life.
 
  
  Breakdown:
  Gameplay ~ 8
  Graphics ~ 8
  Sound ~ 8
  Value ~ 8
  Tilt ~ 9
  
  Final Score ~ 8.2 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrush000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2008 4:54 am PT
Review:  Drawn to life is a really innovative and fun expierence. It works like this: you go through levels 
 (yeah, its a 2d platformer) cleaning a black goo, defeating enemies, collecting things and rescuing 
 villagers. Sometimes, you have to draw a spring, a cloud, a sled, among other things. But its 
 not as free as you might expect. There is a square or rectangle, and you have to draw the object 
 in it.
  
  The drawing mechanic is good, but the stylus is not so accurate. Thankfully, there is an option 
 that allows you to zoom into the drawing and draw more detailed elements.
  
  The design of the village and levels are childish and colorful. But theyre pretty good.
  
 
  Well, there isnt really any music that deserves a mention. Sound effects arent the strong of 
 this game.
  
  if you are looking to a game for a child, or you just want to have a simple and fun experience, 
 Drawn to Life is your game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: columbia93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Both myself (an "old" lady and my 14 year old niece are enjoying this game. The difficulty is there 
 but, even better the drawing is there. You can get as weird and creative as you want or as realistic 
 (or like me, a combination of the two!) . 
  
  Kids younger than my niece will enjoy this aspect but not sure about the difficulty issue. I'm 
 at the half-way point and have hit a major roadblock. To finish the level I must climb a tree while 
 battling tarbats and trying to keep my balance during earthquakes. To top it off, I've got to shoot 
 down what look like beehives - 4 of them - but no matter how hard I try, I can only get to 2 before 
 dying a horrible and naked death. (Yes, naked but not graphically so.)
  
  Anyway, I'll keep trying but the frustration is setting in. Still, I think I spent $20 on it and 
 it's been much more entertaining than some of the other DS games. Two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adeehr01eb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  This game really is quiet a venture off the regular DS path. Designing parts of the world and the 
 level's you play brings an interesting concept into the platform genre.
  
  Drawn to Life as a basic platformer is above average with some pretty easy parts but also with 
 it's share of challanges. The boss at the end of the the second 'door' world is quiet difficult 
 and presents multiple challanges. 
  
  Where this game really shines is in the design mode. Being able to draw your own pieces on each 
 world is quiet amazing. You can simply just fill in the area with color if you want to do a fast 
 job and play the game or you can take your time and make cool designs for your environment. 
  
  There is also some areas of the main town that you design as well giving you a true hand in 
 how the game shapes up, granted the towns folk will like your designs no matter how unique or ugly 
 you make them.
  
  Overall the game brings enough to the table to keep me coming back to play more. Definatly worth 
 the price of admission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VOAG
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Drawn to Life allows you to let your imaginations run free with its concept of allowing you to 
 draw and colour in various objects found in the game. 
  
  http://tinyurl. com/6ac5zd
  
  Before you play, you firstly need to draw and colour yourself. You can choose different templates 
 or draw yourself by your own. You are able to draw objects such as clouds, sleds, a submarine, 
 glider, wings, ice cubes, etc. There is always something new to draw in each level. 
  
  The drawing/colouring interface has various colours available for you to select, stamps to use, 
 change the drawing point larger/smaller, fill option, eraser, can zoom in/out, etc.
  
  The game revolves around a book of life which was taken by Wilfre from the village some time ago. 
 With the book of life in Wilfre's possession, Wilfre creates dark monsters which eventually rule 
 over the village. The village is now deserted, taken over by darkness and it's up to you to restore 
 the village locals and collect the pages torn from the book of life.
  
  Whilst in a level your character can jump, slide, shoot snowballs acorns, ground pound and eventually 
 fly when you draw yourself wings. In each level there is black shadow on some houses, on the floor, 
 on lamp posts, etc. If you are hit too much times by the enemies you start losing your clothes 
 and eventually lose a life.
  
  As you progress through each level, there are 3 villagers to rescue, 4 pages of the book of life 
 to find and some secrets. Once you've completed a level, you return to the village to view the 
 people return at which point there are small quests in the town to do before the next level, for 
 example, clearing shadow clouds so that the villages you rescued can return to their homes/workplaces, 
 planting trees, investigating a crime, having a snowball fight with the villagers, etc.
  
  You are able to purchase the extra features you have collected in each level by visiting one of 
 the shops in the village. The features include more colours, patterns and stamps for when you are 
 drawing, music and games and different abilities for your character. 
  
  The only faults I can find is the explanation of your movement, such as when learning to ground 
 pound you aren't told that you need to hold the A button while pressing down or when learning how 
 to fly you aren't told that if you press A you can fly up. 
  The other slight issue I had is that in the village no menu would appear if you wanted to say quit 
 the game. 
  
  If you like drawing, colouring and some game play then this game will suit you as you get to see 
 your creations in the game. In one level you draw a rocket and then you use that rocket to fly 
 and shoot down enemies. It's been one of those games which I can't really find many faults with. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravencr0w
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  It's quite obvious this platform adventure took much of its inspiration from Super Mario Bros. 
 But the gameplay is a whole lot of fun -- and the fun and good gaming feelings come from being 
 able to design some of the in-game elements such as platforms and environmental objects, as well 
 as color many items, tools, modes of transportation and creatures.
  
  Each level is nicely designed and makes you want to just explore it to find all the hidden bonus 
 goodies as you rescue characters from the village you are aiding and collect pieces that make up 
 pages from a Book of Creation. 
  
  In between levels of platform fun, you wander around a village, talking to each character to advance 
 the story. There is a nice variety of worlds and levels to explore, and interesting array of monsters 
 that you'll encounter.
  
  The game uses the stylus for drawing and coloring, but most of the play uses the button controls 
 alone.
  
  The game comes across as simple and easy-going, however, after each world, you come to a boss battle. 
 The boss battles are a big step in difficulty, one big enough to shock a casual gamer who has been 
 cruising along up to that point. It has actually prevented me from recommending this title to a 
 less experienced and/or younger gamers. Of course, it is not unbeatable, you just need to figure 
 out the patterns and push the right buttons at the right time. Besides, you can easily get a whole 
 lot of extra lives by replaying levels.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KyuubiGirl
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  For anyone who's wondered what it would be like to create your own video game, Drawn to Life is 
 a great game choice. Obviously you don't actually design to game, but being able to create your 
 own character, while going throughout levels creating objects to use, jump on, use to elevate, 
 is a very fun way to see just a bit of what it might be like to create your own video game.
  The game itself is not for the epic gamer, it's very easy and can be beaten within 9-10 hours. 
 The gameplay is standard; you basically jump on or shoot the bad guys, nothing too hard (you also 
 rarely run out of ammo) . And outside of the actual levels, in your Raposa village, you are constantly 
 running around talking to the Raposas, i. e., you'll go over to one on one side of the village, 
 and he'll ask you to bring another Rapo there with him, so you run to the other side of the village, 
 talk to that Rapo, who tells you so-and-so, etc. But the overall charm of the game is what draws 
 you in (uh, that wasn't supposed to be a pun) . The Rapos are adorable, and the storyline is charming 
 (it also comes with a twist at the end! *spoiler*) . And overall, it's just a great, fun game that 
 is easily one of my favorites.
  
  Pros
  +The drawing is simple and easy to learn
  +Music is fun and catchy
  +Graphics are decent
  +Super-cute
  +Great replay value (because 
 you can draw new things each time)
  
  Cons
  -The levels are very easy and can sometimes get boring
  -Drawing sometimes feels constricted 
 (it has 3 brush sizes and few color palettes, and me, an artist myself, would have liked if it 
 had a wider color palette and more brush sizes)
  
  Overall- You don't have to be an artist to like this game; drawing goofy things is sometimes what 
 makes it fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziellich
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 22, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  The hook for Drawn to Life is that you get to use the DS stylus to draw your hero, and eventually, 
 all of his/her equipment. It was more than enough to me to lay my dollars down. However, the farther 
 I went into the game, the more I realized that the drawing feature was the only real redeeming 
 feature of the game.
  
  The story goes as such. You are GOD. Long ago you were revered by the race known as Rapos. But, 
 as with most deities, you were taken for granted and abandoned them. While you were gone, a not 
 so nice Rapo by the name of Wilfre has broken into your sacred temple and desecrated the book of 
 life, which is the medium for you to draw existance. Without its power, the Rapo's town is slowly 
 draped in a dark cloud that forces all but a few to flee. You take pity on them and create a champion 
 to go forth and find the missing pages of the book so you can rebuild the village. 
  
  Now, you get to play as that aforementioned hero as he goes through about 15 stages in search of 
 the missing pages. The levels are GENERIC platform fare and never succeed in being interesting. 
 You'll occasionally get to draw a new item, such as a block to step on or a wobbly plaform, but 
 not only will you probably never see that item after that stage, but half of the items you can't 
 truly draw yourself. They game has preset outlines for you and all you have to do is color!
  
  The biggest problem is the ht detection. The game has a preset shape for you to draw your character 
 in. Arms, upper body, lower body, legs, and head. However, if you don't fill these sections in 
 completely, you'll find that the game still acts as if those blank pixels are visible. As such, 
 you'll get hit by enemies you thought you had avoided. 
  
  That isn't to say the game is hard though. Its easy as hell. If you die, it'll most likely be due 
 to your own incompetance. (I was guilty of this several times.) The game literally throws life 
 at you, and you'll rarely run out of ammo for you various guns. There aren't too many tricky jumps. 
 Most of it comes down to that hit detection. 
  
  Another glaring issue with the game is that between stages, you'll run around Rapo Village performing 
 various fetch quests. For instance, I had to run to the mayor, who asked me to talk to his daughter, 
 who was way over on the other side of the village. She told me to go get him, and then I had to 
 follow him back to see a cutscene that didn't even take as long as the trip!
  
  And some of things they ask you to create! I can understand risking your life to bring back the 
 sun, moon, and the Rapo's primary food source. (Banya.) But one time they actually asked me to 
 go forth through dangerous territory, fight off dozens of respawning montsers, and perform death 
 defying leaps, all so they could have a bloody beach ball!!
  
  In either case, had the game been fun and not generic as hell, this would have been ok. But that's 
 not the case. 
  
  The game does have some charm though. The Rapos are undeniably cute, and the graphics and music 
 go a long way in keeping you from hating the game. It will only take about ten hours to play through, 
 so you really won't get too sick of if before its done. The best part is seeing your creations 
 integrated with the game world, and the Village. Ultimately, that is what will keep you going from 
 start to end; the curiosity of what you'll get to draw (or color) next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Blaze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review: The most creative use of DS functions yet "
  
  There are several aspects of this game people will enjoy and others will find them a waste of time. 
Drawn To Lifeis an excellent game for artists and those who like to uniquely alter objects 
 in games, but is not recommended for those who concentrate on strategy or graphics. I will review 
 this games many attributes and give a final score at the end, so read on faithful gamer! FIGHT 
 ON!
  
  First of all, this game's story is more for those who are into unique scenarioes that are easy 
 to understand, not for people who enjoy put together pieces of information to come up with the 
 final solution. It takes place in a world made by The Creator [you] . The world's inhabitants, the 
 Raposa, relied on The Creator for everything in their lives. But when a rapo named Wilfre tore 
 pages out of the Book of Life [ the drawings of all your creations ] , the raposa were left to fend 
 for themselves. Gradually, Raposa left the village they all took residence in to persue a better 
 future. Now only 3 Raposa remain in the 
  
  Of course, every game's control system is somewhat unique. This game uses the diagnal pad to move 
 your character and requires tapping the touchscreen to enter buildings. However, what makes this 
 game unique is the fact you draw certain objects in the game. This keeps the game unique and never 
 boring. This games graphics are excellent for a 2-D game. The shading, facial expressions, and 
 unique personal traits of the characters make graphics a plus on game enjoyability. However, very 
 few objects in the game are unique, so keep this in mind.
  
  The most important feature in any game is post game activities. This game offers the ability to 
 replay mini games and redesign objects in the game as many times as desired. Other than that, this 
 game lets you revisit old levels an unlimited amount of times. This game is very fun to replay 
 continuously.
  
  Now for the final score
  
  Story: 10
  
  Controls: 10
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Post Game Activities: 0 { All activities I talked about are available during 
 the story }
  
  Enjoyability: 10
  
  Overall Score: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LabGemini23
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  After playing only a few hours of this game, I've grown quite fond of its cute and adorable demeanor. 
 There were some great ideas thrown into this game that make you wonder why developers had not thought 
 of it before.
  
  Presentation:
  An adequate story, not all that engaging, but it pushes you to continue. It does remind me of Black 
 & White on how the people in the world refer to you as the "creator" of everything in their world. 
 
  
  Graphics:
  Nothing special, it is a DS game. However, how good the graphics are actually depend on your drawing 
 skill. The creation process in making your own puppet, weapons, transportation, monuments, etc. 
 is really quite awesome. Although, the only real gripe I have with the ability to draw anything 
 is that sometimes there are outlines preventing one from creating exactly what they want.
  
  Sound:
  Standard, nothing special. One cool aspect of the sound, however, is when you close 
 your DS, your people sigh; and when you open your DS, they cheer.
  
  Gameplay:
  Drawn to Life is your typical side-scrolling adventure game, reminiscent to that of old-school 
 Mario or Sonic. Though it does play all too similar to those games, Drawn to Life adds the drawing 
 ability and a decent story to keep the gameplay fresh.
  
  Lasting Appeal:
  There is quite a lot of lasting appeal in Drawn to Life. Though the story may not change, but you 
 are able to change your puppet and all other items in the game.
  
  All in all, I would tell anyone who owns a DS and loves to either draw or playing side-scrolling 
 adventures to buy or rent this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogeton
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I had heard about this game a long time ago.. and then I asked some one for advice on a game to 
 get that should last a while.. and They recommended this game.. and I was like Oh yeah I had been 
 looking for that game, I just didn't know the name of it, so that was a quick purchase. And I started 
 playing it, getting into it, and I must say.. at first I was not too sure but after a while. the 
 game gets so fun and interesting... you want to just play and play it, its one of those little 
 addictive games that it kinda difficult to put down.. Ive had the game for a a few days.. still 
 going strong.. and its not one of those games you can just beat in like 2 days... It grows on you, 
 and the whole idea of drawing and creating you tools to progress throughout the game, is just so 
 unique.
  I believe that anyone who tries out, or purchases this game is for sure guaranteed to have fun 
 with this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jack_sparrow_28
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Drawn To Life is one of those games that is either great, or a pile of dung. Fortunately, it's 
 great.
  
  The game starts by presenting you with a town called... Well, it doesn't have a name at that point, 
 but it has been almost completely dominated by dark clouds, covering most of the town. Three people 
 are left. The mayor, his daughter, and some other kid who has a thing for the mayor's daughter. 
 These loveable balls of cuteness are called Raposa. Just when the town is about to be destroyed, 
 the mayor's daughter goes to the "Creation Hall" and begins to desperately ask the Creator (a. k. a, 
 you) , to save them. So, you draw a hero, and play as this character for the game. You can also 
 draw two other heroes, so there's three to a profile.
  
  The gameplay is basic side-scroller stuff, jumping on bad guys' heads, shooting with a variety 
 of weapons, butt stomping crates, that kinda deal. It is not original whatsoever, but watching 
 a hero you drew performing these acts in down right addictive. The bosses are a real annoyance. 
 They're not hard, they're just annoying. The music is great, and is always uplifting. The drawing 
 mechanic is brilliant, and you will see your creations all over the game screen, but they may look 
 a tad blocky, which is forgivable.
  
  Overall, Drawn To Life is a great concept, which is put into a game well, and it is basically an 
 all round fun experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Video_Tycoon
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 2, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  Drawn to Life has been known for months, and it's on the shelves and has sold a fair amount of 
 copies. Most likely due to the fact that you can draw things and they appear in the game. You make 
 the game look how you want it to look.
  
  First off, Drawn to Life's premise is simple, draw objects that become a part of the world to help 
 out your city. You live in the land of the Raposas, everyone has left except 3 people. The Mayor, 
 Jowee and Mari, you need to help them bring back the people while finding all of the pages in the 
 Book of Life that the evil Wilfre has ripped apart and stolen. You will go through gates leading 
 to different worlds to find the 4 pieces of each page and the 3 villagers in each level. Sounds 
 easy right? Not so much when you can't leave without finding each of the 4 pieces and the 3 villagers. 
 You will battle bosses and much more in this great game.
  
  The controls in this game are as you would expect, the touch screen is used for drawing and the 
 rest is your basic platform controls... D-Pad to move, A to jump, B to shoot, etc. It works really 
 well in the way you do things, it reminds me of Mario (especially if you make your character look 
 like Mario) because you jump on enemies to attack them.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing, you see everything from tiny little backgrounds to big bad 
 enemies!! You design some of the game making you think in your head "I made that." when you walk 
 by the eternal flame, or use debris to fly around. In the main world, you see things from a top-down 
 perspective but it is like your average 2d platformer when you go into the different levels.
  
  The sound isn't the best aspect of the games, yes you can hear wind blowing and the occasional 
 little Rapo talking, but it could have been better. One neat little addition that I found cute 
 with this game is that when you close your DS (the game still on) you will hear a Raposas saying 
 "Awww..." and when you open it back two Raposas will speak, the first one will say "Yay!" and the 
 second one will say "Raposas!"
  
  One of the innovative features in this game is the drawing mechanic, you, the creator have the 
 ability to help the Raposas by drawing or colouring in certain items. Overall, Drawn to Life's 
 drawing mechanic is simply amazing, but you might not know how its going to look in-game, due to 
 the fact that you always need to draw it before you see it in game, there is a preview on the top 
 screen, but you want to know what it does, how it moves and other things like that. 
  
  Drawn to life is highly addicting because every level is different with the creations you make 
 and you will want to replay the levels over again so you can get all of the secrets. For $30, this 
 is a really fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilman1995
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Drawn to life is a good game because you can draw all sorts of things like trees clouds and even 
 the sun but the bad things about drawing is that you can draw what you want it tellsyou what to 
 draw and the out line of the character you drawn is a bit weird but that doesnt really matter the 
 comes from the adventure mode because the adventure mode is great fun and i like it and i am sure 
 that lots of people would to and it is a great choice of a story line which is quite good.
  
  Lots of people have thought that you can draw your own enemies and stuff like that but i am 
 so sorry you cant that did tick me of a bit but i still like the game is really good my favourite 
 bit of this game is just trying to complete it and have fun well i do like to draw but the drawing 
 bit can get really annoying but still that is the only way you can complete this game.
  
  The games story line is like this; In the game there is a person called the creator and that creator 
 is you and there are little creatures named the raposa and you have to save them and get there 
 village population up the reason why you need to get the population up is because there is shadow 
 goo suronding the village and all the villagers but 3 left because they did now want to get hurt 
 but unfortunently all them villagers get caught and locked up. whilst back at the village the 3 
 remaining raposas names were mari, jowee and the mayor and the little raposa mari called out to 
 you to save all the people who left the village and regain peace all around there world and so 
 you accept and you draw your own hero and you go through a series of events to regain peace and 
 release all the raposa!
  
  that is the story line it does take a bit to finish this game because you get so many deaths but 
 ah welll this game is still perfect! that is the end of my review i hope you enjoyed reading this! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stryker081094
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 31, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  A group of creatures call on you to restore their village to the way it was before a darkness over 
 took the land and you as there god have to make a hero to save them. As you go along you have to 
 draw certain objects to complete your task get the pages of life and restore the world to its original 
 form. 
  If you expected Drawn to Life to be an innovative exciting game you would be sadly mistaken. Anyone 
 looking at the box or reading a summary of this would be drawn in to thinking that this game was 
 a worthwhile investment.
  The game is full of broken elements. The whole entire idea of drawing your items on the ds is a 
 complete sham and thats the most important part of the game. There is very few things you can draw 
 to begin with. Yes you can draw important elements in the games but for most of them it is trivial 
 becuase they give you a outline the must fill in limiting creativeness this includes any vehicles 
 or weapons. They gave you a lot of freedom with your character so that was a plus. Although you 
 can design stuff it just makes things look pretty but doesn't really serve a purpose you could 
 easily just paint it white and be done with it.
  It also becomes repetitve and boriing easily the first 4 worlds you use a gun but they tweak it 
 slightly every time. Also the levels in the different worlds tend to be painstakingly alike with 
 almost no changes. ( obviously the levels are supposed to look alike but this beyond the normal 
 limit)
  Also th enemies barely change every time you go thrugh the same enemies over and over again but 
 the designers think that you forgot its the same f#$*ng guy becuase he has a leaf on his head now 
 instead of a snowhat. Also the preset story line and characters in the game exetremely limit the 
 amount of creativity you can put in the story line.
  But the game isn't all bad. Although drawing is mostly useless you could easily replay the game 
 once or twice by creating a new style of charcter and items. Even the though the levels aren't 
 totally amazing the game takes kind of long to beat so it could make up for the money you spent 
 on it.
  CONCLUSION:
  -Okay but not great .
  -Doesn't live up to expectations.
  -Takes up a bit of time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HallowBastion
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Please forgive the pun. I couldn't resist.
  
  Drawn to Life is, to put it rather simply, a wonderful, refreshing game for the Nintendo DS. It 
 has one of the most creative ideas rarely seen in many of today's games - the opportunity to create. 
 
  
  The game's plot is this: In a village which has been all but deserted, and is covered in darkness. 
 This is because a character name Wilfore has turned to darkness, stole the Book of Life (which 
 contained many of the village's items - the moon, the sun, lighthouses, and so on) , and tore out 
 many of it's pages. However, a small Raposa (the game's characters) called out to the Creator (you) 
 for help. In response, you breathe life into a puppet, which becomes the template for your created 
 and controlled character. From there, your character goes to fight the darkness and restore the 
 village. 
  
  There are a few parts to the gameplay. First is the action. It's pretty standard, as your character 
 jumps on, kicks, shoots his gun (which fires snowballs, acorns, or starfish) , or swings a mighty 
 sword. You'll notice similarities to most of the bigger platformers/adventure games - early Mario, 
 Zelda, Ghosts and Goblins - but the system is integrated well, and there are very little flaws 
 with it. 
  
  The other part is the creation itself. Other than your hero, you'll have plenty of other opportunities 
 to design or color in objects. In fact, most of the things that you'll retrieve, you'll design. 
 Just about any color or creation you want. For example, my characters were Nicholas D. Wolfwood 
 from Trigun, Van of the Dawn from Gun X Sword, and Rock Lee from Naruto. So, many of the things 
 I designed had something to do with them - a statue that looks like Vash the Stampede, a sword 
 that looks like the Cross Punisher Wolfwood uses, a gun that resembles a thumbs up (a symbol of 
 Lee and his sensei, Guy) , and so on. 
  
  Now, does this game have faults? Of course! This game is rated "E" for everyone, but some of the 
 bosses might be hard for younger children. For experienced players, the bosses may be too formulatic, 
 and simplistic. The plot could be a little better, and once in a while, some of your drawings are 
 restrained by the space available. Also, there isn't a lot of replay value, unless you feel like 
 taking several different characters through the game. If you are an experienced gamer, you may 
 run through the game in less than 10 hours (unless you put effort into your drawings, which will 
 bring out the length of the game) .
  
  Regardless of faults, this game is a worthwhile buy for anyone and everyone, regardless of age 
 or artistic ability (for the record, I have none) . It is very easy to get 'drawn' into the plot, 
 and the creation aspects of the game. So, if you're looking for a fun DS game, Drawn to Life is 
 right up your alley.
  
  See? There's that pun again... I need to stop that. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakanadin
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Drawn to Life is a fun game where you literally draw your character to life! it is pretty fun and 
 has awesome gameplay! Like a Super Mario game but with the ability to mod or recreate something 
 to your liking! There are many things I find wrong with the game though, its WAAAAY to short, although 
 the DS isn't supposed to have very long games, and the actions are kind of shaky. The bosses CAN 
 be very hard at times too. On the last level, I had to use my Action Replay DS just to beat the 
 final boss! But I cant flame the game, because I like games like this, I mean, at least you get 
 to create your own weapons, people, and buildings to your liking! But your drawings are limited 
 and the buildings are pre-made, basically making them coloring books, but you can still draw on 
 them!
  
  Overall I give the game an 8.0, and think that THQ is a promising game creator for kids! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galadreil782
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game, I'll admit I thought the idea was fresh , but it would suffer 
 from meagre game play and story . Boy was I ever wrong! This game is new, innovative, and brings 
 a fresh new idea to the table.... drawing! Now, I will bring forth the main areas of the game. 
 
  
  Story: 8/10 Pretty good story, I am not going to give away any spoilers so I'll keep the actual 
 story out of this review. But I will say that the story is nicely done. With a villain, friends, 
 and a village to help return to normal, this pretty much satisfies your craving for story . A few 
 flaws and not enough detail in parts holds "Drawn to Life's" story back , but it is still a nice 
 story all in all . 
  
  Game Play: 8/10 Yes, I gave this games game play a 8/10. This game has a lot to do, but most of 
 it is pretty basic and shallow unfortunatly. Draw, play games, fight bosses, collect items and coins 
 , and of course try to complete the game . Also, this game is a good old-fashioned platformer. 
 Jump on enemies, go from platform to platform.. it kind of reminds you of Mario . But of course, 
 it comes no where close to the man in the red hat! But, this game has its own uniqueness which 
 is of course, drawing. Go back to a level and color that whale a different color, change your wings 
 from angelic to devilish. It's all up to you.
  
  Replay Value: 10/10 The replay value of this game is AWSOME! I mean, you can play the game over 
 and over again in entirely new ways because you can just draw a new character, and all new items 
 along the way. Also, creating your character can result in a few good laughs also! This game is 
 a game that you would always pick up and play!
  
  Sound: 9/10 the sound in this game.... its unique like this game. Every area has its own music 
 and I found it suited every area perfectly; water levels had a watery kind of music. You could 
 recognize an area just from the music. I thought the sound aspect was very well done. 
  
  So, all in all. Drawn to life is a fresh new game that delivers a new idea to the plate. Drawing. 
 Its good, and will keep you entertained for a while. Though you might get a bit tired of its shallowness. 
 So, I feel that you should purchase this game. But you might want to rent it first just to be safe 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XExPiReD08X
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2007 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, the game might seem a little different then it is portrayed on the web. Still a great game 
 though!
  
  - It has pretty good grpahics for the DS. I liek the cartoon scene, and I like how your can draw 
 thorugh all of the levels. The game might not look like it, but it has a great stroy to it as well. 
 I was surprised about that.
  
  - The gameplay is fun, but gets old. Thats one part that losses intrest for me. It was fun playing 
 thorugh a lot of the levels, but it got annoying after, to the point where I put my DS down, and 
 haven't played the game in awhile.
  
  - I know what your thinking, "This game is gonig to be amazing!! You can draw your own character!!!", 
 well yeah, thats true. But, its very hard to make a cool looking hero. Of course you can make it 
 whatever you want it to look like, but it takes awhile. Thank god they give you skethces to choose 
 from and you can color them in any way you want and sutff. For any of you thinking your going to 
 make a stick figure, good luck, it doesn't look to good, trust me.
  
  - I bought this game right before I went on a long driving trip, and I have to say, i kept me very 
 occupied. It was very fun to play thorugh the story. 
  
  - I do have to admit though, the game would attractt a little kid's attention more then a teenagers. 
 But don't let that get to you, games are games, you decide if they're good or not.
  
  - Overall, I would somewhat reccommend this game. It's great for a handheld, and it will keep you 
 occupied for some time. 
  
  Have fun with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 2, 2007 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Customization in video games is awesome. Being able to sit for hours on end tweaking small elements 
 to make a playable character look like an identical twin or a putting a paintjob on a car that 
 resembles Da Vinci's Last Supper right down to Bartholomew's eye color is the essence of feeling 
 connected to a particular game. But when a game boasts a lot of customization options, but features 
 some truly horrible gameplay, it can't nearly make the game worth it.
  
  Such is the case with the new Nintendo DS game, Drawn to Life.
  
  Drawn to Life has an interesting 
 backstory and executes the beginning well, but within an hour gamers may realize that this game 
 isn't exactly targeted for the college aged demographic. Silliness and fluffy dialogue is abound, 
 which isn't necessarily a bad thing if you're the young at heart type, but players looking for 
 a slightly more serious adventure need look elsewhere.
  
  As the game begins, players are given the option to create their character either completely freehand, 
 putting pieces of pre-designed templates together, or tracing over the templates with the Nintendo 
 DS' touch sensitive screen and stylus. If talented in actually using the DS' screen to draw, an 
 infinite source of characters are at your disposable with the available drawing tools, but if drawing 
 isn't exactly your forte, big green blobs can get the job done just as well.
  
  With main character drawn, the game finally begins and players are tossed into a desperate world 
 in need of saving from evil shadow creatures, but don't worry, you know the whole hero bit.
  
  The main aim of the game is controlling your created character in various 2d platforming levels 
 in search of kidnapped town members and shadow residue to destroy. Every so often the level requires 
 players to put their creative minds to use again in order to draw something in the level that will 
 further your characters progress. This can be something as simple as a moving platform, or something 
 as intricate as the weapon you'll use throughout the area.
  
  Players can really go all out as the coloring book-esque game will accept all ideas drawn, meaning 
 the game is more than often as mature and adult oriented as the player wants it to be.
  
  The problem that inevitably cripples the game is that the gameplay is incredibly boring. The level 
 design is simplistic, the enemies are a joke, and the controls feel like they could use a slight 
 tune-up. Customization may be the game's selling point, but when the fun characters and ideas that 
 you create aren't nearly as fun to control and interact with, the game suffers from it.
  
  Maybe it's because Drawn to Life is geared towards a younger audience or maybe it's just bad development, 
 but either way the game is very difficult to refer to others looking for a fun and creative time. 
 Despite all the hard work and time put into a handful of really neat ideas for customization options, 
 the main elements of a game, such as level design and controls, should always take priority over 
 a gimmick in order to create an acceptable adventure game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weakan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 2:54 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD POINTS: you can draw many objecs of the game {the  and many 
 many more} , drawing objecs work pretty accurate, super cute and colorful graphics, fun bosses, game 
 length is pretty long and much to unlock.
  THE BAD POINTS: game is sometimes to easy for its own good, sometimes if you play to long it gets 
 boring, ability to draw a sword is to late in the game.
  [CONCLUSION] : drawn to life is an innovative and unique piece of work that's certainly worth at 
 least a cautious look by any DS owner. specially for younger children and casuel gamers.
  P. M: i hope when they make a drawn to life 2. that features a over wi-fi drawing contest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: st0700
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is great if you know someone who also has the game as the multiplayer feature is one 
 of the best bits, however the game is incredibly short. You start off designing your character 
 which is great, but once you've completed the game there's no real point to the game.
  
  This game is one of the most revolutionary and just plain fun games out. You have the ability to 
 draw weapons and platforms and springs.
  
  Now people assume that you have to be a good drawer to play this game, but sometimes the worse 
 you are at drawing the more fun the game is.
  
  thanks for spending time to read this!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captian-james
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 17, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  i think this game needs some more work its fun but it is hard to draw the characters. the game 
 play feel is very good but it has not got enough things to do in it. i like the side scroling but 
 i still think there should be more in it and there should be more persas. i think if they made 
 a new one i would buy it because it is fun and is good when in the car or feeling lazy. it is a 
 game which is wherth buying because it has got very fun things to do in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGamemannn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 10:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Cunning story and characters; slick presentation; the overall premisis is unique; WONDERFUL, 
 just WONDERFUL audio; large levels.
  
  The Bad: Control is too slippery; the cutsences tend to drag on; way too difficult as a kid's game; 
 expolring the levels for specfic requirements can be a pain; When you take a continue, you must 
 collect all the requirements to pass the level again.
  
  Plot: As the Creator, you well... created just about everything; the sky, moon, sun, trees, and 
 a race called Raposas (they look like a cross between Pookas and small children) . They ask for 
 a hero to rid the village of darkness brought upon by Wilfre (a total **** if you ask me) . And... you 
 send them a hero. Gameplay: Just your average platformer. In each level, you must collect four 
 pages from the Book of Life, and save three Raposa from darkness. There is a problem here. they 
 are spread across the level, the LONG tedious level. As I aforementioned, the control is too slippery. 
 If you even slightly move the D Pad, your character will slide across the screen, therefore running 
 into enemies. For that reason, that is why you are equiped with some sort of weapon to fend off 
 enemies from a wide range.
  
  Anyway, the cutscenes tend to drag on sometimes, a basic action being to talk to one guy and then 
 talk to another. I will say however that the overall plot is interesting and progresses smoothly. 
 Also, if you aren't being frusturated by the level design, you'll have a lot of fun. You can do 
 all kinds of things; flip, slide, uppercut, kick, punch, to name a few. Just don't expect to find 
 Mario Bros. here.
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  
  Graphics: It's a safe bet that the Graphics in Drawn to Life are the best I've ever seen on a DS 
 besides Pokemon Diamond, Prime Hunters, and Phantom Hourglass (a game I will review in the future) . 
 Although the animation on your own character is way too stiff, the overall textures and colors 
 are plesant, along with the character design of some (IE: Jowee) . Graphics: 9/10
  
  Sound: Despite what the title may say differently, audio is actually Drawn to Life's strong point. 
 Memorable music along with cheery and devilish tunes combine well here.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  
  Overall: Aside from the problems in Drawn to Life, the biggest dissappointment is when you 
 actually do more coloring than drawing. That in itself should have slain the game of its novelty, 
 but the elements of it combined are such a gem that it really doesn't mattter all that much. I 
 would say that just about anyone will be drawn in by the story and charm, and I totally am all 
 the way with purchasing this. Just don't expect a super-easy Mario Bros. gem out of it.
  
  Score: 7.8/10: Very Good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godofnerdyness
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Drawn To Life. I remember waiting so much for this game, all excited and pumped. Then, a week 
 after it was released, I finally got to pick it up. What to say? The story is, you play as... God, 
 I suppose... You're called The Creator though. Anyways, you're watching over a town of cute little 
 creatures called Raposas, or Rapos for short. You use a handy tool called The Book Of Life to create 
 anything. Your town that you watch over has been flooded by darkness, and many of the Rapos have 
 left... The only ones left are The Mayor, Mari (The daughter of the mayor) , and Jowee, a friend of 
 Mari. Look, I won't drone on about the story, let's just move on...
  
  Shortly after you start up the game, you get to draw a character. It's pretty simple and works 
 well, you have tools such as the pencil, paint bucket, eraser, tons of colours.... Once you draw 
 him or her, they will come to life (Drawn To Life? Get it?) and you can control them. You need to 
 go out and save the folks who left the town by exiting through various gates. First you start with 
 the gates to the snow fields, the other gates are completely covered in the shadows... Every time 
 you beat a mission, you go back to the town, activate The Eternal Flame , and part of the Shadow 
 disappears. Once you save everyone in the Snow Fields, then the Forest will be unlocked, and so 
 on. In the town, you can run around and talk to villagers. But when you're on a mission, it becomes 
 a Side Scroll platformer. You will draw your own weapon for every area, and draw other things (Clouds, 
 platforms, springs, vehicles, etc.) . It's very easy... You can just jump on enemies and shoot them. 
 It's Super Mario Bros. easy. The enemies just walk around most of the time and only attack if you're 
 close enough. Of course, some enemies are tougher than others. The controls work well, and your 
 character that you've drawn is amazingly well animated. When you find a Villager during a mission, 
 they'll be in a cage made of Shadow... Break open the cage, you save a villager. 3 villagers per 
 mission. Simple, and they're usually hard to miss. You'll also have to use the stylus to clean 
 up Shadow goo by rubbing it very fast. You'll want to clean ALL of this up. Coins are spread all 
 throughout the levels, which are used to buy various items and skills at Issac's shop, or if you 
 throw enough in The Wishing Well , there is a pleasant surprise... :)
  
  Really, the game is rather easy though. You'll just be walking through the levels killing stuff 
 that doesn't have much skill. The bosses are also really easy, and don't take much brain to figure 
 out. I won't really count graphics since it's a sprite game. However, it should keep you playing 
 for a while...
  
  In short, Drawn To Life is a fun game with rather easy gameplay. I would recommend picking it up 
 if you like games such as Magic Pengel or Graffiti Kingdom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mahmoud-madhoun
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  Drawn to Life for the Nintendo DS is probably the best $30 coloring book you'll ever play. In a 
 nutshell, the game is a platformer that allows you a bit of freedom of artistic expression. It 
 lets you use the stylus to draw and design a variety of things, from the weapons you use, right 
 down to your very own avatar. It sounds like the picture-perfect concept for a DS game, and in 
 most ways, it delivers on its promise. You can indeed draw and design lots of unique images, even 
 if some of those images are limited by static outlines provided to you. If the game has any flaw, 
 it's that it's not necessarily that interesting as a game. It's the kind of plain-and-simple platformer 
 that's been done to death, with a few fetch quests tossed in to pad out the experience. However, 
 for less experienced players, the overly familiar gameplay won't be as big of a deal. Even with 
 some limitations, the artistic aspects of the game are undeniably cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoyholyhoy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg lol 
 wtf rotfl soab tuotfhswds THIS IS THE COOLIEST GAME IN THE WHOLE WIDE WORLD BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE 
 IIITTTTTTTTT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg 
 omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omg omgtheir fore i have nothing 
 else to say..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  The Good: Well executed platforming, interesting storyline, decent graphics, ability to use what 
 you draw in the game is really cool and interesting.
  
  The Bad: It's a very generic platformer for the most part, drawings usually turn out looking dumb, 
 can use for crude purposes.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  The Nintendo DS is home to by far the querkiest games out there, mainly because of it's dual screens 
 and touch screen. Drawn to Life from THQ is definately no acception. The gimmic of this game is 
 that you are able to draw characters and objects that you can use in the game. You draw your main 
 character and many other features in the game. This is a very unique and interesting consept that 
 allows players to excersise your creativity, but the gameplay itself is pretty generic, although 
 well executed.
  
  You play as The Creator who apparently abandoned a village that is now falling appart. You return 
 to help the remaining citizens of the village to bring life back into their village. You do this 
 by drawing a hero and using this hero to save lost civilians in wonderfully colorful platforming 
 levels. The gameplay itself is standard platforming fare. You move, jump, use a weapons and get 
 from point A to point B while collecting stuff. What makes it interesting is that you can draw 
 several parts of the scenery. The biggest attribute is creating your main character. True artists 
 can focus in and make wonderfully detailed characters that look spectacular in game. Us non artists 
 make really crappy looking characters that look stupid and 12 year old boys make dick-headed characters, 
 just for fun. Sad, but true. After you are done making your hero, you later on have to make everything 
 from clouds for you to jump on to your primary weapon. It's a cool consept and I'm sure most people 
 will have a blast making things come to life. Honestly, that is the main reason to buy this game.
 
  
  Aside from the creative aspects, it's a pretty bland, generic platformer, although it plays quite 
 well. If you enjoy crafting your own character and watching it come to life, then Drawn To Life 
 is a great pick up. Otherwize, there are better games to spend your money on for the DS.
  
  Gameplay: Cool creative controls, but pretty generic platforming.
  
  Graphics: It looks suprisingly 
 good, but your custom character usually looks dumb animated.
  
  Sound: Pretty standard portable fare.
  
  Value: If you like creating your character, then it's 
 worth the $30. Final Thoughts: Go my stick figure hero, go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: serj_tankian05
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  I guess it is all really based on opinion whether or not its simple, but to me, it's a no brainer. 
 But, the games creative potential and overall ability to let the player customize there hero, weapons, 
 platforms etc. I am an artist, so this game was especially interesting for me. I was able to jump 
 right in the game and start playing god, which is the overall basis of your job in the game, which 
 is...... Well it's just fantastic. The game puts you in as a part like very few games I have ever 
 seen. Even if you draw like a second grader, the game makes you at least feel as if you are Da 
 Vinci. I Really liked this game, even though the game is based on a pretty simple platformer, it 
 serves a very rich enjoyment in just the art/edit parts of the game. I would recommend this game 
 to gamers of all ages and would really recommend this to artists (both sprite and drawing artists) . 
 This is definitely a game any DS owner should pick up.
  
  P. S. I made Adult Gohan and Neo as characters.... now thats a game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAM3BOY
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I got this game thinking it would be a cool drawing experience and a mediocre to average game. 
 Boy, was i wrong! This game is a great game, even if it is very easy.
  
  Gameplay: a very Mario like platformer with extras (you can jump on enemies to kill them, or shoot 
 them) . The drawing is also lots of fun.
  
  Graphics: the enviornments are pretty good, but everything else is up to you
  
  Control: pretty 
 good in game and on the template to draw
  
  Sound: catchy tunes but nothing AMAZING...
  
  Overall: This is a great game that every DS owner could enjoy, especially the creative ones. 
 buy it.
  
  p. s. if you draw your character without really doing anything, the character will be invisible 
 untill it gets hurt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  5th Cell a Company Known only for Cell Phone games and one PC game called DNA? never heard of it.. 
 well your not alone.. i hardly know about it. 5th Cell Came up with a absolutly revolutionary idea.. 
 Create your own hero, own weapons, and almost anything you can think of! This is one of the few 
 games where without the DS this game could not possibly work.. it would not be here. Thank You 
 for making the DS Nintendo! 5th Cell is one of the very few who made a game where the touch screen 
 is at its best. Hats of to them for making the best game using the Touch screen.. from Drawing, 
 to clearing away dark goo.. this game just plain Rocks for anyone who loves to drawn or has ever 
 doodled there own character.
  
  Have You ever Doodled? you know your in the Middle of Class during a boring lesson and you have 
 your pencil in hand with a peice of paper.. so you just doodle. You draw the first thing that comes 
 to your mind, wether it be a real character a made up character, or even a patteren of circles 
 or something.. Have You ever wanted to make a game character on your own? You know have ideas about 
 things you want him to do.. Then this is the game for you.
  
  When You first turn it on you have two files to select from and each having 3 characters.. so that 
 means 6 of your creations you can play with! This game has 3 parts.. Part one Drawing Part 2 Platforming, 
 and Part 3 adventure. Lets look at the Biggest and Best Part Drawning
  
  Drawning is the biggest part of the game.. the second you have the game up, You can doodle, and 
 test out some of the things you can mess with in the game. You start off with a book like story 
 telling. but guess what you can draw various things to progess the story like the planet and woods.. 
 The Story goes along the lines.. the creator (you) made them a world where they live in.. but then 
 dark times comes and a man steals the Book of Life and corrupts it.. now the colorful town is turned 
 into a Cold Dark Monster infested village all the villagers except for a few have been captured 
 and locked away in teh dark sludge.. a little girl in the village prays for you to help them out.. 
 so you send down a hero to help the town out.. Thats where you come in with your artistic skills. 
 You have control over your new character.. anything you want.. some options to make a guy are: 
 Drawing free hand.. ya know be creative with it.. doodle and see how it goes.. you can also zoom 
 in and make it into grids where you can make your hero Pixel by Pixel.. There are all sorts of 
 unlockable Color sets, Stamps, and other handy items to help you out.. You can also have a premade 
 templet character.. Where you can either draw it down by yourself or just place a already made 
 character there are a bunch of these to choose from. After You made your character thats not it 
 for you to use your artistic skills, You can also draw your own weapons, Moon, Stars, Sun, Plants, 
 Platform. vehicles and much more.. all being done by you! The Next Part is Platforming.. If your 
 looking for the best platforming game ever.. well this game is very basic.. You have basic levels, 
 like Snow, Forrest, Beach, Medevil, and more Each having you weild a specific weapon or having 
 equpitment to survive the levels.. like A Helmet and Flippers to swim in the beach level.. You 
 have all the stuff that is basic in a platforming game, you have coins to collect, Villagers to 
 save, secrets to find, and Clearing all the dark sludge and getting back the parts of the Book 
 of Life. You also have very basic attacks, like the Ground Pound, The Flip, The Slide, and yes 
 the hop on heads.. there are also unlockable moves you can buy at the store with the coin you collect 
 from the stages. to make things a little better, you also have weapons. these are very kiddy like 
 a snow gun, acorn shooter and some others as well.. each matching the stage your in. The Platforming 
 itself is average but its decent enough to get by because the Drawing aspect of the game.. where 
 you draw in plaforms to jump on or rockets to ride around the stage..
  
  Part 3 is the Adventure part. After you complete a stage you are in a sudo 3D world where you have 
 to help your town you named and created. There are various things having to be done in the town 
 and it will take up some time.. most of it is going from point a to point b, but sometimes you 
 are hit with a snowball fight or a concert! This is also where you can edit everything you created 
 in the game. Also where you buy and where the villagers you save go. Its fun to watch your town 
 grow and even watch the day go by through the virtual day.
  
  This is like no other game i have ever played and the experence of it is memorable and enjoyable 
 every time i pick it. This game is not jsut for kids.. its really for anyone who has Creativity 
 and wants to show it off.. yea there is minimal online features.. (i think you can trade over wifi) 
 there is multi card options in the game but they are not the best..
  
  Overall The game is not perfect but the fact where you can draw your game makes up for everything!
 
  
  Breakdown
  Gameplay: Drawing your World is amazing, the platforming is solid but nothing we have not seen 
 before
  Graphics: Beautiful 2-D graphics, Lots of Colors.. also depending how good of an artist you are 
 can make it look even better!
  Sound: Very Very Good and enjoyable music.. i could listen to it for a long time and would not 
 get bored at all
  Value: The story is suppose to last 10 hours or so.. but you can easliy pend double that by just 
 drawing
  Overall: a Game we have never seen i hope there is a sequel cause the game is that addicting and 
 fun! Pick it up please and tell people about it.. The def. Gem of year so far
  
  Final Score
  9.6 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
