-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Dynasty Warriors DS: Fighter's Battle
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/dynastywarriors/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Strategy elements are minimal but basically interesting.
 Character sprites for the main characters and bosses are colorful and detailed.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Everything else in the game is an ugly, pixelated mess.
 Combat is pathetically simple.
 Cheap artificial intelligence tactics take the place of legitimate challenge.
 A play-through takes just over two hours at most.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 5.4, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 5.3, 107 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Koei
Genre: Beat-'Em-Up
Date: Jul 25, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This multiplayer-focused, handheld distillation of the Dynasty Warriors formula is barely entertaining 
 enough to sustain its two-hour length. 

  There's something a little bit ironic about the fact that Dynasty Warriors DS: Fighter's Battle, 
 a handheld update to Koei's long-running console beat-'em-up franchise, doesn't feel like it's 
 lost much of its gameplay in translation to the DS. Sure, the combos aren't as fancy-looking, there 
 are far fewer warriors to play as, and the game is devoid of any measure of storyline. But speaking 
 strictly to the combat and the methodology behind it, Dynasty Warriors DS really loses very little 
 compared to the console counterparts. However, therein lays the sad comedy of this game: It filters 
 out everything except the worst aspect of the console titles. The mindless sword slashing against 
 hordes of dronelike soldiers, peppered with periodic battles against officers, is practically all 
 you get in this game. With very little in the way of tactical strategy to the proceedings, almost 
 zilch in the way of style, and only a few generic playable characters, you'll be done with Dynasty 
 Warriors DS faster than you can say Cao Cao.  

           We couldn't have said it better ourselves.      

  The game starts off by having you 
 pick from one of three characters. There's a big, slow guy with a giant hammer; a fast, little 
 guy with a sword; and then a well-balanced guy with a spear. There are no names, stories, or any 
 other useful info to these characters -- just stats. Once you've picked, you're presented with a 
 map of ancient China. You're up against an opponent army headed by one of the characters you didn't 
 choose (played by either a friend via wireless play or the computer) , and with each province you 
 select, you take to the battlefield, fighting to overtake all the enemy bases before your opponent. 
 You do that by moving across a map with a series of squares on it.  

  Each square is a battle scene where you have to take out a certain number of enemies or a certain 
 type of enemy before you can move on to the next square. The game's only real strategic element 
 is trying to figure out the best path to each of the enemy's bases before heading to the enemy's 
 main camp and fighting the big boss waiting inside. All the while, your opponent is doing the exact 
 same thing. If you happen to meet your opponent on one square, you quickly duel, and the loser 
 is sent packing back to a starting square a ways away on the map.  

  Engaging in combat is anything but. You've got a basic attack, which can be strung together into 
 a four-hit combo, a special attack that does only slightly more damage than a regular combo, and 
 then a musou attack that does a stupid amount of damage but requires a full musou meter to use. 
 There are also some special attacks that come as you collect coins from fallen enemies. Once you 
 get enough coins, a little icon on the bottom right of the screen starts randomizing and eventually 
 settles on one of your available attacks, such as a hail storm of giant stones, a mild earthquake, 
 or a whirlwind that sends your opponent to some other random square on the map. The special attacks 
 you get to use depend on which officers you choose to bring into battle with you. Before battle, 
 you essentially choose from a series of cards that each have an officer on them. Each has a certain 
 number of troops, certain stat ratings, and specific attacks that become available to you. These 
 officers also act as guardians for your bases.  

  It's too bad that they're basically useless at it. Defeating base officers isn't much more difficult 
 than cutting down grunts, especially if you go into the fight with a full musou meter and lay one 
 of those attacks on them from the get-go. Instead of making the fights remotely challenging or, 
 you know, fun, the designers decided to try to balance out the challenge by making the special 
 attacks insanely cheap. On the normal difficulty level, victory is basically determined by how 
 badly you get screwed by very specific enemy attacks. You will frequently find yourself on the 
 verge of catching up with an opponent's progress, only to get whirlwinded off to some distant corner 
 of the map. The screw jobs even come out of apparent victories. You could win a duel with an opponent 
 and suddenly find that your opponent has been whisked off to a new square that actually puts him 
 in better position to win. It's catch-up artificial intelligence at its worst.  

           Stare at that map all you like, you're not going to get to the end without the computer 
 screwing you over somehow.      

  That's the long and short of the whole game... emphasis on short. You go through 12 of these battles, 
 cutting up cheap-looking 2D sprites while wandering around sometimes confusing and always ugly 
 squares of land. Then you periodically fight boss characters (some familiar franchise faces include 
 Cao Cao, Lu Bu, and Zhang Jiao) until you've either conquered enough provinces to win -- or not. 
 On average, that should take you just over two hours to finish. Without any unlockables to go back 
 to play for beyond more officer cards or any real difference between the single-player and multiplayer 
 game, that's not a lot of bang for your buck.  

  Dynasty Warriors DS: Fighter's Battle is a game that will please neither the hardcore fan of the 
 series nor those just looking for a bit of hack-and-slash on the go. The stump-dumb combat won't 
 keep you interested for long, and the obnoxiously cheap nature of the game structure will probably 
 have you looking for your return receipt if you don't snap the cartridge in half first. It's only 
 what you dislike about Dynasty Warriors, and none of what you like. Take a pass on this one.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Ceraby
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 7, 2009 5:33 am PT
Review:  For a fan of the Dynasty Warriors franchise, this was a rather big let down. Granted, you still 
 get the whole hack n slash repetitive type of gameplay, but it was even less fun since it was limited 
 in moves and only to 3 characters . Three new characters, not even one of the DW crew a franchise 
 fan has grown to love and obsess about . You get a Sun Ce look alike, a pretty boy and a tank to 
 choose from. 
  
  While in the other Dynasty Warrior games, you could find out more about the characters and get 
 cut scenes, this one had none. You don't get horses or weaponry to boost. You just fight... and 
 fight... and fight and fight....
  
  Your aim is to take over bases, kind of like Dynasty Warrior Tactics, and in the process after 
 winning each campaign you can get a card that allows you get certain generals to guard your own 
 bases and main camp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSPgamer892
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  This started out as a good idea and from there pretty much went downhill. there are only 3 characters 
 that u can play as. a strong character thats slow, a weak character thats fast, or a balanced character. 
 so u go from having 40+ officer choices on the systems, to having 3. 
  
  Graphics: 5 
  Sound: 5
  Gameplay: 3
  OVERALL: 4.5
  
  Similar to the psp dynasty warriors, u can select 
 officers to help u in the battle which can give u upgraded stats. The diference is that u dont 
 actually have the officers following u around. they stay and wait in ur bases until they are inevitably 
 beaten by your oppenent.
  
  there really is no storyline to the game whatsoever. The whole game is set up alot like a board-game, 
 u go from area to area, and if u beat your enemy there, u get a point. in the end who ever has 
 the most points wins. pretty simple. going through the game doesnt take long at all, if ur good 
 u can beat it in probably under an hour.
  
  the best thing in the game is collecting the officer cards. theres about 120 that u can collect, 
 and u are awarded them for diferent things in the level, such as completing it in a certain amount 
 of time, or defeating a certain number of enemies. 
  
  the worst thing in the game is that your oppenent is pretty much unstoppable. u can beat him but 
 he will respawn instantly in a random area, sometimes right next to one of your bases which he 
 will imediately procede to take over. this can be enfuriating, sometimes ur better off just letting 
 your enemy go.
  
  overall this is an ok game at best, there isnt a whole lot to do, and there isnt much replay value, 
 but it can at times be fun, but enjoy those times because they are rare. it just doesnt feel like 
 the Dynasty Warriors that fans have come to love. even if your a fan of Dynasty Warriors, your 
 probably better off just avoiding this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:09 pm PT
Review:  For the Sony cows among us who like to compare consoles and system war, the alternate Dynasty Warriors 
 handheld titles on the market would serve as a good comparison. While the Dynasty Warriors games 
 available for Playstation Portable may not be the best titles out there, they serve as a convincing 
 port of a fun yet drawn-out console series. Meanwhile, on the DS, Dynasty Warriors DS: Fighter's 
 Battle shapes up to be a 2 hour romp in a world that makes the Super Nintendo visually shine.
 
  
  I'm not going to blame my wonderful DS for this shoddy title. The terrible graphics, sound, and 
 overall presentation of Dynasty Warriors DS makes it obvious that creating this game must have 
 taken around the 2 hours it takes to complete it.
  
  The fighting mechanics similar to past titles can be enough of a push to play through this game, 
 while the collection of moves and abilities can add an interesting flair. Any enjoyment from this 
 game is then rapidly offset by the enormous amount of annoyances and frustrating indecencies.
 
  
  A raw fighting game, Dynasty Warriors DS has players choosing one of 3 ancient Chinese warriors 
 and pitching them in the fight for majority domination of 11 regions. Within each region is then 
 a smaller range of control points to navigate through and conquer all while watching your enemy 
 eventually approach ally territory.
  
  It's a reasonably solid gaming precipice. Race for base and beat things up, it's tested, it works. 
 It's about 2 minutes into the game when one begins to notice and feel what can only be blamed as 
 a result of terrible game development. If the audio similar to that of someone crashing garbage 
 can lids in your face doesn't throw you off at first, or watching the horribly pixellated 2D sprites 
 attempt to manipulate themselves around a 3D world of low visibilty, the feeling that you're the 
 first person to actually play this game will.
  
  Examples of poor game design are numerous and frequent. Completely un-avoidable enemy abilities 
 such as "Great Freeze" (freezing you in a block of ice) will pop up and the most unreasonable times. 
 The vigor of defeating an enemy boss to gain power is soon lost when left in a completely empty 
 room - only to be frozen in a block of ice for no good reason. Next step is to sit and wait for 
 this move to expire, all the while watching your enemy slowly move closer to your allies camp on 
 the lower screen.
  
  The lower DS screen serves as a map of the overall battlefield and it's control points, as if there 
 were any way to strategize a decent attack. It's when defeating the enemy leader only to find you've 
 in part transported him to a spawn point right inbetween two of your camps that you realise this 
 is futile. One could then take advantage of this at times by dying on purpose in an attempt to 
 spawn within your enemies territory.
  
  Perhaps you could concentrate on your own travelling direction - until a whirlwind emerges from 
 the sky, throwing you to a random point on the map and completely invalidating your path.
  
  While a few fun moves and attacks can give the game some actual decent content, the pain of 
 field of view and bad camera angles once again detract from the experience. While not exactly detrimental, 
 Dynasty Warriors DS has no touch screen controls whatsoever.
  
  I could seriously list specific game flaws here for quite a while, but it's really un-necessary. 
 Dynasty Warriors DS: Fighter's Battle is a short, ugly, frustrating game that feels as though it 
 has never been play-tested.
  
  Dynasty Warriors DS: Fighter's Battle
  
  50%
  
  The Good -
  
  * Some nice fighting mechanics from the Dynasty Warriors series
  * Game length 
 shortens the pain
  * Other games will be better in comparison
  
  The Bad -
  
  * Will take you around 2 hours to complete
  * Makes SNES games look great
  * Many frustrating 
 and illogical moments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muffinthraka
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I completed this game in less than 2 hours. I have to admit I had not heard of the the series before 
 so I was willing to give it a chance, and then I just wanted to get rid of it.
  The game is irritatingly repetitive. There is no difference between the first and last levels. 
 There is no character development and neither you nor your enemies become any harder. 
  Imagine playing final fantasy but without the stat improvements, imagine the enemies remain at 
 the same strength and they can be easily beaten, imagine the enemies have no ai and can be easily 
 defeated, imagine walking through locations you have completed over and over again, and so on.
 
  The game seems okay at first but after playing for one minute you've seen all the game has to 
 offer, which isn't much. The idea of collecting "cards" is bizarre, and the way the cards are organised 
 by race means you have no idea who to choose, and felt no compulsion to collect the cards.
  In short this is an average game but with some truly terrible flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewtypeS3
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 18, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  Announced god-knows-how-long-ago, Dynasty Warriors finally arrives on the Nintendo DS in a form 
 outside Dynasty Warriors Advance. However, its about as much as Id come to expect from Koei in 
 the long run  which is both a good and bad thing.
  
  When it comes to plot, the Dynasty Warrior games have been pretty straightforward in each edition: 
 Play as Character X and try to unite the territories of Ancient China under one of three banners. 
 Repeating the same formula and graphical engine over four sequels and a good dozen-or-so spinoffs 
 (DW Empires, Samurai Warriors, SW Empires and the PSP versions of them all) has earned Koei a reputation 
 for being lazy. Recent games like Dynasty Warriors: Gundam have started to prove naysayers wrong
 
  but this recent iteration just plain proves that Koei is pretty lazy.
  
  One of the major draws of the series has always been the ability to interact with actual historical 
 characters, like Gan Ning and Lady Sun Shang Xiang. However, this was tossed out the window for 
 Dynasty Warriors: DS Fighters Battle; instead giving the player one of three original characters 
 to choose from.
  The three characters are well-designed on paper and can be told apart easily. They also differ 
 drastically in form and play. Dragon gives the player an insane level of speed, but at lowered 
 attack and defense while carrying about a traditional sword. Chimera is almost the opposite of 
 Dragon, carrying a massive hammer. Phoenix is the Well-Balanced fighter, having no weaknesses 
 while he blows through using both his fists and sword. Each one plays differently, and each one 
 is a somewhat unique experience to use.
  Its also worth noting here that all three characters are based off three of the four Gods in ancient 
 Chinese literature. For some odd reason, Koei forgot the White Tiger to round out the cast. But, 
 to be honest, the traditional three style of characters works nicely enough.
  
  While the setting remains the same as the console (and PSP) versions, there is a complete lack 
 of story mode, much less a Free Mode. Those have been completely scrapped for something resembling 
 the play style of Dynasty Warriors Advance and the Empires spinoff: Slowly take over China by fighting 
 through large-scale battles chopped up into small segments.
  In this only game mode, the player chooses their main character and goes up against his rival (always 
 one of the two not chosen  like in Pokemon with the starter Pokemon) . The battles will always 
 vary in length and scope, stretching across 8 areas of China and taking place in the same areas 
 as the major battles of the Three Kingdoms Era.
  
  The battles themselves are pretty stereotypical, similar to the fights of the PSP and GBA installments 
 of this series: The players character will charge out onto the battlefield and slaughter enemy 
 grunts until he can find the Enemy Officers, taking them down as soon as possible. However, things 
 are slightly different here.
  With the limitations of the DS, it literally becomes one person against hundreds. Like the GBA 
 version, only the enemy army will show up onscreen (not counting your character and your officers) . 
 And, also like the GBA and PSP versions, the player will be unable to leave a section of a battlefield 
 without hitting a specific quota. This quota will either be a set enemy kill count, or it could 
 be offing a few unnamed Grunt Officers (though you can retreat to the section you just left from) .
 
  
  Scattered about the map are fortresses for both the enemy and allies, which all must be taken down 
 before the main enemys fortress can be torn down. Inside each fortress is an Enemy Officer, each 
 one often stronger than the last. A few bonus neutral fortresses may also be on the map, either 
 designated by a bread roll for rations (health increase and replenishment) or by a sword (attack 
 increase) . Bonuses from them will show up once the base is taken by either side. Also, defeating 
 enemy officers will also increase your (or your opponents) characters strengths for the duration 
 of the battle.
  Once the enemys main fortresses are down, its time for a final showdown with the appointed boss, 
 whoever it may be. The fight itself is the same as with all the other officers, but its not the 
 rival character.
  
  With a nice twist, youre also fighting against the clock: it turns out your rival is hitting 
 your own bases as hard as youre hitting his. If the two of you run into one another by inhabiting 
 the same location, the game shifts gears by moving into a duel mode where only one escapes alive.
 
  However, if you win, the enemy is only sent to one of a few retreat points on the map and will 
 be back and fighting soon enough. The same also applies to yourself, so the only way you can really 
 lose is if the enemy takes down your main base.
  
  After beating a level, youre often graded on your battle skills. A better fight will result in 
 a better reward, and KO-ing your rival in the battle will give you a second one (beating it fast 
 gives you a third, and I assume there are more hidden in there) . However, the reward isnt cash 
 or gems
  its cards. Thats right; this game features a card-based system.
  
  Hey, hey!
  Dont leave yet! Let me explain it!
  
  You see, this isnt exactly your traditional 
 card game. Each of the four sides (Shu, Wu, Wei and Other) have at least one card per traditionally-used 
 general; with those playable generals from the console games getting two cards. On each card is 
 often one of two things: either stat bonuses or summoning spells, and these cards will become your 
 Fortress Officers when used in battle.
  The stat bonuses often add to your health, attack/defense and troop strengths. When combined with 
 enough stats, you can easily thwomp on the hardest characters in the game. Meanwhile, the summoning 
 spells are a little different.
  At random when a certain event is hit (which Ill go into in a bit) , a random spell will be summoned 
 up and activated when the player wishes. These can range from simply reversing the controls of 
 the enemy to making the Earth quake to completely freezing the enemy in place for a minute to rallying 
 your troops and do massive damage with a nonstop assault. Some of these are useless, such as the 
 Dud, but others can literally save your skin in a close battle.
  
  An interesting point with these cards is that more than one character can be on the battlefield 
 at a time. Xiahou Dun, for example, appears as both a stat-card and a summon-card; both of which 
 can be used to enhance your abilities and summons once placed onto the field. It gets weirder when 
 the enemy also has a Xiahou Dun out on the field as well.
  Finally, there are even rare cards that are BOTH stat-based and summon-based. These cards are insanely 
 rare and are always worth fielding when you get the chance.
  
  As for how the Summonings work, its rather simple:
  When you go through the fights, enemies 
 will often drop items (dumplings to heal, for example) . One such item is the coin. Get five coins 
 and a roulette will activate in the corner, using up all five coins in order to give you the chance 
 to dish out something special. If you dont use the roulette ability right away, its possible 
 to store up to twelve coins in bonus for later roulette uses. Its certainly a time saver.
  
  The controls for this game are pretty simple, overall. B is the traditional hack-and-slash 
 button, with the A button becoming the charge button to vary up the combos. X unleashes the Musou 
 attack (and no charging this time, guys) , with Y unleashing your Summoned Spell. L, of course, 
 blocks.
  The R button switches the DS bottom screen between a full map and a detailed analysis of your opponents 
 movements. This also means theres no touch pad use, which is a little depressing.
  Unfortunately, hit detection is more than slightly off; which makes it a little hard to control 
 things properly, as well as movement. Its pretty unfortunate, considering the potential this game 
 actually has.
  Certainly a 6 overall  the card dynamic is nice because its not shoved in our face and the controls 
 are easy, but the flaws easily drag this down.
  
  Now, because this is a handheld game, I wasnt expecting any major graphical or sound improvements 
 at all. Especially when compared to the massive PS2 games of the past. However, its not all that 
 bad.
  The way Koei went for this game was a pseudo-3D effect, with a polygon background and sprites for 
 characters. The background is very impressive for the DS, though it wont rival Mario 64x4 anytime 
 soon. The sprites on the other hand, not so good. The nameless archers and swordsmen killed in 
 endless droves by you all look the same, and sometimes barely resemble people sometimes. However, 
 there is almost a complete lack of slowdown in this game. As much of a backhanded compliment as 
 this is, its worth noting once you look at the older games of the Dynasty Warrior series.
  The named characters, on the other hand, look nice and sharp for the style. The three main characters 
 all look distinct and wonderful, while the Officers all have their own quirks here and there (though 
 many of the lower named Generals are carbon-copies, much like in the console games) .
  The only real flaw with this graphical style is the fact that characters lying down, stunned, look 
 awkward in the view and it can be hard to judge distances. However, this is only a minor one in 
 the long run.
  Definitely a 7. While there are flaws, this is a pretty good-looking game.
  
  While the music itself is mostly forgettable for this game, as well as the effects, the fact 
 that there is actually a good amount of vocal tracks here is noteworthy. However, much of it is 
 limited to the cries of pain from the enemies and allies. But its worth keeping in mind that theyre 
 no generic ones: each character has a unique voice completely.
  While it doesnt do much, the music and sound arent so forgettable or annoying that you want to 
 turn them off  especially since a fair percentage of them come from the older versions of Dynasty 
 Warriors. A 5 here.
  
  When it comes to replay value in the long run well, the single-player campaign is pretty much 
 done in a few hours, and can be thrashed in a single sitting if youre bored enough. This is perfect 
 for a car trip or a plane flight, but you may regret the purchase if you bought it for too much. 
 About the only thing to keep coming back for is to play as the other two mains, as well as collect 
 all of the cards, really.
  However, theres an ad-hock multiplayer mode here as well, where up to three people can assault 
 each other on a massive battlefield. However, this requires one copy of the game per person  which 
 can be quite complicated, unless you know quite a few Warriors fanatics with a DS.
  Since theres about an average amount of replay here, it gets a 5.
  
  As for my own feelings 
 about the game its a guilty pleasure. I like taking down whomever is in my path and recruiting 
 a dream-team of people from the Three Kingdoms Era, regardless of which side theyre from. Its 
 certainly not the best game ever, and I recognize this, but its a fun diversion. A 7.
  
  In the end, if youre looking for a fun diversion and you dont mind repeating the same 8 stages 
 often enough (despite the random shuffle for the layouts) , theres a game to be found here.
 
  Just dont be going about in paying full-price for this thing ($30 at Gamestop, for crying out 
 loud) , because its not worth THAT much.
  
  Final Score:
  6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: segadomcast
Rating: 1
Date: Aug 17, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely terrible. I couldn't even believe it was from Koei. There are only 3 characters 
 to choose from, and they are all unknown and never before seen. Combat is ridiculously boring, 
 if it can even be called combat. The graphics look terrible, and the enemies move around like brainless 
 zombies programmed to follow your character slowly. Yes, Its THAT bad. Stay far, very far, away 
 from this, as it very well could be the worst DS game to date, or at least the worst DS action 
 game.
  
  This game is absolutely terrible. I couldn't even believe it was from Koei. There are only 3 characters 
 to choose from, and they are all unknown and never before seen. Combat is ridiculously boring, 
 if it can even be called combat. The graphics look terrible, and the enemies move around like brainless 
 zombies programmed to follow your character slowly. Yes, Its THAT bad. Stay far, very far, away 
 from this, as it very well could be the worst DS game to date, or at least the worst DS action 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Weekend
Rating: 4.1
Date: Aug 1, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  I am a fan of Koei's games ... I love Samurai Warrior, Dynasty was fun and Orochi Musou was the 
 best action game from Koei to date ... but this takes the cake as a crappy game that does nothing 
 but cheat poor folks out of their money and time ...
  
  I've played both the Japanese and English version of the same thing. Thankful I didn't have to 
 pay (borrowed from others) to play and boy was I lucky ... yes ... it's hack and slash like my 
 Warrior-series game ... but with horrible graphics and uninspiring gameplay ... the characters 
 are so tiny, the maps are wide and flat most of the time and the 3 characters are just so plainly 
 LAME ....
  
  Gimme a break ... I think KOEI is better off making something else for the DS than this ... it's 
 bad enough that reviews for Warrior-games are not good on Gamespot ... throw in this and it sinks 
 rock bottom ... I mean, in Japan, Dynasty Warriors actually had a card game ... why couldn't they 
 play it safe and release that for NDS instead! You don't need fancy graphics, just scanned images 
 of the game cards and great game play will sell millions in no time!
  
  The card system they have in this game doesn't seem to work in my favor also ... it sucks hardcore 
 that I have a million of generic generals and only a tiny pool of leading character generals from 
 the series ... mostly with bad stats too. SUN SIANG XIANG! Get out of my starting deck ... PLEASE!!!!
 
  
  The only fun part is seeing what you might get a completed battle ... but most of the time, you 
 won't receive the good general cards to help boost your army for the next battle ... not to mention 
 they also got lazy and turned certain characters into generic generals ... Taishi Ci from the Wu 
 faction is now a generic general ... same for Xu Huang from Wei ... just to name a few.
  
  Folks, if you have to buy it ... it's at your own risk ... nothing more than this warning from 
 a fan ... KOEI ... you really disappointed this time ... BIG TIME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberTraX
Rating: 3.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 2:58 am PT
Review:  If u are a DW fan as me, where i play all seris of DW from 1-5 and DW in PSP ... then this sure 
 to be a damm disappointing DW game u ever play...
  The gameplay is totaly has no link with DW at all and u can only use 3 unknown characters which 
 only one is gd... And the game can be easyly completed in 2 or 3 hrs... This game is like juz to 
 create for the DS to have DW oso but dun care about how the game played... It is super disappointing 
 as it is totally not surppose to be call DW... At least DW in PSP gameplay is link to DW... ONE 
 WORD TO SAY THIS GAME==========&gt;&gt; SUX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decoy1978
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Im a real avid Dynasty Warrior fan and even then this game makes me mad.
  There just really isn't that much depth in this game. All you do is move from square to square 
 and when you do bump into the opposing team a cheesy simplistic battle takes place.
  
  You can chose from 3 characters and even then I feel this is a complete bore. The old Dynasty Warriors 
 from the GBA had a better game mechanics than this one.
  
  Koei or whoever did this dropped the ball. If this is a sure sign of the direction where their 
 DW is headed to, then I guess I just played my last DW game.
  
  I wouldn't even reccomend this to rent, and since I don't condone DL games over the internet, if 
 you guys are real curious to see how bad a game can get, then sucker someone else to buy the game 
 and laugh at their misfortune. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kdawg24
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Man I was hoping for good things when i bought this game but I was wrong (as usual) .
  
  The Gameplay is ok but very repetitive and also it gets boring after about 20 minutes.
  
  The 
 sound is the best thing about this game unfortunatly.
  
  The Graphics are alright for this type of game but could have been better
  
  The card system 
 is very bland and under developed they could have done without this and just made a simple port 
 of like dynasty warriors 1 or 2 and it would have been much better. It seems that when people make 
 games for the ds they have to get way to creative and you know what sometimes like in this case 
 it doesnt work. Just keep it simple and forget about being over creative because this causes problems 
 and unfortunatly this was one title of many on this system that fails because of this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 26, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  where did the dynasty warriors i have grown to love gone? why can't they make a simple PS2-like 
 version of this game for DS? the graphics could handle it. the sound could.
  
  but instead they released *this* game. you can't play any of the characters you can play even in 
 the most simplest GBA version. you are given a choice of three generic fighters for whom to battle 
 through a chopped up and slightly more confusimg-than-landscaped map. the graphics look okay and 
 the sound is nice... but the gameplay is boring and repetitive except folr when you encounter a 
 general.
  
  well, i hoped for a basic DS version of the PS2 version or a better looking GBA version...
  
 
  instead, they blow their creative-potential load with this release.
  
  oh well : ( 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
