-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: EA Playground
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/eaplayground/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Minigames are great for young kids.
 Vibrant color scheme is appealing.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Minigames will bore most elementary-school grads.
 No single-card multiplayer.
 Harder challenges will likely frustrate target demographic.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.9, 8 Review (s)
User Score: 5.6, 45 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 23, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This simplistic minigame collection is great for young kids, and no one else. 

  Picture a playground you enjoyed going to when you were a kid. Maybe it was at your school, a local 
 park, or even in a friend's spacious backyard. It featured a jungle gym, or some big ol' structure 
 with slides attached, or some such variation. You ran around on the gravel, wood chips, grass, 
 or dirt, and bounced balls off of hard surfaces, both horizontal and vertical. It was a big place 
 where you could just as easily play sports as hunt bugs, and the possibilities for fun were as 
 limitless as your imagination. Now, put that image aside because we're going to talk about EA Playground, 
 which is the antithesis of that happy memory. Instead, it's a dull, uninspired collection of simplistic 
 minigames played on a tiny screen, and it would be hard to recommend even on a rainy day.  

  The single-player mode starts you off on the steps of your schoolhouse, with you presumably freshly 
 released from academic endeavors to pursue more playful activities. The brightly colored playground 
 before you is populated by three types of characters. One is The Sticker King, an all-powerful 
 playground monarch who vends power-up stickers that add bonuses to each game type. The second type 
 is the competitors, children who will challenge you in their favorite game and reward you with 
 a golden sticker and marbles for beating their challenges. The third type is the extras, who frolic 
 on swings and seesaws without acknowledging your existence. There are three more of these playground 
 areas that you can unlock as you progress, each with a different theme but the same cast of characters. 
 If you beat all the kids and all their dares, you'll earn the right to challenge The Sticker King 
 in an effort to depose him and seize control of the playground stickerocracy.  

           The Sticker King's Equipment Exclusivity Edict stipulates that you shall neither see nor 
 saw. Ever.      

  Your competitors come in the classic Neapolitan difficulty flavors: easy, medium, and hard. You'll 
 be earning marbles hand over fist throughout the easy and medium levels, while the hard opponents 
 will be a bit more stingy. These Playground princes often seem incrongruously difficult, given 
 the accessible nature of the game, but toppling them and facing down the even tougher Sticker King 
 won't take you more than a few hours. The games themselves are all very simple, and don't get much 
 more complex as the difficulty ramps up. Let's do a quick rundown:  

  Kicks: Run around on the bottom screen while collecting soccer balls and shooting them past the 
 goalie, who runs back and forth in a set pattern. Buying a power-up sticker will enable you to 
 camp outside the goalie box, intercept your opponents' shots, and drive them home with ease. Yippee. 

  Dodgeball: Run around on the bottom screen while using an aiming box at the top of the screen to 
 chuck balls at your not-very-skilled opponents. Balls bounce off the walls like in a game of billiards, 
 so just line up the 8-year-old in the corner pocket and you're good to go.  

  RC Racers: A top-down track racer in classic arcade style, this game is one of the more skill-based 
 challenges in here. Feisty opponents and potent power-ups make for slightly longer-lasting entertainment 
 value than most of the other games.  

  Skate &amp; Sketch: Watch your wee avatar zip back and forth in a halfpipe as you frantically connect 
 the dots to perform tricks while he's airborne. It's connect-the-dots on a timer, and it's actually 
 one of the more fun games in here. Telling.  

  Spitballs: Shoot spitballs into a crowd of children and watch them freak right out. It's a sobering 
 portrayal of the mob mentality, and a dull one at that.  

  Hopscotch: Ever play Simon? It was this big plastic disc with four differently colored quadrants 
 that would light up and play a unique sound. You'd have to duplicate increasingly complex patterns, 
 or face the strident wrath of the failure buzzer. Hopscotch is Simon set to a beat, and it works 
 just fine. Unless you're in a place where you can't play the music, at which point it works not 
 so fine.  

  Hoops: Run around on the bottom screen while grabbing basketballs and tossing them at the net. 
 A small accuracy meter determines whether your shot will go in or not, and score-multiplying circles 
 make you feel as if it's an unlicensed NBA Jam: Tournament Edition without the shoving, or the 
 fun.  

           The road to Sticker Kingdom is paved with unconscious children.      

  Trampoline: Bounce super high as you maneuver to pop balloons, avoid birds, and beat your opponent. 
 The most fun thing about this game is that bouncing off your opponent's head is tantamount to bouncing 
 on the trampoline, with the added bonus of keeping your opponent from getting points. Kiddie head 
 trauma was never so appealing.  

  Bug Hunt: Run around on the top of the screen (gettin' crazy here!) and run into (catch) butterflies 
 while avoiding bees. You control your running exploits with the stylus on the screen below. Welcome 
 to Hand Cramp City. Population: You.  

  As you can gather from those descriptions, EA Playground isn't a very deep game at all. It is 100 
 percent kid-friendly, and it better hope that kids like it because it sure won't be making many 
 friends outside that demographic. As a minigame collection for young'uns, it's solid. The colorful 
 visuals and easy-to-grasp games will certainly appeal to elementary school Nintendo DS players, 
 which is good because an elementary school is probably the only place where the two or more games 
 required to play multiplayer will be found. Anyone who doesn't hear a recess bell regularly during 
 the course of the week will want to steer clear.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: lilman1995
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 1, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  EA Playground is a fairly good game but a little bit of a let down with a lack of games and a lack 
 of graphics the way you move in the game is just a complete copy of pokemon ranger because to move 
 is to move the stylus and that is how you move in pokemon ranger! This game is not that much recommended 
 to buy because it is fun at the start but once you finish the game it gets soooo boring!
  
  In the game there are minigames that are played in the playground at school these minigames include; 
 Dodgeball, RC car races, trampolines, hopscotch, soccer, bug catching, basketball (also known as 
 hoops) , skating and spitballs they are all the minigames you play throughout the main game the 
 main part of this game is to collect these stickers and then earn the King of the playground sticker 
 and then complete the game 100%
  
  the games in this game are still really fun and they get a little hard which is still good but 
 then they get really hard then it just looses it self so that is the end of my review thankyou 
 for listening! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llabtoof9
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  There are plenty of different minigames that you can play; for example: skateboarding, racers, 
 hoops (basketball) , kicks (soccer) , hopscotch, butterflies, trampoline, and dodgeball. When I first 
 heard about it, I was excited because is sounded amazing, but after playing it for a while, I realized 
 that it definitely wasn't what I thought it would be.
  
  Gameplay: You are a new kid at school and you have to go around the playground collecting stickers 
 and marbles. With these you can unlock new areas; and with the new areas, you unlock new games. 
 It is really lame because in order to play one game you have to beat another, which is personally 
 just plain dumb. Most of these games are actually really lame. In soccer (kicks) you run around 
 the field looking for the ball and try and kick a goal while someone else is trying to do the same 
 thing. All of the games are SUPER EASY. If you want to be challenged, this is definitely not the 
 game for you.
  
  Graphics: The graphics just down right suck. I know that the DS doesn't have the biggest screen 
 in the world, so it's hard to get good graphics, but EA didn't even try with these. They are mediocre 
 at best, and really can't compete with anything.
  
  Sound: Not much to say. Music, kids laughing in the background. But really there is not that much 
 to the sound. Once again, EA could have done a lot better, but they just didn't.
  
  Value: There is a quick play, so once that you have beaten a certain level you can play that whenever 
 you want. However, they don't have Wi-fi, or Single Card, so you can only play against other people 
 who own the game. Which kind of sucks. They could of at least added single card play, but once 
 again, they didn't do it, bringing it down some more.
  
  Conclusion: EA Playground is a very easy game with not a lot of point to it. Really, once you have 
 beaten it, it's kind of a waste. It doesn't have Single Card Multiplayer or Wi-Fi. So, if you are 
 looking for a challenging game that is very interesting, this is NOT for you. If you want a lame 
 game with no point and once you finish it have no need for it, then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 2:24 pm PT
Review:  EA Playground. Just looking at this title's name makes one think that we are into to a kiddy game. 
 Make no doubt about it, as EA Playground is indeed a little childish-wise, but it does actually 
 have some good and fun points about it.
  
  Graphics - Linear and standard 2D here, EA didn't really put a lot of work into this game, and 
 you can see the quality of the graphics let a lot to be desired. It could feature some 3D, since 
 it's no classic with 2D graphics anyway... still, they are colorful. A 5/10 here.
  
  Sound - Well, it's just.... music. Yeah, and some SFX. Basically it has around or three themes around 
 here, which get too repetitive after a while. 4/10 here.
  
  Gameplay - Well, despite the low score of the other points above, it actually plays quite nice... for 
 a while, that is. Yes, the game features around 10 mini games which most have to be unlocked and 
 by that you need to obtain Stamps and Marbles. The former is gained by playing games and accomplishing 
 objectives and the latter is bought with stamps or can also be found around the playground. You'll 
 play a variety of fun mini games, like dodgeball, basketball, soccer, but the controls aren't too 
 well implemented. Despite this, it's quite easy to earn a good score and beat your counterpart. 
 That, allied to the limit of games, is what makes it too boring, not to mention the childish likes 
 of the games. Some thing a little more hardcore eh, EA? 6/10 here.
  
  Replay Value: It does feature multiplayer, but that's that. No, no Nintendo WFC or even download 
 play, which will put many people off, because not all will have fondness for this genre of game, 
 and not even for a quick I'll play a bit, but I don't have the game session. Very disappointed 
 here, not to mention the really bad SAVE system. C'mon, WE have to pause the game and save every 
 time we want to record our progress? Oh, fun. That doesn't only make newbies lose gameplay time 
 (because they think it's auto-save or they don't know where to save) , it also induces people to 
 boredom. A 3/10 here.
  
  Resuming, EA's Playground is a mediocre, but kinda fun mini game collection. It won't please diehard 
 fans at all, because it's quite childish, but it will appeal the younger crowd... even if it's for 
 a short while. And remember TO SAVE! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
