-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Eco-Creatures: Save the Forest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/ecolis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Cute visuals.
 Slick presentation.
 Decent level editor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weak multiplayer.
 Tedious, frustrating gameplay.
 Unintuitive controls.
 Poor AI.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.9, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 23 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Developer: Lightweight Co.
Genre: Adventure
Date: Mar 4, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This real-time strategy game's cute visuals belie a mostly frustrating experience with poor controls. 
 

  Eco Creatures: Save the Forest is an environmentally minded real-time strategy game for the Nintendo 
 DS, developed by Lightweight and published by Majesco. Its story and presentation are charming 
 but the game's strategy elements are largely frustrating and uninspired.  

  The game's premise begins with an industrialized "evil kingdom" encroaching upon the territory 
 of its neighboring Mana Forest, polluting its waters, stripping the land bare, and unleashing genetically 
 modified crop monsters that are jeopardizing the peace of the forest. However, this forest is the 
 domain of a mountain deity who would be angered by the progressive industrialization, so to prevent 
 the god's wrath, the forest's protection is charged to a master wizard and his trusty yellow ogrelike 
 subordinate, Dorian.  

           You'll lead the cutest army ever if you can overlook Eco's flaws.      

  It's your 
 job to guide Dorian throughout the game's 40 missions to defend the forest from the kingdom's destructive 
 machines. The average mission charges you with destroying all enemies/enemy structures while protecting 
 the Mana House, Dorian's life-replenishing base that also spawns your army of "wood spirits." There 
 are three unit types to summon from the Mana House: ecolis (squirrels) , ecomon (flying squirrels) , 
 and ecoby (beavers) . Each of these unit types come with base stats of defense, power, and speed. 
 The bulk of the gameplay has you guiding the eco-creatures to defeat the machines and their spawn 
 buildings or weaponry by circling them with the stylus then tapping a destination or foe.  

  The wood spirits feature basic attacks, as well as unique "special moves," that add some much-needed 
 strategy to the gameplay. The ecolis grow trees to provide Dorian with the mana he needs to summon 
 spirits or cast spells. Depending on seed placement, the ecolis can also grow select trees tied 
 to spawn specific eco-creatures. For example, growing an ecomon tree in tall grass increases the 
 number of available ecomon by one. Additionally, the ecolis are able to grow healing trees to recover 
 your army's health, as well as house trees to serve as secondary eco-creature spawn points. Similarly, 
 ecomon serve to transport items to Dorian while the ecoby build bridges, slopes, or dams to allow 
 creatures that can't swim to cross bodies of water.  

  Lightweight added more than the usual stat customization and leveling options, enabling you to 
 speedily level a small group of eco-creatures with mana drops, as well as adjust their behavior 
 patterns. For example, a "timid" ecolis will avoid battles, while a "brave" one will fight to the 
 death. These personality adjustments are made via situational cutscenes that prompt you to select 
 a desired reaction to an event. Your choice slightly alters the appropriate stat and rewards you 
 with colored mana drops to modify base stats.  

  Unfortunately, managing this large army can get irritating. The controls are far from intuitive; 
 to give your wood spirits an order, like grow a tree, you must first select the eco-creature mode, 
 tap the appropriate colored icon, then select the ability and location to prompt the animal to 
 act. The problem is that you're constantly switching between Dorian mode and creature mode to issue 
 commands. So you'll often instinctively move to circle the creatures you want to maneuver without 
 realizing you're in Dorian mode, or vice versa, costing you precious time as you switch back and 
 forth in the midst of battle. Another interface quirk occurs even if you intend to cast the same 
 spell back-to-back. To do so, you've got to reopen Dorian's spell menu and manually select it to 
 cast, but because the spell menu takes up the whole screen, you're unable to spot approaching foes. 
 There also seems to be an issue with selecting a destination or opponent near the menu because 
 the game voids the command. This requires that you relocate Dorian to move the camera so you can 
 position your desired destination away from the menu -- a silly nuisance that gets frustrating quickly. 

  The artificial intelligence is decidedly worse than the game's tricky controls. Your wood spirits 
 often continuously frolic into fences, fall behind, or run off exploring map corners if they get 
 separated from the group. This is especially troublesome when you "die" and are returned to the 
 distant Mana House because eco-creatures free from their master scatter across the map. In the 
 event that this happens you have to manually recollect them or wait at the Mana House while they 
 die so you can resummon. To combat this, you can manually enter a command to keep the spirits around 
 Dorian or put effort into adjusting their behavior stats to create a more obedient army, but it's 
 still an annoyance.  

  A compounded aggravation occurs when your eco-creatures wander into areas beyond Dorian's reach 
 because you cannot both move the camera independently of Dorian and tap the touch screen to retrieve 
 lost animals. Once again, you could wait for your warriors to die to resummon, but you're out of 
 luck if there aren't any foes nearby. While the creatures usually attack approaching foes on their 
 own, occasionally you'll have to manually instruct them to attack, which is another frustrating 
 aspect of the game's AI. Don't be surprised if they guard an enemy structure rather than attack 
 it.  

  The game's pacing is also detrimental to its level of enjoyment. Many of the gameplay aspects are 
 slow and can easily vex you because you're forced to wait for elevators, squirrels to plant trees, 
 beavers to construct bridges, or your mana to regenerate so you can actually do something. There's 
 a significant amount of backtracking if you're prone to near-death experiences or have a difficult 
 time keeping the wood spirits on Dorian, and this amounts to a lot of wasted time.  

           Boss fights serve as a refreshing distraction from the game's many annoyances      

 
  While Eco Creatures's multiplayer should be an automatic boon for anyone giving the game a second 
 glance, it fails miserably at establishing any fun or replay value. The nonviolent multiplayer 
 entirely consists of collecting acorns by planting trees or bumping into your opponent within a 
 five-minute limit. The game does sport two ad-hoc options with multicard and download play. It 
 also includes a level-create and sharing mode, but competition is sparse. Should you be lucky (or 
 unlucky) enough to find an opponent, occasional lag and this single, limited multiplayer option 
 greatly diminishes its value. The final insult is that multiplayer must be first unlocked and then 
 selected within the single-player game itself -- there is no quick stand-alone option.  

  Eco Creatures's presentation is perhaps its greatest aspect, featuring adorable cel-shaded wood 
 spirits, vivid colors, and flashy spell effects to complement Dorian's spell roster. This roster 
 includes lightning strikes, tornados, and other "natural" attacks or effects. Cute cutscenes abound, 
 and the game features catchy background music that is just as endearing as its visuals, with the 
 exception of appropriately fast-paced role-playing-game-like boss music. Other ambient sounds, 
 such as Dorian's footsteps and the squeaks of the wood spirits, add to the aesthetic charm.  

 
  Eco Creatures is an adorable real-time strategy game with a solid presentation, a decent level 
 editor, some multiplayer options, and cute creatures to lead into battle. However, it's simply 
 not strategic enough and ultimately devoid of depth. You'll spend more time trying to figure out 
 how to outsmart the game's annoying quirks than you will pondering in what order you want to plant 
 trees or build bridges. When you toss in how rarely you'll use the multiplayer feature, as well 
 as the game's overall shallowness, it simply doesn't compare to other, better, games in its genre. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: bluemaster
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I tried this game out with when I saw the cover and the screenshots. The result? It is a fun game 
 with perhaps an environmental message for youngsters.
  
  The game began with you played as a apprentice Wizard training under your Master. One day the near 
 by Kingdom began sending robots to dumb their trash and waste into the woods, cutting down trees 
 and making landfill. It is your task to protext the forest with the helps of wood spirits in the 
 form of Pink Squirrel, Blue Flying Squirrel, and Yellow Beaver each with special abilities and 
 function. Each of the wood spirits type can be evolve and change into different unit after feeding 
 them Red, Blue or Green Mana drops.
  
  The gameplay is basic RTS game. You start off at your base, then you summon the spirits to finish 
 off all the enemies in the map. The game is not hard at all, but it could be tricky if you want 
 to finish the game in the time set for rewards.
  
  The control is... rather inconvenient. You can direct the spirits to do certain tasks but they 
 will go off on their own after they finish the tasks. In order the round them up they have to be 
 in the same screen with you before you can order them to follow you.
  
  The game is on a rather easy side. You can do certain maps over and over again to earn the Clear 
 mana drops to level up your spirits. And to gain access to the 'Go Play' scenarios to both get 
 the mana drops and adjust the spirits' personalities.
  
  One another objective is to grow trees in the map with your Squirrel unit to built up your 'Green 
 Count'. Each -0% will give your character spells and open more maps. By growing trees at certain 
 spot, you will gain more spirits to your troops as well.
  
  Overall I find this game to be fun, although it can be too easy or drag on at times. I find the 
 game rather charming and cute. You should give it a try, if you can gloss over the clunky control. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 15, 2008 12:17 am PT
Review:  Ok... I saw this game and thought I looked pretty good otherwise with a 30.00 price tag I would 
 have left it at the store. When I first started it looked good and the graphics and the sound were 
 pretty good as well. Then..... The game started and the graphics looked bad and the sound was worse 
 and the game play was not only hard but really boring. You are this monster looking thing and you 
 have to help protect the forrest from where bad guys (not sure what they are) who are trying to 
 cut down the trees and your house which is also a tree. You have little friends from the forrest 
 that help you but fight the bad guys but you can do very little yourself. You do however plant 
 trees and get you little friends who look like foxes to dance around to make the tree grow.... Are 
 you getting all this? If you are then you will see that who ever made up this game may have had 
 a good thought but it did not come out in this game. Do not be fooled by the cute case and animal 
 theme. Rent it first or pass it by! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
