-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Elebits: The Adventures of Kai & Zero
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/adventure/elebitsadventuresofkaizero/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting puzzle design.
 A multitude of different abilities to take advantage of.
 Fun boss battles.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weak evolution system.
 Uninspired visual design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 22, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.4, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 45 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Konami
Genre: Adventure
Date: Jan 6, 2009
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The second Elebits makes its way to a new platform with a new focus, but it still makes for a very 
 fun adventure. 

  The original Elebits was released shortly after the Wii hit retail shelves and was a showcase for 
 the new functionality offered by the Wii Remote. Playing from a first-person perspective, you scoured 
 the environment in search of elusive electrically charged creatures, using the controller as a 
 virtual wand to overturn kitchen appliances and shake down trees in an elaborate game of hide and 
 seek. The sequel makes the leap to the Nintendo DS with the same basic capturing mechanics but 
 shifts the vantage to a top-down viewpoint. The emphasis is now placed on clever puzzle design 
 rather than over-the-top physics, which makes for a satisfying experience. The pointless evolutionary 
 system and unimaginative visual design put a slight damper on the fun, but interesting levels and 
 varied puzzles make this an engrossing, and surprisingly challenging, adventure.  

           You can round up an entire family of Elebits in one fell swoop.      

  You once again 
 play as Kai, a small boy with large problems. While exploring with your Elebit pal Zero, you happen 
 upon an old bus that doubles as a time machine. Sadly, this talking bus does not have the best 
 sense of direction, so you find yourself lost in time, desperately trying to make your way home. 
 Kai is a weak protagonist, meekly following orders from the various people he runs into, showing 
 not even the slightest hint of his own personality. But the characters are not the star of this 
 adventure -- the message is. The lands you visit have been hurt in some way by overly ambitious citizens 
 intent on expanding their society without any regard to preserving the environment. The message 
 can be a little heavy-handed, but the smooth manner in which these pro-environment ideals are woven 
 into this otherwise fantastical journey is commendable. Having a likable character restoring order 
 would have carried more weight, though.  

   

  While both the original Elebits and its sequel emphasize catching the little creatures desperately 
 trying to escape your clutches, the DS iteration puts your captives to good use. You befriend various 
 Omega Elebits -- elemental beings you control to solve puzzles -- and use ordinary Elebits to power 
 them. There are trees, rocks, and other obvious hiding places scattered everywhere for these common 
 Elebits to take refuge in, ensuring you never have a shortage of energy at your fingertips. To 
 nab these walking power pellets, simply tap on them with the stylus and then tap on one of your 
 Omega friends to scoop them up. The more you collect in one swipe, the higher your combo bonus, 
 so it's wise to shake out every nearby bush before rounding them up. While building up a reserve 
 of energy is easy, making your way through the levels can be quite difficult. Obstacles will block 
 your every turn, and you'll have to overcome them all to nab the hidden Omega Elebits and find 
 the map to the next world.  

  Each Omega Elebit has its own abilities, so you'll have to discover for yourself how you can take 
 advantage of them to get past obstacles. You'll be able to destroy heavy rocks, burrow underground, 
 freeze lakes, and control giant metal balls, among other things, and knowing when and where to 
 call forth these actions is not always obvious. The later levels are particularly devious, stringing 
 a number of puzzles together that force you to combine your Omegas' abilities in clever new ways. 
 The boss fights are also quite impressive, making you quickly switch between creatures to take 
 advantage of weaknesses when they present themselves. There are certain instances when your only 
 way through is by trial and error (why would a rock creature be susceptible only to wind?) , but 
 the majority of the solutions are grounded in reality. The puzzles are strong throughout the adventure, 
 continually placing seemingly insurmountable walls in your path before you figure out how to progress. 

  The common Elebits you collect not only refuel the Omegas, they evolve them as well. This changes 
 their appearance and enhances their powers, but does so in such a limited way that there's little 
 tangible incentive for it. Each evolution imbues your Omegas with the same bonus tweaks -- a longer 
 time bar to capture Elebits, which makes large combos easier to pull off, and more efficient energy 
 consumption, which lets you use their abilities with less power. But that's all you get. Your fire-breathing 
 Elebit cannot develop a stronger flame. Instead, you unlock X Omegas along the way, which render 
 your ordinary Omegas worthless. The lame evolutionary system takes the appeal of the hunt away, 
 giving you little reason to grab every Elebit in sight. Evolution also throws a wrench in the multiplayer 
 mode. Players race to collect the most Elebits in a set time, but anyone utilizing the evolved 
 forms will be able to pull off larger combos. Even without that imbalance, the multiplayer mode 
 is forgettable, highlighting the weakest point of the main game (collecting) , without offering 
 any puzzles or combat options to make it fun.  

           The Elebits will even hide in dank caves to escape your grabby hands.      

  The visuals 
 are bright and cheery, giving the environments a welcoming feel, even in their chaotic state. The 
 design of the Elebits is derivative though, drawing all-too-obvious inspirations from Pokemon. 
 The similarities are even more striking when the Elebits are in their evolved state, where they 
 sprout gaudy feathers and other adornments, making them look like dead ringers for various members 
 of Nintendo's team of fighting monsters. The music stays firmly in the background, never getting 
 in the way but rarely enhancing the experience. Unfortunately, playing without sound isn't an option. 
 You have a Melody Elebit in your repertoire that can open up paths, but you'll have to listen for 
 music cues to know when to use it.  

  Despite the watered-down evolution aspect and some uninspired visual design, Elebits: The Adventures 
 of Kai and Zero is a well-crafted and very enjoyable adventure game. With combat relegated to the 
 exciting boss encounters, you'll spend most of your journey focused on the clever puzzles blocking 
 your path. Your quest may not be particularly long -- most players will be able to finish in less 
 than 10 hours -- but the adventure is well paced and provides a good challenge. Even though it offers 
 a drastic change of pace from the Wii original, the second Elebits is a rewarding and wholesomely 
 fun adventure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: TRICKSTERX
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  Elebits is an incredible games with very immersive puzzles and a fun little got to collect them 
 all feature. This game is a most have for any ds owner who loves puzzle games. the puzzle are super 
 tricky and really fun to figure and you feel a sense of great accomplishment once you figure them. 
 The cool little elebits can be evolved into other form using the energy you've collected and the 
 replay value is super high. The story is a little corny but it has the zelda feel of adventure 
 to it. But it's always fun to go to new worlds and collect new elebits. The boss battles are really 
 cool and remind of zelda were you have to figure out the way to defeat the boss on your own without 
 any help. These battle don't feel like a burden though they are tons of fun ad very intriguing. I 
 know it looks like a little kids game people but try it out i did thanks to one of my co-workers 
 and i fell in love with it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
