-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Electroplankton
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/electroplankton/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A totally unique experience on any gaming platform.
 Sublimely abstract presentation.
 Makes music creation very accessible.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Total lack of game structure.
 Can't save anything you create.
 Plankton all isolated from each other.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.3
Critic Score: 7.6, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 771 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Indies Zero 
Genre: Music Maker
Date: Jan 9, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Electroplankton is an interesting experiment in both music and game design, but its reliance on 
 the novelty of something different limits its lasting value. 

  To call Electroplankton a game would be a bit of a misnomer -- there is no competition, no objectives 
 to be met, and no points to be scored. Rather, this new project from self-proclaimed media artist 
 Toshio Iwai is better described as a collection of interactive multimedia art installations that 
 you can take with you. There's truly nothing quite like Electroplankton on the Nintendo DS -- or 
 any video game system, for that matter -- and there are moments when it can be beautiful and completely 
 enrapturing. But without any sort of disciplined game structure, and by relying heavily on user 
 input -- while simultaneously marginalizing it -- there's not much to keep you coming back.  

          Despite its focus on music, Electroplankton isn't a rhythm game -- or any kind of game, for 
 that matter.     

  It's easy enough to toss around a lot of quasi-intellectual language when talking about Electroplankton, 
 so we'll try to keep that to a minimum -- instead, let's get down to what Electroplankton actually 
  is . Imagine a set of synthesizers that you can manipulate through the familiar microphone and 
 touch screen interfaces of the Nintendo DS, and you're pretty close. Electroplankton is comprised 
 of 10 such musical toys, and a playful visual style is employed to give the impression that each 
 takes place in some sort of bizarre petri dish -- or perhaps a very musical aquarium -- filled with 
 different species of plankton that can produce sound and light when you interact with them.  

 
  The Tracy type of plankton come in groups of six, and will create piano tones as they retrace 
 over lines that you draw on the touch screen. Each of the Tracy plankton are color-coded, and each 
 color has a sort of preset pattern it plays through; but the shape of your lines and the speed 
 at which you draw them greatly effect the pitch and the speed of each plankton. Additionally, you 
 can use the D pad to speed up or slow down the shared speed of all the plankton. Tracy is a good 
 introductory plankton, and it can be fun to discover the sounds that different polygonal shapes, 
 or perhaps your own name, will produce, though it's difficult to create anything that would be 
 recognizable as "music," and what you do create almost inevitably degenerates into a cacophony 
 of noise.  

  The Hanenbow plankton like to launch themselves out of the water, creating xylophone-type sounds 
 when they bounce off the leaves of plants growing out of the water. Using the stylus, you can play 
 around with the angle of the leaf that they launch out of the water from, as well as the position 
 of the leaves they bounce off of. Not only will the tones created differ depending on which leaves 
 the plankton hit and where on the leaves they hit, but a plankton that hits the same leaf multiple 
 times will create different tones. Because the plankton launch out of the water at a constant rate, 
 it's easy to create progressions that overlap "in the round," which can become dizzying as you 
 crank up the speed at which the plankton launch. Hanenbow is one of the most fully realized plankton, 
 with several different plant configurations, and it features the closest thing you'll find to a 
 goal in Electroplankton: Hitting the same leaves repeatedly will cause them to turn from green 
 to red, and if you can make all the leaves on the screen turn red at once, the plants will blossom 
 into small flowers. Festive!  

  The Luminaria plankton actually has its roots in "Composition on the Table," an interactive art 
 project that creator Toshio Iwai originally unveiled in 1998. Here, four plankton sit on a grid 
 of directional arrows. The plankton -- each of which travels at a different speed and creates a different 
 type of sound -- will follow the directions that the arrows point, generating a specific tone every 
 time they pass over an arrow. You can change the direction of the arrows simply by tapping them, 
 or you can affect the direction of all the arrows at once using the D pad; if you want to make 
 things a little more random, you can press and hold on an arrow with your stylus and it will begin 
 spinning on its own automatically. You can create some pretty intricate patterns with the Luminaria, 
 though it feels oddly limiting that you can rotate the arrows only clockwise.  

          Each plankton has its own unique interface, along with a bit of personality.     

  
 Of all the plankton, the Sun-Animalcule type seems the most like an actual microbiological creature. 
 Tapping the touch screen will cause very tiny plankton to appear and start pulsing with light and 
 sound at regular intervals. Like the Tracy plankton, the Sun-Animalcules will create different 
 sounds depending on their placement on the screen, as well as on the patterns in which you place 
 them. After they're placed, the Sun-Animalcules will start to grow, and the sounds they create 
 will very gradually shift, until they reach a certain size and pop.  

  The Rec-Rec plankton works like a four-track recorder that loops every four beats. Four fish-like 
 plankton scroll across the screen while a drum beat plays in the background. Tapping a plankton 
 will cause it to record whatever sounds the microphone on the DS can detect over the next loop, 
 after which it will immediately begin replaying those sounds. The Rec-Rec plankton is far and away 
 the most functional in Electroplankton, and the sorts of musical patterns that will emerge when 
 you layer seemingly random noise is genuinely amazing. The compelling sounds that you can create 
 with the Rec-Rec make it all the more unfortunate that you cannot save any of your work.    

   

  While some of the plankton in Electroplankton are standard synthesizers that have been thinly veiled 
 with strange interfaces, the Nanocarp seem mysteriously autonomous. Left to their own devices, 
 these tiny winged plankton will swim around the screen, occasionally producing small tinkling sounds. 
 Tapping the screen with the stylus creates a concentric wave that will trigger any Nanocarp that 
 get caught in it, and pressing on the D pad will cause similar waves to wash across the screen. 
 But what's more interesting is the way they react to sounds you create. Clap once and they'll snap 
 into a circular configuration; clap twice and they'll form a straight line. They'll also react 
 to your blowing into the microphone or singing specific melodies, and if you master the techniques, 
 you can actually design some simple animation routines. The manual actually lists all of the different 
 shapes you can trigger, which, unfortunately, is a missed opportunity to add an exploratory aspect 
 to the Nanocarp.  

          You can create some beautiful sounds with Electroplankton. Too bad you can't save any of 
 them.     

  The Lumiloop plankton is the biggest one-trick pony in Electroplankton, consisting of five hoop-shaped 
 plankton that will start to glow and emit constant tones when you "spin" them. You'll get slightly 
 different sounds and colors depending on whether you spin the Lumiloops clockwise or counterclockwise, 
 and you can cycle through a few different sound sets, but there's not much experimentation to be 
 done here, and the novelty wears out quickly.  

  The snowflake-shaped Marine-Snow plankton start off in an evenly spaced formation of 35, with each 
 plankton producing a different note when tapped. This orderly field quickly devolves into chaos, 
 though, as each plankton switches positions with the plankton you tapped previously. It's not the 
 most practical plankton in Electroplankton, but it does serve as a good example of the relationship 
 between order and chaos. Similar to the Lumiloop plankton, though, it doesn't age well.  

  While most of the plankton actively avoid game conventions, the Beatnes plankton fully embrace 
 the musical stylings of old 8-bit NES games. Five chainlike plankton fill the screen, each of which 
 will produce a different short synthesized sound when tapped. The individual "links" in the chains 
 represent a different note in the scale, while the tops and bottoms of each chain produce different 
 recognizable NES sound samples. Right when you start playing with the Beatnes, the classic Super 
 Mario Bros. "invincible" music starts looping, and any notes you trigger on the chains will start 
 looping back with the background music at four-beat intervals, letting you build up some fun and 
 rather complex rhythms and melodies. Aside from the SMB theme, there are three others to choose 
 from, including a Kid Icarus theme. Beatnes is the plankton that most people will be immediately 
 drawn to, and by providing a recognizable musical base to build upon, it's easily the most accessible, 
 though it suffers the same limitations of the Rec-Rec plankton -- you can't save anything you've 
 produced. Even worse, after looping a few times, any patterns you've entered will just stop playing 
 altogether, forever lost.  

  Finally there's the Volvoice plankton, which starts off as a big gumdrop-shaped plankton. Tapping 
 on it will make it record up to eight seconds' worth of sound. You can play it back straight-up, 
 but things get really interesting when you start selecting from the ring of different shapes that 
 encircle the Volvoice, which will change the shape of the plankton and effect the sound of the 
 playback. Some of them simply change the pitch or speed, while others will apply robotic-sounding 
 filters or play back the sound in reverse.  

  Some of the plankton are simply better suited for experimentation, which directly correlates to 
 their lasting value; but almost all of them are hindered by the fact that you cannot capture anything 
 that you create. It's inherently pleasing when you create something you feel is worthwhile, and 
 it's natural to want to share that with others, but Electroplankton is so concerned with being 
 in the moment that this is difficult. Similarly, it's unfortunate that there are no interplankton 
 activities. Most of the plankton don't create music, per se, but components of music. They're novel 
 on their own, but being able to layer them within your DS could open the door for something much 
 more magical. Though the game doesn't explicitly have multiplayer support, you could conceivably 
 layer the sounds of the different plankton by hooking up with other players and forming a little 
 Electroplankton jam band.  

          Whether it's art, a game, both, or neither, Electroplankton just doesn't feel completely 
 realized.     

  Electroplankton's presentation pretty well matches the abstract, experimental form that the rest 
 of the package takes on. The instrument sounds, which range from very natural-sounding pianos to 
 the rawest of sine-wave synthesizers, are all sharp and distinct, though if you listen closely 
 with headphones on, you can hear some slightly dirty waveforms on the back ends of certain instruments. 
 The aquatic and microscopic themes of the game are highlighted in the sound design by soothing, 
 bubbly sounds and a nice, low orchestral hum in the main menu. The visuals, of course, are instrumental 
 in establishing the game's overall theme, and it does so with an elegant simplicity. Backdrops 
 filled with rising bubbles and slowly cycling colors creates a serene foundation, and the simple 
 polygonal shapes that make up the plankton are kept from feeling too cold or alien by being plastered 
 with little smiley faces. It's hard to call the sights and sounds in Electroplankton particularly 
 impressive, but with so many games so concerned with being the biggest, the brightest, or the loudest, 
 it's a nice change of pace to experience something a bit more subdued.  

  It can be argued that by maintaining such a level of conceptual purity, Electroplankton better 
 connects with the academically minded crowd that would be drawn to such an exercise in the first 
 place. Even if Toshio Iwai had succumbed to marketing pressures and included more pedestrian game 
 elements in Electroplankton, its commercial success would still be highly dubious. That argument, 
 however, doesn't rationalize away the isolated nature of the individual parts that make up Electroplankton, 
 nor does it account for the inability to capture whatever fleeting moments of creative genius you 
 might experience. Electroplankton is bold and uncompromising, but it still comes out feeling only 
 partially realized.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (59 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FredGoon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  Music has increased in games in the past years, there has been more involvemnt in the players abilty 
 to create music. Whether your rocking out in Guitar Hero or jamming along in Jam Sessions. Well 
 say hello to Elecktroplankton the new musical device on the block, but how does Elecktroplankton 
 fare agaianst allof the others. Will it leave you gasping for air, or send you plummiting down 
 into the deep?
  
  To call Electroplankton a game would be misleading to people who read this review, it is not so 
 much a game, there are no objectives, no goals, no aims and nothing to unlock. From the moement 
 you start up the game, you already have everything. This may sound bad but thats not Electroplanktons 
 way, it has it's own course that will soon set you in motion.
  
  When you start you are greeted by two modes, Performance mode and Audience mode. In Audience mode 
 you play the role of the audience and can simply sit back and relax to what the game wants you 
 to hear, but all of it is very well done. You can also participate but you'll just mess it up so 
 I'd advise you just watch. Performance Mode is where you control everything, lets go deeper.
  
  In this mode you chose one of 10 "Intruments" these instruments are like microrganisms and 
 each one sounds compleltly diffrent and is used completely diffrent. The first one for example 
 is Tracy, to use this one you must simply draw a line, then one of the tracy's will follow that 
 line and create piano like music. 
  
  As I said each one is diffrent, so I cannot say what one you'll spend most time because it's your 
 taste in music that plays a heavy role. The game has mostly tunes you'd expect to hear in a yoga 
 class or health spa, but there is and can be some rock, rap, techno and even a Mario theme. Ofcourse 
 these are just basic and you can pretty much create any type of music that you want.
  
  The game however isn't very deep, you cannot do that much, well not well anyway. You are limited 
 to 10 instruments which arn't the same but sound similar, and a couple of them an't even that good. 
 And there isn't a whole lot you can do with them since the intruments can not be combined and must 
 be used solo.
  
  The whole game is controlled with the touch screen and done pretty well, anybody can just pick 
 up and play and its very reposnive. The Mic is also used aswell, not very well mind you as it finds 
 it hard to read the noises of claps but its there, use it or don't.
  
  Graphically the game is a wonder to look at, it may be simple but some times simple is enough. 
 Just think of flOw and you'll pretty much have the same thoughts. The plankton also are very nice, 
 the bubbles in the backround make it that much better to.
  
  Well the music is the game is hard to rate due to the fact you yourself do it, but one thing that 
 is great is the small things. Like the sounds of the bubbles contuilsy playing in the backround, 
 but over than that it relys heavly on you.
  
  The value on this game is incredably short I'm afraid, you can actully see everything the game 
 has to offer in less than 10 minites, and unless you have the pateince to sit down and practice 
 with it there is no incentive to keep playing. As I said before, there are no goals, no set task. 
 Another bad point which could have been changed is the fact you cannot save anything you do, if 
 you suddenly create a musical masterpiece you won't beable to save it, which is a big shame.
  
  Electroplankton is a hard game to describe, it's a good musical device that when time is spent 
 can be quite good. However with no saving abiltys and a lack of depth makes it a wasted oppertunity. 
 So go ahead, dive into the musical world of Electroplankton, just don't be expecting to spend much 
 time down there.
  
  Thanks for Reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAB991
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Electroplankton is a seriously, seriously unique title. To call it a game would be wrong since 
 there's no concept of goals or challenge involved. To call it an instrument wouldn't be right either 
 because little to no talent is required to create something decent sounding. To sum Electroplankton 
 up quickly or to place it in a category seems unjust.
  
  Elektroplankton consists of ten different plankton, each which is controlled uniquely and produces 
 different sounds. Some simple ones are controlled simply by being tapped on or by having lines 
 drawn through them, while others require usage of the microphone to achieve the desired effect. 
 Basically, with each of the ten plankton, each of which could be seen as an individual mode, you're 
 dillydallying and trying to create something that is pleasing to your ears. It's fairly easy to 
 create something fun and pleasant, but true mastery comes with time.
  
  In Electroplankton, each plankton's mode is fun, but the player will most likely find one they 
 like the most and stick to. Based on the amount of time the player wants to sink into their experimenting, 
 they can remain a novice, someone who plays the game casually and never produces anything particularly 
 noteworthy, or they can perfect the planktons, creating some crazy sounds that they'll swear should 
 be recorded. The games extremely accesable and anyone could enjoy themselves with the title.
  
  One major thing that's upsetting about Electroplankton is the inability to record your creations 
 without the assistance of an external recording device. It would have been nice to be able to record 
 an especially interesting piece, but if you're someone whose pieces are worthy of a recording, 
 odds are you'll just create another great song next time.
  
  Overall, Electroplankton is undeniably fun. Though a lot of people won't see it as much more than 
 a temporary distraction, it's still a blast while it lasts. There's pleanty of replay value, which 
 is nice, and there's nothing else truly like Electroplankton. It's an incredibly unique experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zvan92
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  i rather enjoy this game... its not like any other. and in case people were wondering, this could 
 be classified as a rhythm game. the game itself features quite a few different modes of play; all 
 of which are played with the stylus. the cool thing is, almost all of the features of the DS are 
 used, including the microphone, stereo speaker panning, and of course, the stylus.
  
  the game gives off an ambient mood, with deep and watery 2D visuals. there are some game modes 
 where you use the microphone, for example to record samples of your voice with 4 channels to choose 
 from, and incorporate them into a drum beat while they play back. however, most of the game modes 
 are just simple tools to create cool sounds.
  
  there is no record/playback feature in this game, although in some game modes you can create short 
 beats, but they only stay in the game's memory for a short period of time... so once you create 
 a beat, it will eventually stop playing back, leaving you with a blank canvas bit by bit.
  
  i would consider this game just a tool to play music, like a simulator. there are 2 modes of 
 gameplay; performance and audience mode. performance mode is where you go through the tools and 
 modes to create your own ambience and sounds, while audience mode basically plays through all of 
 the game modes on its own with premade configurations.
  
  this game sounds nice when plugged in to a sound system, but again, i would only consider this 
 game a tool for creativity.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: one5841
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  9.0 GREAT
  
  Gameplay: --------- 9
  Graphics: --------- 9
  Sound: --------- 9
  Value: --------- 9
  Tilt: Who cares??!!??
  
  THE GOOD: Great gameplay, ten various ways to 
 make music. Great Creativity by TOSHIO IWAI, Great tool for making music, Cartoon-like instruction 
 manual.
  
  THE BAD: Can't save anything, Not for people who don't like music/making music., VERY RARE they 
 don't make it anymore (I got mine as a Japanese import!!
  
  
  Ok Electroplankton: Some 
 call it a tool others it a game. I call it a togame. A mix between both. I enjoy music and making 
 it. 
  
  In Electroplankton there are ten (10) different ways to make music:
  Tracy
  Hanenbow (This stage is in SSBB!!)
  Luminaria
  Sun-Animalcule
  Rec-Rec
  Nanocarp
  Lumiloop
 
  Marine-Snow
  Beatnes
  Volvoice
  
  Each 'plankton' uses a different interface and makes different sounds. It's great! 
  
  A BAD 
 is that you can't save ANY of your AWESOME work!!! They said because it would be too complex and 
 that it shouldn't be a 'tool' and that it would take FOREVER to save! But why when you can make 
 GREAT music with it. (oh well we can't do about it now)
  
  Electroplankton also features a Funny (odd) cartoon-like instruction booklet...
  
  FINAL RAP-UP:
 
  Electroplankton is a great game but it's not for everyone! It's a VERY rare game and I found it 
 at CDX in Frisco at the Stonebriar mall!!!!!!!!!!!!! (People sell it on E-Bay for 60 bucks!
  
  Is it worth it? You decide...
  
  
  Electroplankton Review
  One5841
  Thanks for reading 
 and hope this impacts you into buying this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuesdaynext
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Elektroplankton is oddly trippy, soothing play. By moving objects with the stylus you can create 
 sounds, tones and noises that work harmoniously to create music. The sounds are super cool and 
 with headphones they sound amazing. There is an option to record your own sound into the microphone 
 and looping it into the existing sounds to create new, unique combinations.
  
  The graphics are equally trippy using plankton-like shapes, flowers and other visual metaphors 
 as sound-making objects.
  
  I can see why there are some DJs and music makers who are completely obsessed with Elektroplankton. 
 It is more like a program than a game and show the wide potential of the DS. 
  
  The only downside is that there is no way to save a composition to playback later.
  
  I had 
 a tough time finding a copy of this game since it is clearly a unique item so if you're looking 
 for a copy, scour secondhand bins or out-of-the-way shops to find it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSreviewer
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  It's really hard to rate this game, because it's not really a game. It feels more like a tech demo, 
 or a series of music making toys, but it is not a game. But this music making device does provide 
 a few chances to make some really cool music, but if you ever have an awesome beat or musical feat, 
 you can't save your masterpiece. That feature alone would have added a few more hours of gameplay 
 to this musical experiment. Some electroplanktons, the individual musical toys, are more fun than 
 others though. Some feel a little more sloppy than others, but all the planktons are actually pretty 
 fun.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphical department for this game looks absolutely amazing for an early DS game. As you play 
 with your electroplankton your eyes are treated with a variety of different colors and shapes. 
 It can put you in a trance if your not careful. This game is like an intereactive piece of art, 
 and if your into the art/game genre, then this game is something you should purchase soon.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Sound is obviously the best part of the game, because that's pretty much what 
 the whole point of the game is. I think that it's one of the best sounding DS games, every noise 
 you make is so crisp and clear that it's really candy for your ears. This game is best experienced 
 with headphones, as it sounds pretty much like a surround sound set.
  
  Value: 4/10
  I don't suggest you buy this game, because it will not last you long at all. Like I said before, 
 it would be more of a tech demo than a full blown DS game. I would be shocked if someone played 
 for over a week and still had things to do, this game is more to just show off the DS' features, 
 and nothing more. It's sad, because this game could have been a lot more fun if they just would 
 have spent more time and added more things. Multiplayer would have been a nice touch, but this 
 game is not deep at all, and won't last you longer than a few hours.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 4/10
  Although I liked where the developers were trying to go with this game, 
 it just didn't have enough depth to keep me playing. I don't suggest you buy this game unless if 
 your into the videogame/art concept, or if you just like toys that make noise. Another chance to 
 have a great game blown buy the shortness of the overall product.
  
  -Joe B. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MavHZero
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 6, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Electroplankton tries something that is an unusual concept. It isn't a game, and anyone who judges 
 this solely on that fact isn't giving it a fair chance. The best way to describe this cartridge 
 is a pretty visual and audioly appealing experience.
  
  The basis of the game is little creatures called Electroplankton. There are ten in total and each 
 have their own little concept behind how you make the sound. There are some that involve touching, 
 dragging, and even speaking to your DS. All of which are concepts that the DS has only really brought 
 to light around the time of this game's release.
  
  The best way to describe all of this is a collection of toys. You use the different things to make 
 different tunes. This is all very well presented and indeed uses all of the DS's many capabilities. 
 One of the games has a hint of a game of sorts in that if you make all the leaves light up, the 
 flower blooms, however you need to position the leaves to exactly the right position. The one that 
 gives the most fun involves speech. You can alter what you say in many different formats, which 
 can make for some often amusing consequences.
  
  In my eyes, there is something that could have been included for people who use this as a music 
 creator, and that is a ability to save your work. Some people could argue that this is more of 
 a toy than a music creator, so its a matter of opinion. I will say that for retail price that this 
 game could have had one, so it could give you some sence of achievement.
  
  This is a toy, a highly sophisticated toy, but a toy nonetheless. Its simple to use, much like 
 a toy at childhood, but at the same time gives a charm only something like this could achieve. 
 Its lack of saving may give people cause to complain, but again, matter of opinion. Rent by all 
 means, but unless you get a kick out of playing with toys, then this may not be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:35 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Really unique usage of DS features; cool visuals and sounds; tons of fun...
  
  The Bad: ... for less than an hour; premium $35 price (now that it's cancelled, it's way more) ; 
 no way to save creations; absolutely no depth.
  
  Electroplankton is one of the most interesting uses of the DS features ever. It basically involves 
 ten different kinds of "plankton" that make sounds in different ways, and you just mess around 
 with them. There's really no core game here, no objectives or unlockables, nothing but pure straight 
 up novelty. And that makes the game worth absolutely nothing as a purchase.
  
  As a tech demo, Electroplankton really shows off stuff that could be done with the DS. There's 
 very interesting uses of the microphone, the touch screen, and the general layout of the DS that 
 are tons of fun to mess around with. There's a plankton that records and remixes sounds and your 
 voice, there's one that moves in patterns and makes piano-like noises, there's one that shoots 
 out of the water and makes noise as it hits leaves... and quite a few more interesting ones. It's 
 amazing to play around with the game, especially with headphones, but again there's absolutely 
 no lasting value to the game as the thrills end in less than an hour of play.
  
  It doesn't help that you can't save any of your musical creations either. If this was a minigame 
 in, say, WarioWare or something, it'd be great. But on it's own as a premium-priced DS game? That's 
 not excusable. It isn't even worth five dollars. More depth and options would have helped immensely. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: efy2crw
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME!!!! Why?........ Firstly, it isnt a game! there is no identifyable goal or 
 purpose to Electroplankton. It will keep you entertained for about fifteen minutes, and it costs 
 &pound;30. Worth it? I dont think so. Really really really poor value for money, you cant even 
 save your little 'musical' creations, reducing the replay value even further. The fifteen minutes 
 you enjoy Electroplankton for is actually quite fun, but the series of minigames does not deserve 
 to be released as a full game, and i dont really think nintendo should be able to get away with 
 selling it for &pound;30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b36soldier
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  This game is the worst game that i have ever played!!! EVER!!!!! The same day that i bought this 
 crap, I returned it! If i could give this game a big fat 0 then i would, but sadly i can only go 
 as low as 1!!
  Anyone that says they like this game and that it is 'def 1 for the collection' are in denile that 
 the spent their hard earnd money on such a peice of crap! This should be the next game the 'Angry 
 Video Game Nerd' should destroy!!!
  This game is absolute dog pile. I reccomend playing digimon or yu-gi-oh or watever that crap is. 
 You can probably have better fun counting blades of grass, or leaves on trees. You get ma point!!
 
  
  DONT BUY THE GAME ITS A WASTE OF MONEY, I MADE THE MISTAKE, DONT YOU MAKE THE SAME!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortenjohs
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  My good friend, and composer of contemporary music; Lewis said when I showed him Electroplankton 
 on my DS: This is the future of music - if we are lucky. A very fitting reaction indeed. This 
 title by Toshio Iwai is neither a game that is not a game, nor an instrument that is not a 
 instrument and not really a music composing tool thats not a music composing tool. Its more 
 in the lines of a composition - an interactive composition. An interactive composition inspired 
 by video games as well as music software and musical instruments.
  
  The first time I booted the cartridge with my DS I was mesmerized. Being a wannabe musician as 
 well as a wannabe game creator, something clicked right away here.
  
  Mr. Iwai presents 10 interactive compositions of his. Each with a different set of sounds and animations 
 and ways of interaction. Some are very intuitive in a sense that you immediatly see what your changes 
 are doing to the sound in the musical landscape of each piece. Examples are the jumping plankton 
 in the beautiful Hanenbow level and the arrow following plankton in the Luminaria world. Others 
 like the Sun-Animale or the Nanocarp are more elusive, but nevertheless very fascinating.
  
  The main points I want to make in my small post here is about reviewing such a title. This 
 is not, as I see it, a game. This is, as I mention in my intruduction, an interactive composition. 
 Some reviewers complain about a lack of save option, but I think that is very cleverly left out. 
 The closest you get to the game, you see, is a concert. Although a concert is not interactive, 
 in the traditional sense, it features the same ephemerality - you experience something there and 
 then, that will never be the same again. The same I feel when playing Electroplankton. Its something 
 happening musically just in this instant and it will never be the same again. You can record it, 
 just like you can record a concert, by external tools. (While travelling this weekend I recorded, 
 as an example, a small interpretation I did of track/level/instrument 3 in the game: Luminaria.)
 
  Other reviewers claim its an instrument to be used in other contexts like any instrument. Well, 
 I dont agree. You dont have as much freedom here as on, say, a guitar. And thats what makes 
 it accessible. Anyone can play the compositions of Electroplankton.
  
  Not everyone will apreciate it as a DS-title. For some the fascination will last minutes, but with 
 the right mindset I think this can last as long as any CD of your favourite artist
  
  Its a game, but its not a game. Its a music making tool, but its not a music making tool. 
 Its an instrument, but not an instrument.
  
  Truly brilliant! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuskLord
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  On paper Electroplankton sounded promising and interesting... On the DS it still sounds decent. 
 But that's all there is. Sound. No cool visuals, nothing tricky, just poke the weird plankton things 
 with your stylus and you get sound. Different sound depending on which stage you choose. From deep 
 ambience to even a bit of game music ( remix your own version of Super Mario 1's star theme, actually 
 the only part of this game I enjoyed and smiled while doing it) . You can't save anything and the 
 plankton things won't remember what you did a minute ago.
  
  Well hummh... I only rented this so I was lucky not to spend any more money on it. For me Electroplankton 
 was funny for the first five minutes, but then it became... A cartridge without any value or content. 
 A small piece of plastic full of beeping and obsolete sounds (you know, DS isn't a fancy boombox...) . 
 I could just open up a tracker software on Windows and make it beep randomly. that wouldn't even 
 cost me anything, plus it can evolve into something deeper, something saveable, thus making it 
 more worthwhile.
  
  I now know what kind of sounds those plankton things make. It took me no longer than 5 minutes 
 to hear the sounds. And that's all the content there is. I guess I'll try this one again the next 
 time I'm heavily drunk, it might work better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CreativePlug
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  For anyone who has a big interest in music performance or perhaps digital music creation, this 
 is a game that's definitely worth looking for. I know it's been out for a while and is VERY hard 
 to find. But if you can score a copy without paying the ridiculous $80 that they can go for on 
 Ebay... then you'll definitely be in luck.
  
  First of all, the fact that you're not able to save anything is a shame. But, for those of us who 
 already dabble in the digital music realm, hooking your DS up to your PC is more than likely a 
 task that you already conceived of doing when you got this game. Being able to just jack it in 
 and record using a handful of free software floating around on the internet is a great way to be 
 able to capture the creative moments you may have with the game.
  
  I would recommend this for any musician who enjoys dabbling with even the most simplest of electronic 
 music devices such as keyboards or drum machines. If you enjoy music and have a nack for finding 
 musical or rythmic patters and enjoy the interactivity of the DS, chances are you'll like Electroplankton.
 
  
  For other gamers who enjoy an interactive experience, maybe borrow it from someone you know who 
 has it... or if you're lucky see if you can rent a copy from GameFly or Gameznflix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juggalo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 10, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this one after Rez et al, and was not disapointed. At first the basicness 
 and limited option worried me and I didnt quitre understand the point of not having a save option.
 
  
  But after weeks and now months of doodling and playing it has a place in my heart not usually reserved 
 for games. This is my Chillout Game, my refuge on a busy train or noisy coffee shop.
  
  It makes me smile, it makes me happy, it calms me down and it provokes that streak of creativity 
 that leads onto other great ideas.
  
  But bottom line, it reminds you how playing and experimenting can open up your mind eyes and ears 
 .
  
  Awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Good: The sound in this game is superb, which is what it should be, seeing as it is a sound game; 
 it takes full use of all of the DS's features, graphics are very soothing and nice.
  
  Bad: It really needed more modes of play, so it could increase the time of play; the game also 
 needed to be available in retailers so it would be easier to find.
  
  In short, Electroplankton is a game that you could play anywhere, for any period of time. Most 
 people will just play it for a few minutes, and then move on to a better game, but this game is 
 truly unique. I call for Electroplankton Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juno54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Electroplankton for the DS is a very unique music maker. It holds a variety of different music 
 making devices within the game . Each one of them has a different way of interacting with it. Some 
 require your voice, others involve using the stylus and touching the electroplankton. This game 
 is not for people who don't know how to make music or aren't very artistic. This game is more or 
 less a way to show how good you can make music. The only downside to this game is that there is 
 no way to save what you create. If you like these kinds of games then Electroplankton is a good 
 game to add to your collection. But, if you are not into these kinds of games then avoid it. Overall, 
 Electroplankton is a unique game/music maker. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeyrCat
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 29, 2006 1:03 am PT
Review:  For as hard to find as this game was, buying it as I happened to stumble across it in a GameStop 
 Used, I would expect it to be more... Addictive.
  The graphics are very cute, the variability of the sounds and different ways you can play with 
 everything is very fun. However, I found almost no desire to go BACK and play with it after I'd 
 had my hour or two. I did sic some friends on it and watch them turn it into some frighteningly 
 funny beatbox and rap remixer... But all in all, I'm not terribly impressed. Maybe if it could 
 save some of the things you made, so you could show them off or share them WiFi... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdknight21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  To me the game has a 15-20 max and can soothe the soul when you are in need of relaxing in a different 
 way. The modes are decent, even though a few are not widely used. I had hoped for more out of this 
 rare game, but was still pleased. It is a decent escape here and there, but isn't something you 
 can sit down and jam out to for an hour or two, and it is missing a save system. I would have been 
 curious to see people sharing tunes via Wi-Fi. However, the touch screen is up to Nintendo quality, 
 and in small doses this software can provide a unique experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insteletr
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Electroplankton &eacute; realmente uma experi&ecirc; ncia visual e sonora incr&iacute; vel. J&aacute; 
 consagrado no Jap&atilde; o, esse &eacute; um novo estilo de game, onde o objetivo &eacute; criar 
 arte pela m&uacute; sica. Use a tela sens&iacute; vel ao toque de seu Nintendo DS para interagir 
 com as criaturas aqu&aacute; ticas. Fa&ccedil; a c&iacute; rculos, pressione e desenhe na tela para 
 estimular as estranhas criaturas e criar sua pr&oacute; pria m&uacute; sica. Cada n&iacute; vel do 
 jogo &eacute; uma experi&ecirc; ncia sonora completamente nova, de melodias calmas e relaxantes 
 &agrave; s batidas do Funky dos remixes dos temas de Mario. Voc&ecirc; criar&aacute; novas m&uacute; sicas 
 e viver&aacute; novas experi&ecirc; ncias a cada vez que jogar esse game!
  
  - 10 diferentes tipos de criaturas, cada uma com seu pr&oacute; prio tema musical
  
  - Crie 
 melodias hipn&oacute; ticas ou dan&ccedil; antes controlando o Electroplankton e seu ambiente (ou 
 os dois ao mesmo tempo)
  
  - Escolha um ponto de c&acirc; mera e use a tela superior para aproximar e afastar o zoom, podendo 
 ver de perto o que sua m&uacute; sica causa nas criaturas
  
  - Use o microfone de seu Nintendo DS para gravar &aacute; udio em tempo real e obter mais op&ccedil;&otilde; es 
 ainda 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DCFilms
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 5, 2006 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Electroplancton is basically a music-maker in a DS cart. If you arnt into music, you might try 
 each of the 10 plancton, who all have a different way of making music. For the more musically inclined 
 like myself, I spent a few hours making cool beats and loops.
  
  After you've had a good go at all the plancton, you may never pick up the game again! Being a game 
 with no real story, plot or unlockable features it makes it hard to play it again, and even if 
 you do, you'll only spend a couple of minutes and realize how pointless it is.
  
  If you happen to wander across this game, be sure to rent it first, then you will get all the gameplay 
 you ever will out of it, and costs a heck of a lot less! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Machine_Shop
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 7, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Electroplankton is one of the most unique and original experiences I've had on a gaming system. 
 There aren't many rules, no time limits, no pressure. It's a fun little escape from all your worries 
 in life. When you boot up the game, everything is there for you to play with. There are 10 Electroplankton 
 and each one is very different from the last. Each Electroplankton makes music in it's own special 
 way. You're main controls will be the touch screen and your voice in the DS's built in microphone. 
 An example is the Rec-Rec Electroplankton. You can record voice samples with the microphone then 
 make the recording sound different. There is also the Volvoice Electroplankton. It records your 
 voice then you can add in sound effects and whatnot. Pretty much every other Electroplankton is 
 controlled by the touch screen. An example is Tracy. You draw lines on the screen and the Tracy 
 Electroplankton will go over the line making noise depending on how long the line is and how fast 
 you drew it. There are multiple Tracy Electroplankton there so you can make many noises at the 
 same time. Another Electroplankton is Beatnes (my personal favorite) . If plays classic NES music 
 and you can add sound effects. I've had many moments of musical genius in the game, but the game's 
 major downfall is you can't save any of it. That's pretty much the only thing bad about Electroplankton. 
 Other than that, it's a solid first attempt at making a game where you make music. I would reccomend 
 this one for a rent, but if you are really into making music, this one's a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DClown
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 26, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Many people say this game is hard to define, and I would not be far behind on agreeing with them. 
 Electroplankton is something of an enigma to me, because I can't decide whether it's a moment of 
 zen, or an overpriced toy.
  
  As someone who's been looking forward to this game ever since he first heard of it, Electroplankton 
 did feel a bit underwhelming when I finally got it into my own hands. Probably in part because 
 the game is just what you see in the videos of it, there's really not a lot to discover on your 
 own if you've seen any type of media of this beforehand, not to mention the nonexistent learning 
 curve. But what bothered me the most was that the novelty of playing with the different plakntons 
 wore off surprisingly fast. I had not even spent 20 minutes before I felt like I had reached the 
 game's full potential and wanted to do something else. In essence, Electroplanton isn't something 
 you put in when you have a lot of time to kill, because it will grow rather tiresome rather quickly. 
 Also, the game doesn't quite look as good as one could hope.
  
  But it's not all bad, obviously. What Electroplankton does (and it does this well) is offering 
 a moment between you and the planktons, where you basically have them as an orchestra at your disposal, 
 which can lead to both interesting and fun moments. Many people have complained about the lack 
 of save feature, but I actually think it's one of the game's highlights and I'll tell you why, 
 people who are actively playing video games of any sort today have become a bit spoiled with the 
 idea of saving their progress. With a lack of save feature, your interaction with the planktons 
 become unique with ever new moment you play around with them thus adding to the idea that this 
 is an interactive piece of media art, as opposed to a 'music creator' or a 'game.' 
  
  So, thus begs my dilemma, as the moments when all things work in a soothing orchestrated manner, 
 this game is a little bit of a zen pond in and of itself. But when one is looking at it a bit more 
 objectively, not to mention how tired one can get a bit quickly, it feels like this is simply a 
 toy that makes sounds when you push buttons. I guess it comes down to what you're looking for. 
 I got what I was looking for in one aspect, namely the short moments of playing with sounds. But 
 what I didn't get was a game that had a bit more value, as the novelty wore off pretty quickly.
 
  
  If you're looking for the next Fruity Loops, this is obviously not for you and you're probably 
 looking in the wrong place to begin with. Electroplankton is an interesting title that play with 
 the notion of what a game is, but in doing so, it also limits it's own reach. At the end of the 
 day, Electroplankton for all it's unique charm, is far too forgettable for it's own good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koroshiya_keefu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Many people still don't seem to understand that this isn't classified as a game. Electroplankton's 
 Japanese premiere was in an art gallery, and it's creator Toshio Iwai has stated the 'not a game' 
 fact many times. 
  
  It's an experimental artistic music creator. Something you can sit with outside and create tunes 
 and images that stimulate your mind. Just don't look for any gameplay or goals to reach. It's all 
 about finding unique notes and patterns, experimenting with everyday noise, and pushing the DS 
 sound chip to it's limits.
  
  The first release Japanese premium edition is a nice centre piece to the DS collection. It has 
 a unique over sized box, with Electroplankton earphones, and an interesting hand drawn manual by 
 Iwai himself. I treat this box and game with complete care, it's definitely going to be a collectors 
 item one day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fyre577
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  First off, when I first played this game, I was amazed at the music abilities of this game. Then 
 it dawned on me how horrible this game actually is. There are only 10-12 different plankton to 
 play around with, and you can't mix the plankton with each other, which cuts down on the number 
 of creative ways you can use the plankton to make music. Plus, there is no save feature, which 
 really, really hurts this game beyond any sense of belief. And finally, the graphics are average 
 at best, there is no great special effects, and their actions are very bland.
  
  Ok, now that I listed them, lets go through them in detail.
  
  First up, is the amount of variety 
 this game offers. With only 12 plankton available, and some of the plankton doing the same thing 
 over and over, it can get really tiring doing the same repetitive thing over and over, which can 
 then lead to boredom. Yes, its intriguing to watch the plankton react to your touch, and the fact 
 that they produce music can make it immersive, but it still can't hold up to other music mixing 
 games like Daigasso Band Brothers, and Ouendan/Elite Beat Agents. 
  
  The lack of any type of particular save feature also really hurts this game in unimaginable ways. 
 Yes, you can bring up the fact that with saving all those types of Electroplankton you made could 
 lead to you just messing with the same thing over and over, it still doesn't void out the no save 
 feature in this game. Lets say you make a very good orchestrated song using one type of plankton, 
 and you feel proud of it, well, you can't save that great piece of music, and then you will be 
 frusterated at yourself for even making it and spending that much time/effort on it to begin with. 
 If there was a save feature, it would make many a gamer who picks up this game a happy person, 
 as they would go or open it up knowing they can save their beautiful creations, and not have to 
 worry remembering how to do it again.
  
  Yes, this game would look beautiful on the DS lite, as the screen is 2x better than the original 
 DS' screens, but, on the original DS, this game looks like crud. The bland plankton designs don't 
 help either. But, when they give off effects, it can look particulary great on that screen, and 
 can put on quite a show.
  
  Now, why is value so low, you ask? You should've guessed why by now. I am giving it a 2 in value, 
 because, quite simpily, this game has no value beyond the making of music. With no save feature, 
 the same electroplankton over and over, and no being able to mix and match the plankton with each 
 other, this game can get boring very, very fast, and turn off many a music game fan.
  
  Now, for people looking for true art in music in games, they should not look further than this. 
 This game just screams "Musical art in a video game" when you try it out, which is why I gave it 
 such a low score. No, I am not against musically artistic games, it's just that a game like this 
 would turn off many people because it can get very boring, hence the mediocre score and rating 
 I gave it. But seriously, despite my score, if you love music in games, pick this one up without 
 hesitation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teekazeek
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:17 am PT
Review:  Electroplankton is not quite what one would come to expect from a "game", but rather a multimedia 
 experience that displays the creativity of it's designer and the possible ways in which the DS 
 can be used. 
  
  In Electroplankton you choose one of several little sea creatures to interact with. Each creature 
 behaves in a different way and subsequently produces different sounds. The initial fun in the game 
 is actually exploring the different sounds that can be made through different actions on the stylus 
 and with the DS game pad. For example one creature, Tracy, acts through the drawing of line on 
 the DS screen. Different curvature and speed with which you draw the lines will cause the Tracy 
 organisms to produce different sounds as they follow the path you draw. It can be a challenge not 
 to simply create a cacophony.
  
  As an amateur musician and fan of new means of sound expression, I think this game is a neat tool 
 - particularly for the $35 range. You just don't find interesting sounds for that cheap.
  
  As a game, I have to say this one fails. I imagine one would be somewhat hard-pressed to find the 
 quirky creatures of this game entertaining for an extended period of time. 
  
  It wasn't until I hooked my DS up, through the head-phone port, to my computer that I really started 
 to see this "game" in a new light. I simply laid out tracks using a recording software (Acid Pro 
 or Audacity for free) . I then proceeded to actually record the sounds that I made - a feature that 
 was unfortunately missing in the game itself (perhaps for some greater artistic reason that doesn't 
 make sense to me) . I then was able to loop those tracks and add sounds of my own.
  
  In general, I would not recommend this game to gamers. It doesn't have any ultimate goal, there 
 is no accruing of points or anything to really brag about (as you can't readily save your results) . 
 Rather, this game should be purchased by those who either simply enjoy artistic multimedia expression, 
 or intend to use this game as an instrument of sorts. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HexrapperII
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 21, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Rec-Rec is no Trent Reznor.
  
  Hailed by many as an innovative, entertaining piece of software, and named by just as many one 
 of the most pointless games on the DS, Electroplankton is by far one of the most clear-cut cases 
 of love it or hate it. I say clear cut because chances are youll know exactly why you love it 
 and exactly why you hate it; the simplicity of Electroplankton can lead to no complex discussion 
 on the matter, unless youre just weird.
  
  This game lacks a save feature for your music. Now, youre either still with me, or youre pissing 
 and moaning about how stupid of a move that was on Nintendos part.
  
  Thanks for sticking with me. Electroplankton is quite unlike any other game youve played. Actually, 
 this isnt really a game. It isnt software, either; its an experience. Electroplankton is different 
 in that its an entertaining experience, and it holds on to you. Its not gimmicky (well maybe 
 the concept itself is, but whatever) , its not flawed in any big way (the save feature is neglected 
 because it really isnt needed) . You will never play Electroplankton the same way twice. I mean, 
 unless you purposely try to, in which case, by all means.
  
  In Electroplankton, you make music with your little plankton. Theres a total of ten different 
 types of plankton that each perform differently for you. Some are more restricted, like Volvoice, 
 who simply modulates and distorts whatever noise you make into the DS microphone. On the other 
 hand, theres some totally free ones like Marine-Snow, where the control of the noise is entirely 
 at your fingertips.
  
  Each plankton makes music in a different way. With, say, Sun-Animalcule, youll tap the touch-screen 
 to place a plankton down, which will bloop or bleep every other second. From left to right you 
 have the scale of noise from low to high, so you can place one on the lower end and one on the 
 higher end and then one in the middle to create a quick little repeated tune. You can place them 
 wherever you like. You also have to take into consideration that itll go from day to night, and 
 when it hits night, the sounds differ. The plankton all explode eventually, too, so you have to 
 be on the ball, somewhat, if youre bent on continuing your sound.
  
  Another, more simple example is Rec-Rec. Four plankton float across the screen. Tap one to record 
 your voice to it, and play your voice back to one of many background themes (including industrial 
 - yay!) . Record for each of the other plankton, maybe this time recording a beat of some sort, 
 and you can essentially make a little repeating song, which is so much cooler when youre actually 
 doing it yourself as opposed to reading its possibilities.
  
  Or maybe you really arent into crafting your own music. Theres another mode - and the only other 
 mode in the game - for that; performance mode. This mode acts like a demonstration of sorts, manipulating 
 the plankton for you to create its own sounds. Should you be faced with a custom built beat that 
 you like yourself, you can even jump in and begin fooling around with it.
  
  Each plankton is as open for many possibilities, so you can see why youll probably never end up 
 doing the same noise twice. There really isnt much else to say about Electroplankton, because 
 thats really all there is to it. You make noise with plankton, and you cant even save it. You 
 can get more powerful noise-creating programs on your computer for free. But Electroplankton is 
 different. It feels different. It offers multiple options for noise-making and allows you to be 
 immersed in the experience. Its really love it or hate it, and you probably wont honestly know 
 which side youre on until you give this great software a spin.
  
  Just dont expect to put out the next Pretty Hate Machine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh_Ursiny15
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  this is a very experimental game for everyone. it lets you create your own style, and rythum of 
 music. i think that every one should play this just to get their imagination rooling. when i first 
 played it i wanted to buy it instantl; y the graphics are outstanding. the sounds are you own so 
 they can be good or bad. the value is what you decide. i thought it was addicting and you will 
 to. it never gets boring. you basically just create your owm master piece. i have a band and we 
 use our DS with electrolankton to create the beats and add more stuff to it. its an awsome game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LasPlagasHope
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2006 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Well everyone knows how nintendo is on a quest to change the way we play video games. Electroplankton 
 is a good start for this new look on gamming. Electroplankton is more a music tool then a game 
 you use the touch screen and the mic to interact with the Electroplankton to create some pretty 
 neat sounds. At forst you will probably feel very limited becuz there are only 10 stages but you 
 learn to find out how coll each one really is in its own right even if there are only ten. So the 
 thing that got me down was the fact that there are only ten modes of play but each one does stand 
 out from the other. Electroplankton has a very neat under water look and its a fresh look i might 
 say. The music you make in the game is way look the audio in the game sharp and you will have alot 
 of fun making new and all like of beats and noises. But you cant save any of your toons or take 
 one thing u made from one stage to another so it puts a limit on wut you can do but that really 
 the games only problem. All in all i really like the idea and the game is very fun so it is at 
 least a rent but if your a real music person like u should just go pick it up cuz its a very fun 
 new way to kill time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BSerker
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  This games great for when your going on vacation. Definately keeps you occupied for a while, and 
 you can impress friends with your music making skills. When you first buy it, you will immediatly 
 understand how each Plankton works, making it so you don't have to flip through the manual to find 
 directions ( though it does have some tips in it) . It's a good game to keep in your collection 
 of DS games. Unfortunatly, with the increasing number of Wi-Fi games being made, this game is getting 
 lower on people's wishlist. Make sure to pick it up whenever you can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 11, 2006 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Parents (or younger kids) this is a perfect game (?) for you, because it requires no real gameplay. 
 All this is is clapping, tapping the touch screen, or using the mike. If you don't want others 
 to know that you are doing weird music, put headphones on. If you are musically challenged, the 
 "Audience" mode randomly selects an Electroplankton set and plays that for you (though you can 
 still interact with it) . Since there are ten species of Electroplanktons, you can go through each 
 one and learn which is your favorite. This isn't really a "game", in the traditional sense, it's 
 fun to watch all the music unfold before your eyes. Even hardcore gamers (like myself) enjoy this 
 relaxing game. There really is no "difficulty" (though you can read the manual and try to do tricky 
 stuff) , and all said and done, you accomplish nothing. This is an interesting experiment that you'll 
 want to have in your collection.
  
  1 last thing; unless you get really lucky and find it in a store (like me) , then you'll have to 
 buy it at Nintendo. com/store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onlykafei
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 22, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Electroplankton is indeed one of its kind. It takes a little while to get used to its gameplay 
 since each musical mode has different controls, pressing buttons on the DS ex. the control pad 
 is used mostly to increase the speed of the music and such like that. When I first saw the game 
 I was mistakened when I thought I would like a certain mode on it. I wanted to try the mode but 
 found another I really liked. In all there are 10 modes and you don't realize when you see the 
 preveiws that there is more to each mode that you come across. Unfortunatly I could not play very 
 long since my dad got hold of it and has been playing 30 minutes straight lol. When I was downstairs 
 with him he's like... 'Listen, the tune changes and when you do this it changes to another tune.' 
 well.... I must say it got a better influence on my dad for the start, its just.... well kinda 
 funny since he hates games. Well, to finish this off, I would recommend to give it a try since 
 its different. I enjoy playing it in spare time. This game is probably one of the only games that 
 concentrate on the use of the DS functions. Touch screen, microphone, and the control pad. I hope 
 the reveiw was enough to get you interested. See ya. Oh yes one thing my dad said actually surprised 
 me was that it has more sounds than an electric piano. Also its a better buy.
  I guess people who play piano would like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtifulguitar
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:54 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Hardly any, to be honest. The game is just a bunch of different levels that are all music based. 
 You can't save, there are no high scores, and there are no objectives. Just make music. That's 
 it. If you don't like the sound of it, don't try it, because you won't. If you hesitate at all 
 about this game, I would not recommend trying it. It's not a game.
  
  Graphics:
  Pretty cool. The art-style is unique and fitting.
  
  Sound:
  This game has AMAZING sound. 
 I love hooking my DS up to a tv with audio cables, making a little tune, and letting it play. Awesome 
 sound. Each is very unique.
  
  Replay:
  If you love music style games, you'll find yourself coming back to this one in leisure time. 
 
  
  Overall:
  For music and art appreciation fans only. Nothing rocking or metal, just soothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanbiggy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 21, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  To start of this game is making music with plankton. These plankton make music when moved, touched, 
 or spined. Their are 2 mode audience mode (plays the music from each music level by its self) and 
 performence mode (you make the music and record) . allthough in audience mode you can play along 
 it makes its own music as it goes.
  
  Their are a two modes that really stick out:
  1. one is that their is a backround beat and a few plankton with many buttons (you press buttons 
 it records and replays)
  2. The other is a mode with 4 plankton (you press one and record) and it plays over and over again.
 
  
  This game is fun for a while but its the same game over and over again. Nothing really to unlock. 
 so all you do is play....... and thats it. Unlike you like making the same music so many times, 
 rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteJediPilot
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS truly is one unique piece of work. Since the system's release over a year ago, 
 Nintendo has unveiled more than one game for the innovative portable that has left hardcore gamers 
 scratching their heads. While Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney and Nintendogs have, to say the least, 
 taking gaming in a new direction, the full extent of the system's ability to provide a wide range 
 of experiences can only be fully appreciated by playing Electroplankton.
  
  Would calling Electroplankton a game be a false assertion? To be honest, you really can't be sure 
 what to say about the game until you've actually played it for yourself. Without a shadow of a 
 doubt, the most fascinating aspect of the game is its ability to produce beautiful sounds regardless 
 of the player's previous experience with the game or musical talent. The fact is, while the entire 
 game centers around sound and light, most players will find that no way of creating music is as 
 fun or unique as Electroplankton.
  
  The game is pretty straight-forward in the way it's presented - it doesn't take a genius to figure 
 out how to play. Just touch the fish and make music. Even if you're just screwing around with the 
 game, it's pretty hard to make any of the plankton produce dissonant or unpleasing sounds. While 
 the basic principle of the game is always the same, it's interesting to find different and more 
 exotic ways of interacting with your aquatic microscopic playmates. Perhaps the simplest of all 
 the plankton to manipulate in the game is Lumiloop, the ring shaped plankton, which you spin using 
 the stylus to produce peaceful and mysterious melodies. Although there are only ten plankton to 
 manipulate in the entire game and no way of unlocking new species, there are many more different 
 ways to play. Most of the plankton produce different sounds based on the assortment you choose, 
 which can be cycled through by pressing the select button. Some plankton, such as Tracy, have only 
 one assortment to choose from and are extremely straightforward to play, while others, such as 
 Beatnes, involve the combination of choosing your favorite background music and creating complex 
 harmonies to go along with it.
  
  Although the game features an audience mode so that new players can adjust to the way the game 
 is controlled, you'll really have more fun with the game if your orchestrating all the actions 
 onscreen for yourself. Some plankton are simple to play and could almost be done in your sleep, 
 but others require a bit more focus. Tracy, the first plankton, is played by drawing lines on the 
 screen with the stylus, which sounds simple, but can really take some practice to get just right. 
 The variations of the lines, such as the speed with which they are drawn and their direction, will 
 determine what sound is made. Luminaria, on the other hand, produces some of the most beautiful 
 music, and even the earliest beginner shouldn't have any difficulty coaxing unbelievable sounds 
 out of it. By manipulating the arrows, Luminaria are bounced off in different directions, based 
 on the placement and directions of the arrows. Each of the four differently colored Luminaria sounds 
 like a different instrument and has its own set speed.
  
  Still, despite the games beautifully colorful graphics and distinctly pleasing experience, the 
 game isn't completely flawless. There is only one objective throughout the entire game: to create 
 music. Some might say that manipulating the game's visuals are just as important to playing the 
 game, the graphics are really only a means of providing the player with some way of actually knowing 
 what they're doing. While this different approach may be appealing to first-time gamers, it limits 
 Electroplankton from having a wide audience. Also, players will not be able to save any of their 
 music to listen to later. While audience mode does to a certain extent make up for this inability, 
 gamers might find it detrimental to the game's value during an especially creative moment. In short, 
 Electroplankton isn't the sort of game that you can spend hours at a time on, but if that new hit 
 single by your favorite band just isn't doing it for you, it will always be able to provide a more 
 interactive way of creating great (albeit electronic-natured) music.
  
  If there's one thing about Electroplankton every should know, it's to try it before you buy it. 
 Hardcore Nintendo fans probably won't have a hard time enjoying the experience, but otherwise, 
 make sure the game is to your liking before you flip out your wallet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zorfshadow
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  I bot electroplankton in Microplay for 55$ and I believe it is not worth it. I bought the game 
 thinking that the high price would mean that the game was loaded with lots of game play but it 
 wasn't. There are only 10 simple music games you can play in it and it was not enough to ask for 
 50$ for that game. 
  I bot that game because it was the most expensive DS game in the store and it had the coolest looking 
 package too. Sadly my hopes where let down because I expected more. However, Electroplankton is 
 a good use of the Nintendo DS, except the for the top screen because it was a zoom in of the bottom 
 screen. It's great how mush you get to use the touch screen and the microphone in each music game. 
 My favorite is the one is the second game and also the tenth game.
  Over all this game is great for kids but terrible for older gamers. 
  
  Sincerely,
  Mikey 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  As I'm sure you know by now, Electroplankton is not a game. It's not a composing tool either. This 
 software, quite simply, turns your DS into a set of ten musical instruments, the likes of which 
 are unlike anything you've seen before, digital or otherwise. What are these instruments? Well, 
 plankton. In a loose sense. More like glowing smileys.
  
  The ten plankton are all rather simple and innovative visually... simple gemoetric shapes and bright 
 morphing colors turn the plankton into an exciting visual representation of your creations. Each 
 one is completely seperate and completely different... the experience changes radically every time 
 you change plankton. One minute you're creating a lilting harp and marimba tune with jumping tadpoles, 
 the next you're morphing the sound of the people's voices around you, and then the next you're 
 plunking out a happy melody in classic NES style. As a musician, I tend to play with the more "stable" 
 plankton more often, as I can create the melodies I like. I have a few Hannenbow leaf-angles scratched 
 down on paper that create a cute little melody. Some of the more "random" ones I visit less often... 
 but they are still a great diversion, and you can exercise an enjoyable amount of control over 
 each one. This program can be pure joy when you get into it. As a musician, I feel I walk away 
 inspired every time I turn of my DS.
  
  Now, just as if you had ten musical instruments with you... Electroplankton has all the same inherent 
 drawbacks. For one, I already said this isn't a composer... you can't save your work on a saxophone 
 or piano, so you can't save your "song" on Electroplankton either. You'll just have to rely on 
 memory, or live in the moment. Secondly, you can't play multiple instruments simultaneously (unless 
 you're Neil Young) and you can't combine Electroplankton either. Lastly... if you really are intent 
 on creating music with Electroplankton, you'll have to practice, just like a real instrument. I've 
 never created sound this way before, but I know it takes work to make recognizable patterns with 
 the seemingly-random barnicles and bric-a-brac. Maybe that's just the musician inside me talking. 
 Electroplankton has this tendancy to constantly and consistently create these relaxing and haunting 
 sounds, and I ever so desire to harness them and make them my own. Maybe that's why I like this 
 game so much.
  
  Electroplankton is what it is, and nothing more. Your milage with this game will vary greatly depending 
 on what you're looking for. The people who will get the most out of this game are musicians, casual 
 gamers, and people looking for a truly innovative title. Indeed... the words "musical, casual and 
 innovative" best describe what Electroplankton is. You'll rarely find yourself playing for more 
 than an hour or two at a time. I find myself fascinated by the inner workings of each plankton... 
 each is so simple, but I feel like I want to take each one and stretch it to it's limits to create 
 something truly unique. 
  
  The Verdict:
  
  This game is definently, totally not for everyone. There's no "gameplay", no hidden extras, no 
 save feature. A push of the B button and your creations are lost to memory. People looking for 
 a real game or music creation tool will not find it here. You have to look hard... and you have 
 to bring something into the experience with you in order to get most out of this game. 
  
  I would say try this game before you buy it, to make sure you don't tire of it before you get your 
 money's worth. However, at the time of this writing, this game is largely only available from online 
 retailers at the full $35 price, so maybe trying it first isn't an option. I'd suggest reading 
 some reviews, and then going to http://electroplankton. nintendods. com. Watch some movies there, 
 and read the (the admittedly entertaining) PDF manual. This game is the artistic creation of Toshio 
 Iwai, and it's worth looking into at the very very least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioDS01
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  The "game" was pretty fun to play with. It is one of the most inovative "games" the be released 
 by Nintendo. The game is far from bad, just one part kind of ruined it to be perfect.
  
  The gameplay is excellent in the "game". I like playing around with the different plankton in the 
 game. My most favorite is the voice recording on. The one with one single plankton where you fill 
 it with your voice then use the different options to change the tone and effects of the Recorded 
 voice.
  
  The graphics are pretty creative in the game. I like how the plankton light up in the game. No 
 problems with graphics.
  
  The sound is perfect in the game. I like how they make different musical sounds. NO problem in 
 this area.
  
  The value... here is the bad news. You can not save any of your own masterpiece work. That kind 
 of sucks alot. I wished I would have been able to save my unique voice recordings. If there would 
 be a 2nd version of this game, I hope they include the save feature and maybe more types of plankton 
 and also more options to change the effect of a recorded voice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keithczq
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 7, 2006 2:24 am PT
Review:  this is a very strange game. u noe y? coz wen u look at its cover, u will think tat it is a role playing 
 game or maybe a puzzle game. but, it ends up as a making music game. i was shocked when i found that 
 out. but yet, the gameplay is great. the unique way of the game atracts players at a younger age. i 
 was reading the newspaper 1 day and i found out that 1 girl, maked full use of eletroplankton. she 
 make music with it and got famous. the knitting factory in america and europe's nike air brand invited 
 her to do their music. yes, i noe wad u are thinking now. i also can do that but u nid to be creative 
 in order to make good music with a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LachlanGPat
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 31, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Elecktroplankton is a game with the latest technology to the most unusual noises. I think Nintendo 
 has done a great job of finding those sounds. For people 50+ it would be hard to understand because 
 of all the ding dong and the ba's bing's and booms' and all the other crazy noises. It is lucky 
 there is not a Chicken noise. If it was on like a PSP or CPU it probably sell much much much more! 
 If they are fish why do you never have to feed them or anything like that? This is the game if 
 someone like music then they will love the crazy noises of Elecktroplankton. I rate Elecktroplankton 
 7.9 because it above average but not the perfect 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soul_motor
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 30, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  Let me say first that this is not really a game. I know you've heard that like a billion times, 
 but it's true. Describing Electroplankton is kinda difficult, you interact with these little dudes 
 on the screen, and they make noises. Granted that is true of every game you've ever played, but 
 I have yet to see Mario do any musical masterpieces...
  I enjoyed playing Electroplankton, but I really don't like the online-only aspect of it's availability. 
 That being said, the only way to know if you'll like it is to play it. This is hard as many people 
 aren't so willing to part with the $35 just to try it, and only get $9 at GameStop for it if they 
 don't. My mom ordered it for herself, and didn't like it. Granted she was expecting a game, I told 
 her like 100 times it wasn't really a game... I took it to both my jobs, and people who were fans 
 of Nintendo or into making their own music enjoyed it. People who didn't understand the "purpose" 
 of it, or no interest at all in making music thought it pretty much sucked. 
  I leave the decision up to you as to which category you fall into. Though I recommend if you fall 
 into the Nintendo fan/ music maker category, get it soon. I would imagine there is a limited number 
 of games out there floating around as it is only available online at the moment... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyalAssassin78
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 27, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Electroplankton is a game for the Nintendo DS that is definitely hard to describe. What you basically 
 do is manipulate tiny plankton in many different ways to create music. There is ten different modes 
 in which to create music, from changing the direction of leaves to make different sounds while 
 the plankton bounce off of them, to tapping, spinning, and drawing lines for the plankton to follow. 
 Some of them are better than others, but all are pretty fun to mess around with.
  A unique thing about Electroplankton, is that it is not a real game, per se. It's more of a musical 
 tool or "toy". There is no objectives, no unlockables, and no progression. It's like Nintendogs, 
 as there is no end to it. You simply play around with it, making music for your ears to hear. There 
 is also an Audience mode, where the game makes the manipulations for you. 
  One thing that is extremely unfortunate is that you cannot actually save your music. If you have 
 a moment of brilliance playing the game, it will be gone forever. While this does hurt that game, 
 there are a few alternatives, such as recording it to your computer through specific programs.
 
  All in all, you should be warned that this game is not for everyone. As I said before, it's not 
 even a game, and it's not really in any way deep. But, if you have an open-mind, like music, like 
 creating music, or just want to try something new, then you might want to give Electroplankton 
 a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MykePagan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I ordered Electroplankton because it seemed like the kind of unusual, nontraditional game that 
 could help to rescure the industry from it's current genre-locked boredom. It arrived yesterday, 
 and I casually popped in the cartridge without telling my daughter that something new had arrived. 
 Within a few minutes we were alternately collaborating on making the Electroplankton do cool things 
 and fighting over control of the DS. 
  
  Some have said this "game" is too simple, and that it would play out in a few hours. I disagree, 
 and suspect that those people are jaded by 200-hour Bioware epics. Electroplankton allows you to 
 just doodle with it casually, which in itself can occupy you for a long time. I was more intrigued 
 by the ability of each type of plankton to exhibit a little bit of emergent behavior. You find 
 yourself experimenting with the little critters to see what kind of interesting things you can 
 get them to do. I think I and my daughter were also being subtly instructed in the ways of music. 
 Each of the mini-games involves some different aspect of music theory, like rhythm & beats, chords, 
 melody, and a whole bunch of other stuff that a non-musician like myself probably doesn't normally 
 get exposed to. 
  
  I highly reccomend this "game." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  The score is opinionated the review isn't.
  There's actually a consistency in the program (not game) in the note patterns. Luminaria is the 
 perfect example (the one where they follow the arrows.) By the way I use some musical terms below 
 but I try to make it clear so that anyone can understand what I'm saying.
  
  If you have a pair of headphones this game sounds incredible, the best sound quality on the DS 
 hands down. Of course the sweet feature the DS has of being able to produce positional sound is 
 in effect here. (Draw a line in Tracy [an elecktroplankton mode] across the screen and you here 
 it go ear to ear according to what side of the screen its on.)
  What sounds it makes are up to you. It's very aquatic, mysterious, and relaxing if you play in 
 audience mode. (which you could play through a stereo an fall asleep to, people in my house living 
 proof of this.)
  
  If you read above I said the game is hard with a learning curve of 4 hours or more. The reason 
 is if you want it to behave like an instrument you will have to work at it, and there's no end 
 to what you can play. 
  IF YOU JUST WANT want some cool sounds though and hit upon something cool occasionally by mistake 
 it's got your back unlike other instruments (try playing a guitar for the first time and sounding 
 good) , just pick a plankton and play. For the sake of completeness here's a more in depth description 
 of what they do and how to use them: (although if you know already then just skip this part)
  
  Tracy- Up to 6 Plankton to use.
  You draw lines (high notes on left and low on right) each 
 plankton produces a different sound. (like piano, xylophone, etc.)
  Hanenbow- About 20 it may be possible to have more though.
  You shoot plankton out of a leaf 
 to a plant (or plants) and depending on the angle of the leaves of the plant and the angle its 
 shot at will determine the notes played.
  Luminaria- Up to 4 Plankton to use.
  Push arrows on screen and make a repeating pattern (It'll repeat eventually no matter what you 
 do.) Then push a plankton and they'll follow that note pattern.
  Sun-Animalcule- Up to 30 Plankton to use.
  Again, high notes on left low on right. You put plankton 
 eggs on the screen (where ever you touch and drag them) they then hatch and make noises according 
 to what side of the screen they're on. They "mature" in this one, which changes they sound they 
 make, so the cycle goes "noon, evening, night, late night, morning, back to noon" (from game guide.) 
 
  Rec-Rec- Up to 4 Plankton to use.
  Record up to four sound samples and play them over 1 of 8 different backgrounds. (no backing, metronome, 
 [clicks that keep the beat] Pop, etc.)
  Nanocarp- Up to 16 plankton to use
  The least controllable you clap and into the mic and they form many different shapes, (depending 
 on what you do) then start swimming wherever they like. Push somewhere on the screen and any plankton 
 within a set radius will emit a note depending on location top of the screen high bottom of screen 
 low.
  Lumiloop- Up to 5 Plankton to use.
  I just found out they represent the notes in a pentatonic scale. (I wasn't paying attetion to that 
 at first) Anyways, you spin these guys they play a note. Depending on how long and fast you play 
 them they may go up an octave. (the same pitch just higher) Depending which way you spin them and 
 how many times you changed them (pressing select) you get a different instrument sound.
  Marine-Snow- Up to 35 Plankton to use.
  Each makes a different sound depending on shape (4 shapes) 
 and a different note, which depends on their starting position. It plays in the key of F minor 
 for 5 octaves. (there's only 7 notes in the key the eighth starts a new octave.) You tap a plankton 
 then another and they switch places, then slowly go back to where they started. While they're switch 
 places they go over other snow flakes to get to the one you clicked on. If you tap it when it's 
 passing over another snowflake you can make harmonies or even chords if you get good enough. (Harmony 
 means to play 2 notes, chords mean to play 3 notes or more at once)
  Beatness- Use up to 5 Plankton at once.
  Play some sounds over classic NES tunes. Each plankton 
 has 2 sound effects from the game theme your playing to (10 in all) and then a full octave (do 
 to do, supertonic to supertonic however you want to refer to it.) Each plankton is assigned a different 
 octave, as far as I can tell its in the key of C Major. Anyways tap a spot on the plankton, you 
 get a sound. It loops 4 times decreasing in volume each time.
  Volvoice- You can use 1 Plankton at a time, but 16 variants are available.
  A very simple yet 
 cool idea, record a short clip of something and then mess around with it reverse, make it wavy, 
 keep cutting it out and going back in, etc.. Try saying "zub" then reverse it it'll say "buzz", 
 then you'll probly get inspired to go wild and crazy with saying naughties backwards. If you tap 
 the little cricle connected to the Plankton it'll stop looping what you recorded.
  
  IF YOU SKIPPED THAT WHOLE SECTION KEEP READING FROM HERE...
  Doing "Audience Mode" let's the 
 game start up an Elecktroplankton of your choice (press L or R button until you get to the one 
 you want) Then it will start something up which you can join in and take over at any given point 
 during the computer performance, an awesome way for people who just play every once in a while 
 to get some cool sounds out of the game.
  
  Graphics are quite good... You will find better looking games but the art style to this is very 
 pleasing and relaxing.
  
  That can be said for the whole game its relaxing yet also very cool and unique. Depending on you 
 intrest in being musically ambitious or just to try something new, those will factor in to how 
 well you'll like the game if you even will at all. If you are the muically ambitious and adventerous 
 type you will play this alot and try to really get something out of it. The best part is, there 
 IS ALOT you can get out of this. If your in it for the quirkyness, you'd probly play sparingly 
 but still enjoy it when you do play.
  
  It's all about your will to try and discover what the game really can offer. If you have that drive 
 then simply get this software, as its extremely enjoyable as any real instrument should be.
  Hell maybe in the future bands will use this as an extra intrument they just preset then pause 
 it, and unpause at certain point in the song, then get on the bus to their next show and play some 
 DS games on the drive.
  
  It's what you make of it.
  
  P. S.
  -The instruction manual is really cool, lots of great helpful information to get you started. It's 
 also funny and got a ton of charm.
  -Also just to make the review shorter I didn't mention this, but 
  THE A BUTTON, SELECT BUTTON, 
 AND DIRECTIONAL PAD DO SOMETHING IN EVERY ELECKTROPLANKTON MODE.
  
  that's it, peace-peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holby
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 21, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  Toshio Iwai is a Japanese interactive media artist. He specializes in blending music and visuals. 
 His recent work includes the Nintendo DS program Electroplankton. Iwai first began producing games 
 for the Famicom Disk System, an add-on for the NES available only in Japan. His first game for 
 this system was Otocky, which became his most well known game.
  
  Later on, he created another charming sound-based game (this time for the Super Famicom system) , 
 called Sound Fantasy. However, its release was cancelled for whatever reason, and it was eventually 
 converted into the PC title SimTunes.
  
  In 2005, he created and released Electroplankton for the Nintendo DS. This allowed players to create 
 music using 10 different types of underwater plankton, utilizing all of the features of the Nintendo 
 DS, such as the Touch screen and the Microphone. As of Mid-2005, Electroplankton is one of the 
 most popular Japan-to-US imports by gamers across the country.
  
  Electroplankton is not a "game", per se, but a musical toy. Have you ever gone to a science museum 
 and seen some kind of projected screen on the floor that you could interact with by stepping on 
 it? Have you seen one that had no goal, but it was amazing to interact with and relaxing? This 
 is strongly what Electroplankton is. An interactive piece of musical art.
  
  The game gives you all 10 Electroplankton from the get-go. Each plankton is unique. Interacting 
 with these Plankton usually consists of using the touch screen and microphone to create relaxing 
 visuals and music, along with using the "Select", "A" and Directional Pad buttons to change settings. 
 These settings actually dramaticly effect the Plankton you are playing with.
  
  As mentioned before, Electroplankton has no goal, so if you're looking for a "Game" game where 
 you fight tons of enemies to save the princess, etc, Electroplankton will not deliver. But that's 
 the beauty of it. Electroplankton is so different that it can't even be classified as a game. Playing 
 it is like diving deep into the depths of the ocean, surrounded by utter silence and hearing the 
 echoing noises in your head.
  
  Playing with the Electroplankton is fun, unique, hypnotizing and musical. The 10 Electroplankton 
 are all different from each other. Some are ambient while others and mysterious and playful. Some 
 are haunting and others are experimental. The Electroplankton consist of 10 "toys", listed below.
 
  
  01 - Tracy
  "Draw lines through the water to make this Electroplankton move. The Electroplankton swim along 
 the lines to create mysterious music."
  
  02 - Hanenbow
  "Launch these Electroplankton toward leaves. Hanenbow make noise as they bounce from leaf to leaf. 
 You can adjust the angle of the leaves to make different sounds."
  
  03 - Luminaria
  "These Electroplankton stay in constant motion and follow the arrows they touch. Touch the arrows 
 to change the direction of the Electroplankton."
  
  04 - San-Animalcule
  "Use the stylus to place Electroplankton eggs on the screen. These Electroplankton emit sound and 
 light as they grow."
  
  05 - Rec-Rec 
  "These Electroplankton feed on sound. Tap Rec-Rec to change its color and then speak into the built-in 
 microphone to record a sample."
  
  06 - Nanocarp
  "Clap your hands near the microphone to make the Electroplankton form shapes. They even respond 
 to your voice."
  
  07 - Lumiloop
  "Slide your stylus around the bodies of these Electroplankton to make them shine and emit strange 
 tones."
  
  08 - Marine-Snow
  "These Electroplankton look like snow crystals. They make sounds when you touch them. Move them 
 around and stir them up!"
  
  09 - Beatnes
  "Beatnes remember the melodies you tap on their heads and bodies. They put an old-school sound 
 to the beats."
  
  10 - Volvoice
  "Touch this Electroplankton and speak to fill its body with your voice. Change its shape to change 
 its voice."
  
  These descriptions, however, do abosolutely no justice to the Plankton. Similar to a peice of art, 
 the art may be amazing but the description will always be simple and unimpressive. This is due 
 to the artist wanting you to interpret the art for yourself. The same is true with Electroplankton. 
 Playing with the Electroplankton with headphones on and the lights off with the sound up is an 
 experience, not just a diversion or entertainment.
  
  Discovering the many things you can do with these Electroplankton is only half the fun. Once you 
 realize the many possibilties for excellent melodies, it becomes a whole new way to interact. Interacting 
 with the Electroplankton is nearly perfect. However, one will always wish that there were more 
 of them. Another big drawback is the fact that you can't save your melodies. However this problem 
 can be solved by buying an headphone jack to headphone jack cable and plugging one end to the DS 
 and the other to the computer. You can do this and record off of your computer (Audacity is a good 
 program) to save your songs. You can also just plug in the DS to a stereo and go into the included 
 "Audience Mode", where the Electroplankton preform randomly for you and create melodies, and listen 
 to the game like a CD.
  
  The Graphics in the game are simple but surprisingly detailed. You aren't looking at sprites. These 
 Plankton are made up of many polygons, so you can zoom in as far as you want with them and they 
 will never become blocky and pixelated. The colorful waves and explosions of sound are like unlike 
 any other. You may never have to go to a laser concert again!
  
  The sound in the game is just suberb. This is an Audio-Visual game, so when you are playing it, 
 it just blooms and echoes in your head so perfectly. The audio is very high-quality for a Nintendo 
 DS, and grab a pair of headphones and choose the "headphones" mode at the start menu, and the sounds 
 will surround you. This game is much better suited with Headphones then the DS's built-in speakers.
 
  
  The game suffers slightly in Value. Once you've discovered all the Plankton and all the things 
 you can do with them, it becomes slightly less fun, and the game might not last that long. However 
 this is definatly the kind of "game" that you can just chill, grab some headphones and relax while 
 making music, and therefore it should have a good cycle between the "real games" in your DS.
  
  If you're trying to decide to import or not, it depends. If you're willing to pay 15 more dollars 
 for some mediocre earbuds and a cardboard box, go for it. However you won't get an english manual 
 or an english game. This doesn't really matter that much because the game really has a very small 
 amount of text, but it's nice to actually be able to read the manual (which, by the way, is colorful 
 and long, one of the best manuals ever) . The game itself is virtually unchanged and you get the 
 same manual in the english version (except... well, it's not in japanese) and the box is not cardboard, 
 it's plastic like most DS games. However it's still very nice and shiny, and has slightly better 
 art on it. I'd say buy the US version. It's cheaper, has better boxart, it's in english, it's still 
 "shiny", the game itself is unchanged, and while it doesn't come with the not-so-great earbuds, 
 any headphones will work, and probably better and they'll be more comfy anyway. However if you 
 already have the Japanese version, the differences are nearly zero, so don't run and pick up the 
 english version if you already imported.
  
  Overall, this game is not for everyone. But for the people that can enjoy something completely 
 new and love art in their games, or for people who love music (even people who love music but have 
 never really been able to make it) , this game is excellent. Go buy a copy now (The US version will 
 likely become rare, and it is only available online) .
  
  Electroplankton is like any great art. Some may love it and some may hate it, but you can't ignore 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kool_j
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 20, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  
  Electroplankton Review
  By: Kool_j
  
  (Note: I know I said this can't be reviewed well, but I will try to stay as baise as possible! 
 Also note that I got this game on the 12th and played it 10 hours or less as hours played to date 
 for Gamespot)
  
  What happens when Music and Art fuse together? Electroplankton is what happens! When Toshio Iwai, 
 creator of Electroplankton, thought of making a game about music, he wanted to combine several 
 aspects to it. It was to combine Art, Music, the NES, a microscope and a sound synthezizer, together, 
 to creat a unique gaming experiance on the Nintendo DS handheld. When some people hear about Electroplankton 
 they think of it not as a game at all, as it is more of a unique music maker or experimenter. It 
 may not be considered much of a game, but it realy does provide enjoyment and entertainment.
  
  Lets start off with what the heck you do in this thing! It is really a experimental music creator. 
 You are given ten different types of plankton to experiment and play with. Each one is different 
 and you use them different ways. Some invlove the microphone, while most are done by touching the 
 bottom screen and pressing the D-Pad left and right. The top screen isn't of much importance in 
 Electroplankton, besides seeing a close up view of the plankton you find your self not looking 
 at, as everything is happening on the bottom screen.
  
  Now for describing each type of plankton! I will give the proper description the manuel states, 
 and then I'll include my thoughts about it. That way there isn't much confusion.
  
  #01 Tracy- "Tracy plankton make sounds as they swim over graceful lines made up of linked triangles. 
 The creature's name comes from the fact they follow the lines you trace along the water. There 
 are six types of Tracy in all, each with a unique color and sound. All Tracy plankton produce differnt 
 tones depending on the direction they swim. They produce the lowest-pitched sounds when they swim 
 to the right and produce higher-pitched sounds as their path veers to the left."
  
  The tracy seem to be more of noise makers then music makers. It can get pretty chaotic when you 
 have all of them zooming around on the screen at once. If you study them enough and now when and 
 where the make differnt pitched sounds, you can make a nice noises. When you tap the D-Pad right 
 they move faster and faster making it loud and crazy, but if you tap left, they get slower.
  
  #02 Hanenbow- "Normally an aquatic creature, Hanenbow sometimes use floating leaves to launch 
 themselves out of the water, creating strange sounds and melodies as they bounce off the leaves. 
 Entire schools of Hanenbow have been known to launch out of the water, one after another! As a 
 leaf is repeatedly hit by flying Hanenbow, it gradually changes color. This also alters the sound 
 made by bouncing Hanenbow. When all of the leaves turn red, a flower will bloom on the water. It 
 is still unclear why the Hanenbow display this curious behavior."
  
  Hanenbow can be considered the most like a game, of the plankton. Usually the objective is to move 
 leaves at differnt angles, making the Hanenbow bounce from one to another, changing the color of 
 the leafs from Green to Red. If you can keep up a constant flow of Hanenbow hitting all of the 
 leaves over and over, you make a flower bloom on the plant. There are four differnt plants to try 
 and make flowers bloom, and theres always more hten one way to make it happen with each plant. 
 You can fire individual Hanenbow by tapping Up on the D-Pad, or making them flow faster and slower 
 by tapping it right or left.
  
  #03 Luminaria- "Luminaria plankton are famous for their habit of perfectly following arrow-shaped 
 formations. The plankton spin as they move, changing direction as soon as they come in contact 
 with an arrow that's pointing in another direction. The pitch of the sound they make changes depending 
 on where the arrows are positioned. There are four types of Luminaria-red, yellow, green and blue. 
 Each type floats at different speed and makes distinctive musical tone. The four types of Luminaria 
 drift together to creat beutiful melodies. Completely altar the direction of arrows to change their 
 sound dramatically."
  
  When the manuel says these guys make beutiful melodies, it means it! Luminaria are very relaxing, 
 and very experimental. The arrows can be pointed in 8 differnt directions, or just make them spin 
 wildly when you hold it down for a few seconds. After playing with them for some time you can start 
 to figure out how to make a specific song. You can also change every arrow at once by tapping the 
 D-Pad Up, Down, Left or Right.
  
  #04 Sun-Animalcule- "Sun-Animalcule plankton get their name from their tendency to emit light in 
 a sphere around them. The plankton begin as eggs and gradually grow, emmitting light and fastinating 
 sounds throught their entire lifecycle. The sounds they make change as they grow from infancy to 
 maturity, growing very quickly until they disappear completly. Sun-Animalcule plankton only emerge 
 in the morning, noon and evening. Sun-Animalcule lose strength as the night wears on; that is when 
 the cresent-shaped Falcato plankton take their place. THe pitch of the plankton changes depending 
 on where they grow."
  
  These guys are cool, when it's light in the game you make sun-animalcule, shapped like suns. At 
 night you make the "Falcato" ones, which are shapped like moons. They all make magical sounds, 
 and as they grow the sounds change. You can experiment by making simple shapes like circles and 
 squares to see how they sound. Make the day change to night when you continue to tap the D-Pad 
 Right. You can place 30 of them on the screen at once, and they have differnt tones depending on 
 where on the screen you place them!
  
  #05 Rec-Rec- "Rec-Rec are fishlike plankton that feed on sound waves. They absorb sound waves transmitted 
 through water and use them as a form of nutrition. The sound waves that the Rec-Rec eat are then 
 stored inside their body until they have been digested. Once the digestion process is complete, 
 they play back the sounds in perfect four-second intervals. While these sounds are playfully emitted, 
 the wave patterns can be observed pulsating on their bodies. Rec-Rec always swim side-by-side in 
 schools of four. When they swim at differnt speeds, the frequency with which they emit sounds also 
 changes"
  
  These guys will provide you with endless entertainment, litterally! This is one plankton where 
 you get to use the DS' Microphone! You can record up to about 5 seconds on each Rec-Rec, and togheter 
 with the hip beat playing in backround can sound pretty cool! There are differnt beats to choose 
 from, and when you tap the D-Pad it changes the speed of the noises, which can sound pretty funny 
 at times. Experiment by pluggin sounds form outside, like cars or someone talking. The Rec-Rec 
 prove that the DS mic. is not cheap at all and works pretty nice.
  
  #06 Nanocarp- "Nanocarp have very sensitive hearing. Sensing vibrations coming through water with 
 the two ears on their head, these plankton can distinguish sound quality and frequency. They display 
 very interesting reactions to the sound of humans clapping and breathing. Nanocarp are also excellent 
 swimmers. They have a tendency to swim in formations of sixteen and react together to sounds they 
 detect. These plankton emit sounds on their own when they sense waves on the water surface. When 
 this happens, the pitch of sounds they produce changes depending on where the Nanocarp are currently 
 located."
  
  These plankton also use the Mic. You can give them commands by clapping and blowing into the Mic. 
 For example clap 3 times fast to make them form into circles. Or lightly blow once to make a heart 
 shape. Then when you touch the screen it makes ripples and waves, that make the Nanocarp emmit 
 tingle sounds. It can be pretty relaxing. There's a WHOLE BUNCH of commands to do, I can't even 
 remmeber them all. (They are found in the manuel) When you tap the D-Pad Left, Right, Up or Down 
 it makes a wave that goes across the whole screen in that direction.
  
  #07 Lumiloop- "Lumiloop plankton are curious, donut-shaped aquatic creatures. While stationary, 
 they have the ability to spin at very high rate of speed. As they spin, the Lumiloop emit unique 
 sounds and a fascinating ring-shaped glow. Lumiloop plankton seem to always grow in clusters of 
 five. They produce sounds at differnt pitches as they soin together, creating a beutiful harmony. 
 This is called a pentatonic scale. Depending on where they live, Lumiloop plankton that produce 
 several different sounds have been identified."
  
  Lumiloop are mezmorizing when you have them all spinning good at once, but it can get hard to all 
 keep them spinning fast at the same time. Once you do that though, you have a cosmic show of sound 
 and light. Pressing the Select button will let you pick 3 different types of Lumiloop that each 
 have a differnt sound. You can also spin them clockwise and counter clock wise whcih makes a different 
 sound and color, for each induvidual.
  
  #08 Marine-Snow- "Resembling delicate snow crystals, Marine-Snow plankton elegantly float on the 
 surface of the water. The plankton get their name from their distinctive snowflake shape. They 
 grow in clusters of 35 and line up in a very orderly formations. When stimulated, Marine-Snow plankton 
 spin and produce vibrant sounds. While the plankton do grow in size if they are repeadly tapped, 
 they gradually return to their original size over time. They are born in four polygon shapes: triangle, square, pentagon, 
 and hexagon. The ends of the crystalline protrusions also take on the same shapes. The tone of 
 the sound they make change depending on the shape of the Marine-Snow plankton's body."
  
  Playing with Marine-Snow is like playing a musical instrament. The first set sounds like Piano, 
 while others sound like other things. When you tap one, then tap the another they switch places, 
 making sounds. You can also slide the stylus across them to make more noises. Press Select to cycle 
 through the differnt ones.
  
  #09 Beatnes- "Beatnes are curious plankton with geometrically shaped heads that form vertical strands 
 like seaweed. Their bodies are made up of eight sections, each featuring a distinctive diamond-shaped 
 tail. The sound of a Beatnes can vary wildly depending on which segment of the body is tapped. 
 However, all of the sounds closely resemble the short-wave and triangular-wave sound effects from 
 a Nintendo Entertainment System sound chip. When Beatnes are tapped in time with a rhythm, they 
 continue to repeat the sounds in perfect time for a short period."
  
  Beatnes is the NES part of what Mr. Toshio Iwai wanted in Electroplankton. I love these guys, they 
 perfectly simulate the NES sounds off classic NES games like Mario! You can really get a good beat 
 going once you learn, I have actually made my first Electoplankton song with these guys, it's called 
 "Electric Mario". There is 4 differnt classic tunes you can have playing, and each time you tap 
 a segment of them they make a sound. Depending on how high and low you touch it will make a different 
 tone sound. Tap the D-Pad left to make it go slower, and tap righ to make it go faster.
  
  #10 Volvoice - "Volvoice plankton memorize the sound of human speech and repeat it over and over. 
 They accomplish this amazing feat by oscillating the long flagellum that extends from their head. 
 By resonating the vibration with their water-droplet-shaped body, the plankton produce sounds that 
 closely resemble human voice. The body can expand and contract at will. By changing shape, they 
 can easily manipulate the sound of the voice. Words that the Volvoice memorize and play back in 
 reverse have a particularly strange ring to them. Reasearchers refer to this phenomena as Volvoice 
 inversion.
  
  These ones will provide you with endless entartainment! They are very funny the way some of them 
 altar what you say and how it sounds. There are 16 differnt Volvoice to select. The Volvoice can 
 record about 15 seconds of sounds! It's very fun to experiment by putting the mic. up to the TV 
 and seeing how it will sound wiht all the different ones. Once again this plankton proves that 
 the DS Microphone is good.
  
  In Electroplankton there is two modes to choose from. One is Performance, where you get to experiment 
 and play with all the planktonof your choice. The other is Audiance mode, where you get to sit 
 back and relax while the game plays for you! You can also join along with the game, so it's almost 
 like semi-performance. You can also learn new techniques while listening and watching. 
  
  Now onto the scoring!
  
  Gameplay 8/10- Experiment with all these plankton, have fun and try 
 new things. There's always something new to think of. Drawing shapes and names to see how they 
 sound is quite interesting! 10 different plankton to experiment with, all with unique sounds and 
 ways to play. Thre may be only 2 modes to choose from, but there's endless entertainment involved 
 in them! But one thing that may be a negitive to some people is that fact that you can't save some 
 of your best creations, and sometimes it's hard to pull them off again.
  
  Graphics 8.3/10- The graphics in Electroplankton are pretty nice for a 2D game. It has tons of 
 colors and shapes. The transparent plankton give it a 2D/3D effect, and they look smooth, not blocky 
 at all. transparent bubbles are constantly floating around the screen, with each touch on the screen. 
 A magnafied view of the plankton on the top screen show that they are made quite nice. They don't 
 show much weakness at all.
  
  Sound 10/10- The sound in Electroplankton? Only a few words can fully descibe it... Crisp, Clean 
 and Amazing! Toshio Iwai provided amazing sound in this. Given that the whole game is dedicated 
 to sound and music, this is really good. The sounds are of great quality, and the Mic. recordings 
 are also great, showing that the DS mic. isnt a piece of junk.
  
  Reply 9.2/10- Reply value in Electroplankton is massive! Thanks to plankton like Rec-Rec and Volvoice, 
 you can litterally record any sound the human ears can pick up! New ideas and thoughts always pop 
 up and they will keep you comming back. Although some of the plankton can get old and seem like 
 they are less experimental and more teddious there is still lots of other ones that will keep you 
 playing.
  
  Overall 8.9/10- Electroplankton is a really inovative and unique experiance. These are the types 
 of things that make the Nintendo DS famous for inovation. But this is a new concept in the gaming 
 world, and still has to prove it's self to some people. Not everyone will be willing to order this 
 and keep playing over and over. Some may just see it as a tech demo, but when it is really a great 
 game. This is somthing that you should at least try, if you have a friend with it, why not check 
 it out and see for your self?
  
  If you are someone who likes games with objectives, un lockables, missions, action and violence, 
 then Electroplankton may not be for you. But if you are someone who is creative and likes music, 
 and is willing to try somthing innovative and new, then I highly recommend getting Electroplankton. 
 This is one thing you may not wanna miss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shear1017
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Electroplankton is a very new game. It uses all the capabilities of the DS but sadly the game is 
 not sold in your local game store. You have to buy your game over the internet like what i did. 
 The game has ten species of electroplankton. Each is very unique and fun in its own way. The nice 
 thing is that this game has no winner or loser so there is no stress and the game will make your 
 creativity flow. The game can let you create songs of your own and even Mario songs can be created 
 using this game. This game graphicly is cool. There are lots of colors and figures at the same 
 time. The sad part is that nobody has even heard of the game. I dare u ask people on the street 
 because none of my friends knew what it was. Overall this game is cool and I think its just pure 
 fun and imagination. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skulper34
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  If your considering to buy electroplankton, read the reviews, watch the videos, and see other peoples 
 opinions. Electroplankton is a music game, where you can create your own song, you cannot save, 
 but you can save
  it on your computer. You cannot get bored of electroplankton becouse
  its a game to relax and play music whenever you feel like it, I would
  definately enjoy this 
 when im in the mood for creating and listening
  to music with my headphones.
  
  This game is not for you if you just want the game to play, do not
  criticize electroplankton 
 if you think it sucks, and its boring, if you
  read the forum you wil see how this game is played, and its 
  your fault if you bought it, you 
 should have asked questions, and/or read
  reviews. If you hate making your own music, seeing little plankton
  swim in the screen, do not 
 buy this game, i seen many threads
  saying they hate this game, and saying do not buy.
  
  Otherwise this game is a must, you will have lots of fun 
  with this game with years to coem 
 by, who ever gets
  bored of music? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghostpowder
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best inventive ideas that I have ever seen in my life. Although I havent 
 even played this game I have seen tons of videos of this game in action and i have to say WOW. 
 If you are a DS owner you need to pick up this game because it uses all of the DS's functions to 
 its fullest ( Yes and i'll say it THE MICROPHONE!!) . Some of the plankton that im very excited 
 to toy with are Beatness, Volvoice, and some of the others that i can't remember.
  
  *Note: This game is only obtainable from purchase online or by going to the official Nintendo Store 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 15, 2006 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Amazingly fun and enjoyable to the soul. Whoever likes music and techno should definatley buy this 
 game. It even throws in a little bit of old-school game music like Super Mario Brothers. If you 
 like recording your voice, then you will love the electroplankton Volvoice. This plankton lets 
 you record your voice then you can play it back in many different ways; such as backwards, and 
 electric. This game is superb and I would recommend it to anyone who likes music and doesn't want 
 another game where you have to do a certain objective. Electroplankton is pure fun and since there 
 in no objective you don't want to break your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kagemusha219
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This game really confused me. This is because it isnt really a game. Its more of a thing that you 
 use to make random sounds. Its got really good art graphics that are both colorful and sharp, But 
 there isnt much detail involved. This game is mostely used to just tap the screen, and see what 
 kind of music is formed. Its a really confusing thing to review, cuz its more of a toy, than anything. 
 The music is really cool and sharp, but it is ussually mungled up and hard to put together. The 
 biggest problem though, is the fact that if you make really cool music, you cant save it in any 
 way so you really arent going to hear that toon anymore. This game is cofusing. I cant reccomend 
 it, but i cant not reccomend it. You just going to have to try it yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geldonyetich
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 14, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I understand the Gamespot reviewer saying that Electroplankton is not a game because a game is 
 defined as having goals. Electroplankton is not a goal oriented application, but rather a series 
 of ten completely different music toys. I use the word "toy" hesitantly, because it's not really 
 doing justice to just how cool they are to play with.
  
  The first thing you'll notice when you boot up the game is an orchastriac tone that suggests that 
 the game is gearing up to do one thing: make music. For the most part this is correct, although 
 there are a couple of voice tools as well. Electroplankton gives you a choice of two modes: Performance 
 and Audience. The audience mode automatically selects a plankton, cycling through to another randomly 
 selected plankton every few minutes, playing the music automatically (although you can choose to 
 participate if you want to) . The Performance mode is all you: select a plankton and experiment 
 to your heart's content. There's absolutely no unlockables here, you get access to all ten plankton 
 from the start.
  
  The ten different plankton are individual toys in their own right. The only thing they really have 
 in common is that you can produce some nifty sights and sounds from them. Mostly the sounds: if 
 you turn the volume off, you'll find more than half the game is missing.
  
  My favorite has to be mode #9: Beatnes. Using the select button to switch between four different 
 schemes, you tap out a nice melody and impress yourself with musical talents you didn't know you 
 had. My second favorite mode would have to be #3: Luminaria. This mode has four different melodies 
 traveling paths you define and sounds very good even at its worse.
  
  Most of the other modes are tougher to master to produce sounds you like. Sun-Animalcute can be 
 pretty trippy sometimes, but other times it sounds just plain bad. Nanocarp offers very little 
 control as they tend to want to swim around on their own even with frequent formation updates. 
 Marine-snow would be a nice little piano/zylophone to play out little tunes you know, except they 
 keep wanting to switch positions with the last one you tap, making for a very difficult intrument 
 to wield. Lumiloop is way too limited, just five choruses with one of two sounds.
  
  Although it can sound good sometimes, Hanenbow isn't really a musical tool, it's more of a wierd 
 little artillery game where you shoot plankton at leaves you position. Yes, I said game here, if 
 only because it has the goal of trying to get all the leaves hit in order to trigger a flower blooming. 
 Better sounds can be made by not trying to get all the leaves hit and instead working towards a 
 more musical effect.
  
  Rec-Rec and Volvoice use the recording and playback of sounds from the mic. Volvoice is a toy, 
 no arguing that definition, you just capture a sound and run it through 16 different modes to see 
 what it sounds like. Extremely limited, but good for a laugh if you want to make something sound 
 funny. Rec-Rec is a little more musical in that you can sequence up to four captured sounds that 
 play in a fixxed order, then change the background music to one of eight different predefined patters, 
 then speed and slow the whole thing up. Still, everything I've made with Rec-Rec so far isn't particularly 
 breathtaking.
  
  Overall, the gameplay aspect of Electroplankton is half there, half not: Only Hanenbow has a goal, 
 but all the modes are fun in their own way. The graphics are cute but simple. The sound can be 
 quite breathtaking sometimes, and deserve top marks, especially considering you are allowed you 
 influence it with your own creativity. The value of Electroplankton can be reasonably high (as 
 I rated it) or it could be quite low, it all depends on if you want a creative outlet on your Nintendo 
 DS. I rated the difficulty as "Hard", but this only really applies to some modes (as documented 
 above) .
  
  I'd say if you have $35 to spare (plus shipping) , go ahead and pick up Electroplankton. It's one 
 of most unconventional things you'll ever get your Nintendo DS to run, and that's exactly why you 
 should: Thinking outside the box is a good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rei_kun
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 11:00 pm PT
Review:  
  The DS is a very good console, and many games have used the technology available to make very innovative 
 games. When this game was shown for the first time, it seemed like a concept that could develop 
 into an amazing game. But sadly, the game hasnt changed in any way since its first showing. This 
 is more a tech demo than a game. This hardly justifies the entry fee. Do yourself a favor and skip 
 this game and buy some of the other wonderful games this console has to offer. Hopefully, when 
 and if they make a sequel, they would make it worth out while.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whynotdairy
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  DO NOT BUY THIS GAME this game is a waste of money because it is short and you will get board and 
 annoyed bfore you can say beer, spend your money oon SOCOM fireteam bravo for the psp classic online 
 play with a awsome storyline, and awsome levels do not buy this game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! with the 
 crappy graphics, lame sound as usual for a nintendo portable device and a very boring objective 
 i would say do not believe the hype! i have played NES games that i like more than this one watching 
 a t. v. screen that is all staticy is more interesting than this game, and the static sound quality 
 is much better aswell 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  Ok, right now lets clear one thing up, it's not a game (as gamespot says themselves) , so don't 
 review it like it's a game. This game is about art and music, and hardly anyone gets the point 
 to it.
  
  Pros: A light hearted change of pace. I have been playing the import version for months now, it's 
 seems to be a DS title I always go back too. You see, what most don't understand is that the experience 
 isn't just "on" the DS. What I mean to say is, the experience can flow into the world around you, 
 if you simply let it. For example, when my friends and I are bored we like to freestyle rap on 
 occasion. Some of the Electroplankton, if used properly, make the perfect beats to freestyle. And 
 usualy, no 2 are the same, which keeps it fresh. When we record raps on my computer, the electroplankton 
 can make cool effects like reversing your voice, which can then be recorded surprisingly well with 
 a cheap PC mic. But, thats just what my friends and I have come up with on our own. If you don't 
 freestyle rap... you can always make Electroplankton your own just by using your imagination, just 
 like we did with raps. This game is only limited by the user. The Electroplankton themselves handle 
 well, and are simple to control at first, but they have so many functions it takes a lot of time 
 with each one to figure out it's individual little quirks. You may think you have used a perticular 
 electroplankton to it's full potential, then find you haven't even come close. There are so many 
 little aspects that can change everything so dramatically, it's hard to even place into words.
 
  
  Cons: Many gamers, and even Gamespot have the same complaint. You can't save your work. Well..... 
 they are wrong. Sure, it would have been nice if it was a "built in" option. But, if you have a 
 copy of Vegas 5 (or any program made to record quality sound) and a mic (if you have an xbox live 
 headset, it'll probably work) it's pretty damn simple and surprisingly effective to record on your 
 computer. See, electroplankton's only issue can be fixed rather easily.
  
  All and all, people considered Katamari a "revolutionary" game when really all your doing is rolling 
 a ball around. YAY, thats not fun. C'mon, you praised a game about a little green dude who pushes 
 a ball. Why does he push the ball, and how do Katamari's turn into stars???? NO ONE KNOWS. This 
 game actually lives up to the Revolutionary hype in my mind, mostly because..... have you ever 
 seen a music game like it before? Atleast it has more purpose then Katamari. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MBonaccors
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Electroplankton is totally different from anything you've ever played before. When I first took 
 the game out of my UPS package, it reminded me more of a CD than a game, with a tracklist of plankton 
 on the back and the artist's name on the front. Combine that with a shiny foil-like blue front 
 and I couldn't be more excited to check out what the game would actually play like.
  
  I spent about 20 minutes on each plankton to start, some I liked much more than others. If you 
 turn the lights off and sit and listen with headphones on, you're going to get a really great experience. 
 For people who are not musically inclined, playing with electroplankton will start off a bit random 
 and may not provide some people the fun-factor that a traditional game may provide.
  
  For people who are musically inclined, this is your DS dream come true. Layering harmonies correctly 
 can sometimes create an almost utopian atmosphere of sound at times, and the visuals are really 
 beautiful to watch. 
  
  I can definetly see a group of friends hanging out and passing around the DS to create a fun musical 
 atmosphere to experience.
  
  For people who mock video games, and think they're childish or not what older people should be 
 playing, this game WILL make them think otherwise. I can see myself showing this game off to people 
 who I would never show Call of Duty to - my parents, girlfriend, non-gamer friends, to name a few. 
 
  
  Electroplankton is not a game that goes from begininng to end. It's a game that lays it all out 
 there right away. The best way I can explain it is that it turns the DS into a futuristic musical 
 toy. The way that you interact with the plankton to create music is pure genius.
  
  That being said, there are a few thing that could have been expanded to make the game better. I 
 was dissapointed at the lack of quality in the sound recordings for the plankton that let you record 
 your own samples. I thought the DS would be capable of handling better quality audio recording 
 than low-bitrate samples of my voice. It sounds fine on the DS speakers, but on headphones or external 
 speakers its pretty bad. 
  
  Nintendo should be commended for making an effort to release games such as these. Yes, not all 
 people are going to like them. Yes, they might not sell as well as sequals to a Tom Clancey game. 
 But they are completely unique, and make you think about video games differently. This is the direction 
 games should be headed, let's hope we see more of this innovation. 
  
  Now if you'll excuse me, I need to get back to playing with my plankton. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yagami-Iori
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Electroplankton is simple to explain, yet so complex to use to use. You use these little plankton 
 that play different sounds, record your voice, and other things, to create beats, and even some 
 awesome music.
  
  Gameplay- 10- Its hard to do an overall description, its better to describe each mode...
  
 
  Tracy- This one is one of my favorites. You draw a line for one of the 6 different plankton to 
 follow & depending on the speed of the line, speed of the plankton, & the way it was drawn will 
 change the song you get. Its a lot of fun when lines you thought were going to be bad end uo great 
 & that you can do some random stuff & with a few tweaks, get something great.
  
  Hanenbow- This one is also up there as one of my favorites, a plankton will launch out of water 
 at an angle you set onto a plant. This plant's leaves can be moved to obtain a certain desired 
 angle that changes not only how it is hit (changing the sound) , but where the plankton bounces 
 to other leaves. There are 4 different types within this game, which give different plants being 
 launched onto.
  
  Luminaria- My favorite of all the games. You have 4 plankton which play at different speeds & a 
 field of aroow beat amrkers. These markers all playt at different octaves, and depending where 
 you allow the plankton to move (by pointing the arrows) gives a different sound to each of the 
 plankton. This one really is able to give some of the best results to a player in the shortest 
 time, IMO.
  
  Sun-Animalcule- This one is one of the hardest to master, IMO, but will be the most rewarding to 
 those that can. What you do is place little eggs around the screen, which yield different rusults 
 in the note played. Random tapping will result in garbage, but if you know where to put the plankton 
 & how to time it, you can get some of your best music here.
  
  Rec-Rec- Here, you can record sounds using the mic over a preset beat. Its a fun toy, but musically, 
 is pretty constricted.
  
  Nanocarp- This one is interesting to say the least. These plankton exist ina pool of water, which 
 allows you to tap the screen & the resulting wave will make them play a note. Also, they will respond 
 to beats clapped, blowing, etc. to form different patterns. This one is fun just to play around 
 with, not so much make music.
  
  Lumiloop- These plankton are, oddly enough, loops, which when spun around create strange continuous 
 sounds, until they stop spinning. There are 3 different modes. These are interesting, but mastering 
 them is hard (I am close to getting the FF6 opening music from it)
  
  Marine-Snow- This one is, like Sun-Animalcule, a hard one to master, but if done so, could have 
 amazing results. These plankton are set up as a grid to start, which when tapped give different 
 sounds. Moving them results in different notes played. It almost feels like a big on-screen piano.
 
  
  Beatnes- Here, you get to play with fun NES noices. More of a novelty & old-school throwback than 
 anything.
  
  Volvoice- This is a voice recorder/modifier. Its fun putting real music on here, then modding it.
 
  
  Graphics- 6- Nothing too fancy, but it does the job for what it needs to
  
  Sound- 10- Amazing... as it should be.
  
  Value- 6- Its cool, but for some, it may just end 
 up being a short-lived novelty
  
  Tilt- 9- This is one of the most creative games seen in a long time & I hope to see it in the most 
 innovative game category for the 2006 Gamespot Awards 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I have been a hardcore gamer almost all my short life, Now I'm 16 so long winded games aren't my 
 thing anymore, so it's very hard to find a game that can satisfy a hardcore and a casual gamer 
 and I think that this game manages that and more.
  
  Some may compare it to GameCube's Donkey Konga or PS2's Guitar Hero, but this game can't be compared 
 to those because it is NOT similar in any ways, this one uses fully advantage of the DS amazing 
 hardware features, the graphics are awesome.
  
  It is very hard to find a word that describes this little masterpiece but I think that ''flexible'' 
 is a good word that matches the game.
  
  This game trust me, it will satisfy a hardcore gamer as much as a casual gamer, which is very hard 
 to achieve nowaday.
  
  I think that it was a little lower rated, I give it a 9.1 because it's innovative gameplay makes 
 it a ''time killer'' any hour of the day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yodelyfish
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  I had this game imported from liksang. com around June of 2005 and it has been a great title to 
 have. 10 different plankton to choose from with many different ways to exploit them proves to be 
 a excelent musical experience. Though already noted in the Gamespot review I will say the lack 
 of a saving feature is dissapointing, no challenge is present, but other than that it is almost 
 impossible to put down for at least a month. After you have seen, spoke and touched all there is 
 to touch in this game, you might find it a tid bit repetitive but never dried up. Trust me, making 
 phat beats with Beatnes never gets old. Personally my favorite DS title to this day but as I said, 
 not everyone is like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koomaster
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2005 8:06 pm PT
Review:  
  Let me point out that this is a review of the Japanese Import Electroplankton. If the game sees 
 a US release at some point, some of this info might be different. This is to help those who are 
 thinking of importing.
  
  To start with, you need not worry about the language barrier. The game's main screen is the only 
 one that uses language, and the menus are already translated into English. What doesn't help however 
 is that you'll find with the game a thick manual - all in Japanese, which explains what the various 
 10 types of Electroplankton do.
  
  The good news, is that with the Japanese text in the manual, there are little pictures/diagrams 
 which are pretty self explanatory. They demonstrate various ways to interact with the Electroplankton. 
 In addition, I quickly found out that with a little experimenting, and some intuitive thinking, 
 I found myself delving into Electroplankton like a champ. The point being - the game is very user 
 friendly.
  
  The Main Menu breaks down into "Performance", "Audience", and "Sound". Performance is where you 
 choose which electroplankton to play with, and create your own music with them. Audience lets you 
 sit back and have the electroplankton randomly play tunes for you. Finally Sound lets you toggle 
 between the DS speakers, and headphones.
  
  Performance mode is the real meat of Electroplankton where you get to experiment to your hearts 
 desire. Some basic controls to remember: The X button has the DS topscreen zoom in on the electroplankton, 
 while the Y button zooms out. The B button will take you back to the previous screen. And you can 
 press the Start button to take an "intermission" from play.
  
  Now let's break down the types of Electroplankton you'll find...
  
  1. Tracy: Like the name 
 implies, you'll be tracing lines, shapes, patterns and paths for the 6 Tracys at your disposal. 
 Each makes a Harp like sound as they move through the paths you draw for them, and will change 
 tone/tempo depending on where you draw the path on the screen, how shapely the path is, and how 
 fast/slow you draw it. You can also increase/decrease the tempo of all the Tracys by pushing Right 
 (increase) or Left (decrease) on the D-pad. Finally, you can erase all the patterns you've drawn 
 by pressing the Select button.
  
  2. Hanenbow: The name implies nothing to English speakers. I really couldn't tell you if it implies 
 anything in Japanese - I can only assume so. The Hanenbow are little tadpoles which jump from a 
 leaf sticking out of the water toward a plant (with multiple leaves) sticking up from the water. 
 Each time they hit a leaf, they make high scale piano sounds. Your involvement comes from being 
 able to position the leaves around to create whatever melody you choose. You are even able to position 
 the leaf they jump off of so they are angled toward certain other leaves.
  
  Pushing the D-Pad here will increase/decrease the rate of Hanenbow that get released depending 
 if you push Right (Increase) or Left (Decrease) . Also what I found was a nice surprise was the 
 use of the A button to bring up numbers connecting to each leaf. These numbers represent the angle 
 each leaf is pointing toward. Math is interesting; who knew?
  
  Also, should staring at the same plant not interest you, you can push the Select button to change 
 between 4 different plant screens, with plants of varying heights, or more than one plant to shoot 
 the Hanenbow toward. It should also be of note, that the more times a leaf gets hit in succession, 
 it turns from green, to a yellow, to an orange, and finally red. If you're Hanenbow make all the 
 leaves on the screen red, you get a little surprise. Visual art folks!
  
  3. Luminaria: The 4 Luminaria live in a puzzle-esq world where they are compelled to follow the 
 direction of arrows. Everytime they hit an arrow, they resound their tune. Some move fast, some 
 move slow, and depending on where they are on the screen, and how fast they are hitting an arrow 
 changes their tone. The fun part is making paths with the arrows for them, each of the 36 arrows 
 can point in 8 directions, just tap the arrow of your choice to change where it points. Or if you 
 are feeling frisky, try holding your stylus to an arrow, and watch as it becomes a spinning arrow 
 which will send the Luminaria in a random direction when it crosses paths with it.
  
  With Luminaria, the D-pad uses all four directions to change all the arrows on the screen to some 
 preset patterns. Feel free to let your Luminaria loose, then just keep changing the patterns and 
 listening to the music they create. If you want to start over fresh, pressing the Select button 
 will reset Luminaria to the way you found it.
  
  4. Sun-Animalcule: This weird electropankton is sun shaped... except when it's not. When you initially 
 choose Sun-Animalcule all you'll see is a colorful screen, with bubbles floating to the top. Not 
 so interesting. However, upon touching the screen, you cause a Sun-Animalcule to be born. In fact, 
 keep touching the screen and many many will be born, and depending on where they are on the screen, 
 determines the tone of their steel drum-like sounds. Each will continue to ring out it's dulcet 
 tone and continue to grow larger and larger till they pop. No more Sun-Animacule.
  
  It would end there except for the very fact that sometimes a Sun-Animalcule can best be described 
 as a Crescent-Animalcule. Notice that colorful screen? Look closer, and you'll notice it cycling 
 ever so slowly through reds/oranges and blues/black. When it's in the red - Sun-Animalcule is born. 
 If it's in the blues, Crescent-Animalcule are brought to life. Note, that you can have both on 
 the screen at the same time - highly recommended.
  
  The D-pad allows you to cycle the colors faster to create the Animalcule of your choice, while 
 the Select button pops all Animalcule on screen.
  
  5. Rec-Rec: This one could get a little crazy depending on what sounds you have at your disposal. 
 But basically you get 4 Rec-Rec who move along the screen to the beat. Touch one, and on it's next 
 cycle through the screen, it starts recording whatever the DS Mic picks up. Repeat 3 more times, 
 and you've got a bit of a weird hip-hop vibe going on. You can even do your own rap for the Rec-Rec 
 to Rec-ord.
  
  Pushing Up or Down on the D-pad will cycle through the beat you can use. Or you can increase/decrease 
 the beat by pressing either Right (increase) or Left (decrease) . Pushing Select of course will 
 erase all your hard recording work.
  
  6. Nanocarp: These little guys are more responsive to sound than through touch. The Nanocarp will 
 wander around the screen on their own, or you can press the Select button to line them up. If you 
 touch the screen you can send out little ripples which will make them ring out. Or by tapping a 
 direction on the D-pad you can send waves through the water. But you get the most out of using 
 the mic.
  
  I've found blowing, talking, humming, clapping, and yes, even singing into the mic will get them 
 to respond. They will make varying shapes and then you can tap the screen or D-pad to get them 
 to ring out in that pattern. The most interesting thing I noticed is when I tried clapping. I would 
 clap once, and they would form a circle for me - which, neat, but what else. I noticed if I clapped 
 at a medium pace, over and over, the circle would contract, move around the screen, and expand. 
 The real fun of Nanocarp doesn't come from their sounds, but from what your own sounds make them 
 do. They are fun to experiment with.
  
  7. Lumiloop: These 5 donut shaped electroplankton are good for spinning and spinning. The faster 
 you spin them, the more noise they make - which can best be described as sort of a humming, almost 
 like chants - very soothing. Their tones change depending on if you spin them clockwise, or counter-clockwise. 
 Pressing the Select button will allow you cycle between a black background, a white background, 
 and a background that changes color. Along with the background changes, the Lumiloop will change 
 their pitch.
  
  8. Marine-Snow: Who knew random piano keys could be both fun, and harmonize? As you tap the Marine-Snow 
 (which yes, does look like snowflakes) each will play out a piano note, and exchange places with 
 the last Marine-Snow you tapped. It continues this way to where they get pretty mixed up cycling 
 around the screen. Amazingly enough, they make a nice harmony. This is not a 5 year old banging 
 away keys on a piano noise. Feel free to not only tap each Marine-Snow with the stylus - but drag 
 it across and all over the screen to get several playing at once.
  
  What's really interesting with Marine-Snow is pressing the Select button will cycle through different 
 shapes, and Piano/Xylophone notes/types - like what you would find on an electric keyboard. After 
 you cycle through the first 3 types, it seems to be random which combination of snow-shapes and 
 notes you'll get. But it amplifies the point that experimenting is fun. Something fun to try is 
 dragging the stylus in patterns through the Marine-Snow for some interesting sound combos.
  
  9. Beatnes: The 5 Beatnes sway along with pre-programed tunes (you'll recognize the first instantly 
 as a classic Mario number) while you press them, or any links in their chain to add extra notes, 
 and sounds to the mix. As the song cycles through it repeats the presses you've made as you can 
 add more. It's sort of a free-flowing music mix. At any time you can press the A button to stop 
 the playback of your notes. Or you can increase/decrease the speed of music/playback by pressing 
 the D-pad, either Right (increase) or Left (decrease) .
  
  Also with Beatnes, you can press the Select button to cycle through 3 other tunes. You'll have 
 to forgive me that I'm unsure of where they come from, although one sounds like a Donkey Kong theme, 
 and another a Tetris tune. In any case, each Beatnes will play a different variety of sounds/notes 
 depending on which song you are playing.
  
  10. Volvoice: These electroplankton are a fun little experiment. Simply tap the Volvoice in the 
 middle (or press the A button) to start recording. You can record about 15+ seconds of your own 
 voice, some music, sounds, and what have you. You can either record the maximum time, or if you 
 only want to record a few seconds, just tap the Volvoice (or press the A button) again to have 
 it stop recording. Then the fun begins...
  
  You have 16 of these electroplankton to select from. You can either select them using the stylus, 
 or cycle through them with the Left/Right D-pad. Each Volvoice will then distort in it's own way 
 whatever you've recorded. They can, speed it up, slow it down, break it up, lower/raise the pitch/tone, 
 play it backwards, or just generally make it wacky. No longer do you have to spend long hours figuring 
 out the backwards lyrics to your favorite underground albums - Volvoice is here to help - Record 
 the backward track into Volvoice, then play it backwards... which will sound forwards... confused 
 yet? But it's all fun... and did I mention wacky? I honestly got quite a few laughs out of what 
 Volvoice is capable of doing to my own voice.
  
  When you wanna try something new, you can either start recording again, or press the Select button 
 to erase the recording.
  
  And that is what you can do with Electroplankton on the DS. But why stop there? One of the neat 
 things is that by using a male/male cord, you can plug one end into the DS headphone jack, and 
 another into the Line In (mic) on your computer. Then you can record your Electroplankton tracks 
 for the world to hear... or just your friends... save the embarrassing Electroplankton rap album 
 for yourself.
  
  But in essence it opens up alot of possibilities as you can buy/download programs which allow you 
 to mix your own music. You can combine your electroplankton into whole symphonies if you choose. 
 Electroplankton carries alot of potential as a musical device; and is fun to play around with on 
 top of that.
  
  Now on to my scoring...
  
  Gameplay is a tricky subject as Electroplankton isn't a game. But if you're talking about interactive 
 - it meets the criteria, and is fun as well.
  
  Graphics are top notch for Electroplankton. Plus each of the art styles for the different types 
 of electroplankton flow well together and create a nice package. I only took off because the top 
 DS screen is only used to zoom in and out, and I pretty much ignored the top screen all together.
 
  
  Sound was of course excellent for a game relying on sound. Very crystal clear, and the stereo vs. 
 headphone option showed noticeable difference and increased optimum performance. Also the first 
 copies of the game come with free headphones. They aren't much - just exposed ear buds in a translucent 
 blue color. But it was a nice touch and are easily portable. I didn't really figure them into the 
 score though because eventually Electroplankton will be sold without the headphones. But like I 
 said, they aren't much so don't feel you have to import right now just to get them. I much prefer 
 larger earphones myself.
  
  Value can be subjective. Some people will just play with Electroplankton on their DS, others will 
 be using it to record whole albums. Electroplankton is truly what you make of it.
  
  Reviewer Tilt? I loved Electroplankton, and cannot stop experimenting with it, and am just getting 
 into recording my own tracks on the computer and mixing them. It's truly a great experience. Overall, 
 I'm having fun with it, and it's a unique innovative title if I ever saw one. I'm sure many people 
 will get alot of joy from what Electroplankton has to offer. It can really draw out the musician 
 in you. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
