-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Elf Bowling 1 & 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/elfbowling/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The only DS game filled with frequent appearances of bare-bottomed elves .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Charging 20 bucks for two freebie PC games is morally reprehensible.
 There's more gameplay in the system's setup menu.
 Weak 2D backgrounds and character graphics.
 Crass audio was hardly funny in 1999.
 No extras whatsoever.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  3, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 1.4
Critic Score: 1.2, 3 Review (s)
User Score: 3.9, 274 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ignition Entertainment
Genre: Bowling
Date: Dec 1, 2005
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Both games are completely devoid of gameplay, fun, and flair. Worse, they are available free for 
 the PC. 

  You'll find plenty of elves in Elf Bowling 1 &amp; 2, but not much in the way of bowling. In fact, 
 both of the games on this budget-priced Nintendo DS game card are so devoid of gameplay, fun, and 
 flair that you'd be equally entertained by just tapping the stylus on the screen while the system 
 is off.  

          Two formerly free PC games on one budget-priced Nintendo DS card.     

  Elf Bowling 
 originally came to life as a freeware PC game back in 1999. It involves Santa, as the bowler, and 
 his elves, who have been turned into bowling pins after complaining about working conditions at 
 the North Pole. You have to try to knock down the elves, but the elves will do their best to distract 
 you. Elf Bowling 2: Elves in Paradise came out the following year. It isn't a bowling game, but 
 rather a shuffleboard game with the elves doubling as pucks.  

  Both games look similar to their PC counterparts, which isn't a surprise since there are literally 
 hundreds of thousands of free Flash games out there with snazzier presentations and more-intricate 
 designs. Each game has one flat 2D background. In Elf Bowling, the upper screen shows the elves 
 in a close-up view, while the bottom screen displays the lane, Santa, and his trusty bowling ball. 
 The ball moves down the lane with no animation whatsoever, but the elves in the upper screen are 
 cutely drawn and sometimes do wacky things like flash their bare butts at Santa. There's slightly 
 more animation in Elf Bowling 2, with Santa tugging on the elves' thong underpants to propel them 
 spinning down the lane. Once in a while, the elves will bump into one another or fall off the edge 
 of the boat and land with a surprised look in the mouth of a shark.  

  As for the audio, both games feature some elfish screams and naughty spoken-word comebacks along 
 the lines of "Those all the balls you got, Santa?" Elf Bowling doesn't have any background music, 
 but its sequel has a short mambo tune that plays before each bowling attempt.  

  Quizzically, although both games resemble the original PC versions, a number of animations and 
 sound effects have been removed. In Elf Bowling, the ball no longer makes noise while rolling down 
 the lane. In Elf Bowling 2, there's no longer a coin toss at the beginning, there are fewer elf 
 animations, and the formerly smooth scaling effect now looks choppy and uneven. Those cutbacks 
 are tough to stomach considering how minimalist the original games were.  

  The main failing of both games is that there just isn't much to do in either of them. In Elf Bowling, 
 you launch the ball by tapping the screen or pushing the A button when the moving arrow is where 
 you want it. Beyond that, there's no way to guide the path of the ball. You can't even specify 
 how much power or curve to put into the roll. Elf Bowling 2 is slightly better, if only because 
 you can adjust the aim and power of each shot by managing two separate indicators.  

  Ten frames in Elf Bowling take less than five minutes to complete. Once you've played through once, 
 you've experienced everything the game has to offer. Elf Bowling 2 can be drawn out to about 10 
 minutes and is good for perhaps one or two replays, since it involves a CPU opponent and three 
 full rounds of play.  

          Tap screen, wait. Tap screen, wait. Tap screen, wait.     

  There aren't any extras 
 worth mentioning. Two players can compete against each another in Elf Bowling 2 by passing the 
 system back and forth. Neither game keeps track of high scores or takes advantage of the system's 
 wireless capabilities.  

  It's preposterous that a company would package together two free PC games on a DS card and try 
 to sell them for 20 bucks, especially when the two games in question are as ridiculously austere 
 as these. NStorm, the creator of the original Elf Bowling, did eventually manage to churn out a 
 decent bowling game with Elf Bowling 3, and it's completely stupefying that Ignition Entertainment 
 chose to put the first two games on this card instead of the superior third installment.  

  Elf Bowling 1 &amp; 2 isn't a two-game set. It's a cruel holiday joke that preys on the ignorant 
 and uninformed.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LooneyLupeGirL
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Look I don't care what anyone else says.. this game is cute and a great stress reliever ... The 
 elves yell insults at santa when he is trying to bowl. Basically game 1 is bowling .. you are santa 
 and the elves are the bowling pins. While bowling the elves yell stuff like santa suxs and stuff 
 like that.
  
  Game 2 is kinda like shuffle board.. you take an elf and knock him down a long runway thing and 
 see whom can make their elf go the farthest. Look I know you can play this online and whatever, 
 but still I bought it cause I have been a fan of this game for the longest time and wanted to be 
 able to take it with me where ever I went..
  Say your sitting their at a family gathering and one of your cousins P you off... well then break 
 out your DS and pop in this game and pretend the elves are whom ever P'ed you off.. Trust me this 
 game is great for relieving stress.
  
  and besides it's not like $15 is going to make you go broke..
  For $15 why not pick this game 
 up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster30
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 12, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Elf bowling who the hell ever came up with that idea should be shot in the foot Multiple times. 
 first of all why would you ever play this game or better yet buy this game. its a cheap online 
 game that is for wait for it........ FREE!! its like saying lets have a java game on the ds and 
 pay 20 bucks for it yeah! yet we will still have it on our site for free. if you were stupid enough 
 to buy this game you should be burned! or thrown into a bottomless pit with man eating lions destroying 
 you.
  
  if you ever find this game on the shelfs take it throw it on the ground and give it to a hobo on 
 the street. or better yet wipe your ass with the game thats all it is good for.
  
  Gameplay: whats to play?
  Graphics: **** 2-d graphics with barre assed Elfs
  Sound: cheap music
 
  Value: Negative 3 if i could....
  Overall: one of the worse games in the history of mankind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGamemannn
Rating: 1.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Worse than Brain Boost, this trash is basically elves getting socked with bowling balls. I'm disgusted 
 at how horrible this game is. I DO NOT recommend this to ANYONE, even if you like bowling games. 
 This game had a lack of effort and very low creativity. Seriously, this shouldn't even be considered 
 a game, but rather a piece of trash. This was a real rip- off.
  
  Good: ...... two game pack.....
  
  Bad; Both games suck, hard, Elf Bowling 1 and 2 are too similar 
 to each other, lack of effort, tedious controls and game play, actually could be the worst game 
 ever, did I mention how broken this game is?
  
  Please, also, DON'T GIVE THIS TO SOMEONE AS A GIFT EVEN IF YOU HATE THEM. This is guaranteed to 
 make them kill you. You have been warned......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkhedgehog148
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 12, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  This game SUCKS. GameSpot is giving it even more credit than it really deserves. Seriously. The 
 only reason I bought this piece of CRAP is to find out the website again so I could relive the 
 glory days on my PC. Here's how it breaks down:
  
  Gameplay: 1/10. It will not keep you hooked. At all.
  
  Graphics: 1/10. I've seen games on 
 the Game Boy Advance with better graphics.
  
  Sound: 1/10. Almost EVERYTHING has been taken out, and the elves' humor isn't funny at all when 
 you can barely hear it.
  
  Replay Value: 1/10. These games suck when they're ported to the DS. You'd like the PC versions 
 much more than these. I'm gonna give this game to my friend as an evil Christmas present.
  
  The last words: STAY. AWAY. FAR. FAR. AWAY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutant_vermin
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 10, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  There's surprisingly little to say about this game. However, there's this thing called a word count 
 that I'm forced to stick to.
  
  First thing you'll notice is the games name. ELF BOWLING. Now I know this game has quite a bit 
 to do with bowling, and even more to do with elves, but I mean come on. ELF BOWLING. This has get 
 to be one of the worst game names ever, which goes hand in hand with this being one of the worst 
 games ever.
  
  Oh and secondly, this game is worth 20 bucks, but you can download it off the internet for free, 
 and then it even has more substance. But I think that's overshadowed by the fact that this game 
 is called elf bowling. ELF BOWLING!
  
  Difficulty: Very hard. Hard to subject myself to the horror of this game's name. I mean, ELF BOWLING 
 people, ELF BOWLING.
  
  Learning Curve: More than four hours. I've known about this game for a week, and I'm still getting 
 used to the horrific name. ELF BOWLING.
  
  Graphics: ELF BOWLING. Now that looks pretty bad, doesn't it? I give this game's graphics a one.
 
  
  Gameplay: Woah, this is a game? Sorry I didn't realise, I was too busy looking at the horrible, 
 horrible name. ELF BOWLING. I give it a one.
  
  Sound: ELF BOWLING. Say that out loud. No, do it for real. Ouch! It hurts, doesn't it? One out 
 of ten.
  
  Value: You can download a better version of this game for free, and that version is better than 
 this one. This version costs 20 bucks. Go figure. I'm giving it a one, but I wish I could give 
 it lower. Also, this is called ELF BOWLING.
  
  Tilt: IT'S CALLED ELF BOWLING. ONE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigc123
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 3, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Disaster, this game is a disaster, the graphics are poor, its a rip off, Its a waste of time, the 
 game acutally made me sick, the sound is very annoying, it neally made me cry, worst of all it 
 was nerdish elfs, the graphics are like nes styles, it shameful for the ds, i don't think there 
 is any worse ds games, even sprung is better than this game, even king kong, EVEN need for speed 
 ds. I'm going to tell you once and only once, if you want to get sick and cry for two weeks non 
 stop then go a head and waste your money and buy Elf Bowling.
  (i'm not sure if they sell it in the shops) please don't make another game like this, or some legs 
 will get broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jun 8, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps the worst game ever created on a gaming console, and yes I've played i borrow this from 
 a friendElf Bowling 1 and 2 are fun flash games on the internet, unfortunately, the DS version 
 sucks. First off, they did no graphical upgrade, No sound upgrade, no gameplay upgrade, in fact 
 all they did is give you two big piles of crap mashed into one. such laziness in presentation is 
 unexcusable, they literally spent 5 minutes on this port. I honestly doubt the developers have 
 even seen a DS as the game feels cheap and poorly thrown together. Their was a lot they ould have 
 done with this game, the premise is amusing, Santa is sick of the Elves complaints so he goes outside 
 with a bowling ball and knocks the crap out of the elves. To think what could have been, instead 
 we get a hastily thrown together compilation of two lame games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: datret
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  Elf Bowling 1 has had some great times for me, now I get Elf Bowling 2 also! This deal is just 
 plain spiffy. I've spent countless hours knocking down Santa's little helpers. And who wouldn't? 
 Not me, that's for sure. Never before has there been a groovier game to play. I even bought three 
 hunderd and fifty-seven copies, because I can't get enough of knocking down those elves. I really 
 hope they come out with more games like this, especially for the consoles. Who wouldn't want to 
 bowl down elves in high def? This game is such a swell deal, you'll never play anything ever, ever 
 again. All hail Elf Bowling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T_Magdi
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 18, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Don't think the title, making you say "Two games in one? Cool!" fool you. There is no story, Elf 
 Bowling 2 is a shuffling game and all you do in Elf Bowling 1 is tap the screen and reapet. That's 
 it. I don't know what Ignition Ent. was thinking, but this game sucks, despite that it has 'bad 
 but the best in game' graphics.
  
  This only has two games, and it's a collection of games. And anyway, the games that are in this 
 collection are free from the 'net, and this is $30. Elf Bowling 3 is out on the net, and it's not 
 in this game. 'Bum'. This doesn't capture everything from the Elf Bowling online games.
  
  Elf Bowling 1 & 2 is the worst DS game ever. If you want every DS game there is, you'll find dullness. 
 If you own the DS, dodge this.
  
  It's BETTER than: Bashing your head on a bowling ball.
  It's WORSE than: Sonic Mega Collection (GC)
  
  Gameplay:
  + There is Santa in this game.
 
  - The games are tragic.
  
  Graphics:
  + A good try for a DS game.
  - The elf's asses aren't very good.
  
  Sound:
  + I ya... er...
  - Tendious in everyway.
 
  
  You'll be insane to play - even touch - Elf Bowling 1 & 2. It is a waste of time, even if this 
 can be completed in four minutes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sjesseph
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 14, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok... This game is pretty much the same that it was when it came out on the PC. The graphics are 
 the same and so is the sound. Although it may be good for a few laughs at first it gets old and 
 tired before long. The game play is slow and short the other game they put with it was not even 
 worth playing more then once. This game is ok if you want to play it for 10 or 15 mins. to pass 
 a little time but other then that it really was a little sad. If you could get it cheap and I mean 
 cheap It might be worth the money but not the $20.00 I paid for it! Buyer Beware! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fft_ramza
Rating: 1.4
Date: Feb 17, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe that a serious company like Nintendo allowed this game to reach the allmighty DS, 
 the game is a disgrace to every gamer, it will not appeal to ANY gamer, not even the most casual 
 one.
  
  The sound effects are terrible, it has some silly melodies that the only thing that they manage 
 to do is make you drowsy, and the graphics look like a cheap cell phone's graphics.
  
  The gameplay is silly, the controls are terrible, the small amount of voice acting just manages 
 to piss you off, as the elves say the most idiotic things.
  
  It has the most silly plot you can ever see in a game: You are supposed to be Santa and you are 
 having fun bowling with elves... the 2D graphics are terrible.
  
  What surprises me the most is the fact that both games are avaivable for the PC, and guess what... 
 They're free!!, so what's the point of spending money on this rip off game... none!.
  
  Overall: Elf Bowling 1&2 is the most pathetic waste of time ever made by a human being. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeykenny
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 22, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  these two games are absolutely pointless. just by looking at it u can tell it would be mainly sold 
 to kids. they made a free computer game into a 39.99 ds game. well, by now it's probably only like 
 selling for 1 buck. by the screenshots and stuff, i can tell that it is a game where u throw a 
 bowling ball at elves that shows u their behinds. gameplay is repetitive and the graphics are terrible. 
 i tell u one thing, i'm lucky that it was my friend that decided to buy this stupid game, not me. 
 the only good thing about this game is: elf butts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRazzler
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 21, 2006 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I love elf bowling, i've been playin it for many years now and it hasn't got boring. I think it 
 is a great game to kill time with. It's just fun not a story just fun. I think most people enjoy 
 knocking elves over with a bowling ball and watchin them moon you. Lol i've always played it around 
 the holidays and enjoy it to date, i see it as a game made just to have fun with, not to get agrivated 
 with because you cant beat a boss unless theve made changes over the past few years, i can't see 
 how u can't like this game. If you dont enjoy it, i think its time to go see Dr. Phil 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berkan-
Rating: 3.3
Date: Jan 15, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I so Bord by this game that its probably lost some were. 
  got sick of the game after 2days
  
  DESCRIPTION: Several years ago, internet surfers became 
 addicted to a simple little game called ELF BLOWING. Now, Ignition brings the fun little game to 
 the Nintendo DS with ELF BOWLING 1 & 2 just in time for the 2005 holiday season. The original ELF 
 BOWLING has players, as Santa, hurling their bowling ball down the alley at a group
  using them in a game of shuffleboard. Even though theyre out of the cold North Pole, the warm 
 sun hasnt warmed the elves personalities. They still laugh and mock Santa as he plays. The ally 
 and shuffleboard both spread over the dual screens of the DS, and players can use the touch screen 
 to position Santa and launch the ball or elf. ELF BOWLING 1 & 2 is a great way of reliving the 
 addictive craze of the original internet game. Players who found themselves wasting hours with 
 the jeering elves will have to grab a copy of the new DS version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jan 12, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  wow was this bad. What it comes to is that bowling does not belong on video games. On your cellphone 
 is fine. But this offers no way of controlling power or spin. They try to make it different by *gasp* 
 less elf's or more. and that is it. Two is boring too and no fun. When you can download it for free 
 and get Bord on it for free (quickly) then $20 is to much even if it means you can go on the go 
 with it. The one thing it does good is the two screen use that means no split screen so you can 
 see better. When it comes down to it and in the end it's only Nintendo trying to make a quick buck 
 for stocking stuff-ers or for your game fan you hardly know. Do not buy this if you have to get 
 your bad broken bowling fix then download it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricko1234
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 7, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  This game suckz so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so 
 so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so so much. The worst game 
 of all time is Elf bowling 1 and 2. If granny gave me this for xmas I would stab her through the 
 neck with a rusty screwdriver then sell her body parts to cannibals on the black market. Any one 
 who buys this game deserves to die a very long and painful death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theinvinciblejc
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Mario Kart? Pssh. Animal Crossing? Forget it. What you need is Elf Bowling 1 & 2 for the Nintendo 
 DS, my friends.
  
  Gameplay - Elf Bowling offers efulgent gameplay while keeping it at a steady pace. You'll feel 
 the adrenaline pumping as you try to knock out those elves silly with your ball. Its replay value 
 is quite extensive, as you'll find yourself bowling your heart out hours on end. There's never 
 the same game twice because you'll never know how many elves you'll knock down next. Sometimes 
 it may get a bit difficult, so I wouldn't recomend this for the young ones. And you just gotta 
 love the "elf elf baby" sayings. 7/10
  
  Graphics - Suprisingly, Elf Bowling's graphics will simply blow you away. Screenshots won't do 
 justice as you'll have to see the game in action to believe it for yourself. The game runs at a 
 smooth 60 FPS, pushing the DS's capabilities to its limits. Elf Bowling has proven itself to be 
 ranked up with the big boys such as Doom 3 or F. E. A. R. 9/10
  
  Story - Elf Bowling's story may quite be the only thing it lacks in. The only story I could think 
 of happening here is santa getting pissed and bowls the elves down as anger management. Sorry guys. 
 5/10
  
  Sound - The sound in this game is absolutely brilliant. You'll find yourself rocking to the "elf 
 elf baby" sayings to accompany the ashtonishing gameplay. And finally when you knock all the elves 
 down, you'll be rewarded with a nice little "Ho Ho Ho" from Santa. Great stuff. 8/10
  
  Overall, I'd have to say Elf Bowling 1 & 2 is a very underrated game. Sure it has it's flaws, but 
 that shouldn't be an excuse for you to pick up this game right now. It's not Christmas, but you 
 won't care, because you'll be enjoying yourself with one of the best DS titles yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EliteDForce
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 6, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Don't bother buying it, get a superior version for free. Download the game, boring broken gameplay, 
 that feels like a quickly rushed computer game that gives you 5-10 minutes of entertainment.
  
  Wait! Thats exactly what it is, but ported, and poorly for that. It was boring in the first 
 place, what makes people think that it will be a 20 dollar value the second time around.
  
  This is truly the saddest game i have ever seen in my life, like gamespot said only the uninformed 
 would buy this, don't be fooled by a product that's only hope for selling is that someone out there 
 is so naive and uninformed to the point of buying the game simply for the cover or name. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Wow, I made a huge mistake to get this game for my girlfriend before reading any reviews. I knew 
 it would probably be bad, but not as terrible as it turned out to be. It's not even funny to try 
 as a 10 minute diversion, it's as if they went out of their way to make the worst possible "game" 
 and make it as irritating as possible too.
  
  Horrible , annoying, and irritating. I feel like I just flushed $20 down the toilet. In fact the 
 toilet is probably the best place for this to end up!
  
  I had to buy a couple games for my girlfriend to make up for this piece of junk.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: knucks91
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Jesus tap dancing christ!!!!! If you even think of buying this game I will come to your house and 
 punch you because you have just wasted a good amount of money playing a piece of crap that is already 
 FREE !!!! I am trying to save people from buying crap! Buy mario kart, buy sonic rush, buy somthing 
 that is actually worth your freakin money!!!!!! Even thought it shows elf butts that was kind of 
 funny to meeeeeee wait i'm getting off topic!
  Just konw that if you but your doctor will think you're very special and by special I mean short 
 bus special
  
  You have been warned. Bye Bye!!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eok4000
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 4, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  ok.... the gameplay is just as boring as the title suggests, the graphics don't even belong on 
 a gameboy color and the sound is just a couple of little elf shrieks and remarks that are surprisingly 
 repetitive... they couldn't invest the time in at least giving it a couple more lame squeaks? and 
 it just doesn't make sense that they can charge you for a game that was originally free!!
  If anything you should be paid to play this game..... who would pay 20 bucks for a game like this?! 
 I honestly find it pretty funny they even had the guts to make this game.... or even think about 
 it.. if you buy this game you might as well break your ds in half, burn it, then leave in out in 
 the sun for a couple of weeks..... in fact, that would probably be worth more than this game too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voncorn
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Never before have I ever played a game that changed my outlook on life. That game would Elf Bowling 
 1 & 2 for the Nintendo DS.
  
  At first glance, this seems like one of those lame GBA ports with the touch screen only used to 
 quickly navigate menus. But this is one of the few third party developers that makes the best use 
 out of the touch screen, hell, the best developer PERIOD, Nintendogs was pure gimmick, this however, 
 is a revolution. 
  
  Despite the fact that the orignal games were released 5-6 years ago, they have been heavily updated 
 for the DS "port". The 3D graphics are some of the best, if not THE best showcases for the power 
 of the DS, definitely puts Ridge Racer for PSP to shame. The 3D visuals are accompanied by sharp 
 texture maps, out of this world lighting effects, excellent bump-mapping, smooth 60 FPS framerate, 
 and a physics engine that puts Half-Life 2 into misery. 
  
  One of the most enjoyable aspects from the games 5-6 years ago was the audio. Clever, rolling on 
 the floor type jokes that succeed at making both kids and adults laugh. And of course, the stereo 
 sound equipped DS takes advantage of the game. Over 300 CD-quality one-liners, and each are fresh 
 are remarkably amusing. 
  
  The gameplay blows, ugh, never have I wanted to shoot myself because of a video game, but since 
 this game has amazing graphics and sound, I'll give it a ten anyway. But keep in mind that the 
 use of the touch screen to navigate menus blew my feet off!
  
  So there you have it, the best game ever, in a nutshell. At twenty bucks, how could you go wrong? 
 Cancel your pre-orders for The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess, Halo 3, and Metal Gear Solid 
 4: Guns of the Patriots, because this game will occupy your time for the next decade!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameBeaten
Rating: 1.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  The year was 1999 when I found out about Elf Bowling, I played it, I thought it was great. Later, 
 Elf Bowling 2 came out, I played it, it was great. These two games are great and are free on the 
 internet.
  
  The DS game is another story. Elf Bowling 1 & 2 for the Nintendo DS isn't the same as the internet 
 versions. Sure, this game gives you the first two Elf Bowlings for portable gaming so you can play 
 them where ever you are. Those are the only good things about this game. The original games were 
 made with Flash graphics, which were acceptable. The DS game has 2D graphics that equal to a GBA 
 game. Since this is a DS game, I expected better graphics than the Gameboy Advance version. The 
 DS is capable of having better graphics than this. Basically, I expected the DS version to look 
 just like the computer versions which are FREE ON THE INTERNET. I would pay $9.99 for a game of 
 this quality, but the game costs $29.99 for both the GBA and the DS versions. The game's sound 
 okay. You won't be hearing a lot though. But still, okay sound. The game is still playable. You'll 
 be playing Elf Bowling 1 & 2 whenever you feel like playing it. I'm just glad, I, myself, didn't 
 buy this game. 
  
  Even if you buy this game just because you can take it with you where ever you go, you might be 
 easily amused. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deltwalrus
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be a joke. TELL ME this is a joke It's amazing that this game costs money to purchase! 
 It can be played online, with better results, for FREE! It's not even much fun there, but to be 
 charged $20 for the "privilege," that's just wrong. The game is not as much fun as you may think, 
 and that's not saying much... The only good thing I can say about this game is that it did not 
 break my DS. But if you're looking for a good way to waste 20 bucks, at least buy a game that can't 
 be had for free...
  
  Stay away... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jofulikestofu
Rating: 2.1
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Im not to pleased with this game. I had it when I was six for a PC, and it was cool... ish. But 
 it is not worth a dime for the DS. I understand why Santa Claus is mad at the elves. That much 
 makes sense. But, print it on the back of a cereal box, dont try to sell it as a legitimate DS 
 game.
  Its got great bowling, Ill grant it that much. But they make naughty elves and make Santa a character, 
 and hope it gets some nostalgia points or that tons of first graders will buy it because, occasionally, 
 the elves moon you. A barrel of laughs if your four, but not much else. Im not bashing first graders, 
 by any means. I just think that the capable adults who made the game should have thought it through 
 some more.
  Either that or, make it free like the old flash version. Because in my opinion, its not worth 
 the cost of the package it came in.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firejeff
Rating: 2.7
Date: Dec 30, 2005 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Elf Bowling 1 and 2 is obviously a collection of the ancient Elf Bowling flash games. Nothing has 
 changed at all.
  
  Gameplay: Comparing this game to all of the other bowling games this game's awesome. But then you 
 start paying attention to the fact that there hasn't been a good bowling game since bowling was 
 invented. The christmas theme will hook you for about 5 minutes and then the Chrtistmas theme gets 
 old and boring. You might even have wished you bought Strike Force Bowling instead.
  
  Graphics: Remember when I said this game was ancient? Well obviously the graphics are ancient also. 
 Everyone on the planet is officially tired of old 2d sprites. Alien Hominid's graphics were acceptable 
 because that was a more recent game and the graphics fit the game. This time the graphics are just 
 making you want to kill the game.
  
  Sound: I barely consider an elf laughing at you because you did not get a strike a sound. The sounds 
 are as ancient as the graphics and the gameplay this time.
  
  Value: This game is worth about $0.00 and that is exactly how much it costed to play this game 
 originally. The people who made the flash game are awesome. The guys who ported it to the DS are 
 idiots.
  
  Overall the game is actually kind of fun for a few minutes once in a while. And thanks to laptops 
 you can do that for free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyprentsel
Rating: 1.3
Date: Dec 27, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This is without a doubt the worst game I have ever seen put out. If you happen to be overly curious 
 and can't resist it, do a google search and find the FREE flash games (they are almost a decade 
 old!) , then play for thirty seconds, chuckle, lose interest, and then never return again.
  
  Nothing has changed. I mean it! Not one iota is different from the FREE flash version. I have 
 a hard time believing that this isn't a joke!
  
  A flash game that pretty much sucks, but is free. Now that's value! $29.95 for the DS version -- that's 
 just silly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: four_of_clubs
Rating: 1.9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 3:06 am PT
Review:  Alright, i'm not trying to say that this is a bad game. Hell, it's a great game! But this is the 
 point: it's great game WHEN IT's FREE! Why would you go out and pay $40 for this game when you 
 can play the flash version online on your internet browser FOR FREE! Think about this before you 
 go out and purchase this game, unless you have a need of owning all the DS games in existence. 
 As for the gameplay and such, the only good part is how addictive this game is... for five minutes! 
 After five minues you will never play this game again, as it is short and easy. The graphics and 
 sound are terrible, worse than a novice flash cartoon. The value and tilt? I already went over 
 that... Well, that's all I had to say about this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HollyKougraGirL
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2005 2:04 am PT
Review:  have you ever just had one of those days where nothing seems to go right?? your teacher or your 
 boss has been yelling at you all day long... well why not get this game and make that stress disapear? 
 Just imagine the little elves as your boss or co-workers or anyone who gave you a hard time that 
 day and throw/roll that bowling ball right at them (the elves) .... i find myself laughing at the 
 cute little elves as they get hit with the bowling ball. This is truely a very cute game. It really 
 is a great stress reliever. This game only takes about maybe 5 minutes to get the hang of, but 
 once you do you will be playing for more then an hour. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ApeOverlord
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I remembered playing this as a computer game and the best part of the whole game is to listen to 
 the elves corny jokes. The bowling and the shuffle board games are awesome, but they won't last 
 longer than 30 minutes. I put the value on low because:
  1. It is a christmas game and is best played seasonally.
  2. The gameplay isn't deep and it is 
 all about the jokes.
  
  Listen to the elves! You'll get a kick out of this game.
  
  Woohoo! Look at me I'm on three uh huh uh huh!
  
  Try it as a rental over the holidays at least. 
 You're going to love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air_wolf_cubed
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 16, 2005 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  Elf Bowling 1
  
  Twas the night before Christmas,
  And at the North Pole,
  Santa's sleigh was packed tight,
  The reindeer ready to go.
  
  When out in the snow,
  There 
 arose such a clatter,
  St. Nick sprang from the can,
  To see what was the matter.
  
  "The elves are on strike,"
  Cried Mrs. Clause with disdain!
  "What shall we do Santa?
  C'mon, 
 rack your fat brain."
  Santa's face began to sparkle.
  He shouted Merry Christmas to all.
  He dashed to the coat closet.
  And grabbed his 16-lb. ball!
 
  
  Santa began to laugh so hard,
  His stomach was rolling.
  "C'mon, you old women,
  It's time for Elf Bowling!"
  
  Basically it's Santa punishing the elves for going on strike.
 
  I give credit for the poem and the story is pretty good too.
  
  Elf Bowling 2 ("Elves in Paradise")
  
  The Great Santa's Elf strike brought the North Pole to 
 it's knees. The belligerent survivors of Elf Bowling made heavy demands on old man Kringle - higher 
 wages, lower urinals, less fish in the cafeteria, and a fabulous cruise to every little man's dream 
 destination, Micronesia. Meanwhile, mother Kringle, a bit petulant aftert having just turned 271, 
 had different ideas. She handed over Rudolph's reigns to Santa's unemployed older brother - and 
 still her favorite - Dingle Kringle, despite his erratic behavior and his failure as a used ice 
 salesman. But being a lonely gaming man, Dingle challenged Kris to double or nothing.
  
  Both are good stories but somehow a little odd but still good
  
  Graphics:
  
  Elf Bowling 
 1
  
  Basically the same as the PC version. There can be some problems but they are still solid. One 
 thing that really bothered me is that sometimes the ball goes right through one of the elves but 
 that rarely happens. Graphics are still solid though
  
  Elf Bowling 2
  
  My god. what happened to this. Something is terribly wrong with this when the elves are sliding 
 down the board. It's hard to tell where the other elves are because they grow as your elf slides 
 down the thing. You also can't tell when the elves fall off until they are in the sharks mouth. 
 
  ANother thing is when the camera is going down the thing and the elves are holding up signs, the 
 board moves but the gutters on the side just stay there.
  1 last problem is that the elves kinda go through eachother and sit on top of eachother.
  These 
 graphics take a little getting used to.
  
  Gameplay:
  Elf Bowling 1
  
  Nothing too shabby. Basically all you do is watch the arrow move and press the A button when you 
 want it to stop. A fun thing is that frogs and bunnies hop onto the lane and you can bowl em over. 
 
  Another thing is that instead of using the A button, yoiu can also touch the screen when you want 
 the arrow to stop.
  
  Elf Bowling 2
  
  What happened here. What's up with this multiplayer. You can play 2 players but there is no download 
 play. You'll just have to share the DS and take turns. Just like in the PC version
  
  You basically just launch the elves down the ship and try to avoid falling off and knock your opponents 
 elves off. It's a pretty fun concept and is really fun.
  
  Audio:
  
  Game selection screen
  
  While your deciding which elf bowling to play, enjoy some "Elf Elf 
 Baby" and some occasional farts.
  
  Elf Bowling 1
  
  While you bowl your ball, listen as the elves scream. There is also some very funny stuff the elves 
 say. Like 1 elf farts and another say "Hey somebody farted" then they all laugh. Or like when they 
 slap their butts with some realistic slap sounds in it. Some othe funny one's are "Gutterball" 
 and "Is that all the balls you got Santa?"
  
  Elf Bowling 2
  
  When the elves come up from the ground you hear some music. The elves also do some funny stuff. 
 One elf sings "Who let the elves out? Boo-ya Boo-ya". Some more funny stuff is "Buy Buy, Sell Sell, 
 Buy Buy. Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha", "Hey lookin crappy", "Are you lookin at my butt", "Woo-hoo, woo-hoo. 
 Three-hundered"
  
  While all that is well and funny, there is a problem. When the camera is rolling and checking the 
 elves scores, you hear some music but the music stops and when they hold up the signs, the pingin 
 sounds are strange. Its sound alot better in the P. C version.
  
  Bottom Line: This game is fun and easy to pick up and play every once in a while but Elf Bowling 
 2 is really lacking in quality. It also would've been better if Elf Bowling 3 was in there. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
