-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Elite Beat Agents
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/elitebeatagents/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Top-notch rhythmic gameplay that requires a good deal of practice to master.
 completely outlandish cutscenes and stage scenarios.
 plenty of off-the-wall licensed music that's fun to play with.
 four difficulty levels and a multiplayer mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A few of the more recent songs feel woefully out of place.
 difficulty can occasionally be a bit too much.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.8, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 2,525 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Nintendo
Developer: Inis
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Nov 6, 2006
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You won't find a stranger and more addictive rhythm game on a handheld system than Elite Beat Agents. 
 

  Some of the diehard Nintendo DS owners out there might remember a little game called Osu! Tatakae! 
 Ouendan! that was released last year. A ridiculously addictive and completely bizarre rhythm game 
 that had a group of superhero cheerleaders solving the world's problems through dance, it featured 
 some of the tightest and most challenging gameplay you could find on the DS. Trouble is, it never 
 came out in America. But fret not, because a reenvisioning in the form of Elite Beat Agents has 
 now arrived. This isn't the same Japanese game translated into English. Elite Beat Agents is pretty 
 much an all-new game that Americanizes the formula a bit, adding in covers of American pop songs 
 from a wide variety of eras in lieu of the indecipherably Japanese soundtrack of old. Otherwise 
 though, this is an incredibly faithful follow-up to the original game, and the awesome rhythm-based 
 gameplay and spastic presentation are fully intact.  

          How do you rescue a couple of snobby blondes from the perils of a desert island? By dancing! 
 Dancing, you fool! Dancing like you've never danced before!     

  The titular Elite Beat Agents are a group of black-suit-wearing secret agents that apparently work 
 for an old military general and travel around the world solving people's problems. How do they 
 accomplish these feats of heroism, you might ask? These guys get together and do some of the most 
 tightly choreographed dance numbers this side of an '80s-era Michael Jackson video, and through 
 the power of dance, cure the world's ills. Their routines are set to a weird variety of major pop 
 tunes that often fit strangely well to the situation at hand. Think of the whole experience as 
 a cross between  Charlie's Angels , Saturday morning anime, and  Mama Mia! -esque musical theater. 
 In short, it's completely mind blowing.  

  A big part of the appeal comes from the presentation and cutscenes that set up each of the game's 
 stages. All these are told through excellent-looking manga-styled sequences that set up each situation 
 with the most extreme imagery possible. People are either incredibly happy or incredibly freaked 
 out at all times. The problems you'll be solving are, of course, not quite what you might expect. 
 You'll be helping babysitters fend off whiny children while they try to ask their jock boyfriends 
 to go steady, 15th-century artists woo would-be models, and auto executives with mild ninjitsu 
 skills take back stolen car designs from a rival company. The scenes are excellently drawn, and 
 it's hard not to laugh at the ridiculousness of what's going on.  

  All the hyperactive cutscenes are a good setup for the gameplay, which is incredibly fast-paced 
 and challenging. This is a rhythm game through and through. The whole game is controlled via the 
 touch screen. As a stage begins and the music plays, small circles will appear onscreen with numbers 
 on them. These indicate the beats that you must tap in time with the music. A larger circle surrounds 
 each of these numbers, and it quickly caves in. When the outer circle meets up with the numbered 
 circle, that's when you must tap. As complicated as it sounds, the gameplay is really just about 
 finding the groove of the music. If you're not gifted with a good sense of timing, the precision 
 with which you must make your hits might be a little off-putting.  

  You'll have to do more than just tap, too. Other mechanics include a ball that must be dragged 
 from one end of the screen to another, in time with the music. Sometimes that ball goes back and 
 forth a few times. Often you'll have to alternate taps with drags back and forth in a seriously 
 frantic fashion. There's also a spinning-wheel mechanic that pops up randomly and forces you to 
 spin your stylus around the touch screen so furiously that you might start fearing for your touch 
 screen's safety. The context for all of this is that your taps and movements correspond to the 
 movements of the 3D models of the agents that appear on the touch screen behind all these numbered 
 balls. It can be tough to pay much attention to what the agents are doing while you're playing, 
 but the game smartly includes a replay save option, so you can go back and watch the frenetic dance 
 moves in action, as well as all the crazy manga sequences that play on the top screen, afterward. 

  If the game sounds challenging, that's because it is -- extremely so. Even on the default difficulty, 
 some of the game's stages will likely take a lot of practice to get through. You basically have 
 to learn the individual rhythms of each part of a song, and the game's margin for error isn't very 
 high. As you play, a meter at the top of the touch screen depicts how well you're doing, and a 
 couple of missed hits will drop you into the red quickly. You get varying point scores depending 
 on how exact your taps and movements are to the beat, but a string of imperfect scores also has 
 a tendency to drop your meter down a good bit. However, as tough as the game can be, it's rarely 
 frustrating. A few of the last stages can get vexing after your umpteenth failure, but even still, 
 you'll want to keep going back over and over to finally best them. It's the right balance of difficulty 
 for the most part -- at least until you unlock the two harder difficulty levels. The hard mode is 
 noticeably tougher, though once you've beaten the toughest stages on medium, you'll be well prepared 
 for what hard puts in front of you. The hardest level, on the other hand, is just crazy.  

  Apart from unlocking multiple difficulty modes, you'll also unlock a few bonus stages as you play 
 through the single-player mode. There are 19 stages in all, and it'll likely take you at least 
 a couple of hours with each difficulty level to complete them. Once you're done with single-player, 
 there's a multiplayer mode for both competitive and co-op play for up to four players. Co-op splits 
 songs up amongst two teams of agents, with each taking about half of the beats. In competitive 
 mode, the two teams compete by playing all the same beats and trying to fill their "elite-o-meter" 
 higher than the other team. The game has both multicart and download play, though the download 
 play offers only a limited number of songs. The multiplayer works pretty well, though it also seemed 
 a bit laggy in spots. Download play matches also tend to take an exceedingly long time to load 
 up.  

          The game's manga-styled presentation is quite easy on the eyes, if a bit insane.     

 
  One of the strangest things about Elite Beat Agents is its soundtrack. The grouping of songs that 
 Nintendo has assembled here is equivalent to someone taking the individual music libraries of a 
 teeny-bopper kid and his or her parents, tossing it all into a jar, shaking vigorously, and then 
 scooping out a random handful of songs. '70s classics like the Village People's "YMCA" and Earth, 
 Wind and Fire's "September" are joined by modern pop rock songs like Avril Lavigne's "Sk8er Boi" 
 and Ashlee Simpson's "La La." What's good is that most of these songs line right up with the situations 
 featured in the game. Madonna's "Material Girl" plays while you rescue a pair of ditzy blondes 
 (with rather striking resemblances to Paris Hilton and Nicole Ritchie) from being stranded on a 
 desert island, while the Stray Cats' "Rock This Town" takes place during a casino robbery in Las 
 Vegas. The only real flaw with the soundtrack is that a few of the more recent tracks feel seriously 
 tacked on. "Sk8er Boi" plays while a taxi driver races to get a pregnant woman to a hospital, for 
 example. What? Wouldn't just about any other song in the world have made more sense than that one? 
 It seems like these few out-of-place tracks are there to provide something familiar to those who 
 weren't alive to experience the joys of the Village People or David Bowie back in the day. Still, 
 that makes them stick out like no less of a sore thumb.  

  Though there isn't much competition, Elite Beat Agents is easily the best rhythm game available 
 for the Nintendo DS, and for that matter, it's easily one of the most randomly addictive experiences 
 on the platform. The idea of just tapping circles in time with music while dudes in suits dance 
 doesn't sound like much on paper, but the insane presentational components and enjoyable challenge 
 the game puts forth do a lot to bring the whole experience together into something extremely playable. 
 Those without a penchant for the unabashedly bizarre might find Elite Beat Agents to be a bit too 
 much, but just about anyone else with a DS would do well to try this one out.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (254 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SlikNik27
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2009 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is an interesting game with a lot of character and some great humor. Unfortunately, 
 it also has a lot of problems. In it, you play as the Elite Beat Agents, a group of dancing government 
 (?) agents, whose sole purpose is to make a difference in the lives of others. How do they do this? 
 By dancing, of course. At it's heart, EBA is a simple rhythm game you play using the only the stylus. 
 You'll find yourself tapping, dragging, and tracing your way to the beat. This is all well and 
 good when it works, but when it doesn't, the game can be a frustrating mess.
  
  The Good
  
  * Controls - The touch screen is responsive and it never feels like you miss a beat due to 
 lousy detection. The spinning sections can be annoying, but they are never unfair due to sloppy 
 controls.
  
  * Crazy Humor - The game is loaded with off-the wall humor and ridiculous situations. Helping a 
 penniless oil baron get his gold-digging wife back is a joy.
  
  * $tyle - The cut scenes and comic book panels look fantastic and really grab the player's attention. 
 The colorful art is an excellent supplement to the wacky tales unfolding during the missions.
 
  
  * Music - Some of the songs are great choices and lend themselves to this type of rhythm game.
 
  
  The Bad
  
  * Difficulty - There is nothing wrong with a game being difficult. In fact, I love a good challenge 
 and the gameplay difficulty actually ramps up nicely in EBA, unlocking harder difficulties as you 
 go. The problem here is that it can be difficult for the wrong reasons. Sometimes the screen is 
 too cluttered to tell where the next beat will appear. Even worse, your own hand will often get 
 in the way of seeing the screen. This leads to a lot of repetition and memorization.
  
  * Repetition - Something about having to repeat songs in this game seems worse than in other rhythm 
 games. You're forced to sit through all of the cutscenes just to get back to the part of the song 
 that you failed, even though you've seen them before. If the part you're struggling with is at 
 the end of the song (which it invariably will be, due to the nature of the game) , you'll spend 
 a lot of time playing the parts you already know and very little working on those you need to learn. 
 This could've been ameliorated with a practice mode, but no such thing exists.
  
  * Variety - Or lack thereof. There are only 19 songs in the game and you will probably see the 
 majority of them in the first day if you start on the easiest setting. Three songs open up as you 
 increase your score and level up, but it's just not enough. We've come to expect a lot of variety 
 in our rhythm games thanks to Guitar Hero and Dance Dance Revolution, so this seems like a step 
 backwards.
  
  * Music - The music is a relatively eclectic mix and it works most of the time, but there are a 
 few stinkers in there. It's obvious they wanted to please a large fan base, but some of the song/story 
 pairings make no sense (e. g., Sk8er Boi, Walkie Talkie Man, etc.) .
  
  The Ugly
  * N: The Christmas Song - Yeah... You'll have to play it to know what I mean.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Modes played and beaten: Training, Breezin', Cruisin'
  
  Modes played and not beaten: Sweatin'
  
  Modes not played: Multiplayer, Hard rock
  
  Time 
 Spent: 5 hours
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blooddog28
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because it was reccomended to me by a friend. I checked ebay and found a great 
 deal! It came in and boy was I surprised! I loved it, it is very addicting and unique. You don't 
 find many games like this on the nintendo ds system! You basically just have to use the stylus 
 and tap circles along with the beat, and sometimes you have to drag a circle along a bar. The reason 
 why I put the difficulty on hard is well... because it's hard! But hard in a good way! The easiest 
 difficulty still gives me trouble, but its great because it helps you master the game! I really 
 think you should think about buying this game. It is great when your bored and wanna have fun. 
 thanks for reading! for $9.99 I think this game is defintally worth it! So go to your local game 
 store and pick up a copy and you will become addicted! Have fun and I suggest you use a screen 
 protecter, there is a lot of tapping on the screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pipetri
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 5:39 am PT
Review:  Incredibly well presented and fun. Too bad it only has 15 songs in the main story, but hey, its 
 an impressive amount of audio for a cartridge. 
  The difficulty can be a bit too much in the last part of the game, but since you can choose between 
 4 different levels, its up to you to play it a bit safe or rise the stakes ( And risk to stab 
 your touchscreen to death ) .
  It would have been great if Nintendo had bought the licenses for the original songs, but then again, 
 the performers have done a terrific job and theres barely any difference between some songs and 
 their originals.
  Anyway the game play is extremely addictive and youll want to repeat every song in different levels 
 just to score higher. ^_^
  Definitively aMust Havefor any fan of Rhythm Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperfastSonic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 9:38 am PT
Review:  My first few minutes with Elite Beat Agents was a strange one. The tutorial was wierd, the anime 
 cutscenes made me confounded, and I just couldn't tap to the rythm. But after playing it for a couple 
 of hours I realized something-I was hooked. The game is brilliant! Defiently a must buy for any 
 DS owner. Either hardcore or beginner, you will truly appriecate the games diffulculty for all levels. 
 Even the voice-overs for the songs sound great (almost better than the original artists) ! Tapping 
 to the beat may seem boring to some, but it never gets tedious (even songs I dislike are a blast 
 to play) . The more your in tune with the music, the more points you get (300 is perfect,50 is bad) , and 
 each song comes with a dramatic (or not dramatic?) story that plays on the top screen. The story 
 goes well if your in with the beat, or goes wrong if your out of beat. It's a brilliant consept. 
 The only complaint I have is that 19 songs seems a bit low, especially in today's standards with 
 Guiter Hero having more than a whopping 90 songs. Hopefully we'll be seeing a sequal to this game 
 very soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megamannt123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  I love anime. I love awesome music. BAM! Perfect game!!! Kinda like Dance dance revolution but 
 on the ds and with your stylus. Who cares? This game rocks hard!
  
  The storys vary depending on the songs you pick, but basically, there is always a bad situation, 
 like an average movie director has to make the next great blockbuster film or he's fired, a taxi 
 driver is one more speeding ticket to losing his license and a pregnant lady gets in the car needing 
 to go to the hospital, and etc. They are all really funny though, because the agents come in and 
 start dancing to the song and motivating the characters, and during all this, cutscenes pop up 
 to progress the story. The agents always come in to save the day!
  
  The gameplay is basically tapping cirles at the right time along with the speed of the song. You 
 also drag and spin stuff with the stylus as well. There are four difficulties that you can unlock 
 by completing each set of songs in each difficulty setting. You can also earn points to earn ranks 
 with each song. I'm currently at five-star commander, which is second to last, but you have to 
 do everything perfect to get the last one. Wish me luck. Anyways, how well you do depends on your 
 rhythm. An outline closes in on one of the circles you need to tap. When they aline, you tap. Simple! 
 If you do good, the meter at the top of the screen stays full. If you do bad, then it drops. Both 
 of these causing good or bad outcomes of the story. If it drops all the way, you fail. You can 
 always try again though, so no worries. The game includes popular music by SUM 41, Good Charlotte, 
 the song Sk8ter boi, and much more.
  
  Overall, this game is hilarious and extremely addicting, so those who don't want to have an amazing 
 game experience (which is no one) , turn away now! Otherwise..... PARTY ON!!! I recommend this for 
 everyone! Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nintend0-BuDDy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents, how do you subscribe such an original, fun, rad, and crazy music game such as 
 EBA? Well, I think I just did, but besides that EBA is the greatest DS rythem game ever ( or at 
 least until a sequel comes out)
  
  The story of EBA is highly original: the Elite Beat Agents are men and women who help out people 
 with problems by dancing to make things turn out better and save the day! Yeah, you wont get an 
 awesome story like that out of any Final Fantasy game.
  
  The Gameplay is simply to tap and slide bubbles to the rythem of a song ( EBA has a varied soundtrack 
 ) . It may seem simple at first, but as you progress to the more harder levels you'll be absolutely 
 blown away at the complexity of the game's basic formula. It's addictive, fun, and overall totally 
 outrageous!
  
  The Track list, as I mentioned earlier, is very mixed! From hits like David Bowie'sLet's Dance 
to crappy songs like Ashley Simpson'sLa LaThere's something for everybody.
  
  In the end, Elite Beat Agents proves to be the killer app music game for DS, Guitar Hero will never 
 compare to this game, not even if the Elite Beat Agents make a cameo in Guitar Hero or Rock Band 
 will they ever beat EBA. Buy it DS owners... NOOOOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjroma
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I am not fond of rhythm games. I know that the newer ones are addictive, but I just rather play 
 something else than spend my short free time playing a music game. 
  
  But Leet beets was a blow in my head. I would never buy it if my friend did not insisted to play 
 with him through the DS download and play. After playing 3 or 4 songs I was hooked. Today I skipped 
 playing Fable 2 to play Elite Beats. 
  
  Oh yes, the review.
  
  You control a group of elite agents that solves problems all around the world. This problems goes 
 from taking a dog back to his owner to satisfy celebrities on a desert island. This cases are by 
 themselves fun, with some kind of adult humor on it. 
  
  Graphics are great. The cases are told as comics, with great narrative and dynamism. 
  
  The 
 game has simple mechanics that are easy to learn. After 2 or 3 songs you master the basics and 
 can go by your own. But even being easy to learn, its not repetitive (what I don't like in guitar 
 games) . It's always changing, even chorus are made different sometimes (actually you feel kinda 
 relief when it does repeat!) . 
  
  And, being a game for a handheld console, it takes you right into a quick experience without chaining 
 you in the game. You have 5 minutes on a line? Play a song. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemblemlordjr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Have a problem too big to tackle? Need to make an award-winning movie, earn the love of your crush, 
 become wealthy, destroy a rampaging mechanical monster, defeat evil kissing zombies, become a dancing 
 star, sneak into a giant building to steal car plans, or defeat an army of music-hating aliens? 
 Then just call on three dancing secret agents to inspire you to complete your task. Sound crazy? 
 That's exactly what happens in Elite Beat Agents.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  Tap little circles in order. That's it. However, this can get really hard, so you'll need to practice. 
 Basically, you tap to the beat, drag to the beat, and spin your little stylus around like crazy 
 to the beat. It's just plain fun.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Perfect for the game. Well-animated secret agents dance hilariously to the music, with a backdrop 
 of well-drawn anime cutscenes.
  
  Sound 10/10
  Awesome soundtrack. Mostly all the songs are great, and are really fun to play.
  
  Replay 8/10
 
  This has Easy, Normal, Hard, Very Hard, and Extremely Hard modes. Hard mode is grueling hard, 
 so imagine the others. But there's really only 19 songs. The replay isn't amazing, but still better 
 than many games.
  
  Bottom Line
  If you don't like music games, give this game a shot. If you do like music games, get this game. 
 You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  Though it's not a medically recognised condition, the state of having two left feet is a debilitating 
 ailment. You long to dance at a wedding but trip over your own legs. You try shaking your 'booty' 
 to the radio in the kitchen and impale yourself on a spatula. But frustrated dancers can rest easy 
 now that Elite Beat Agents is here - let your hands do the dancing instead.
  
  This is a sort-of sequel to the hit Japanese rhythm-actioner Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan that saw three 
 male cheerleaders helping people out of tricky situations. By tapping the screen in time to J-pop 
 tunes, you encouraged the cheerleaders to dance and get out of scrapes. 
  In this new game the cheerleaders have been replaced by the Elite Beat Agents, three be-suited 
 officials who look like they should be DJing at a naff 'school disco' nightclub. The music's British 
 and American now too, with a western-friendly range of artists such as Madonna and sk8er-boi Avril 
 Lavigne. 
  
  
  Keep On Movin'
  
  Vitally, however, the gameplay hasn't changed, and Elite Beat Agents sees you tapping numbered 
 'hit markers' on the touch screen in time to a range of songs across four difficulty levels. There 
 are 16 songs (with three more unlocked if you play well) and they're repeated over the four difficulty 
 stages.
  Each song is accompanied by a comic-strip-style story that highlights a character in need of the 
 Agents' assistance. What's impressive is that you'll find you actually care about what happens 
 to these hapless souls and you'll feel like a heartless swine if you can't help them.
  There are multiplayer modes for up to four people, though really you'll each need a copy of the 
 game as only a limited versus mode is available via single-cart download. If your opponent's doing 
 better than you in versus play, your hit markers shrink and the screen wobbles momentarily, penalising 
 you for your dud timing.
  So with the verdict so far being glowing, why hasn't this got a Gold Award? Well, the odd un-synced 
 notes are off-putting. And the tracklisting is hit and miss - while Material Girl is perfect for 
 the stranded bimbos story, what's David Bowie's Let's Dance got to do with oil barons? Still, these 
 are minor gripes. Grab your stylus and dance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsn22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  As this game got pretty high scores I expected a really great rhythm game. But actually it turned 
 out to be rather disappointing. Basically its a great game with a good amount of tracks. 
 I cant complain the soundtrack is nice. Anyways, this game provides you with a weird gaming 
 experience you will hardly find somewhere else, but this doesnt save the game from being 
 too short and insanely difficult on occasion. However, I managed to have some fun with it, I cant 
 deny that, but is a game worth the money when you can beat it in less then 6 hours? 
  
  Elite Beat Agents starts out relatively easy but after a while it becomes really difficult. Dont 
 get me wrong, I like games that are challenging, but the overall amount of time you will spent 
 is for the last song which is just crazy. You will have to retry it more often than you will like.
 
  So its a cheap way to lengthen the game in this way and that hampered the overall solid 
 gaming experience. 
  Anyhow the game delivers replay value as you will start certain songs many times. To this there 
 are very different songs, so that you might find one you like. Furthermore you may select a hardmode 
 which is really hard to beat, but if you managed to complete the last missionwell, maybe 
 you will consider it worthwhile. The game has 19 stages and within progress you will unlock more 
 difficulty modes but beating them is really hard.
  
  The core gameplay of Elite Beat Agents is all about tapping circles in time on the touchscreen 
 while the upper screen shows an anime styled video simultaneously. Actually the video has nothing 
 to do with the song, but hey, this game is supposed to be crazy, so what do you expect? EBA offers 
 a good amount of licensed songs that is nice to play with and you will barely find a similar rhythm 
 game. So YMCA and Sk8ter Boi put together in one game? You wont find a similar game, just 
 as I said.
  
  Apart from the single-player mode where you try to unlock some new stages and so on, there is a 
 multiplayer. This mode is not bad at all and you will have some fun beating your friends while 
 listening to a good soundtrack. But it may occur that you play not more than a few minutes as it 
 becomes repetitive.
  
  Overall you wont find anything more strange than Elite Beat Agents and will have some fun 
 if you can look over some flaws like high difficulty and a short singleplayer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ipmu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what makes it addicting the comical characters, the tapping of your screen, or the 
 swelling in your eyes when you play it for 58 days straight.......
  
  
  Storyline: There isn't much of a story line except that you are a agent who goes around and dances 
 to make peoples lives better.
  
  Graphics: They are ok for a handheld. The Agents are kinda grainy. 
  
  Gameplay: This is what 
 gets me and my friends you tap some buttons as a circle closes in on it. They are layered out in 
 combos. They give you 50, 100, or 300 points depending if you hit it on beat.
  
  Music: There are some tracks that are ok some that are bad. Some have an easy tune some dont.
 
  
  MultiPlayer: there is single card play in competitive mode. Competitive and co-op in multi card.
 
  
  Rent or buy: Rent it first then if you like it buy it.
  
  Conclution: it is a very addicting game as a stated before. It will have you up all night trying 
 to get what is going on. You will get the most of it if you dont think while you play just enjoy 
 the people dancing........ Dance! DANCE! DANCE NOW!!!!
  
  Thank you for your time :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolzz360
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a blast to play but there are a few things that really bothered me in this 
 game and really took down the game.
  
  The game overall is fairly simple to play. The player taps along with the beat using the stylus 
 on the touch screen and there are only three types of notes to perform. The note you will see the 
 most is just taping a small numbered circle when the bigger outer circle makes contact with it. 
 In a series of notes they will be the same color and hitting them all perfectly in the right order 
 creates a nice combo. The second type of note is the rolling ball note where you must first tap 
 the note and then keep the stylus on a rolling ball that will be laid out in a track. It is kinda 
 like the long notes in a guitar hero game. The last type of note is just a wheel you must spin 
 as fast as possible using the stylus. More note variety would have improved the game a little.
 
  
  Since this is a music rhythm game I would expect there would actually be more tracks and better 
 quality tracks. Some of the songs are great such as Skater Boi (yes I am a big Avril fan) and Jumpin 
 Jack Flash, but overall the soundtrack could have been 10 times better. What really sucks is that 
 there is only 19 tracks in all which is really lame for a music game even if it is for the ds. 
 The audio quality was great but I was still disappointed in the music.
  
  The biggest complaint I had about this game was the random ending difficulty and the shortness 
 of the game. I was able to completely beat the game in 4 and a half hours, but the last song took 
 me three of those hours, and the rest of the game only took and hour and a half. I passed every 
 song with flying colors until the last song which took me a good 50 tries or so. What a cheap way 
 to make an extremely short game longer by making an incredibly hard ending song or boss fight. 
 I hate games that do that and in all honesty this game should have only been 2 hours long which 
 is ridiculous. The different stories told in the game are in cool anime cut scenes but the actual 
 stories are horrible.
  
  Overall the gameplay is fun but the game is shallow and at times insanely difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwistedMoogle
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  When i first played this game i thought it was just a decent rhythm game but as i played it i really 
 (really) enjoyed all of the little stories and animations (especially the christmas one /weep) .
 
  This game is immersive and highly addictive if you give it a chance.
  I Also came to actually care about the welfare of some of the people i was "HEEEAAAALP"ing and 
 that made me want to try harder and even play the same level over a few times till i got it right.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Highly addictive and loads of fun.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The style of this game is phenomenal and i really enjoyed the comic book style.
  
  Sound: 9/10
 
  Tons of great songs that will make you want to play over and over just to listen to them again 
 and again.
  
  Re-Playability: 8/10
  Asside from the reason given for the "Sound" description, it's just a flat out fun game to play, 
 even more than once.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MissSugarL
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  Easily the best rythm game on the Nintendo DS. A bunch of American agents save peope in trouble 
 their crazy dancing. You use the stylus the guide thei moves whilst trying to score massive amounts 
 of points. You really need to be paying full attention to this game. After a few practices you 
 will get the hang of the game and may even score a B on a stage. There are stacks of stages and 
 you will need to rack up serious points to get certain rankings of agents. I wish I could use multiplayer 
 to get the full potential out of the game, but I can't as you need a friend with another game card.
 
  
  PROS
  - Mega fun
  - Some of my fave songs in there, stary cats!!
  - Great use of touch screen.
  
  CONS
  - When your hand gets in the way of the screen and 
 you can't see what you are doing. That is mega annoying and can lose you massive points.
  - The difficulty on this game is kinda hard to believe. Like the easy mode is a bit ridiculous!
 
  - Some of the songs feel out of place.
  - You need a friend with the game card to use mulitplayer.
  
  Elite Beat Agents was well worth 
 the $30 I payed for it, but I would love to play the original Japanese game it is based on as I 
 would have even more of no idea what is going on.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfly110
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 21, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat gents is a very... interesting game. It generally follows a Guitar Hero like format, 
 except for you use the stylus instead of a guitar. You have to time beats in songs just like in 
 guitar Hero, and many of the songs are fairly addicting. Now, I know that right now this is sounding 
 just like a rip off of Guitar Hero, because let me tell you it is NOT!!! I cannot stress this enough. 
 For instance, the gamepla while I guess being vaguely similar, is different in so many ways. What 
 you have to do is this, there is a number in a colored bubble, there is a ring slowly (or sometimes 
 fastley) sinking in on the bubble, right when the ring and bubble intersect, you have to hit the 
 bubble with your stylus, now there are five different colored bubbles in the game, I think they 
 are Blue, red, green yellow and orange. You must hit the matching colored bubbles in ascending 
 order to ge the points. If you let a bubble sit for too loing than a red x will appear, and your 
 life bar thing will go down. Also some of the bubbles are in a tube that you have to drag your 
 stylus through at the same speed as the bubble. If you don't follow the bubble at the same speed, 
 it is not as big of a penalty as missing a bubble altogether, but it can still murder your health. 
 The final type of bubble is very strange, it covers the whole screen. In the middle of the screen 
 is the bubble, and then outside of the bubble is a giant disk that you must spin very fastly with 
 your stylus, this is very easy most of the time, and it is an easy way to rack up points, because 
 once you spin the designated amount and you still have time it starts to give you bonus points 
 that literally lift your score up faster than hitting ten bubbles in a row perfectly ( thats a 
 lot) .
  Other than great gameplay however, the game has a beautifully crafted story, it is very long so 
 I will leave you to find it out when you play it. The only negative that I have about this game 
 is bubble placement, sometimes (especially in the more difficult levels) the bbbbles are placed 
 almost randomly. Also, sometimes the bubbles take way too much health. (in the last level missing 
 one bubble is a game over) . But heck, it is still much easier than Through the Fire and Flames. 
 OH! I almost completely forgot, the soundtrack is excellent, almost every song is remade for the 
 game perfectly. ( I say almost becuase they messed up Walkie Talkie Man's vocals) . Finally, this 
 game is very unique because it blends the japenese comic books with american comic styles and even 
 animated movies, to form an intricate and artistic design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zikimaru88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents are at your service!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Thats right, this game is a rythm game that 
 has you tapping to the beat of its soundtrack. When I first saw the gameplay footage, I thought 
 it looked like a crappy game. I was in a Wal Mart December of 06' when I saw the demo for it, so 
 I played it and I was blown away! Great controls, great graphics, great almost about everything.
 
  
  
  
  The Good: Great touch screen contros-Multiplayer Co op and battle is fun-Great Graphics-Great Soud-Good 
 Sountrack (The Anthem Rocks!!!!!!!!!!!!!!) -Four difficulties so the game will last you a while-Pretty 
 Good extras 
  
  
  The Bad: The overall game is pretty long, but you should be able to beat each difficulty in a couple 
 of days 
  
  
  Final Comments: Awesome game, so fun, great experience, I really hope they make more. Some of the 
 levels are hard (Jumping Jack Flash with the Elite Beat Divas, holy sh*t, but i did it, not to brag 
 or anything) , and some of them are easy. Great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ncleach
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents; when I first bought this product, the first thing that came on my mind was: 
 why am I buying this again??? Before I could back out of it, I bought it. I took it home and immediately 
 started playing it, and dude, was it fun. I don't know what it is; the fun songs, the dancing men, 
 the strange yet funny cutscenes, or the gameplay overall, but boy, I was hooked! You start off 
 with only a few songs to jam with and two difficulty settings, but as you go on, you start to unravel 
 more challenging songs and two more difficulty settings to play that will definitely exercise your 
 reaction time and sense of beat. Whoever knew that tapping little circles on a screen could be 
 SO much fun! Let me explain; each time you play a song, there will be circles that appear on the 
 screen constantly. Rings will start enclosing themselves around the circles. When the ring overlaps 
 with the very outside of the circle, you have to tap it to make a beat. Tap too early and you will 
 get one step closer to failing the song, which happens when you miss too many beats in a row. Even 
 though it gets pretty difficult on the hard rock mode (which you unlock later in the game) the game 
 is easy to learn for everyone. My sister, who is 8, can jam out to a couple of songs, no problem, 
 and she rarely plays it! Also, the cutscenes are beautifully done, and they make you just want 
 to pause and laugh at the strange but hilarious thing that are happening on the top screen. All 
 in all, this is a very amazing game and is a must have for anyone; whether you are a hardcore game 
 or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JerWroten
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents got such high reviews that it was one of those DS games I just had to try. The 
 basic premise of the game is to tap to the rhythm of different cover songs which affects the outcome 
 of some dilemma, i. e. a girlfriend trying to catch her beau or trying the save the world from evil 
 music hating aliens. You definitely need to wear your headphones to experience the game properly, 
 and I was pleasantly surprised by the audio quality of the songs and of the DS hardware. I typically 
 play my DS with the sound off, so it was a little more work to get into this one, you definitely 
 have to zone in and focus. It was definitely fun for the first hour or so, but I would have to 
 say that once the uniqueness of the game and stylus use wore off, it was more of simply wanting 
 to plow through the game and finish it, which I did. You can replay the game with a new team member 
 at a little higher difficulty level, but I wasn't tempted to go back through again. If the premise 
 of this game sounds great to you at first, then you should get it. If you wouldn't naturally be 
 drawn to the game, I would say this is one to skip, it's not Guitar Hero by any means. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wckman
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  This is the definitive DS game. Its fun, easy to pick up, occasionally challenging, occasionally 
 funny, occasionally stupid, but always fun. Did I mention how fun it is. Fun, oh what fun.
  
  This game is very simplistic. You tap markers to a beat and then slide your stylus over an 
 area. Thats it. Thats the gameplay in a nutshell. There are 19 songs for you to do this to, all 
 of which are fun to play. Its all about the beat and agents and the elite or something...
  
  Little stories pop up, a song plays, you tap your piece, the song ends, you're ranked and then 
 unlock harder difficulty levels. There is a surprising amount of depth to this game and the harder 
 areas can be a pain, but what is so great about this game is that you can put it away for a year, 
 pull it out, and still have as much fun as when you bought it.
  
  Its very stylish, very cute, and very childish in places, but damn if it isn't fun as heck. Want 
 a DS game? I know you do. Buy this one if you haven't already (and enjoy the elite beat divas) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mugen76
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  When you think about it, the rhythm game genre has exploded over the years. Dance Dance Revolution, 
 Beatmania, Guitar Hero, all these have been huge successes. However, the genre seems to be locked 
 into consoles, and taking a rhythm game to a handheld is always a little risky because you lose 
 the interactivity you would normally get with a console peripheral.
  
  However, the Nintendo DS has changed a lot of this. The touch screen controls open up a whole new 
 world to developers, and the rhythm genre is able to take steps it normally wouldn't have been 
 able to make in the handheld market. Elite Beat Agents is this kind of game that allows for fresh 
 ideas.
  
  However, Elite Beat Agents also has a little-known past to gamers who have not dug into it. This 
 game is actually an Americanization of the smash Japanese hit "Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan" (literally, 
 Go! Fight! Cheer Squad) . Ouendan is the exact same thing as EBA, but with a decidedly more Japanese 
 look and feel to it. Instead of government agents (men in black-type guys for EBA) , you get wacky 
 male cheerleaders. Ah... only in Japan.
  
  However, that does not detract any from EBA. Having played both, I will have to make a compare-contrast 
 review.
  
  Elite Beat Agents revolves around a simple concept: circles converge on markers, and once they 
 match up, you tap the markers with your stylus. These will follow the beat of the song, so having 
 the volume turned up or headphones is a must to get the most out of the game. In addition to the 
 regular tap markers, you also have roll markers where you have to follow the ball, and also spin 
 markers. These can cause utter destruction to your DS's touch screen, so a screen protector is 
 a MUST. Anyway, these are easy at first, but the game's difficulty can ramp up pretty quickly, 
 so the later levels are difficult. However, EBA is nowhere near as difficult as Ouendan, especially 
 on the last couple levels.
  
  The biggest problem I have with EBA over Ouendan is the set list. I mean come on, Sum 41? Steriogram? 
 Good Charlotte? Give me a break. Also, the guys who created the set list for EBA committed a cardinal 
 sin by including Avril Lavigne, aka Evil Incarnate. This terrible choice of music almost broke 
 the game for me, but when the gameplay is so good and the scenarios so funny, you can overlook 
 it.
  
  So, to wrap up: key differences between EBA and Ouendan...
  
  -Ouendan is entirely in Japanese, including the menus and music
  -Ouendan is funnier than EBA, 
 but EBA has its own Western charm
  -EBA is easier than Ouendan
  -Ouendan has a better set list, and everybody knows it!
  -EBA exists because of the unusually 
 high import rate of Ouendan
  
  Despite my gushing over Ouendan, EBA is a darn good game, and it's more readily available and accessible 
 than Ouendan is despite the fact that you can play with minimal to zero knowledge of Japanese. 
 Also, Ouendan 2 came out last year in Japan, and a lot of stuff that is in Ouendan 2 came from 
 EBA (like the ability to skip cutscenes and multiplayer) , so EBA has made its own contributions 
 to the series. However, I (and many others for that matter) cannot overlook the terrible track 
 selection.
  
  Elite Beat Agents scores a 4 out of 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireemblems
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a great game with an undeniable charm, I don't know what they did to make 
 me love it so much, but hey they pulled it off.
  Sorry if this review is a little bare but there inst really much I can tell you, The game is a 
 rhythm game in which you have to touch "buttons" on screen at the exact time, needless to say it 
 goes with the music.
  A Fun thing about the game is that you are always busy, your either reading the story or you are 
 playing the song.....
  The game has many different storys, mainly of people in trouble, and you going to save them by 
 cheering them up, dancing to tunes, and yeah the Agents know how to bust a move :D
  Its really funny, although it has a strange humor....
  And its frikin hard, there are many difficulty's 
 so theres a lot of room for improvement In the end I highly recommend the game I hope you do too
 
  9.5 since Gamespot does not let me put 9.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raziellich
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  The world is a scary place. Everywhere you turn, bad things are happening and there's nothing you 
 can do about it. Your wife leaves you because you can't give her the life she desires. Your job 
 is bad enough without masked men trying to rob you. You're stuck on a deserted island and have 
 no skills to save your life. 
  
  Enter the Elite Beat Agents. 
  
  They're a government agency sent around the world to cheer the masses on and motivate them to greatness. 
 With thier help, people can do anything, including fight off a music hating alien invasion menace! 
 
  
  The way the game works is pretty straightfoward. You'll navigate a map to find missions to complete. 
 Each mission begins with a comic book like intro that explains each character's dire posisition. 
 The chief sends you in, and you've got to keep the beat going to help the hapless wits pull through. 
 
  
  Using the stylus, you'll tap notes as they appear on the touch screen. There are only three types 
 of movement you'll have to complete. 90% of these are single taps that follow the beat of the song. 
 Most of the rest are little balls that you'll drag across a curved line. Finally there will be 
 some sections where you'll have to draw circles to spin a wheel faster and faster. 
  
  There are about twenty songs to play through in the game, and only one or two of them dont' fit. 
 Even if the song selection is crap, (Avril Lavigne AND Ashlee Simspon make appearences) , each song 
 is addicting and fun to play. 
  
  As you go along, you'll earn points for each song and slowly increase your rank. This will allow 
 you to unlock new bonus songs which can then be played on all difficulty levels. 
  
  It should be noted that EBA is pretty difficult in the latter stages. The game requires quick reflexes 
 and pattern recognition. A couple of misses can mean death, even if you hit all the rest of the 
 notes. You see, you get points depending on your timing. 300 for perfect timing. 100 for really 
 close, and 50 for just close enoug to not be a miss. You'll be able to float through on 100's and 
 50's most of the time, but your rank will stay down in the dirt. 
  
  I'll also say that the scenarios are hilarious and awesome. (Except for the one where you helf 
 a little girl get over her father's death. That one is kinda touching.) You might even find yourself 
 purposefully messing up entire songs to see what zany things will happen to your charge. 
  
  All in all, this is one of the most addicting, original, and fun games on the DS, and everyone 
 should give it a chance. Hopefully future installments will give us a better song list, but this 
 will do for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thoko25
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  First of all I would like to say that E. B. A (Elite Beat agents) is a totally new and refreshing 
 experience to the Rhythmic/ Music genre, With new touch screen controls that allows the user to 
 tap their styluses to an actual song (Earth Wind and Fire - September etc) that is somehow stored 
 and fits on the DS cartridge.
  The difficulty is just right because Easy feels easy and hard feels... well hard.
  
  Contrary 
 to belief that E. B. A is responsible to a lot of DS screens breaking it is safe to say that it is 
 Elite beat agent doesn't and can't be held responsible for the actions of the user (Smashing and 
 throwing the DS across the room, You know who you are) . *Phew* With that all out E. B. A does have 
 it's Flaws, for example when you are tapping on some of the circles in gameplay the DS may not 
 recognize some of your actions and other minor flaws. 
  
  Ill just get down to my rating system which is a mixture of gamespot's and IGNs.
  
  Presentation 
 : 9/10
  
  Everything single level is full of energy with songs like the Anthem or Jumpin' Jack Flash by "Rolling 
 stones" which helps keep the user's attention.
  
  Graphics : 9/10
  
  The Comic book approoach to the level design is certainly charming with 3D models of the agents. 
 
  
  Sound : 9.5/10
  
  The sound is one of the most impressive features in the game, the game features original covers 
 from artists from the 80s and 90s in pop and rock music.
  
  Gameplay : 10/10
  
  The "Tap to the Beat" gameplay mechanic is extremely addictive and will keep you hooked on for 
 ages. After finishing this review i will be picking up my DS again and revisiting E. B. A.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 9/10
  
  This Game will definitely keep you coming back for more with local 
 multiplayer, a rating system of how well you do in a level and 18 levels that should be completed 
 in all difficulties Breezin' , Cruisin', Sweatin' and Hard Rock to unlock all the bonus levels. 
 The gameplay alone is enough to keep you mesmerised and determined to get the hard-earned "S" rank.
 
  
  Real Score : 9.4
  
  However with it's minor flaws it's definitely a must try for serious and Casual DS owners. The 
 positives heavily outweigh the minor flaws. Let's just hope that Ninty dishes up a sequel to E. B. A 
 because E. B. A is one hot dish!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derre345
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  elite beat agents is definetly one of the best games I have ever played.
  I just borrowed it from a friend in exchange for sonic rush. At first I saw it in a store and thought 
 it was just another stupid game for DS. but when I borrowed it I knew straight away that I would 
 buy this game. the comics are really funny and the songs are great. It is completely obsurd and 
 idiots fun. On the other hand it is very hard and uses the touch screen for just about everything. 
 You take the role of three nerds in suits and help people in ridiculous situations, that are extremely 
 funny, how exactly, through the power of music ( touching numbers before rings close in on them) . 
 this sounds dumb but take my advice if you find it buy it. so please keep this game somwhere in 
 youre head, if you like to laugh and have fun throu gh aridiculous comic style game this is for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Best1989
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents, the American version of Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan!, bring a fresh style and gameplay 
 to the Nintendo DS, in a great way. 19 songs (16 normal / 3 secrets) can be played in this game, 
 and that's a ton of fun. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 9 / 10
  
  This game makes a total use of the Stylus, so I recommend to purchase a good protector for your 
 screen. In this rhythm game, basically all you have to do is press the numbered circles at the 
 right time, and following the music classic, but great. This makes the game very fun, and can 
 make you crazy when you fail at a mission. The only thing I can argue with this game, is the insane 
 difficult in the last missions, especially with the Chieftain and the Divas (characters of the 
 two last modes) Is a hell; a fun hell. Only for that I can't give it a 10, because of the problems 
 that the younger (and older) gamers can have with that.
  
  SOUND 10 / 10
  
  Wow With 19 famous songs (covers from Madonna, Queen, Village People and more) this game is great 
 in this aspect. Nice selection for a rhythm game. The sound effects are really good too. 
  
  GRAPHICS 9 / 10
  
  In the upper screen, you can see how the history progress, with a comic-style 
 and really nice and fun animations. In the bottom screen, you see the agents dancing in 3D, with 
 a crazy style of moves o_O Good graphics for a DS rhythm game, and you enjoy all of them.
  
  HISTORY 8.5 / 10
  
  Basically, you are a agent working for a international organization, 
 that helps people in trouble. Every mission start with a brief of the people in trouble, and their 
 problems. With so many histories, every one with fun situations, and the nostalgic "You're the 
 Inspiration", you enjoy a good time of all that. 
  
  OVERALL 9 / 10
  
  A great game, and IMO, a must have for the DS owners. I had a lot of fun with it, and the last 
 difficult and secrets songs extend your playtime a lot. I recommend it, without a doubt.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  The strange reality that Elite Beats Agents is set in is fun, bizarre, entertaining, hilarious 
 and fiercely engaging. The problem is that it's really short and really hard. The easiest level 
 is easy enough, but the normal level gets so insanely hard that I didn't even want to try the harder 
 levels. I did, and gave up quickly knowing I would never ever come close to completing the upper 
 levels. EBA sounds great, especially with headphones and the rumble support added a degree of interaction 
 lacking in alot of rhythm games. The art style is just campy enough to make those who get the joke 
 laugh and those that don't get the joke will simply make fun of it and enjoy it in a completely 
 different way.
  
  What would I do to make EBA more interesting? I would maybe incorporate the shoulder buttons at 
 bass pedals or cymbals. I would obviously ratchet down the difficulty, and maybe have a quick draw 
 type combo during the songs. Also, the DS has a Mic, there is no reason not to use it. As I said 
 EBA is very short, and only has like 13 or so songs. This is because of the limited storage space 
 of the DS cart. I suggest bundling the game with the DS Lite rumble pack (which wasn't released 
 in the states) and build extra memory into it allowing for additional songs. 
  
  I really enjoyed the stories and animation of the characters and think that this could really because 
 a huge franchise if it was more pick up and play friendly. I almost recommended this game to my 
 mom, that was until I realized she wouldn't be able to complete it. "Almost, but not quite" is 
 a great way to sum up EBA. I really hope that it gets a chance to have a sequel, but it would need 
 some heavy touch ups to actually deserve all of the awards that EBA has won. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pierst179
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Rhythm games were born during the Playstation era and since then have gained a enormous popularity 
 due to titles like Guitar Hero and Rock Band that are constantly on the top of any sales chart 
 that is released. As it happens on most genres, developers try to be as creative as possible with 
 those titles in order to provide gamers a different experience and the Nintendo DS is the platform 
 where one of the best and most uncanny musical games takes place. 
  
  
  Elite Beat Agents' mechanic is as simple as possible, by using the Nintendo DS touch screen you 
 will have to tap circles that appear on the screen to match the rhythm of the song. If your timing 
 is extremely precise then you will get lots of points, but if you touch the wrong button at the 
 wrong time your Agent Bar will decrease, once it gets to its lowest level is game over for you 
 and you will need to restart. 
  
  
  Aside from the tapping circles there are also some tap-and-drag circles that you will encounter, 
 although they are not as frequent. On those you will need to tap the circle and keep your stylus 
 in contact with the screen until a rolling ball appears, when it happens you will need to follow 
 the ball with your stylus. This gameplay makes the game easy to be enjoyed by any kind of person 
 of any age. 
  
  
  Differently from most games of this genre, Elite Beat Agents features main characters and plot. 
 The heroes are three dancing Agents that are summoned by people going through difficult situations 
 such as being close to losing a job, or being lost on a tropical Island. Before each chapter of 
 the game  that is represented by a song - you will watch a HQ-like cutscene that will present 
 you the problem, the cutscene will always end with a person shouting out loud for help and the 
 Agents appearing to save the day by dancing their way to victory. 
  
  
  Obviously a game that features heroes that dance and sing in order to save other people from doom 
 doesn't make sense, and that's where the actual charm of the title lies. It was really bold of 
 the developers to create a storyline for a game like this and fortunately it works, since you will 
 find yourself laughing while watching cutscenes that are shown on the top-screen while you are 
 tapping circles insanely. 
  
  
  The presentation of the game is close to flawless with its cartoony characters and HQ stories, 
 it blends perfectly with the exaggerated drama of the plot. It is a clear sign that the game never 
 takes itself too serious. The graphics are really sharp, and the simple fact that the developers 
 even bothered to come up with animations that are displayed on the top screen while the song is 
 played  a time where the player wouldn't even be able to watch it  shows how careful they were 
 when trying to make the game look good. 
  
  
  The soundtrack is really good, but as it always happens on most rhythm games there is always a 
 good chance that you will end up being disappointed with the music selection, but even if you don't 
 like some of the choices you will still be able to enjoy the game. However, the fact that there 
 are only eighteen songs available may diminish the replay value when you put this game against 
 its console peers, there is always a good reason to come back and play the songs on four different 
 levels and try to improve your best score. 
  
  I still feel that the game lacks some online features such as the ability to upload your scores 
 and see how you rank among the world leaders of dancing. Perhaps the addition of downloadable songs 
 would also be possible. 
  
  
  In a nutshell, Elite Beat Agents is one of the most unique rhythm games out there, its main shortcoming 
 is that its replay value isn't as high as you would expect from a musical title. But while you 
 are going through the single-player mode for the first time you will be experiencing one of the 
 best games that the Nintendo DS has to offer. 
  
  Actual Score: 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo1000
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
   Great use of DS touch screen
  
   Wonderful Japanese manga like scenes fully of energy and charisma
  
   Game does not really 
 rely on rock genre songs like Guitar Hero and has a variety of different types of songs to play
 
  
   Elite Beat Agents greatest is the fact its charming and quaint
   Irresistably addictive
   There are some real enjoyable songs to play along too
   Best music 
 rythem game on the DS by a country mile
  
  Cons:
   It can get frustrating somewhat due to the fact that its too difficult
  
   Some songs feel 
 woefully out of place (David Bowie - "Lets Dance" is in there, what doughnut thought of that idea!) , 
 the other music genres might add some variety though I feel, so its not all bad
  
   The touch screen sometimes messes up and misintrepets where you tapped the screen
  
   Due 
 to so much tapping and smashing of the screen it does come to your attention that all the excessively 
 tapping of, what is really a brittle screen that could crack
  
   It could of done with a few more songs in to be honest
   Using headphones makes it easier
 
  
  Elite Beat Agents is the latest Japanese game to be released in the west. Considering the sucess 
 previous transitions have gone, Brain Training and Phoenix Wright included, this one deserves to 
 do well here. Can I just start by saying, this could well be the best DS game around. I want to 
 say it, but I can't pluck the courage to say that a music-rhythem game which originates from Japan 
 is better than Mario Kart and Zelda Phantom Hourglass. The sheer addictiveness of Elite Beat Agents 
 is unparellel compared to pretty much all other DS games. The games livelyness and somewhat infatuating 
 persona drags you in, then you become hooked playing on a variety of songs, like the groovy Canned 
 Heat and Madonna's Material Girl. The game is hard from a neutral point of view. It'll really range 
 though on what people think of the difficulty level because there will be many players of EBA who 
 might have poor reactions at tapping in key with the song at time, others will talented at it, 
 even if you are you'll still have a fight on your hands to clear the 4 difficulty levels. I've 
 cleared 2 and am about halfway through the third difficulty level and its beginning to get really 
 tricky and tough, dare I say annoying. However to me EBA has this infectious effect on your body. 
 Even if you do fail and get agitated you'll still want to complete the song, no matter what it 
 takes.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is superbly presented, the comic strip cartoons in between the songs are inspried. 
 Colourful and energetic they almost jump out at you as you admire how brilliant they are. The chirpy, 
 cheerful scenes combine with playing the music marvelouslly. Each song has around 3-4 parts where 
 you play the track lasting from anywhere 20 seconds to probably 40 seconds tops. The mini cutscenes 
 never feel intruding to the gameplay, they don't stop your rythem, neither do they irritate. Anyway 
 your hand and wrist need a 20 second break after you've cursorily mashed the touch screen smashing 
 the notes for the last 20-40 seconds, your hands does feel rather sore, so a welcome little break 
 is needed I say and do the entertaining and sparkly cutscenes (Which I'm full of praise for) do 
 that nicely. Some of the small stories (Or tales as I call them) are great, some do feel somewhat 
 tacked-on and not coherent with the others. I'm not going to complain much here because EBA is 
 quintisessentially a music rythem game, not a story game with a deep story, for instance Phantom 
 Hourglass, Hotel Dusk etc. Never the less the story isn't massively vital to the game's features.
 
  
  Some of the song choices used the game are a little..... baffling to say the least. Some reviewers 
 have cited why songs like David Bowie's Lets dance is included, or YMCA (I think thats not bad 
 actually) Luckily though the good outweighs the bad and there are some catchy tunes on there with 
 most tracks being pretty enjoyable to play along to, unlike a couple dated ones which feel incomplete. 
 Its not just old tracks which have been cited as bad, but Avril Laviagne's "Sk8ter Boi" isn't great 
 and feels totally turgid, the story and the controls feel out of sync. I felt as well that EBA 
 could of done with several or so more songs, its a few too short for me. The game has around 20 
 I believe, but closer to 30 would have been better.
  
  I'm not in a position to comment on the multiplayer mode shamefully because I've not had the chance 
 to play it, however I'm led to believe its very good and enjoyable in many reviews. One thing I 
 actually worry about is not the game, but the DS itself. There is a spin mechcanic included (It 
 perhaps doesn't work as well as it could of) which apparently can break DS touch screens. But the 
 repetitive hitting of the somewhat brittle screen must weaken it. Unless the DS touch screen is 
 durable and can take a pounding (I don't it can) then you may well end up with a tiny crack or 
 a large one straight across the screen.
  
  Overall
  Nevertheless the game is very much the most enjoyable game on the DS which has captured my imagination 
 more so than any other DS game as well (Maybe any game around on all consoles) its undeniable charm 
 is something to be admired and I'd seriously recommend this game to anyone who's interested in 
 something original. Its difficulty level is the problem I have with it though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cd19
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 7:32 am PT
Review:  The Good : - Simple, yet challenging and fun gameplay - Great localization of a Japanese game - 
 Makes excellent use of the stylus - A total of 19 songs - The goods easily outweigh the bads
  
  The Bad : - Not much replay value after beating the game on hard - It's not the original Japanese 
 game - May damage your bottom screen if your too aggressive 
  
  Do you like quirky, simple, yet highly addictive Japanese games ? If so, you must check out Elite 
 Beat Agents. It's not as popular as most of the first party Nintendo titles, or even the Capcom 
 and Konami titles, but this game is possibly the best combination of fun and challenge on the DS. 
 You play as the Elite Beat Agents, and your mission is to help out people who are in danger. The 
 characters in the story each have their own issues, which must be helped with.... dancing, which 
 yeah, makes no sense. Large circles appear over numbered smaller circles, and as they collapse 
 onto the smaller circle, you must tap the stylus on the screen. The numbers typically run from 
 1 to anywhere between 3 and 14, and you have to hit them in correct order. You will also be dragging 
 and spinning the stylus, sometimes very urgently. The bottom screen is obviously the touch screen, 
 where all gameplay occurs. The top screen shows the story unfolding, and the story changes from 
 good to bad, depending on how your playing. It's almost like your playing DDR on the go, with your 
 stylus, and headphones on. If your looking for a game that separates the DS from the PSP , or even 
 your GBA, this is one of those titles. 
  The game is very difficult and can be frustrating at times. On a good note, it's never due to poor 
 game design. You get better each time you play a song through, and you learn certain patterns, 
 and figure out how to get better from thinking about your mistakes. There is 19 songs, a few which 
 are hidden, and all are covers. The covers aren't great, but they fit the purpose of the game. 
 The game is hard enough to where you will get your money's worth, but that's not to say there is 
 a lot of replay value. There isn't anything else to the game besides the songs themselves, so it's 
 typically just one style of gameplay. Also, a lot of purists prefer the original Japanese version 
Osu ! Tatakae ! Oundan ! ". I personally enjoy catchy J-Pop and love original Japanese games, 
 but that won't take anything away from your experience with this game ( unless you know your kana 
 and kanji well enough to understand Japanese ) . The American version holds up well, the songs aren't 
 something I'd listen to in my car, but they are fun and the presentation is great. I also like 
 stopping by my local gamestore to buy games, rather than paying extra to import and wait for a 
 game. You can probably find this game used for under 20 bucks, so go give it a shot !
  
  Difficulty : Hard
  Learning Curve : 15-20 minutes
  Track Listing :
  1. Walkie Talkie Man 
 - Steriogram
  2. ABC - Jackson Five
  3. Sk8er Boi - Avril Lavigne
  4. I Was Born to Love You - Queen
  5. Rock This Town - Stray Cats
  6. Highway Star - Deep Purple
 
  7. Y. M. C. A. - Village People
  8. September - Earth, Wind and Fire
  9. Canned Heat - Jamiroquai
  10. Material Girl - Madonna
  11. La La - Ashlee Simpson
  12. 
 You're the Inspiration - Chicago
  13. Survivor - Destiny's Child
  14. Without a Fight - Hoobastank
  15. Believe - Cher
  16. Let's Dance - David Bowie
  17. 
 Jumpin Jack Flash - Rolling Stones
  18. Makes No Difference - Sum 41
  19. The Anthem - Good Charlotte
  
  Gameplay : Easy and intuitive. Play the training mode first 
 though, almost everyone I've spoken to about this game complains that they had no idea what they 
 were doing at first. Some were immediately turned off and didn't pick it up again. I'm letting 
 you know, it's easy and fun ! Just do training first, it takes less than 5 minutes. The gameplay 
 really makes up for any lack of depth in this game. The game makes great use of the stylus, just 
 don't press too hard or your screen will wrecked when your all done !
  
  Graphics and Presentation : The style used in this game is a comic book / manga style, that never 
 takes itself seriously. I really like the style used, as a lot of DS games stick with the cliche 
 anime style. The graphics are all 2D comic style, with the exception of the Elite Beat Agents dancing 
 in the background, which are 3D character models.
  
  Sound : Again, the songs are all covers, so what can be said ? They obviously weren't gonna spend 
 a ton of money producing this game , so with that being said, the sound holds up well. It does 
 what it's supposed to do, and that's supply the rhythm in an action game.
  
  Value : EASILY worth the 20 bucks your gonna spend on it. Not too much replay value once you beat 
 it on the highest difficulty , but it will take you a good amount of time to achieve that. You 
 can always master songs and get all perfects too, similar to a DDR or GH game. Expect that kind 
 of value. 
  
  Tilt : I really love this game, I have good memories playing it and helped me fall in love with 
 my DS when I played it. There's no handheld game like it. This game separates itself from other 
 handhelds, home consoles, and even PC's ! There is no other game experience like it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaldePartison
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I never saw a game highly addictive like this one. You probably know, but in this game, your objective 
 is to hit markers according to the music rhythm from each stage. There are 19 musics in this, some 
 of them classics, like Jumpin Jack Flash, from the Rolling Stones, and some new ones, like Sk8er 
 boi. But the way they were designed is amazing. For instance, if know well the music, it easier 
 to play it. This kind of game deserves to be bought, discover why better reading this whole review.
 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  This game features some nice done draws. The stages are designed like a comics book, and the agents 
 must help them, by dancing. Some songs, like Y. M. C. A. will have their special dance moves and the 
 agents will perform them in a very nice way. The game is fluid, runs without flaws and has very 
 nice graphics, even if you forget the somewhat the poor-done design of some agents. Still deserves 
 credit for the way everything is smooth and for how preety is the comic style of this game.
  
  SOUND:
  
  Its a music based game! The sound effects had to be good! Otherwise, it wouldnt 
 be as famous as it is. The songs play well and the agents voice are very cool and well-fitted here. 
 Now, to the downsides: some songs, like Highway Star are WAY worse than the original version, even 
 if some like Survivor fells better to listen. Of course, its all about your taste to music. If 
 you enjoy the new tunes of some songs then theres no problem for you ( still, Jumpin Jack Flash 
 has nothing to do with the original song. In this game, JJF feels like a heavy rock, not like the 
 elegant tune from the original song, but that change was necessary to fit its stage) .
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Perfect. Highly addictive. Wonderful. These words are good ones to describe how 
 the game plays. There are three kinds of markers: the simple ones, that you just have to touch 
 in the music rhythm in the correct order, the drag ones, that require you to touch and follow a 
 ''ball'' that will appear, they can also require you to drag back the ball, and the last is the 
 wheel. The wheel requires you to draw imaginary circles in the touch-screen. This is the worst 
 part of the gameplay and will hurt your hand sometimes. Thankfully, they wont appear very often 
 so you can just relax. These markers arent random what is very good. Some songs will take you 
 a long time to master, or even be able to get a flawless play. It would only be better without 
 the wheel, that sometimes just feel like if theyre useless. Despite that, the gameplay is perfect. 
 And this game even has a multiplayer mode.
  
  LENGTH:
  
  This game is short. The main game can be beaten in some hours with J and Spin ( two of the main 
 agents ) . But, with the two others ( or should I say four ) , its another thing. The game will 
 be insanely hard, taking lots of tries to beat one song that you knew since you childhood. The 
 number of markers increase. The drag markers get faster. The sequences of common markers gets bigger 
 and harder and your hands will be wet. In resume, the game is a little short but is insanely hard 
 after some time.
  
  REPLAY VALUE:
  
  Even if its short, youll be playing for a long time before acomplishing the 100% of the game. 
 Playing with friends will just increase more to the game, beating the game with every agent is 
 hard, requires training and will fell like a personal realization. Buy it, play it, love it, kick 
 you friends ass and then love it again.
  
  GRAPHICS: They were well made, even if the 3-D models of the agents arent as good as they could 
 be.
  9.5
  
  SOUND: Everything is sounds well, from the agents voice to the songs. But, if you dont like the 
 musics ( what may not happen ) , drop 2,0 points from the overall score.
  10
  
  GAMEPLAY: Again, the game will play well most of the time. If you learn to coexist with the wheel, 
 then you have the best game for a handheld system ever released. If not, well, the game focus on 
 the markers ( your real problem will be JJF when it gets harder ) .
  10
  
  LENGTH: Short. But, finishing the game will take you a long time if play it with Chieftain. Still, 
 from the 19 musics, 9 will be easy with every agent.
  7.0
  
  REPLAY VALUE: It has multiplayer via download play, the songs are addictive to play, and youll 
 be playing it for a long time before you master every song.
  9.0
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 9.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nash_latkje
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 25, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  If you already played Ouendan, Elite Beat Agent won't be new for you.
  
  In this game you're in the role for the Agents squad with the same goal that the cheerleading squad: 
 to dance and cheer for people in determined situations accordingly to the music.
  
  Unlike Ouendan, in EBA you'll face more "americanized" situations, such as help a girl babysitting 
 her yonger brothers while trying to stay with her boyfriend (who is a football player) , help baseball 
 player to save his little fellow... and so goes on.
  
  The game works the same way as it's "japanese brother": just press, spin or drag the small coloured 
 balls as they appear in the touch accordingly to the rhythm of the music. As you make progress 
 in the game, they appear in greater amounts or faster (or both) .
  
  The game is fun and the difficulty level is high enough to make it fun. You also have the Multiplayer 
 mode, in which you can play with up to four friends.
  
  The music selection... Well, it could get better. You'll find some very well-known names, such 
 as Hoobastank and Village People.
  
  If you are a fan of Ouendan, it's definitely worth playing it! (even though I still like Ouendan 
 better) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paslaugh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Okay so the basic idea is that you tap the touch screen with the stylus on beat with 
 the music. There are several difficulty levels which makes this game very easy to pick up, but 
 very difficult to beat to 100% completion as the difficulty ramps up. The game features quirky/hilarious 
 storylines as you compete to help these goofy random characters out. For example in one mission 
 you help a young Leonardo DaVinci try to romance the female subject of the Mona Lisa.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is great and if you can catch the beat of the music you will have 
 no problem succeeding in this challenging and addictive game. The music in this game is geared 
 to both younger and older audiences as we hear such tunes as 'Sk8er Boi' and 'The Anthem', but 
 also hear classics like David Bowie's 'Lets Dance' and Chicago's 'You're the Inspiration'.
  
  Graphics: Since this is a rhythm game, graphics arent really that important, but the cartoon 
 animations are colorful, smooth, and clean.
  
  Overall: This is definitely one of the best games on the DS if not THE BEST game on the DS. This 
 game will be challenging for gamers of all ages, and all fans of rhythm games should definitely 
 pick up a copy. I challenge anyone to pick up this game and not have an enjoyable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittykatz5k
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  This is the most laughably absurd story I've heard in years. In the Japanese version, you're a 
 bunch of male cheerleaders who cheer people on in their activities. Somewhere along the way, they 
 discovered in America that male cheerleaders aren't all that popular. So to count for this, they 
 changed the people into agents. So now, you're an underground agency of bad ass lookingagents who 
 fall from the sky whenever people have a problem and dance to help them solve it somehow. This 
 and the hilarious missions you go on makes this one of those stories that's so weird and stupid 
 that it's awesome.
  
  Graphics:
  Everything is stylized in this game, right down to the menus. They keep a consistent anime stile 
 for all the characters and only on the bonus missions have I seen reused frames, and those are 
 only for the intro agent appearance. There's not much to say when it comes to rhythm games having 
 graphics, but the 3 agents are kool looking, and the comics passing by as you do a mission are 
 fairly well detailed and animated.
  
  Gameplay:
  Let me get the low points out of the way here. There are a couple of times in some songs where 
 the moves you do don't feel right, and completely out of rhythm with the moves they ask you to 
 do, and the spinner can occasionally be inaccurate, or just annoying. Other than that, this is 
 the best rhythm game I've played in years. Unlike what I feel guitar hero and dance dance revolution 
 have done over the years, this game actually makes the stuff they ask you to do relate to the music 
 you're going to. And I don't mean like every so often, I mean like most to all of the time. Your 
 beats actually contribute to the overall music, and your screw ups screw you off until you can 
 get back to feeling the beat again. The touch screen is obviously accurate, and you can't blame 
 it when you fall off tone. If you do, calibrate your damn screen.
  
  There's also a small multiplayer mode. It's not too well done, and only a small bit of songs are 
 available there, but it has potential for a showdown if you find someone else with this game. There's 
 also a few bonus songs to reward players, ranks to move up, and little rewards to go with each 
 song, and punishments, depending on how you do.
  
  Sound:
  It features a good amount of songs but they're not sung by the original people though. That's fine 
 however, the singers are fairly accurate, only a couple of lyrical changes have been made, and 
 only in 1 bonus song did I ever shutter at the singing, and that's in 1 part. 
  
  Who wants this game?
  People who have an interest in rhythm games, or people who want one but 
 don't particularly like the old DDR stile.
  
  Extra note:
  I did not fully beat the game yet. I am only mostly through Sweatin difficulty. There is still 
 1 song which I have not seen yet. But because I have seen most of the package at the moment, I 
 feel it may take longer to unlock this stuff than I would want to take to write this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinChan64
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  What do you get when you cross Circles, Nubers, Music, Agents, A NINTENDO DS!? Why, It's Elite 
 Beat Agents, of course! EBA, what a strange little game. It's very addictive, and just all around 
 fun. The multiplayer is a neat little addition too. Though most of the songs are good, some really 
 test you on how much you like the game. *COUGH* Y. M. C. A. *COUGH* Anyway, though I REALLY enjoy 
 the Japanese version of this wacky innovation, I hope they make a sequel for the english one too. 
 And Wi-fi would be cool too. Overall, I'd have to say get the game. It's very fun, and I guess 
 your parents can get into it as well with all those old songs. The game's a little short, but that 
 didn't stop anybody form getting Halo 3 . . . AGENTS ARE GOOO! Also, what's up with the ultra thick 
 outline on the people . . .? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5Winston5
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents for the DS is a innovative rhythm game for the DS. basically there are little 
 numbered bubbles that you have to hit at the right time in the right order. The game starts out 
 pretty simple and basic and as you progress it becomes quite challenging. The songs in this game 
 are not preformed by the actual artists, but the songs are still preformed well. Most of the songs 
 in this game are good, but others are really bad. Although on the positive side it makes a good 
 variety. Elite Beat Agents has multiplayer, it has a single card play which is really good. If 
 you're struggling on a song and lose you can choose to review it. basically this takes a look at 
 what you did and you can see how the order is supposed to go or see where you messed up. This is 
 good if you trying to get better at the game. The cutscenes consist of comic-like animations which 
 works really well for the DS. All in all, Elite Beat Agents for the DS is an impressive game and 
 I give it a 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueFrawg22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game didn't seem like much fun when I saw the ads on TV or even when I played it at a kiosk 
 at game crazy. When I first tried it out at gamecrazy it seemed very hard to me so I stopped playing 
 after like 40 seconds. A couple months later a friend asked to borrow a DS game from me, he lent 
 me EBA and I lent him Sonic or something. I played the training mode and the first couple of levels 
 and loved the game. It's the most addicting game on the DS. The crazy cutscenes, the dancing, the 
 great music. This game is a blast to play and now when I hear any of these songs I find myself 
 tapping my finger like in the game without realizing it. This is one crazy fun game. BUY IT NOW! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crankypinoy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Well here's a very fun rhythm game everyone with a DS should get. You play as 3 agents known as 
 the "Elite Beat Agents" who dance and I think sing to save the world or fix people's problems. 
 In each song you must tap circles at the right time then if you do well you pass the level. Sounds 
 kind of boring but really it's a lot of fun. Now there are a few problems. The difficulty can be 
 so unbelieveably hard you might want to break your DS in two. Some of you may like rhythm games 
 and some of you may not but this one is a must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: S1MPL3xPLAN
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  One word sums up Elite Beat Agents. AWESOME!
  
  This game is simple AWESOME! It's definitely a masterpiece! At first glance, I thought the game 
 was just another rhythm game. But when I finally went out to buy it and played it for the first 
 time, I was totally hooked!
  
  The game itself is just a work of art. The graphics in the comic book style is spot on and really 
 tells funny, touching, or just outrageous stories. The 3-D animations were also great.
  
  The game play is just phenomenal. The beats are correctly aligned and no song seems to have any 
 awkward beats. The concept of the game is by far the best of most rhythm games, even if it is tapping 
 dots on a screen (however it gets progressively difficult... so a simple concept has turned into 
 a real challenge!) .
  
  The main point of the game is the music. The music choices were just simply the best choices and 
 they fit every storyline perfectly. The update of some classics was nice to see in such a modern 
 game! You'll find yourself wanting to play a level, just to hear the song again!
  
  Overall, the game is relatively difficult. Yes, it starts out easy, but the beats get harder and 
 harder to nail and it becomes easier and easier to fail missions. But, everything is doable with 
 much practice and with knowing the songs! Meaning, this game has a lot of replay value (to up the 
 ranking and the scores!) .
  
  The game seems to be "just right" because its not easy, yet not too hard. It just takes coordination 
 to get the beats down correctly.
  
  I recommended everyone to go buy this game and play it for themselves. It's such a great game that 
 cannot be missed! That's why my score is a 10, because it's such a unique concept of rhythm games 
 that has not been seen before with any system (since now there's a touch screen, which allows free 
 movement around to tap the dots) . GO OUT AND GET THIS GAME NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: no1nick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  One of the best DS games I've ever played! you beat it once, twice, three, then four times after 
 you unlock the hard rock difficulty! It has a great single card and multi-card gameplay including 
 new stories that differ from the games. The game includes songs like: YMCA, ABC, Believe and Jumpin' 
 Jack Flash. I'm telling you, if your going to buy a new DS game this had better be it. This game 
 has everything it needs and more like 4 difficulties! Secret characters, songs, and innovative 
 storyline. Obviously the best rythm based game I've ever played on the DS. It's somewhat like Guitar 
 Hero except it has a storyline for each mission in which you help the person in need acheive they're 
 goal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jabbawocky04
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  There is something special EBA. Maybe it is because it is the first game for my DS that requires 
 the use of the stylus, maybe because I passed my driving test while playing this game or maybe 
 it was just so different it was good. Elite Beat Agents is a rhythm game where you are playing 
 as three members of an organisation that dance people in trouble to victory.
  Thats about as far as the story goes so lets talk about how the game plays. In EBA you use your 
 stylus to hit circles while another circle crosses over them. The closer to the required area the 
 more points you get while missing will give you no points and take a chunk out of you progress 
 bar which lurks at the top of your bottom screen (and if you don't keep it up you will fail the 
 level) . Thats about as far as the game play goes it plays perfectly (as long as you touch screen 
 is tuned well) .
  EBA has some pretty sharp animation (the only 3d models are that which dance on the bottom screen) . 
 But the really good stuff happens on the top screen when you have just completed sections of a 
 song and can be quite funny whether you have passed or failed.
  The music on the game is fantastic, it is all covered but it sounds great for you to tap along 
 to. Another good thing about the game is that as long as you are playing well the music sounds 
 better as long as you are hitting the note in tune with the over lapping circles There are one 
 or two song which may not be too fun to play with but it all depends on your taste in music.
  This game will keep you occupied for a long time as if you manage to complete the set of songs 
 on one difficulty you will want to see if you can do it on the next difficulty. There is also an 
 urge to improve your scores as well until you get that perfect score. The multiplayer is quite 
 good too as you have a dance-off with your friend.
  You take away from EBA a sense of accomplishment and feel as if your reflexes have improved as 
 you managed to hit the ever increasing pace of the songs. If you love rhythm games then you will 
 love this and even if you don't then maybe you will enjoy the uniqueness of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomrings
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  A good, weird, fun, and somewhat popular experience; you can find it here on Elite Beat Agents. 
 With about 16 songs including bonus songs that take a certain amount of points to keep going, it's 
 pretty fun though taking a while to get used too. The time to get used to really doesn't take from 
 the game experience though, and the multiplayer is also good (unless you're experiencing the un-synced 
 slowness of Single-Card play) . The commercials aren't promising and not even 25 songs sounds somewhat 
 short, but you play them on 4 different difficulties and still try to boost up your rank with your 
 overall score, so it keeps you beating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicalbuffymar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  This game is the best rhythm game on the DS by far, although I'm not sure if there is much (or 
 any) competition at all. At least, for a more easy-going, less hardcore audience. The gameplay 
 centres around hit markers, which are numbered circles that have rings closing in on them. You 
 must tap the hit marker at the exact time the ring touches the outside of the circle. The game 
 mixes things up by adding overlapping hit markers and roll and spin markers to keep you on your 
 toes. With roll markers, you have to keep your stylus on the ball as it rolls along the screen, 
 with reverse junctions to amp up the difficulty. Finally, with spin markers, which are usually 
 only at the end of a stage, you must simply spin with the stylus as quick as possible. The story 
 is expectedly zany, with overworked babysitters to washed-up baseball stars all calling for help 
 from the elite beat agents. The song collection is nicely varied, but a few poor song choices stop 
 it from being brilliant. As you play, the 3D agents dance (or fall over, depending on how you play) , 
 while on the top screen, a low-budget comic strip plays out the story. Although cheap, it altogether 
 works with the zaniness of the game. With single and multi cart multiplayer, ghost data and hidden 
 stages, this game will keep you entertained not only for hours on end, but in short breaks too. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clickster_34
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2008 11:16 am PT
Review:  Elite beat Agents is a unique rhythm game based on the Japanese hit, "Osu Tatakae Ouendan!". Lots 
 of people view this game as a game that you only tap circles, draw lines and spin spinners in time 
 to music. That IS what the game is about, but I can assure you that it's way more fun than it sounds.
 
  
  Graphics: The top screen is home to a comic book-like cartoon for th story. As you play through 
 a level, the top screen animations react to how well you do. One scene from "Y. M. C. A." shows an 
 old captain looking for treasure. If you do normal, he'll walk through slowly. If you do good, 
 he'll run very fast. If you do poorly, he'll be attacked by bats. The touch screen, on the other 
 hand, houses the titular agents; who dance and groove when you do the song well. If you miss, they'll 
 fall down. The zoom in if you do really bad and act tired, and if you do extremely bad, the leader's 
 face will consume the entire screen. It all depends on the Elite-o-meter (see game-play section) . 
 The only flaw graphics-wise is when you stand up after falling down and resume dancing, the transition 
 can be a tad bit choppy.
  9/10
  
  Sound: When you tap the markers, the make a really neat sound that resembles the striking of a 
 cymbal. This helps the game feel responsive; a must have in rhythm games. A chaka-chaka sound comes 
 out when you draw a Phrase Marker (see game-play section) and a whirring sound emits from the spinner. 
 The sounds add flawlessly to the game's twenty songs.
  10/10
  
  Music: The most important part of this game is the wide selection of choice songs. From "Makes 
 No Difference" by Sum 41 and "The Anthem" by Good Charlotte, to stranger songs such as "Let's Dance" 
 by David Bowie or "Jumpin' Jack Flash" by The Rolling Stones. Elite Beat Agents has a little bit 
 for everybody; even parents! I'm sure some adults wouldn't mind jamming to "ABC" by The Jackson 
 Five or "Rock This Town" by the stray cats. Nothing is wrong with the song selections other than 
 the difficulty of later pieces; but that's what practice is for.
  10/10
  
  Game-play: Elite Beat Agents has a very unique system: Tap circles, draw lines, spin stylus. You 
 have to tap the "Hit markers" that appear in numerical order and color groups. You clear one group 
 before the next, of course. Depending on the time of the hit, you will get 300 points, 100 points, 
 50 points, or an "X" if you miss. Getting all 300's in a group awards an "Elite Beat" bonus. Getting 
 all 300's or 100's gives you a "Beat" bonus. 50's wont's help you out a whole lot.
  Then you have "Phrase markers". They are basically two Hit markers with a track between them. Tap 
 the numbered side of the marker and hold to make a ball appear, and drag it to the other side of 
 the marker. A U-turn symbol at the end of the phrase marker means to drag the ball back to the 
 beginning. Do this without taking the stylus off the ball to get 300 points. Remove your stylus 
 once, you get 100. Remove it twice, 50. Screw up all together and get the "X".
  Next are the "Spinners". When one appears, you must spin the stylus around the screen fast. This 
 can be easy, or make you gasp and wheeze. Spin quickly and fill the spin bar to get bonus points, 
 and an Elite Beat bonus. Fill it with no bonus to get a Beat. Don't fill it to get an "X". X's 
 are BAD.
  Finally, I should explain the Elite-o-Meter. This is a meter at the top of the touch screen that 
 acts like a health bar. Do well, the meter will fill up. Miss or take time, and the meter will 
 go down.
  My only complaint is that the meter is always going down (other than in cut scenes) , which may cause 
 you to rip your hair out if the meter empties and you lose.
  What's the problem? WAAAAAY TOO HARD!! The later songs are just plain NUTS! Since the Elite-o-meter 
 goes down automatically, missing a couple of notes could cost you the entire level...
  7/10
  
  Videos: Like I said, the top screen videos will respond to how well you do. They are 
 very funny and memorable.
  One song, "September" by Earth Wind & Fire, features a news lady named Sophie who promised to take 
 her son on a picnic and finds out that the weather calls for clouds and rain. She then tells a 
 lie on national television that it will be sunny. She then must make it sunny to keep her job, 
 but needs help. Multiple other characters (some apartment folks, tha air force, some animals) help 
 her and each states "We saw the show, Sophie!".
  Hilarious moments like these keep you glued to your DS for months on end.
  10/10
  
  Other 
 than this, one big flaw is that with all that poking, spinning and dragging; something will eventually 
 die. First, my stylus cracked. Then my touch screen died (thank goodness for Nintendo's repair 
 plans!) . No game will destroy your DS like Elite Beat Agents.
  
  Aside from flaws and DS destruction, Elite Beat Agents can be enjoyed by almost anybody and is 
 a must-have. I personally enjoy it even more than Super Paper Mario! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  where do i start with elite beat agent's there's so many good part's to it it's fun, funny, and addictive 
 but on top of that it's completely original. in the game you star as the elite beat agent's a team 
 of music loving agent's that help people withe pwer of dance and music. yeah i knowyour thinking 
 it's it's completely insane and you are right it is but it's that and the fun and addictive gamplay 
 that make this game so awsome. now the track list here isn't amazing in fact i only like a couple 
 of song's on it but EBA is't really about the song's in fact it make's you concentrate on hitting 
 note's even more then the song so don't worry about not liking the game because of a lousy sondtrack. 
 the game is also very hard i myself can't even beat jumpin jack flash on cruisin ( BUT I WILL ONE 
 DAY) but again don'y worry playing it on breezin is still as fun as ever to play. sos with all 
 of the sing's gameplay and whacky completely insane concepts EBA climb's to the top of the DS's 
 collection of game's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ray_Out
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:03 pm PT
Review:  The design and gameplay was just amazing. Im glad they Americanized the original game that was 
 called Osu! Tatakae!! Ouendan!!! Elite Beat Agents comes second to its japanese counterpart. The 
 gameplay is spectacular and unlimited, I could play for hours and not get bored of it. The graphics 
 were like any other ds game. I say, this is the best American Rhythm game ever. The game is spilt 
 up into 4 different diffuculties, easy, normal, hard, and very hard. You go around the world helping 
 people by tapping on the screen with numbered markers. The story and text is made up into a comic 
 book style. When the client is in need of the agents they go HEEEEEELP!! and thats when the Elite 
 Beat Agents spring into action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is an amazing game. It involves you hitting circles and dragging beach balls 
 on the touch screen in sync with a song. Sounds boring, doesn't it? Well, that's what I thought 
 when I first heard about the game. I thought it just looked stupid. Then I played it with my friend 
 and I realized that this was no stupid game. In fact, it's the best DS game I've ever played! I 
 got the game and I've played it a lot, and it's an addicting, fun, and interesting game. It has 
 you helping people with problems by keeping the beat to a song in the fashion I mentioned earlier. 
 There are 19 songs total, which isn't too bad a number. The music selection is pretty good, too, 
 I've even downloaded a few songs onto my iPod! There are also four difficulty levels, the best 
 of which is easily the third because it's hard enough to make you really try but you can also master 
 it if you play it enough. The only thing I didn't like is the suggestive themes, the game should 
 have been rated 'T.' But that aside, EBA is one DS game no gamer should miss! (although it's really 
 a shame that it didn't sell very well) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogomesaki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This is one of he best games ive ever played. it is the raw emotion of fun in a video game. it 
 doesnt need a serios plotline, or cool looking visuals to makeit good. its got an amazing idea 
 to it, i mean poking circles t the beat of music? think of something more random that is as fun 
 as this game. im almost always negative about things, espesally when im writing, but the only way 
 this game could possibly improve would mabey be a little bit better music, like some rock, or a 
 few techno songs to fit the rythme theme. if anyone has a DS, thi is the first thing you should 
 play. - the honest voice inside your head -Drew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  I had been meaning to get this game for awhile but I finally decided to get it for my birthday.. 
 The game is pretty much a rhythm based game where you have to tap different colored numbers on 
 the touchpad as they come into allignment.. There are also spinning wheels that you have to twirl 
 as fast as you can as well as sliders where you have to press the button then slide it along to 
 the next one.. At the beginning of the game it is very easy but near the last couple levels I had 
 alot of trouble with them and this is only on easy.. Im not sure how many difficulties the game 
 has but I will be going back to play more of it.. Sure the music isnt the greatest but there are 
 some good songs on the game and the game is easy to get into and play.. My favorite part of the 
 game is its art style.. Its so loud and colorful its just awesome pretty much.. and its pretty 
 funny most of the time.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris-Flame
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  About time ago, i saw at Magazine previews about game called Osu! Takakae! Ouendan! It looked very 
 awesome, but I was afraid, it wasn't released to America and Europe. Then after few days I heard 
 rumors of American-version of OSO. Then Nintendo published Elite Beat Agents. It also released 
 in Europe, so i bought it fast.
  
  At beginning you can choose 2 different difficults: Breezin' and Cruisin'.
  Breezin' sounded 
 too easy for me, so i took Cruisin', Dancing Agent-leader as Agent J. He also looked cool. After 
 beating Cruisin' you'll get Sweatin', and Hard Rock! About how hard this game.. At beginning it 
 easy, but after beating couple songs it's getting more harder. So it feel very right. Except Hard 
 Rock's Jumpin' Jack Flash...
  
  There's different stories and songs to finish like Babysitter wants a Crazy-Football-College-Dude 
 to be her steady, but 3 kids are going to ruin her day, Dog gets lost middle of Highway and somelike 
 that. The stories are funny, after all this game is made for humor. But songs.. God.. They fit 
 very well to stories.. But.. I don't like it.. I wanted Ready-Steady-Go 
  This game felt like Japenese game slapped all American in this game. Just like, what happened to 
 Super Mario Bros. 2 .. But there were few good songs at EBA.
  
  Gameplay is fantastic, incredible.. Tapping on right time, Sliding carefull or fast and spinning 
 wheel as fast you could. It's Perfect.. As Nintendo said:
  Touching is good 
  
  After beating game, is that it? It was really short, only 19 songs. It's too short. But you can 
 try beat Hi-scores and play MultiPlayer.
  
  Overrall: Excellent Rhythm/music game, but could been longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  The zone. Many a gamer has experienced it. Whether its on an old skool SHMUP like Ikaruga where 
 you somehow manage to dodge a screen full of bullets without having any idea how you managed it 
 or recent hitters like Guitar Hero where you manage to strum every note for the first time on an 
 incredibly difficult track. Its a place where you stop thinking and you fingers do everything without 
 any input from your brain and pull of amazing feats that make you feel like a god. This place is 
 where I spent the majority of my weekend. EBA is a truly brilliant videogame. But i'll come back 
 to this later. For those of you who have heard of the cult favourite Ouendan you know what to expect. 
 This is the same game but with English tracks and different story lines. For those who havent got 
 a clue EBA is a Rhythm action title in the same vein as Amplitude, Parappa the Rappa and Guitar 
 Hero. You have an increasing number of numbered circles on the bottom half of the screen that must 
 be tapped with the stylus in time to the music. These have larger circles around them that close 
 in and the closer you the larger circle to the numbered when you tap - the larger the score. Its 
 full of songs from all eras such as ABC, YMCA, Sk8ter Boi and the final heartpounding track Jumping 
 Jack Flash. You are 3 Agents that go off saving peoples troubles with music. These range from the 
 ridiculous - a cat left in charge of a baby, a dog thats lost and trying to get home - to the most 
 mature and serious storylines that will raise actual emotions - A father going away on work business 
 promising his Daughter that he'll be back for xmas then dies before his return. Heart wrenching 
 stuff. All done in a charming comic book style cut-scenes The previously mentioned 'zone' is what 
 you hit when you reach the second of the two final tracks on medium. The circles pop up at a great 
 speed and you'll be thinking 3 steps ahead of the note your about to tap. Every beat starts producing 
 circles whereas before it was just odd times. But this really comes into its own halfway through 
 hard mode that is unlocked after completing Jumping Jack Flash. In hard mode you will eventualy 
 just start tapping to the beat - no longer needing the outer circles to guide your tapping. You 
 see the numbers and off you got to the beat. Some of the faster songs will have you tapping at 
 an alarming rate and you'll have no idea how your pulling it off - but when you do there is no 
 feeling like it. It requires ultimate concentration and will make you feel incredible. If you havent 
 experience Ouendan I strongly recommend this. The second best DS game I have ever played. For those 
 of us who experienced the Jap version. This is a whole sequal not just the same and worth a purchase 
 even if you have the Jap version. It has to be said thuogh the characters arent quite as charming 
 and most of the soundtrack does not live up to the jap version which I was humming for weeks after. 
 Also obviously you know what to expect so isnt as unique as the first time yuo played. Which is 
 responsble for the lost mark. However there is one difference that is major in my eyes and will 
 be to anyone who got stuck on the last level of Oendan and had to have multiple retries. Now if 
 you loose a restart is almost instant. You can now skip the intro of a song not just the cut-scene. 
 For those of us who experienced the pain in arse hearing that same bit of music as your power meter 
 fills up will know that this is a god send and makes replaying much more enticing. Truly brilliant 
 game everyone should experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mustah
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Elite beat agents is one of those games that you need to buy for the Nintendo DS. The graphic presentation 
 of the game is easy on the eyes that it scores a about a 9 in the graphics department. The game's 
 difficulty is great since it has four different modes to attune to your ability in the game. The 
 story part and multi player are the parts of the game that lack work on. The songs in the game 
 are mostly good except for Sk8ter Boi! The loading times are fast and the game helps you feel that 
 the idea of not using buttons for game play is definitely felt in this game. The game is highly 
 addictive and it is worth it! It never gets old! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenny789
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2007 5:14 am PT
Review:  At first I thought this game looked boring. Tapping to songs like Sk8ter Boi and Believe didn't 
 seem like fun to me but since I was desperate for a good DS game and Gamespot gave it a good score, 
 I decided to try it out and boy I wished I bought this game sooner!
  
  Graphics: Well the graphics in this game aren't all that good but the thing is, you won't be looking 
 at the backgrounds and surroundings of this game since you'll probably be concentrating on the 
 circles. All in all, the graphics are alright especially for this type of game.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay's really addictive. Tapping a bunch of circles to the beat of song songs may 
 not seem like fun at first but once you actually play the game it somehow feels more than just 
 tapping. Sounds strange but thats how I feel playing this game and so do all my friends who tried 
 it. Trust me, gameplay's fantastic.
  
  Sound: The sound is quite good actually. Most of the songs sound bad but once you get into the 
 game, they start to grow on you. It actually feels like the game makes the songs sound better. 
 Sounds strange but once again thats how I feel.
  
  All in all, I HIGHLY recommend this game to everyone who has a DS. I really underestimated this 
 game. So if you want a new rhythm game or if you're looking for something that can last a while, 
 EBA is the game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majinboris
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2007 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Alright, to start off, I'm was skeptical about this game. I don't really take to rhythm games so 
 I was cautious to avoid titles like Guitar Hero and Dance Dance Revolution. However, before purchase 
 I had no idea Elite Beat Agents was a rhythm game at all - actually, I had thought about it but 
 disregarded that fact - so I was simply stunned when I found out how rhythmic and addictive it 
 was. You won't find a more randomly assorted selection of classics and new-wave songs from American 
 artists. While a few of the songs seem rather out-of-place - "Sk8er Boi" comes to mind - many of 
 the songs line up perfectly with the action on the screen and they're fun to listen to regardless 
 of their stature in the mission.
  
  The backdrop for each of the game's 16 regular missions and 3 bonus missions is that some person 
 in a part of the world is going through a series of unfortunate events and are in dire need of 
 help. As a member of the Elite Beat Agents you are assigned a mission to the specified person. 
 The way you help them is by - bizarrely enough - dancing, of all things! This makes absolutely 
 no sense but retracts nothing from the actual playability of the game. In fact, it's rather fun 
 watching sheer nonsense happen and achieving the same effect as if you had done it the standard 
 way. Your rank on each mission is determined by your overall score and remaining health bar.
  
  The health bar is rather odd in the regard that it shows how good or bad you're doing. It's 
 divided into two parts: a "no" zone and a "yes" zone; which, at the start of the song, is what 
 the health bar starts out at. If you time your taps correctly to the beat your health will remain 
 in the "yes" zone. Missing beats will cause the cursor to slowly move out of "yes" and into "no". 
 Make too many mistakes and you'll be greeted with the game over screen. The missions are divided 
 into various cut scenes; usually two or three. If your health bar is in the "no" zone you'll get 
 a "negative" scene; in the "yes" zone it will be a "positive" scene.
  
  The game has a fairly steep learning curve whether or not you're already familiar with the rhythm 
 genre. It's all about timing. If you're not into the groove then you may find yourself stuck on 
 or screaming inconceivable profanities and other vulgar things at your DS for hours before you 
 finally manage to move on. Otherwise, you'll have a considerably easier time though a few of the 
 songs are paced ridiculously fast and you'll have to just keep coming back for more unless you 
 give up or win.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is one of the funnest and most bizarre games for the DS. It's culmination of 
 old and new songs blend together almost seamlessly and are a blast to listen to even if they don't 
 fit the current mission backdrop. The difficulty somewhat mares its pick-up-and-playability but 
 if you're looking for something new or just plain out of the ordinary, and if you don't mind rhythm 
 games, Elite Beat Agents may just be right up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ViVi110
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Let me just start with how great this game is. The overall addictiveness of EBA is crazy. It's 
 a great pick up and play game and is an overall amazing experience.
  
  The game is basically 3 male cheerleaders (in one case female) who are sent of on bizarre missions 
 to help people who have some random problem. From helping a babysitter get her boyfriend to become 
 her steady while looking after some bratty children to saving the world from music fearing aliens 
 wh turn humans in to stone the games mission are ridiculous and funny to play through.
  
  The gameplay is great and will surely scratch your DS screen to death. You tap and slide to the 
 beat of the song. For example When-you-on-to... would be slide-tap-tap-tap.. . The result is extremely 
 addicting and fun.
  
  The only real problem with this game is the song choice. There are some greats like David Bowie 
 and the rolling stones but Cher and who ever sings skater Boi really are embarrassing and I wish 
 they would have picked better classics.
  
  So this is a great fun game that should not be missed by anyone who enjoys music games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valramil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents, based of the japanese wonder Ouendan, was remade for the American crowd, the 
 most noticeable change being the language (into english, duh) , and the characters. The afro guy 
 practiclly made the game for me, and the diva's where... a surprise. The game may be short, but 
 it does little to dampen the addicting gameplay and catchy music. You're the inspiration was a 
 nice surprise, but the voices that are added when the people say help make me gag at their horribleness. 
 The multiplayer is neat and will even allow people to play if they dont have a card, but will only 
 allow you to access everything if both players have the game. Very addicting and worth buying. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobobo_iz_best
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  EBA is the Americanized version of some random Japanese game. For the first time in ages USA has 
 done better than Japan. EBA is an lol game to the end. Although some of the songs are iffy, most 
 of them are still good and stuff.
  
  Gameplay: Wow. This is a really, downright medium difficulty game. I find it hilarious to find 
 grown men in black tuxes dancing to songs like Material Girl, You're the Inspiration, La La, and 
 more. Clicking little circles is funner than it seems. 9/10.
  
  Graphics: Great for a DS game. The graphics are unsurpassed throughout the DS. Although graphics 
 on consoles like GC, PS2, Wii, and PS3 could easily beat this, its better then any other nintendo 
 handhled yet. 9/10.
  
  Sound: Obvious perfect. The music in the game is completely great, with the agents talking, singers 
 singin, and Commander Kahn saying GO!!! all the time. It's awsome. XD 10/10.
  
  Value: Lasts a long time, even after you beat it. It's just way too much fun to stop playing. 8/10
 
  
  Tilt: Uhh... 9/10? Someone mail me and tell me wat it means, please.
  
  Overall, EBA is a really funny game. Although songs like Sk8r Boi and La La seem different because 
 people are used to Avril and Maddona, they still hang in great (especially songs like YMCA) . The 
 only song that doesn't sound much different is Survivor. Overall- 9.0. I just cant stop the dancing!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rholding2000
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  You could say its just ike Boom Boom, Rocket, the X-Factor game on mobile or Guitar Hero but i 
 wont.
  
  Its a game where you hit parts of the screen in time with the music, if this be the vocal line 
 or prominent beat. Its a really really great game that caters for the gamers that want a real challenge 
 as all i can say is that this game can get really really hard.
  
  Unlike some of these games the music used here are real tracks with favourites ike madonna, david 
 bowie, Avril lavigne . . if thats a favourite, the point is you would have heard most of the songs 
 in this game . .which adds to the frustration as youll fail a song and it be a song you know realy 
 realy well.
  
  the method in which you play the game is also varied and it uses the touch screen perfectly. Many 
 said this dual screen . . the DS would just fop as it would be a gimmicky kind of set up with developers 
 using the 2nd screen for mundane tasks . . .well not here, apart from guiat hero where you get 
 a guitar, this would be the next best thing. Go Nintendo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  Like everyone else I thought Elite Beat Agents would be boring. Just the concept of touching bubbles 
 with numbers in it with the rhythm of the music sounded like the most lame idea EVER. BUT, when 
 I actually tried the game, my previous thoughts were quickly erased, do you want to know why? Well 
 read my review.
  (5 out of 5)
  Story: Elite Beat Agents are about a group of Agents who work for EBA. (Title of the game) Their 
 mission is to sing and dance so people can escape their problems in their lives. Makes sense, no. 
 But is it funny, definitely. The game actually consists of people's problems in the EBA universe, 
 some of their problems might include rescuing a baby from its own death, and other problems could 
 include helping a baseball player destroy a fiery monster of doom. Each problem, uh story, is unique 
 in every way and ties in with game extremely well. (4 out of 5)
  Gameplay: The game is actually quite entertaining. The top screen is used for cut scenes while 
 the bottom screen is used for bubble touching action. The whole concept is unique and very challenging. 
 But there a few songs in which the bubbles and songs just don't go well with each other. The game 
 is short, but there are other difficulty levels in which to challenge your bubble touching skills. 
 The game has a very high replay value.
  (5 out of 5) Graphics: The game runs like an animated comic book. The visuals are bright, colorful, 
 and inviting. The animations are pretty funny too, well when you fail parts of the song they're 
 funny. The graphics are just simply amazing.
  (5 out of 5)
  Sound: Elite Beat Agents offer a variety of songs, from Skater Boy to Survivor. Many of the songs 
 go well with the bubbles, especially when the bubbles make sounds when you tap them, the whole 
 concept is well done and sounds great. Its like a beat machine or something, uhhh never mind. (9.5 
 out of 10)
  Overall: Elite Beat Agents is a GREAT game that I would recommend to people who like music/beat 
 type of games. This is possibly one of the best DS games out there right now, do yourselves a favor 
 and buy it, or rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alienate14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Each song has several sections, with long, animated comic-book style cutscenes that you can't skip 
 as the music still plays underneath. The first time through it's amusing, but in the more difficult 
 levels it just gets tedious and frustrating that you can't skip the cutscenes and just get back 
 to the rhythm action. Thankfully, you are able to skip the equally long intros. The touch-screen 
 tapping, sliding and swirling feels natural and rhythmically tight, although your hand can and 
 does often get in the way of upcoming visual cues.
  
  Navigating between levels is accomplished by dragging the stylus to twirl a globe with icons for 
 each level/song. It can be more tedious to find a particular song you've already played than if 
 the songs were chosen from a list, but the convention gets points for novelty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamma124
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  This is the best game to grace the DS since Phoenix Wright. It's got guys in suits dancing to pretty 
 decent covers of songs. And in reality, isn't that all we want in a Rhythm game?
  STORY: 7/10
  I don't really see a storyline. But before you rock out to a awesome songs in a 
 level, you see a little comic style story showing you what happens to the target and then...
  They can't take the stress. They throw their head back and yell into the air...
  HEALP!!! (Yup. 
 That's how it's spelt in the game pretty much.)
  And the Elite Beat Agents are on the scene. They dance and sing to the song and depending on how 
 they do... well I'll explain more in Gameplay.
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  The Gameplay is great. it takes a bit of time to get used to, but when you do, the game is awesome. 
 Basically this is how you play it. In the style of Commander Kahn. Ok Men. I'm going to brief you 
 on the basics of being an agent. But before we start...
  BRIEFING 1 The Elite-o-meter
  The Elite-o-meter is like a health bar that you normally see in games. Except this one is constantly 
 dropping. The only way to keep it in a good condition is to get beats done properly. There are 
 3 conditions that the Elite-o-meter can be in. the 1st is the Yes condition. This means you're 
 doing good and there's no need to worry. The 2nd is the No condition. This means you're not doing 
 the best you can do and you should get a little better. The 3rd is the ! condtion. This means that 
 you aren't doing good at all. You should worry when it's in this condition. And the only way to 
 get better when in this condition is to GET MORE 300S!
  Ok Men. BRIEFING 2 Beat Markers
  A Beat Marker is 2 circles. 1 is a coloured circle with a number inside of it. the other is a thin 
 circle that is around the numbered circle. It is the same colour as the circle with the number inside 
 of it. When the thin circle touches the numbered circle. TAP! Depending on you're reaction time, 
 you will get 1 of 3 scores. A 300 is the best you can get. That means you got it perfectly on time. 
 A 100 means you nearly got it on time. And a 50 means you weren't fast enough. And if you don't 
 tap the circle at all you get no score and instead the Elite-o-meter goes DOWN! Keep that up and 
 it's game over. Mission Failed. Always tap the Beat Markers in the order they are numbered in every 
 situation. 2 Beat Markers on top of each other means you have to pay extra attention to the timer 
 circles (The thin coloured circles) to find out how quickly you tap.
  Ok Men.
  BRIEFING 3 Phrase Markers
  A Phrase Marker is like a Beat Marker with a long column next to it. 
 And this time when you tap you have to keep your stylus on the newly appeared ball until it reaches 
 the end. Or, if it has an arrow on the other end, then you keep your stylus on the ball until it 
 reaches the very end. Ok Men.
  FINAL BRIEFING Spin Markers
  When a spin marker appears, SPIN AS FAST AS YOU CAN! It's simple.
  Ok agents.
  GO!!!
  And 
 also, when the Elite-o-meter is in no when a scene comes, you'll get the bad scene. If it's in 
 Yes, You get the good scene.
  SOUND 10/10
  Yeah. Obvious reasons for 10. The song covers are excellent. And you can hear them very well with 
 headphones on.
  GRAPHICS 10/10
  The graphics are beautiful. You can see who's who. And the Anime style (I think it's anime style.) 
 Makes it even better.
  WEIRDNESS: 10/10
  This is one of the weirdest games I have. Guy's dancing to girly songs. It's weird. You need to 
 see it to believe it.
  STORY:7/10
  GAMEPLAY:10/10
  SOUND:10/10
  GRAPHICS:10/10
  WEIRDNESS:10/10
  OVERALL:10/10
  RANK: S
  COMMENTS FROM MOI:
  An excellent game. How long 
 it takes you will depend on your skill. SO GO OUT AND BUY IT NOW.
  RENT OR BUY: BUY IT FOR GOD'S SAKE! It's too awesome to miss.
  SUMMARY:
  Elite Beat Agents 
 is a game that realy changed my view on Rythm games. I was always bad at them and I thought they 
 sucked. But this game is awesome. I definetely recommend it.
  Happy Gaming!
  Gama124 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazy-lasagna
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Elite beat agents is like a game for almost everyone. The trick to beating this game easily is 
 by knowing the rhythm and the song. this game also had hilarious skits on the top of the screen, 
 what more can you ask for. there is only one problem with this game. the difficulty. sometimes 
 when you don't even know the song or the rhythm, you can be screwed. unless you hear the song. 
 man i just wish they put more songs. sure 19 is probably quite enough for some people, but most 
 people want more and more new songs. this was so much fun that when i said to myself okay, after 
 this level im done it never happened. haha so i guess this game deserves a 9 amazing beats out 
 of 10.
  
  The good: great gameplay, funny skits, addicting, fun
  
  The bad: can be hard at times, if you don't know the rhythm then your kinda screwed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exocel
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  Man how do i review this one?
  
  i was addicted to guitar hero at the time i saw this and im a big fan of out and out japanese games 
 that ten years ago wouldnt have made it out fo japan, so i had to get this one.
  The soundtrack is.. unsual to say the least, with covers of sum 41 ,cher, avril lavinge, david boey 
 and loads more odd choices, and im not a fan of any save maybe the final song (jumpin' jack flash) , 
 yet the soundtrack is perfect for this game.
  Basically you see circles on the lower screen with a number in and a shrinking circle around it 
 ,when it srhinks to the size of the numbered circle you tap it, also including a spinning disc, 
 rolling a ball across paths between circles.
  its easy to grasp but gets hard fast, though that makes it all the more fun when you progress within 
 the game.
  and oh yeah guys and gals, its addictive as hell, ive not played any other game for about 2 weeks, 
 seriously.
  
  i can recommend this as a must own ds game, i dont know what else to say, thought if you arent 
 dexterous enough you may not be able to progress to higher difficulty settings so its not for everyone 
 but a great game nonetheless. 9 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 15, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Furiously jabbing and rubbing a plastic stick on a screen in the middle of a train may look ridiculous, 
 but can also be a lot of fun. This is the essence of Elite Beat Agents, silly but enjoyable fun.
 
  
  I can recall saving the world through dance before. Space Channel 5 comes to mind; but never before 
 has it been quite as interesting and quirky as Elite Beat Agents. While a large portion of the 
 songs available may be less than desirable, the addictive and rhythmic game play is enough to merit 
 this short yet enjoyable experience.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is a collection of stories about agents. Agents who dance. To save the world. 
 Its not all world-saving and heroism though, the game starts off simple as our rockin trio (of 
 who is decided upon difficulty selection) are sent off on a mission to help a high school quarter-back 
 win the blonde he desires. How? Well through babysitting, of course. Its questionably great that 
 each mission is a separate story with individual characters, settings and plots each with their 
 own somewhat confronting style of creativity. Simply put - if you dont enjoy bizarre and insane 
 stories that would appeal to a class of Japanese banzai infants, then Elite Beat Agents may not 
 be for you. For those of you who enjoy helping a failing softball player rise the ranks of fame 
 by defeating a raging fire-breathing mud golem at a theme park, read on.
  
  The song list varies from pop to pop-rock to pop. If hearing low-quality Avril Lavigne emanating 
 from the ever-so-quiet NDS speakers sounds frustrating, its even worse when you discover that 
 all songs are actually covers and not the original artists. Its excusable and understandable that 
 re-recordings of the songs are necessary to create the game, but bearing with low quality covers 
 of Sum 41, Madonna and so forth can become frustrating to cope with.
  
  Wacky stories and poor quality pop songs would be nothing without an actual game to dance to, and 
 this is where Elite Beat Agents shines. The core game mechanics are very simple yet a lot of addictive 
 fun. Agents must use the stylus to touch numerical circles in order and in time to the music. Each 
 circle has a timer somewhat like a fuse, a large circle which moves slowly into the inner circle 
 - when it touches the outside and covers the circle its circumference-on-circumference action, 
 and time to touch! When its time for one of those long notes, agents will drag the stylus across 
 the screen following a path of movin and groovin. Its basic, but a lot of fun. The combination 
 of tapping and dragging can blend together very smoothly in the harder difficulties, helping you 
 to really get in the groove of each song. The game starts with two difficulties available; completing 
 the harder difficulty will unlock Chieftain (even harder) all the way to Kahn mode.
  
  Unlocking Kahn mode is one of the several things to achieve upon completing the main story. The 
 main story is a fun and rewarding experience with some great missions and art, but it can be a 
 tad short. A first play through on the higher difficulty will take you through about 15 songs and 
 generally isnt very challenging. I cant understand why unlocking the hardest difficulty, Kahn 
 mode, forces you to complete the easiest difficulty. Playing through easy mode is very simple and 
 tedious, and a waste of time for anyone older than 12 and younger than 80. After all, anyone mildly 
 experienced with rhythm games or stylus use in general should find the default hard difficulty 
 a breeze. Fortunately completing the game then unlocks a harder difficulty and its here where 
 the real game is and the main challenge is found.
  
  Once the game gets difficult the main fun takes place  but so does the frustration. Elite Beat 
 Agents uses a strange system where the bar that measures your success is automatically moving down 
 only to move up when you hit a successful note. This means that if you miss a bunch of notes but 
 manage to keep dancing, you could find that you still fail a song even after hitting 10 notes in 
 a row and not missing. Failing a song on a note that you hit successfully can leave you feeling 
 quite ripped off. If that doesnt piss you off enough, failing a song merely because your baboon-sized 
 hand impeded your vision of the next note can possibly result in an attempt to gnaw on ones own 
 hand. If youre like me and have a shoe size over 13, you could find yourself being beaten by a 
 12 year old merely for lack of a smaller hand.
  
  For a bit more content aside from the main game, EBA includes a great multiplayer mode with its 
 own story and characters. Players dance off at the same time whilst progress is exemplified via 
 the top-screen combat of a space-chicken vs. a space-squid. Bettering your opponent can provide 
 an offensive advantage, as the losers screen shrinks and shakes according to combat.
  
  If youre a fan of music games, quirky humour and great art, theres a lot of fun to be had with 
 Elite Beat Agents. A little more motivation for game time beyond 4-5 hours other than re-playing 
 the same songs would have been a great addition, as well as a few nagging points being left out. 
 The length of the game is a real drawback but the amount of content crammed in that time justifies 
 a fun game.
  
  Elite Beat Agents
  
  78%
  
  The Good 
  
  * Fun characters, stories and humour.
  * Fast and addictive pick-up-and-play dancing.
  * A 
 bunch of stuff of extras  including well developed multiplayer.
  
  The Bad 
  
  * Relatively short.
  * Odd narration may turn some players away.
  * Main rewards are within 
 unlocks  some of which are very tedious to achieve.
  
  Fun Fact: Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan is the Japanese equivalent to Elite Beat Agents, with different 
 songs and stories. A sequel has recently surfaced too, recommended for any of you importers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maguilonski
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 2:47 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is very , very fun. I loved it because of the great gameplay and if you have 
 a lot of friends that have a NDS , you have to play the multiplayer mode , you and your friends 
 are gonna have a great time playing this game. The graphics of your character are beautifull , 
 the gameplay is awesome , and the story is also awesome, the only thing that I didnt like was the 
 sometimes it is to hard but still it is great. I give this great game a 9.4, I highly recommend 
 this game for you gamers that want a game that is fun and great , buy this game no matter how much 
 money you have, well borrow a little bit from your parents, you are gonna love it.
  This was a Maguilonski review for all you gamers out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hedgehog_bhoy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 10, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a very weird but AMAZING game. The songs are excellent with songs such as, 
 The Anthem by Good Charlotte, Material Girl by Madonna and lots more. The way you use the stylus 
 to tap along with the rythm is really fun and the clips are funny and cool to watch... when you 
 have the chance that is! You tap, drag and spin your way to victory in this game! Keep the rythm 
 going!
  
  It's strange how something so crazy can be so fun to play. It's like DDR for the DS! One of my 
 favourite songs is Jumping Jack Flash although it was really hard to complete! I hope people don't 
 take Elite Beat Agents for granted as easy coz it definetly ain't!!!
  
  I would advise this game to anyone who likes the dance mat, or who loves music. I actually hate 
 the dance mat games but this is an instant classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoodyFlame
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  This is an english version of the wildly popular Japanese DS rhythm game Oudendan (something...) . 
 The game is very hard to describe but the point is that it requires you to tap the screen on points 
 that are numbered and timed according to the music and has you doing scratches and spins also timed 
 with the music.
  
  There is no true stpry as every song in the game has it's own story and they are almost always 
 really whacky and funny. The stories range from gettinga babies diapper change to saving the world 
 from aliens, even feeding a dog is in there!
  
  The songs are a mix of old classics like the Y. M. C. A to new-ish punk rock such as Sk8tr Boi by 
 Avril Lavigne. The sound quality isn't super but it is quite good and the graphics are mix of dancing 
 3D models of the agents to cartoon drawings for the story that progresses during the song. The 
 game has an excellent mix of difficulties where Easy is truly easy and Hard is truly a challenge. 
 Like all rhythm games it does get frustrating repeating a song several times over but it gives 
 an excellent sense of satisfaction.
  
  The game does have both single-cart and multi-cart multiplayer options but sadly no online. Both 
 modes are really fun but they are only for 1 v 1 gameplay.
  
  This game is plain fun and should be owner by every DS owner, rhythm game fan or newcomer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spinach_Puffs
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Are you ready? 3, 2, 1... GO!!!
  
  No matter how many times I hear that snippet of speech, I'm always ready to get my stylus - and 
 my feet - tapping.
  Elite Beat Agents effortlessly combines a great soundtrack with inspired animated videos to create 
 a ridiculously addictive rhythm game.
  
  Each level features an hilarious plotline which (generally speaking) is connected to the subject 
 of song. For example, in the Highway Star level, a dog is attempting to hitch-hike his way back 
 to his owner (you see! - both are about cars and driving!) , and the YMCA level is about a pirate 
 sailor (er..., yeah... I'll leave that for you to work out!) .
  The only level that doesn't fit the pattern is Avril Lavigne's Sk8er Boi , which was probably included 
 to distract more modern gamers from the retro soundtrack.
  
  The best thing about Elite Beat Agents is that it is entirely re-playable. Even when you're stuck 
 on a level for days, you never grow tired of it (I speak from experience here) .
  
  This game grabs you from the first level and never lets go, even after the superb climax. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmrndlze
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  I was hesitant to buy this game at first, but I eventually bought it after a testing of it at Gamestop. 
 I am glad I did buy it because it is a great game that keeps you enticed.
  
  The game is simple in that you tap the indicated circles when an outer circle is encircling the 
 first one. The best parts about this game are the animations and the music. The cartoons that go 
 with each song are so funny. Each song is allotted its own story and depending on how you do, the 
 story either ends up good or bad. The stories are so good and funny that you want to lose on purpose 
 to see what happens. For example, the first level you play involves a babysitter wanting to spend 
 time with a guy she is crushing on (hes a football player) . Depending on how you do, she either 
 ends up with him or she doesnt.
  
  The music in this game is excellent! Each song fits perfectly with each level and its corresponding 
 cartoon. Single card download play also adds value to the game as well as four levels of difficulty. 
 This game is a must have for any DS owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kineas454
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 31, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  This has gotta be the best game on DS at the moment, brilliant single player, even better multiplayer.
 
  
  It hasn't got that many songs, around 15, and they're all cover versions. The whole point of the 
 game is getting through the songs, unlocking a harder difficulty, then completing the songs again. 
 There's a few unlockable songs, which you get as your rank raises.
  
  Multiplayer is really fun, you can either go heead-to-head or have a duet, with up to 4 players 
 at once - it even has single cart multi player. No Wi-Fi though, which is dissapointing.
  
  Overall it's a good game, but because of that, you'll want to play it loads and will end up getting 
 through the game really quick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CheeseEater-
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:23 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents, boy, when I first picked up this title, I had very high hopes for it after playing 
 Ouendan 1+2 for the NDS. These games truely set themselfs apart from the crowd. They did something 
 different. Even though these two titles are completly based in Japanese, they diliver hundreds 
 of thrills and excitment. I was overjoyed when I first went through walkie talkie man *track Number 
 1* on EBA. It was perfect. They had improved upon the original Ouendan, added a far more western 
 look to the game, nailed the track list and sound quality, improved Multiplayer, and honestly, 
 possibly one of my favourite sound tracks in game. Featuring stunning cover's of titles such as, 
 You're The Inspiration, Jumpin' Jack Flash, Highway Star etc.
  
  This game does NOT dissapoint. If you any kind of fan of rythm games, this title is a MUST. I cannot 
 stress to you how fun this game is on Hard Rock Mode. I have 100% completed the game, and have 
 played it many times over. It really only leaves you wanting MORE! EBA 2, my goodness... if that 
 was to be released, all hell would break out over my house. :D
  
  Sound, is superb as mention above. You'll be amazed at some of the fantastic covers. The Game is 
 practically 128MB of pure Music Goodness.
  
  Gameplay, touch the circles, totally genius. Works like a charm. Just make sure you have screen 
 protectors for spin the wheel , as things can get pretty dam intense :D
  
  Graphics, fantastic comic style artwork. A little Japanese feel to it, suits the game fantastically.
 
  
  Value, this title lasted me for easily 150+ hours, I'm as you could say... completly obsessed. EBA 
 always leaves me wanting more!
  
  The only real downfall, is the lack of Online Wi-fi, and the fact that you can't play Hard Rock 
 mode with Multi-player. Tis a bit of a bummer. And outstanding title through my 150+ hours of pure 
 fun with this game. A Must For Any DS Owner. And in my personall opinion, a system seller. Go pick 
 this one up guys! Agents... Are... Go!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAJORMOIST
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Elite beat is a very innovative game for the DS. Basically you touch circles on the screen in sync 
 with the rings that closes in around the circle to for an outline of that circle for maximum points. 
 hit the button too early and little or no points. Too late and the ssame results. The music is 
 a little retro and not the songs I would have picked but They still work out very well. All in 
 all, the game is fun but short lived. I wish they would have added more songs but hey, its a first 
 time around game. The game also follows around different story lines per song and how you do will 
 determine how the story goes. The game gets really hard when you dtep up the difficulty level. 
 Multplayer is also quite fun as you battle for who has the best rythm for the beat. I recommend 
 this one for those who want a change in how they play handhelds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazybankai9
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  usally when your looking for a game you would pick mario sonic pokemon final fantasy or some crap 
 nintendo did. This game is deffentily a nintendo crap you should get its fun wacky and very crazy. 
 The game is so dumb not even a genious whould under stand the game but thats a good thing because 
 tapping circles and sliding them with a ball is very fun if you like rythem and dance games. This 
 is a game every one should get even people 40 or older!!!!! The game can be disturbing in some 
 thing tough like this deamon a girls shirt off if you losevel but any way the ame is gun. This 
 is crazy bankai 9 signing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tohru_Readman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 28, 2007 6:15 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is base on the Japanese game Osu! Jukakae! Ouendan!, it's basically the same 
 game play, but now it's male FBI Agents, not cheerleaders. There is also new scenarios and music, 
 which is great if you have already play the Japanese version and most of the music actually fixes 
 the scenarios, and there are some great reference to current news, celebrities and a certain ninja. 
 The cutscenes are great and are in a manga style and really help set the mood for the songs. The 
 only thing thats annoying me right now is some of the later songs can be very frustrating, but 
 I just need to practice more I think. Which is easy since it's so addictive. Elite Beat Agents 
 is worth your time and money, even if you have the play the original Osu! Jukakae! Ouendan!, which 
 is also wonderful, had a shot of a friends copy and it's currently on my wish list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbaily
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 12, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  2006 was a great year for the DS. The release of the slicker looking DS Lite along with one great 
 title after another: New Super Mario Bros. 2 Brain training games, Dragon Quest Heroes: Rocket 
 Slime, the list goes on and around the end of the year came Elite Beat Agents. Easily the best 
 handheld rhythm game to date. As rhythm based games go, no one's going to question Guitar Hero's 
 supremacy but let's face it, it doesn't exactly work portably. This is where Elite Beat Agents 
 answers the call.
  
  The Japanese version featured three male cheerleaders who used their singing and dancing to come 
 to the aide of citizens in need to help them out. For the American version, they went with a trio 
 of goofy government agents. A level begins with a story told in cool manga comic book style pictures, 
 whether it's an overworked babysitter wanting to ask her crush out, a pug trying to find his way 
 home, or movie director trying to make his blockbuster on time, eventually the person becomes overwhemled 
 and cries out for help, luckily the Elite Beat Agents answer the call and save the day using.... dance? 
 Yeah it doesn't make much sense. Just try not to think about it too hard. Also you got to question 
 some of the scenarios:
  
  1. What kind of lazy mother lets her cat watch the baby? (though this was my favorite level.)
 
  
  2. If Paris Hilton and Nicole Richie were stranded on an island, why would anyone bother to save 
 them?
  
  3. Since when does a weather forcaster get fired for giving the wrong weather prediction?
  
 
  As the song track plays, you tap along with the beat which is harder than it sounds, unlike Guitar 
 Hero, missing a couple notes can end your jam session quicker than K-Fed's singing and it higher 
 difficulties can get very very hard. Make sure you have a screen protector on your DS.
  
  Only a couple complaints. First of all, unless you go back and do the harder difficulties or are 
 trying to get perfect A scores, the game can be short. Secondly the soundtrack, is mixed. I think 
 Xplay said it best when it compared the music to the 99 cent rack at Tower Records. My personal 
 favorite being ABC by the Jackson 5. Maybe it was because the level featured a silly cat trying 
 to save a baby or maybe I just like remember Micheal Jackson back before he went totally crazy. 
 Hardcore Guitar Hero players may be turned off by the bubble gum pop soundtrack.
  
  Overall, the complaints are minor. If you don't mind bubbly pop songs and you're looking for a 
 good rhythm game on the go, than this is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -PresidentEvil-
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 4, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  To start off, I have to say that Elite Beat Agents has to be he best use of the touch screen to 
 date. The game also has to be the funnest on the DS. I have to agree, the songs choices like most 
 rhythm-based games like Donkey Konga are wierd, but Nintendo does their best with song choices. 
 They are just a tad bit late. Find out why this is my favorite DS game to date.
  
  Gameplay:
  As I said, this is the best use of the touch screen yet on the DS. I know it is simple, 
 but it gets the job done, and it does it in a very fun way. You might think it is too easy, and 
 impossible to fail, but you are wrong. I think this game is really hard, but nice hard because 
 you know you can finish it, so you try and try. When you finally do finish it, you will feel very 
 satisfied. The gameplay, while very simple, is perfect.
  
  I give the gameplay a perfect 10, because it is perfect. There is no porblems whatsoever. Again, 
 if you want to see what the DS is all about, play this game. You will be amazed on how fun and 
 responsive the game is. Simply perfect.
  
  Graphics:
  I have to say, I am quite impressed. They are not amazing like we have seen in some games, but 
 they are very colorful. The comic boob style story telling has great graphics which are colorful 
 and beautiful. That is just it, that is basically the whole graphics part. You do see the agents 
 in 3D, and sadely, thoes are not perfect though.
  
  I give the graphics an 8.0 because they get the job done, they are very colorful, and the game 
 is simple and does not need amazing graphics. Too bad the 3D agents and the world don't look so 
 good.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is just great. If you have headphones, use them. Please, it is amazing how much it makes 
 the game so much better. The song selection, though, is a little dissipointing. I like the old 
 songs, and the rock ones. But, I for one do not like the Brittney Spears and the girly songs. They 
 are not my type, but I see why Nintendo did this. They wanted to appeal everyone. But, next time, 
 maybe the should make seperate games with each with different music genre.
  
  I give the sound an 8.0 because it is just amazing with the headphones, but the song selection 
 is not too good.
  
  Value:
  The value of this game depends on if you want to beat it, or complete it. It doesn't take too long 
 to beat it, but then you get 3 more difficulty levels that are just plain hard. That is really 
 what adds replay value. You will keep trying and trying and that is what is going to add the fun 
 and the time you will spend with this game. The multiplayer is also really fun. You can have fun 
 with just one cart, and that is really good.
  
  I give the value a 9.0 because if you want to complete it, you are looking for some long fun hours 
 ahead of you. Multiplayer adds hours to it also.
  
  Tilt:
  You will never feel bored with this. The songs change, the stories change, and the difficulty changes. 
 If you are stuck in a place, then there will be some memorization needed them. But other than that, 
 this game has fantastic tilt.
  
  I give the tilt a 9.0 because you will get tired of the game after long one play sits, and you 
 will need to memorize in the harder difficulties. Other than that, you will truly want to keep 
 playing for weeks, even monthees.
  
  Overall:
  Overall, this game is just fantastic. I really did not expect this much fun form a game simple 
 as this. Put on some headphones, put the gamein, turn your DS on, and experience what I believe 
 is the best game on the DS to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicahChua
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents pulls of the rhythm genre on the DS superbly which means it does three things:
 
  1 Provides good music
  2 Provides (extremely) challenging gameplay
  And most importantly 3 makes you feel too cool when you nail the beat correctly.
  
  The added 
 bonus is that this terrific and addictive game is portable. Elite Beat features a wonderfully wacky 
 premise: three dance agents, or whatever you want to call them, who break it down whenever someone 
 cries for help, whether it is to drive a pregnant lady to the hospital in your cab or to kill a 
 giant molten-rock man who is bent on destroying theme parks. Its wonderful in how the game thrives 
 in its weirdness and requires no explanation. This premise speaks for the graphics as youll be 
 seeing delightfully colourful cartoon frames and animations to complement the bizarre goings ons.
 
  
  The fundamentals itself are rock solid utilizing the unique potential of the DS hardware. Youll 
 be tapping numbers as they appear in order and in sync with the beat, sometimes dragging them to 
 and fro across the screen for sustained notes, and occasionally youll also be furiously drawing 
 circles on your touch screen to rapidly turn a spinning wheel. And thats it. Thats all youll 
 be doing for the entire game, and its these simple actions that make the game so ridiculously 
 fun and approachable. But of course, such a great game-mechanic would go to waste with a crappy 
 track list. Fortunately, Elite Beat has you covered with David Bowie, The Rolling Stones, Jackson 
 5, Hoobastank, Destinys Child, The Village People etc. Its a good broad list that stretches across 
 genres and is bound to have something you like in there.
  
  While it may not be a portable guitar hero, it is easily the best rhythm game you can buy on a 
 handheld. Its fun, challenging and well-presented. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: albedos_shadow
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 1, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Sometimes, a game comes along that is fun to play, and has a lot of replay value, but you just 
 can't believe the premise. Elite Beat Agents is that game.
  
  Based on the Japanese series Ouendan, EBA puts you in the shoes of one of the Elite Beat Agents, 
 basically an elite force that helps fix people's problems through... wait for it... DANCING! Yeah, 
 okay, it's pretty weird, but that's definitely a part of this game's charm. Just watching the Agents 
 dance around on the bottom screen is enough to make you laugh. The top screen plays out the story 
 of the person in trouble. These may be the highlight of the game. From the weather forecaster who 
 blows away rainclouds (with the help of friendly forest animals, of course) , to basically helping 
 a French painter get lucky , the stories are crazy. With all the gameplay on the bottom screen, 
 you'll probably miss these the first time through, so it's a good thing the game has a replay option 
 to watch your sessions over and over.
  
  Gameplay-wise, EBA shows that simple is sometimes best. The basic gameplay consists of circles 
 appearing onscreen. These circles have another circle which close in on them slowly. Your goal 
 is to tap the circle as soon as the outer circle touches the inner circle. This may seem easy, 
 but at times, there can be so many circles onscreen at once, you must be a master to get a perfect 
 score. There are variations on this. Sometimes a path will appear onscreen, and you must trace 
 it with your stylus. The other type of marker is a spin marker, which is pretty self-explanatory. 
 The spin marker is pretty much my only problem with the gameplay, as it feels like a pretty useless 
 aspect, and just succeeds in making you worry about breaking your stylus.
  
  EBA is not an easy game. With 4 difficulty levels, though, the game never quite gets out of hand 
 completely, raising your skill through making you repeat levels over and over as you fail.
  
  The main problem I have with the game is it's soundtrack. It does fit the game perfectly, but 
 it's just a little strange. Samplings include classic rock hits like Highway Star and Jumping Jack 
 Flash , but also throws in some oddities like Material Girl and La La . This weird mix of songs 
 makes the game a bit difficult to play in public, unless you want to be seen jamming to Ashlee 
 Simpson on your DS.
  
  EBA is definitely a must-have for any DS owner, and for any fan of rhythm games. Just make sure 
 you've got some headphones for playing outdoors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxcommixx
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, so I thought I'd check this game out. Here are my views upon the game:
  
  Gameplay- it's something different, yes, but it tends to get a bit repetitive once you've beaten 
 the game one or more times. It's a good way to show what the touch screen is capable of, and it's 
 an overall fun experience.
  
  Graphics- Well, the cartoons are nice and all, but when the actual 3D agents are shown, it's a 
 bit disappointing how blocky and jaggy they really look.
  
  Sound- The WORST part of the game. Nearly ALL the songs are unberable to listen to. Almost made 
 me want to stop playing.
  
  Value- You get what you pay for really.
  
  So yeah, if you want to try this game out, be my guest. But I would advise you to rent or borrow 
 a friends' copy first before purchasing it, because you never know, you may not like it as much 
 as some other people do.
  
  Hope this helps,
  
  xxcommixx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xunhallowed
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a game where you simply touch circles at the right time to the beat of a song. 
 It's good, but sometimes quite hard and literally one of the shortest, if not the shortest game 
 on DS. You might be addicted the first time you play, but after you've done everything, all that's 
 left is to improve your ranks in each song and your agent rank. Basically, this means playing, 
 playing, playing, and playing questionable songs like Sk8er Boi and Material Girls . Like Beyonce? 
 Hope so, cause Survivor is in here too. With an absolutely horrendous soundtrack from the days 
 of the Game Boy Advance, this is exactly what you'd expect from Japan. In fact, if you like rap, 
 rock, or pretty much anything besides oldies and pop singles, you should stay away. Try the first 
 song and you'll see what a weird game this is. Absolutely no replay value at all, but addicting 
 for a little. Once you get to Hard Rock , the hardest difficulty, you'll have quite a bit of trouble. 
 The circles you must tap get much smaller and the pace of the gameplay quickens, a bit too fast, 
 in my opinion. However, once you've mastered Hard Rock, you've completed the game. That's it. I 
 rarely ever play this game, and I only have 4 games for DS. Well worth the rent, wasted money to 
 buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  EBA is an addicting rythem game that i think is a good crack at the rythem genre in the DS. the 
 song selection is good for a game but in my opinion are not very good. it is really fun to pick 
 up and play but songs get boring. fast. repeatly playing jumpin jack flash only to lose on the 
 same part over and over and over and over and over and over again is fusturating. but after you 
 beat the game there's no fun left. in conclusion this quirky game demands attention for the DS 
 using the stylus to it's full potentail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenderUnit22
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  It's certainly a pity that Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan never officially made it outside of Japan, but 
 its Westernized version dubbed Elite Beat Agents comes close to the craziness of the original. 
 In it, you're supporting said Agents, who help people in dire situations by dancing their sorrows 
 away. Yes, that's right, by dancing, fools!
  
  Each mission, of which there are 19 total, comes with its own song, covering a wide variety of 
 genres and tastes so that anyone is likely to find at least a few tracks to listen to with great 
 joy. And while all songs are mere cover versions, they all sound fantastic and add a lot to the 
 fun experience. So much in fact, that one major problem is that you just want more of it.
  
  The entire game is stylus controlled and during missions, circles with rings around them will 
 pop up. Your task in all this is to tap the circles at the exact time each shrinking ring touches 
 its circle. Combined with passages where you have to roll a small ball on a track in the rhythm 
 of the song and spinning wheels before time runs out it can become quite a chaotic sight on higher 
 difficulty levels. The game tries its best to guide you through all this by numbering the circles, 
 group them in different colors and drawing guide lines from each passage to the next, but in the 
 heat of the moment, training and memorizing are your best bets on mastering a song.
  
  Too bad the game doesn't have a training mode though, since it forces you to play missions over 
 and over and while you will soon be familiar with the first half of the song (because you played 
 it so often) , the last parts might still lie in the dark as you failed before even reaching them. 
 Difficulty ramps you quickly on hard mode, so much in fact that once you beat it and tried the 
 unlockable very hard mode, you'll find yourself wondering how you had problems on easier difficulty 
 settings. One negative aspect of the progressive unlocking of songs is that the early songs, on 
 any difficulty, will soon not be challenging enough to entertain beyond listening to the music 
 and you'd wish there was an option for an equal level of difficulty across all songs.
  
  All songs are split up into 2-4 sections and depending on whether you finish a section on the positive 
 or the negative side of an ever-draining life meter, you will not only witness different but always 
 funny cut scenes during breaks but one of three endings for each song. For instance, in a mission 
 where you help the son of a Japanese car manufacturer sneak your way to stolen blueprints all ninja-style, 
 if you totally mess up but finish the song, you'll find that the poor guy accidentally recovered 
 plans for a refrigerator. Indeed all the cut scenes are hilarious to watch and animate to purposely 
 fail just to see them unfold. To do so without the pressure of playing, you can review and even 
 save your replays to show off your mad skills to your friends. Even better however are a few multiplayer 
 options that allow you to go at it with up to three friends with only one copy needed, although 
 this will limit the number of playable songs and difficulty settings.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is certainly one of the most addicting games available for the Nintendo DS thanks 
 to a great but short song list, fantastic humour and challenging missions. It's too bad it lacks 
 more game modes like free play or training and once you finished the game you're still hungry for 
 more, simply because the game is so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandyinindiana
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  There are dozens of great games available for the Nintendo DS, with each offering something different 
 to gamers everywhere. For RPG fans there is the stellar Pok&eacute; mon franchise, while adrenaline 
 junkies can pour hours in Mario Kart. Adventure seekers can play Trace Memory and puzzle fiends 
 have Meteos. It's about time that rhythm based games received the same high treatment on this joyous 
 handheld, and Elite Beat Agents definitely does the trick.
  
  The game's premise is as follows: Under the tutelage of Commander Kahn, the Elite Beat Agents, 
 or EBA for short, are a group of sharply dressed secret agents, or superheroes, if you will, who 
 travel the world solving people's problems through the power of dance. Your missions will vary 
 as much as the music the agents dance to, and include such things as helping a down-on-his-luck 
 rancher strike oil and assisting a teenager in babysitting some bratty kids. The game's climax 
 even sees the EBA defeating a band of music-hating aliens who are turning the world's citizens 
 into stone.
  
  Starting with a lengthy tutorial, Commander Kahn explains the rules of the game. Stationary numbered 
 circles of various colors will appear on the touch screen. Surrounding them are larger circles 
 of the same color that will shrink in size as they approach the aforementioned numbered circle. 
 When the two circles meet, you must tap the number, causing your agents to continue their complex 
 choreography. If you miss, your agents will fall to the ground, and only by creating a lengthy 
 combo of correct hits can they get up and start again.
  
  Adding to the complexity of having upwards of 7 or 8 circles in play at the same time (in later 
 levels) is the Elite-o-Meter. The meter is full at the start of every level, and only drops when 
 you miss a beat. If it drops low enough, it will enter the No side of the bar, which will make 
 you fail a section, and if it depletes entirely, you will fail your mission and have to start again.
 
  
  Apart from the numbered circles that disappear once tapped, there are two other types of buttons 
 to hit. The first looks the same as their more common brethren, but instead of disappearing once 
 touched, they instead turn into a ball, which you must follow with your stylus, through it's designated 
 path. The second is a wheel of stars that you must quickly spin to reach a certain speed before 
 time is up.
  
  Unlike other slower games available for the DS, EBA is a frantic, in your face mash up of colored 
 circles and anime/comic book-esque stylings. Normally, there will be so many buttons popping up 
 on the touch screen that it will be hard to concentrate on anything but the numbers flashing before 
 your face, which can make keeping up with your mission's progress (which occurs on the top screen) 
 darn near impossible. To make up for this, the game includes a replay save feature, which allows 
 you to go back and watch everything that you might have missed while jabbing away at your bottom 
 screen.
  
  Going back to the appearance of the title, which I alluded to earlier, EBA is a great mix of comic-book 
 cutscenes and anime dance sequences. The stories to be found in the game are quite random, and 
 each is represented in a quirky, interesting way. The game's circles are in bright primary colors, 
 and differ enough from each other to hinder any added confusion. That's a definite plus, since 
 things are hectic enough as it is.
  
  Adding to the overall mix is of course the sound department. In a rhythm based game, the music 
 is definitely key in creating a unique and enjoyable gameplay experience, and the music in EBA 
 hits the nail right on the head. An eclectic mix ranging from Madonna's Material Girl, to The Village 
 People's YMCA awaits you on your journey. As can be expected, the songs are covers rather than 
 the real deal, but they are performed in such a way as to be almost as good as the original versions.
 
  
  Apart from the difficulty and complexity of the title, the game's length might also factor into 
 some opinions on the game. There are only fifteen levels in the main storyline (not including unlockable 
 bonus levels) , and even after retrying certain ones multiple times, I still finished the game in 
 an afternoon. However, there is a bit of incentive to keep going.
  
  First is the multiplayer mode, which is available right from the start, and the second is your 
 overall ranking. After earning a certain amount of points, you will rise in level, and making it 
 to the top will certainly require a lot of time and patience, especially if you plan to master 
 your skills along the way.
  
  Even though the game does have a high level of difficulty (even on the lowest setting) , the challenge 
 of each level was never high enough to make me question continuing. In fact, the challenge makes 
 each level all the more satisfying once completed. And to add to the replayability of the title 
 is the fact that under each difficulty setting, the beat combos become more complex and fast-paced 
 with each playthrough.
  
  Elite Beat Agents offers a new and exciting take on the average rhythm based game, and if you can 
 get past the steep learning curve, a good time can easily be found. That being said, I must say 
 that EBA is definitely not a game for everyone. If you are easily irritated with titles such as 
 these, it would better left as a rental. However, for those that are willing to retry certain stages 
 four and five times (or more) , then by all means, pick this one up I'll see you on the dance floor.
 
  
  Review part of GrrlGamer. com. Full review and screenshots at: http://grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=elitebeatagents 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjashaman
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  Graphics: The manga style art in the game is great. The 3d parts of the game are pretty good looking.
 
  
  Sound: The songs sound great and clear. The soundtrack could use a couple recent songs, but the 
 selection it has is wonderful. There aren't many sound effects, but that doesn't decrease the enjoyment 
 you'll have playing the game. Gameplay: The controls are extremely simple. There are no buttons 
 involved when playing the game. Everything is controlled by the touch screen. The difficulty varies 
 a lot. Some songs are pretty simple and easy the learn, but others can be difficult and take a 
 lot of practice. The levels run smoothly and failing a mission shouldn't get you very frustrated. 
 Value: The game is unique and you won't find many, if any, games like it. You'll be able to play 
 and enjoy it for a long time. As of now it costs about $30 and it's worth it. In the end, I highly 
 recommend this game to anyone who has a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kizzle28
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 16, 2007 2:56 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a game you could say is very unique. An interesting, but odd, premise, a cool 
 comic book-like art style, a rhythm music game, all wrapped together in a distinct Japanese package. 
 Voila! You will get the Elite Beat Agents.
  
  You play a government group of some kind. It is your duty to help the good citizens of the world 
 from seemingly impossible odds. You use the power of music and dance to help them gain the confidence 
 to make it. Sounds kind of strange, right? Yes, but let's continue. It gets very cool!
  
  To help these people you need, a) a catchy song; b) the Elite Beat Agents; and c) your precise 
 taps and drags on the touch screen. What you need to do is follow the rhythm of the song by tapping 
 these numbered, coloured circles on screen. A ring appears around the circles and closes in on 
 it. Once the ring merges with the outer edge of the circles, you tap the coloured circle. Sounds 
 simple, but can get very challenging and addicting. Some parts require you make a circle with your 
 stylus wildly, while others have to drag the stylus to a particular pattern on the touch screen. 
 In the end, you basically tap to the beat. And trust me, it is unlike any other music type game 
 I've ever played. The soundtrack is a bit cheesy, but overall, its not the music your worried about. 
 It is about the sheer enjoyment of beating the last stage and trying to get through the next hectic 
 one. If you like music-type games, or you'd like to try something different, Elite Beat Agents 
 are GO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Branzolis
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 14, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Fun game but use a nintendo stylus because other ones will scratch your screen. Its and addictive 
 game, I recomend it. If you like music you will like this game and even if you dont its still a 
 good game. It is only about $39,99 i think and trust me its worth it, you also might like earphones 
 for it. And if your really worried you could think about a screen protector. (but you dont really 
 need one with a nintendo stylus) . I go on a lot of road trips and trust me i really need EBA i 
 played it for hours straight and didnt notice because i was so into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fat_otter
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, this is one of the best ds games ever made! EBA is a rhythm-action game that is easy 
 to pick up, and IMPOSSIBLE to put down. You play the game as the Elite Beat Agents - a group of 
 special agents who help people in distress. The game has about 10 different scenarios where you 
 help people. These can range from helping a baby sitter with a bunch of unruly kids, to a guy stealing 
 back the plans for a prototype car, to helping two Paris Hilton lookalikes survive on a stranded 
 island. Each scenario has a song that you play to. The basic gameplay is tapping a circle when 
 another circle overlaps the other one. (If you don't get what I mean, watch a video of it in action!) 
 The game has a surprisingly unique mix of music. It's a mix of music a 12 year old kid would listen 
 to, and music the kid's parents listen to. The game features songs by The Rolling Stones, Madonna, 
 Destiny's Child, Jamiroquai (that song from Napoleon Dynamite) , and many more. The game features 
 four difficulties, but you only start with easy and medium. (You have to unlock hard, and insane.) 
 The game IS very hard, especially for new players. But once you get the hang of it, there's no 
 letting go. This is a game that anyone can play. So give it a try, you won't be sorry. This game 
 does'nt get the attention it deserves, so please pick a copy today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gra_ham_man5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 9, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents, also known to many as EBA, is one of the best DS games to come out since the 
 system first arrived on shelves in 2004. While being somewhat odd, it is also somewhat addictive... plus 
 a lot more. It is truly the first game to take full advantage of the Nintendo DS's strengths while 
 still benefiting from its weaknesses. The game play consists of using the touch screen to hit numbered 
 circles in the order needed at the correct time in order to keep the Agents on your screen busting-out 
 and saving the world, one dance at a time. Despite having a sharp learning curve and a tough difficulty 
 in the later levels, it still has its lasting values and will keep the casual gamer busy for weeks 
 on end. The graphics are quite good, once again showing 2-D and 3-D visuals (as many DS games on 
 the market are lately) . Funky comic book visuals are at the beginning of every level and are always 
 a tad bit funny, no matter how you look at it. The games sound is impressive for a Nintendo system, 
 where you would normally only hear the odd bit-by-bit sounding song or sound-effects, you instead 
 here cool sound effects and enough volume capacity to push out a fair amount of licensed songs. 
 All in all, EBA is a great addition to any DS owner's library, and anyone who is looking for a 
 fun game with lasting appeal, funny visuals and graphics, and great sound and music are sure to 
 find a lot to like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herojoe1000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 8, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a rhythm game for the nintendo DS. You are probably wondering how the heck 
 you could make a rhythm game for DS. Well EBA has nailed it perfectly. Numbers appear onscreen 
 that you have to tap in sequence. Also, some numbers have a trail that you have to drag across 
 the screen, and lastly, there are spinners that you have to spin wildly with the stylus. All to 
 the beat of the game's 19 songs. Surprisingly enough, there is a story to the game. You play as 
 secret agents helping people in need using your amazing dance moves. The story unfolds on the top 
 screen using comic book style cut scenes. If you play well, then the story unfolds with no mishaps, 
 but if you play not so well, then the story unfolds with humorous mishaps. The game isn't graphically 
 amazing. The agents dance on the bottom screen in 3D, but they look kind of blotchy at times. But 
 this does not decrease this game's amazingness at all. Most of the time you aren't even looking 
 at the agents, or what is happening on the top screen for that matter. The game's soundtrack isn't 
 that amazing either. It's filled with kareoke favorites and ninety's songs. But it's not like they 
 could make the whole game using metal songs. Even though that would be amazing, they have to make 
 the game accessible to everyone. It's a touch generations title after all. But that definitely 
 does not mean that it isn't a great challenge on the harder modes. Anyways, you proabably will 
 get sick of the soundtrack after a while, but overall this is an extremely fun game that you will 
 not be disappointed if you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaMAN1121
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  If your like me and have annoy sister who won't let you buy games. And a father who hate ordering 
 online and want a taste of some Ouendan. Then Elite Beat Agents is for you
  
  Gameplay: I only had a DS for a couple of mouths. But the gameplay here is AWSOME. You tap number 
 in the order while keeping to the beat. Plus it the most additice game I had. (Trust me, you wouldn't 
 want to let go of it)
  
  Sound: Easy, it a rythem game so it has songs from Ska8ter boi to Let dance. And they sound pretty 
 good.
  
  Graphics: They look HORRIBLE. Naw I'm kidding. The look nice and i show them dancing very clearing
 
  
  Vaule: You be playing with this game for the rest of your life. It one of thoes game that make 
 you buy a DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDude722
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 23, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  I don't know if it's me or if it's this game, but I just can't get past the first few notes of 
 Jumpin' Jack Flash on the easy difficulty. For a game that is supposedly simple and addictive, 
 I just don't see it. It certainly isn't simple to me, and not even remotely addictive. I was expecting 
 something similar to Guitar Hero where the tapping of notes is straightforward and easy to keep 
 track of. But this game is all over the place (literally) !! Tap over here, slide over there, tap 
 over somewhere else. I don't see how anyone can finish a song on the first go-around. This just 
 isn't fun. I get more enjoyment out of Metroid Prime Pinball, or Castlevania, or Brain Age, or 
 even the mini-games on New Super Mario Bros. for crying out loud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GabuEx
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 16, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit it: until about a month ago, I never even knew that this game existed. But when I saw 
 gameplay footage of it, I knew right there and then that I had to have it. I was not disappointed.
 
  
  The general premise of the game is as follows: you play one of four agents (depending on the difficulty 
 level you chose) , and through the power of your dance, you inspire others to accomplish seemingly 
 impossible tasks, from helping a girlfriend take care of kids she's babysitting to helping a director 
 make a smash hit of a movie. If you think this sounds weird, it is. If you think this makes no 
 sense, it doesn't. But that's the beauty of the game: you know it's weird, and you know it makes 
 no sense, but you really just don't care. It doesn't matter, and this game knows it.
  
  The way you instruct your players to dance is quite simple on paper: pairs of circles appear on 
 the screen, and you tap the inner circle when the shrinking outer circle just overlaps its edges. 
 This sounds simple, and it is - for the first while. Where you have songs where you're easily tapping 
 five circles in a second, it gets less simple - but fortunately, you'll have had lots of practice 
 by then.
  
  The graphics grow on you in a huge way. The game is told in the comic book format that DS players 
 have come to love. Through just two or three frames, the game can quite effectively create the 
 illusion of animation without actually needing to use up a lot of space in memory. I have nothing 
 bad to say about the way the game is presented.
  
  In each level, you have one overall task that needs to be completed, and within each level there 
 are various subtasks that also need to be completed. For example, in the movie director level, 
 the overall task is make a good movie , and there are four scenes that you need to complete along 
 the way that make up the subtasks.
  
  The game keeps track of how well you're doing through the Elite-o-Meter, a meter at the top that 
 shows your status. If the meter is above 40% full, you're in the Yes zone, which means you're doing 
 well. If not, you're in the No zone, which means you aren't. If you complete a section in the Yes 
 zone, you complete that subtask successfully; if not, you don't. In either case, you get a cutscene 
 that shows either your success or failure. After the song, you get one of three endings that show 
 the overall extent of your success. If you completed no subtasks correctly, you still complete 
 your task, but in a horribly bad way (it's often fun to try and get this just for the heck of it, 
 as the ending is often hilarious) . If you completed some, but not all, you complete your task in 
 a respectable manner. If you completed all of them, you get the best ending.
  
  All in all, Elite Beat Agents is a game that defies all the odds by working beautifully, and is 
 a solid addition to anyone's DS collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicalmac
Rating: 9
Date: May 15, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  When I played the game in the store, I didn't feel it was much fun at all. But I also couldn't 
 hear the music in the background. When I actually got it myself and tried it out, I had more fun 
 than you can shake a stick at.
  
  The gameplay is pretty simple. You touch the screen when it tells you to. When you get into the 
 higher difficulties, though, that can be quite a monumental task. But even if you're playing the 
 same part over and over, it's still fun. And when you finally get past the stage, you're on cloud 
 9, and you want to go back and do it again.
  
  The graphics aren't anything special, except for the way the cinematics are presented. It's like 
 reading a living comic book, and it works really well for the game. It's colorful, entertaining, 
 and a real joy to watch.
  
  The sound is as good as it can be. There are sounds to accent the songs during play, and the way 
 the sound is implimented in the game works really well. As for value, there are multiple (and I 
 mean MULTIPLE) difficulty settings for you to conquer. The difficulty ramps up rather quickly, 
 as well. While it is difficult, it's still a lot of fun.
  
  I say this is a must own for any DS owner, just like I said for Metroid Prime: Hunters. It's a 
 lot of fun to play, it has excellent replay value, and it's always challenging.
  
  RSB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limelight022
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 12, 2007 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Here we go, another week, another music game. Thankfully, Nintendo managed to pull it off with 
 the oddball Elite Beat Agents, which takes you through a journey of three agents who solve people's 
 problems through the art of music. WTF?! It may sound corny and stupid, (because it is) , but this 
 game manages to provide a fun, challenging expereince with a comic book feel to it.
  
  Story: You are the Elite Beat Agents. You job is to help people through problems in their lives, 
 whether it be taking care of kids so that two high school friends can finally go steady , helping 
 a movie director through a slump which he could be fired if his last film bombs, or rushing a pregnant 
 woman to the hospital before the fuzz steps in and takes away dude's cabbie license forever. The 
 game is weird in this way, and it should. Look at the title for God's sakes. But it pulls it off 
 in a comic book feel, and does the job well.
  
  Gameplay:
  Basically, numbers pop up (in order) and large circles hone in on them letting you know when to 
 touch them. Sounds simple at first, which it is, but around the 8th or 9th song they come so fast 
 that you'll franticly be trying to keep up. Its frustrating at first, but not so much that you 
 want to stop playing it. Other additions to the gameplay include holding down the stylus and following 
 a ball for a certain amount of time, and also a humoungous circle that you must spin really, really 
 fast to pass the section and earn bonus points. Each song is broken into (usually) three sections, 
 and between them is a short plot advacement which is cool to watch, but ultimatley it lets you 
 rest your brain for a moment. You wont realize how helpful it is until your later in the game, 
 though.
  
  Graphics:
  While the comic book scenes are cool to look at, the actual gameplay graphics are a bit bland. 
 This is a double-edged sword so-to speak. While your playing, short animated sequences (in comic 
 book fashion) will play on the top screen, which look pretty good, while the bottom screen has 
 three low quality agents and a bland background. This is good, because if there were too much detail 
 in the bottom screen then it would probably be much harder to concentrate on the task at hand. 
 However the cutscenes are pleasing to the eye, if you like the comic book style.
  
  Sound: Lots of songs you'll know, lots that you wont. Some of the ones ive never heard before actually 
 became stuck in my head for a while. There's a good mix of old-school like YMCA and September , 
 while newer songs like Sk8ter Boi keep the variety appealing. However all these songs crammed on 
 a ds cart take a slight hit in quality. Dont expect 192kbps mp3 tracks; the tracks here are noticably 
 compressed, and the ds's midly ok speakers dont help matters much either. On the positive side 
 though, its something you can overlook because it really isnt THAT bad, unless youre a hardcore 
 sound nut, (im getting there) , and also that the game is just fun to play in the first place.
 
  
  Wrap-up:
  Elite Beat Agents oozes with style. Its obviously has a Japanese look and feel to it, but it presents 
 the whole rythym genre with a fresh perspective. Its one of those games like Tetris; easy to learn, 
 but difficult to master. If youre into games that take risks from the usual onslaught of 50 Final 
 Fantasy's or 100 world war II games out there, Elite Beat Agents is sure to please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  Who though of this game? I bought this game cause i heard OMG the leet music rythem game. After 
 getting to the last stage and hearing that song i just couldn't take it anymore. Elite Beat agents 
 i hope no one thinks of you as an inspirastion cause i will not be buying anymore point tap music 
 rythem games.
  
  This game pits you as these 3 agents who somehow by you taping on boxes as the big circle meets 
 the little main circle. sometimes you gotta drag the circle thru these rails. This game is pretty 
 fun i'm not gonna sit here and tell you it's not. But Fun in playing it until you master it and 
 realize yeah it was fun but playing it over is so easy.
  
  If you like most of the songs on the Cart you may like the game alot more than me because you can 
 do the level then play the replay over and if you like the song you won't mind looking at your 
 custom made video.
  
  The problem for me is the games premise is stupid. Had they tooken a real approach with the game 
 i think it would be more mainstream. Maybe they could have made the Agent just normal teenagers 
 trying to Serve each other. But i fail to see how Agents dancing can do anything like save people 
 from the crazy predicaments EBA puts the 3 Agents thru. Like one Level the EBA help encourage a 
 Taxi Driver to go faster as a Mission. Um ok? One thing about Game is you have to atleast make 
 it alil beleavable or it will fall apart at the end because it can't show a true identity and some 
 copy cat will use my dancers Idea and put them break dancing trying to be dancers make a more beleavable 
 game and it will reach Mass Market.
  
  To me this game feels like it was testing the waters it's good but ihighly suggest Renting this 
 first beat it and if you thought it was that good buy it but i doubt after one rental your shell 
 out $30 for this game , but if you find it for under 20 it's a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Questlove711
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a great game, period. It has a whole lot going for it. Let's start with the 
 gameplay. You use the stylus on the touch screen to touch parts in rhythm with the game. It has 
 a sort of Guitar Hero-esque gameplay element to it. It starts out slower and easier to get you 
 introduced to how the game works then it starts building up difficulty. The gameplay is really 
 rewarding. The graphical style is really good in this game. It looks great and runs really smooth. 
 It has a sort of comic-style approach to the cutscenes. Everything has a nice crisp look to it. 
 The agents themselves look pretty good, just enough to look good but not great. All the animation 
 is great and there is never a hiccup in the action. The animation gives the game a lot of its personality 
 and humor.
  
  This game's sound is good, but it has to be because it's a music based game. There are some great 
 songs on here. They got David Bowie, Jamiroquai, and even a little Earth Wind and Fire. Those are 
 just a few of the artists though. The music incoporates really well into the stories and gameplay. 
 Elite Beat Agents is a game that is hard not to get into, and even harder not to recommend to people. 
 It might be a smidge short, but it more than makes up for this with just plain fun and a unique 
 style all its own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kwiksilva
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 4, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This is a wonderful rhythm game there are so many good things that Elite Beat Agents has. The game 
 is about these agents that sing and dance to fix people's problems sounds funny oh it is. The game 
 has very solid touch controls and timing is key in every level. On complaint I could make about 
 the game is the songs used I would like to see more variety used in the 2nd one. But other than 
 that I loved the story and enjoyed every moment in the game. Also on the wishlist for the 2nd one 
 is wifi or multiplayer options. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deeewooh
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 1, 2007 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a new music for the Nintendo Ds brought to us by the guys iNis and is published 
 by Nintendo. EBA is a follow up to Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan, which was released in Japan in 2005 and 
 never made it to North American shores.
  
  In EBA you take on the role of these agents who go around and help people you are in need of 
 help out through song and dance. By tapping, sliding and spinning to the beat of the song you will 
 make the agents dance their way to successfully lending a helping hand. The game provides you with 
 coloured and numbered hit markers that you need to hit in time with the music in order to help 
 the agents keep the beat and save the day. To track how you are doing on any particular song, there 
 is a Elite o' Meter at the top of the touch screen, this meter is constantly depleting through 
 out the game and depending on the score you get for each beat your Elite o' Meter will either drop 
 for a miss, stay about the same for scoring a 50, slightly go up for scoring a 100 or go high 
 up for a 300. As you move up in difficulty the punishment for a miss increases while the rewards 
 for the 50, 100 and 300 point markers all decrease, you will often find that on the harder 
 difficulties if you really mess up the first section of beats that it is extremely difficult to 
 recover and not fail the song.
  
  EBA has 4 different difficulty levels, the first two are available from the start (Breezin' and 
 Cruisin') while the other 2 difficulties that need to unlocked before you can play them (Sweatin' 
 and Hard Rockin') . These difficulties levels are well set up, the casual gamer will be perfectly 
 satisfied with Breezin' and if Cruisin' if they feel up to the challenge, the more hardcore gamers 
 will find sufficient difficulty in both Cruisin' and Sweatin' while the real hardcore music game 
 fans who can five star Crazy Train on Expert in Guitar Hero with find a great deal of challenge 
 in the Hard Rockin' difficulty. The only problem I had with difficulties is that some of the unlockable 
 songs can only be obtained by playing through the difficulty levels because it is the only way 
 to get your overall score high enough.
  
  The tracklist in EBA has 16 tracks that are unlocked as you progress through the various difficulties 
 and 3 that are unlocked based upon your agent ranking. The artists range from Avril Lavigne to 
 The Rolling Stones. The majority of the tracks fall into the category that I call catchy-crap, 
 these are songs the you know are terrible but that are so damn catchy that they get into your head 
 and you find yourself signing the lyrics the next day on your way to work and hating yourself for 
 it. Despite the lack of musical quality of the songs they suit the game extremely well and because 
 of the awesome gameplay you'll likely forgive yourself for listening to La La over and over again.
 
  
  Each stage in EBA is accompanied by a short back story that plays comic book style via still animation 
 with some slight movement (think Phoenix Wright) with text bubbles. These stories are quirky and 
 a lot of fun to watch but by after the first time you'll probably be skipping them and subsequent 
 play troughs to get right to the song as they don't really add all that much to game.
  
  Other features include a 1-4 player multiplayer mode that can be played via DS-DS ad-hoc Wi-Fi 
 connection and includes support for game sharing. You can also record and save one play through 
 for each song and either watch them or send them to a friend via Wi-Fi to your friends. While both 
 these modes are extremely well executed they don't really stack up to the single player experience. 
 There is also a place where you can view your Agent rank and see how many points you need to advance 
 to the next rank.
  
  Overall EBA is an incredible game and awesome experience that is fun, intuitive and extremely addictive. 
 If you own a DS you owe it to yourself to at least check out this quirky title from Nintendo and 
 iNis as it is one of the best games of 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownHedgehog
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 1, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  This is a remake of the Japanese cult: Go! Fight! Ouendan! with new songs, new characters and new 
 stories, but with the same controls. Playing as one of four characters, J, Chieftain, Starr or 
 Spin, you need to help those in need by tapping and sliding in the rhythm at the right place and 
 keeping the Elite-O-Meter up.
  
  Soundtrack contains remakes of popular songs such as Walkie Talkie Man, Skaterboy, Rock This Town, 
 September, Y. M. C. A, Material Girl and more. Some remakes are better than the original, some aren't.
 
  
  In this game, you can play multiplayer dancing duels from up to 4 players.
  
  Unlike in the previous game, you can save Replays of some stages and watch them again when you 
 want. You can even use them for Vs. Replay battles.
  
  To summarize, with the ability to put CD-quality music in a DS game without affect the quality 
 very much, iNiS has pretty much made Elite Beat Agents the perfect rhythm game for a DS. It could 
 be better than the Japanese original... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas242000
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 30, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to rhythm based game I'm not the biggest fan. I mean, I do own guitar hero but other 
 than that I don't play rhythm games. So having this almost negative bias towards rhythm games I 
 was hesitant to purchase this game. So let me get the biggest negative out of the way; this game 
 is extremely short when it comes to content; there is only about 18 songs to play through and the 
 repay value will solely depend on your own ambitions. That being said, I have already clocked in 
 over 20 hours due to both, addicting gameplay and difficulty. This desire isn't for everyone so 
 be warned this game is extremely short about 4 hours to be exact.
  
  Story: The story in Elite Beat Agents is so weird and japanese that trying to explain it to you 
 will only confuse you more. Well here goes, basically you have these 3 agents that go around the 
 world solving peoples problems. These problems range from getting a shy girl to ask out her jock 
 boyfriend, helping a magician stop criminals burglarizing a casino, to reuniting a dead father 
 with his family for christmas, to yes, even saving the world with the power of music. Its all totally 
 hilarious and corky, and if you have a sense of humor you should understand the joke. Gameplay: 
 The gameplay is even simpler than Guitar Hero. There are number bubbles on the screen with a little 
 ring around the outside. The ring will begin to shrink over time and your objective is to pop the 
 bubble at the exact moment the ring is overlapping the bubble. Depending on when you hit the bubble 
 different scores or failure will follow. Just like Guitar Hero it doesn't really matter that the 
 gameplay is so simple it's the songs that within the game that make for such a great time. The 
 song selection is vast and contains songs like September, Skater Boy, YMCA and even canned heat. 
 Its a chaotic selection and most of these songs people would never admit to liking but secretly 
 love. Graphics and other Stuff
  The art style in this game is very anime, japanese comic bookie with lots of sweat, big smiles 
 with white eyes and large mouths screaming out HEAALP. The intro between songs is entertaining 
 but more importantly short and to the point. The sound as mentioned earlier is the star of the 
 show; there is even voice acting.. well more like sound effects from people as opposed to voice 
 acting.
  
  Overall, this game is easily the best rhythm based game on the DS that was actually released in 
 America. Unfortunately, the value of this game is solely based on your own opinion towards rhythm 
 based games. Is it fun? Of course, but the amount of fun and how much fun you will have depends 
 on how you preceive this game. I would recommend this game to anyone that has an open minded and 
 those absolutely hate rhythm games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T0dK0n
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The music in this game sucks major ass in my personal opinion. It would have been better if they 
 stuck to the traditional electronica in rhythmatic games. The gameplay itself is fun, but I can't 
 handle the music for the life of me, therefore, I cannot stand to play it for more then about 10 
 minutes tops at a time. I'd personally wait for a DDR game for the DS or perhaps Jam Sessions and 
 Guitar Hero... Much better music selections :P. I suppose I'm being a bit biased, but american 
 pop music really isn't my thing. The Musicians featured in this game don't even deserve to be called 
 musicians, for they barely know how to play their instruments. The lyrics are simple, the vocals 
 are quite simply put; pure and fresh human steaming **** Now, the storyline, its very lame. How 
 the hell do you fix peoples problems by dancing around to crappy music like a baffling bafoon!? 
 I'm not trying to be a realist, but this isn't a very good story structure... I love the gameplay, 
 but I wouldn't give the game any credit for the sound or storyline... Too bad you can't modify 
 it... So, if you like crap music and DDR, you'll probably enjoy this game. Good day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiKyung
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  The best music game that is great for DS.
  
  Good- great musics and very nice gameplay. At first one is great for getting well with EBA and 
 second, third one will make u better and finally Hard Rock is insanely. After playing Hard Rock 
 u will become best player. Good multiplay. U dance for high score.
  
  Bad- some stage is hard to beat and may take a while. spinning wheel is not really good idea because 
 pressing hard on screen can damage ur screen. When u play Hard Rock for long time then easy, normal 
 mode will hard to u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDDichard07
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  One of the best rhythm games Ive ever played
  Difficulty is done perfectly and does a great job varying throughout the game.
  Hysterical manga 
 art cut scenes work perfectly with the game and actualy do a great job telling the story.
  There a 4 separate difficulty levels
  A fairly decent Multiplayer mode
  The soundtrack that 
 varies from Ashlee Simpson to Earth, Wind and Fire
  EBA does has some of the most addicting gameplay an consume your life for hours on end.
  
  
 Bad:
  There are times when difficulty can be a little off the mark at some points
  Some songs arent very good for a rhythm game.
  EBA scratches a DS screen like nothing else.
 
  TOO ADDICTING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: link0206
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  There is nothing bad about the game, stylish game design, good music port, my lovely dsl touch 
 panel input. this is the perfect game for dsl which shares the elements of innovative, addictive, 
 unique, unique and fun fun game play with the handheld system. The game play itself is very intuitive, 
 you tap the buttons that appears on the screen in the order of numbering and appearance, sliding 
 the basketball and spinning the big wheels. and Nintendo ds (dsl) is the only platform out there 
 be able to produce such simple but at the sometime engaging gameplay. Graphics are lovely, it's 
 like reading a splendid graphic novel, character designs are vividly remembering, and on most occasion 
 they are perfect fits with the music, that said over all the characters and the graphic novel presentation 
 are one of the very satisfying, bold result that will impress you on the first time and onward 
 and on, each time you play it. Sound is the central elements, if the gameplay is perfect then the 
 sound of this title deserve the same merit, all of the sound tracks are well pick, although the 
 very first level's song is not that appealing, and oddly enough i was very well prepared for that 
 impression, imo, the first level of such type of game is always the cheapo. have that said, the 
 music only gets better and more stage you unlock. i'm currently listening to those songs if that 
 tells you anything. With ds's touch panel, perfect and easy gameplay, amazing sounds all combine, 
 it's very hard to think about not to get this game if you are a ds owner, heck, i got my first 
 dsl (new nintendo handheld owner) to just be able to play this game, and it deserves the high praise 
 and all the hyped that was built around it. it really opens my eye how fun games can really be 
 if done right, but most especially i'm completely astonished by nintendo's gaming philosophy. game 
 is suppose to be fun, not just some fancy graphics, and boring repetitiveness. i'm a big time hardcore 
 pc gamer, and owned a ps2 and lots of titles on those platforms, but the reason i haven't gotten 
 my hands on any of the current gen. big guns is they simply is not good enough to attract my attention, 
 they are the samething as last gen. consoles with primarily a better graphics. ds has won me over 
 with this title, and really gives me a confident boost toward wii. blu-ray? high def? might as 
 well go watch some dvds. a mild rant about the gaming industry of it's dullness but fortunately 
 nintendo is here to remind you otherwise. Although the game EBA has only around 17 songs in total, 
 it has 4 different difficult levels. each level the beat and taps are different, they became more 
 quicker and quicker, and more diversion and change of pace, hence more complex. This game has a 
 lot going for it. even if you have beaten it under all s rank, you can always comeback for some 
 nice music soundtracks and practising your reflex and brain hand coordination. for most of the 
 tracks average running time of 5 mins, an engaging music rhythm provides you the beat of life and 
 sharpens your mind, how more exciting can games be! EBA is the elite, the epitome, the pinnicle, 
 the masterpiece and it is a GO!
  
  after some second thought, some of the music selection could've been better, as i mentioned earlier 
 some of the songs weren't up to par with the rest, that's one of the thing they could improve on 
 for the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tjoeb123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  The Elite Beat Agents (and me for this review) are at your service! This is a rhythm-based action 
 game that requires a lot of timing and listening skill. In this game, you play as the Elite Beat 
 Agents as you go around and try to help people solve their problems.
  
  For example, you will have to help a movie director make a good movie in one stage. In another 
 stage, you will have to help a sick kid fight off a virus of his.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, there are these dots with circles enclosing them. Your goal is to tap 
 these dots at exactly the same time the circles overlap them. You get points based on your timing. 
 Depending on the time you tap the dot, you will get a health bonus added to your Elite-O-Meter. 
 You must keep this elite-o-meter from dropping. If the meter drops, you lose and you can retry, 
 not retry, or view the last few seconds of play and figure out where you screwed up at.
  
  You will start with only two difficulty levels, but eventually you will unlock two insanely hard 
 difficulties. And I mean INSANELY hard.
  
  The music is awesome! The music in this game is not made-up (except for the menus) . In fact, you 
 might recognize some of the music in the game like YMCA , Survivor , September , among others. 
 However, don't expect to hear the original tracks, mostly because they have been edited to fit 
 the stages.
  
  The graphics are good. On the top screen, you see comic-book style screens that represent what's 
 going on in the stage. On the bottom screen is where your eyes will be looking at most of the time. 
 This is where you see the EoM, the dots, and the agents dancing behind them.
  
  At certain points in the stages, you can get either good or bad endings, depending on your status 
 of the Elite-o-Meter. If it's on Yes , then you will get the good endings and the agents will continue 
 to dance. If it's on No or ! (meaning you're about to lose) , then the agents will stop dancing, 
 you will zoom in on the agents, and will get bad endings.
  
  Oopsie, it seems I forgot about phrase markers and spinners. Occasionally, you will encounter phrases 
 where you must drag the stylus across a certain area of the screen. Other times, you will encounter 
 a spinner, where you must spin the wheel either direction to fill a meter behind it all the way 
 up to the top.
  
  Lastly, you may play against other agents. In multiplayer mode, you can play certain songs (in 
 Single Card mode) or all songs (in Multi-Card mode) . These have their own scenarios, from an American 
 Idol-like contest to space wars, to basketball competitions, to cook-offs, and a guitar contest. 
 Other game sharing options include:
  -Replay Data (saved at the end of each stage, you may only save one per stage)
  -Training video
 
  -Demo stage
  You may also do co-op (I think it's only multicard with 3 or more people (up to 4) ) and play you 
 against the ghost (aka your replay data) .
  
  Overall, Elite Beat Agents is a must-have game for any DS owner. I'm not saying that because it's 
 a Touch Generations game or because I like musical games. I'm saying that because it's fun.
  
  Also, it's compatible with the rumble pak, along with several other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsplayer1010
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  At first I didn't get what all the hype was about. So what, it's tapping circles, I often said 
 to myself. Then it won DS game of the year here at Gamespot and IGN, I decided to check it out. 
 So I went to Gamespot to and downloaded the demo. I was immediatley addicted. After I downloaded 
 the demo again and again over the next two months ( i waited so long because I was playing my Wii,) 
 then I finally bought it.
  
  As i said before, the gameplay is basically tapping. When the big circle gets around the smaller 
 circle. Another thing is that sometimes you have to slide the marker along a path, and sometimes 
 back. The last move is the spin marker. With that you basically just spin the wheel fast. The bad 
 part is the gameplay has really, really scratched up my touch screen.
  
  The sound is great, even coming out of the DS's speakers, (not that they are bad.) The soundtrack 
 is pretty good too. It has some really good songs like The Anthem, Jumpin' Jack Flash, and No Difference. 
 But some either aren't that good, or feel really out of place. Like Material Girl, and You're The 
 Inspiration respectively. Along with each song comes a crazy story done in manga. And when I say 
 crazy, I mean it. One is a white blood-cell fighting the flu, one is lost dog trying to get home, 
 and there is even one about a guy looking buried treasure in the ocean. The story with You're The 
 Inspiration might be depressing might be depressing for some, like me. It has even been known to 
 make some people cry, not me though.
  
  In conclusion, Elite Beat Agents definately lives up to the hype. i highly reccomend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rencie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  One of the first two games that I bought for my DS Lite was New Super Mario Bros. (It is pretty 
 much a given that anybody who buys a Nintendo system must have at least one Mario game for it.) 
 While most people would choose commercially recognizable games such as Mario Kart DS or Metroid 
 Prime Hunters for their DS game collection, I opted for Elite Beat Agents.
  
  For people who are unfamiliar with Elite Beat Agents, the game can be described as a music rhythm 
 game like Dance Dance Revolution, but played with a stylus instead with your feet. Still, even 
 this description does not do Elite Beat Agents unique and highly addictive gameplay justice.
 
  
  Unlike other music rhythm games where you are limited to hitting controller or floor pad buttons, 
 Elite Beat Agents requires you to use your stylus to touch markers, move across sliders and spin 
 wheels on the touch screen. This interface provides a sense of openness in rhythm gameplay that 
 other titles lack. As you progress through the difficulty levels, your tapping, sliding and spinning 
 need to be more precise and be faster. However, the level-to-level difficulty scales nicely and 
 you would usually find yourself well trained to take on higher difficulty levels.
  
  In the game, you play a trio of agents assigned to boost other peoples spirits through song and 
 dance. The game presents itself as a series of individual missions with silly yet fun storylines, 
 presented in the exaggerated visual styles of anime. But the real appeal of the game is the way 
 the gameplay is tightly meshed with each piece of music. The music selection in Elite Beat Agents 
 consists of cover versions of pop and rock tunes from the 70s to the contemporary. The eclectic 
 selection includes David Bowies Lets Dance, Village Peoples YMCA, Stereograms Walkie Talkie 
 Man, Stray Cats Rock This Town, Jamiroquais Canned Heat and Sum 41s Makes No Difference. The 
 cover artists who performed these songs did a more-than-competent job. In fact for some songs, 
 I like the cover version more than the original.
  
  Elite Beat Agents multiplayer gaming modes are extremely fun to play and add to the games already 
 high replay value. You can play against your friend or play cooperatively against the computer. 
 You can also save your performance from single-player missions and challenge yourself in the multiplayer 
 mode. The multiplayer modes have their own unique storylines, but they are just limited to a few 
 compared to the larger variety offered in the single-player mode. Still, the multiplayer aspect 
 of the game is solid.
  
  Any music enthusiast would enjoy Elite Beat Agents. You will enjoy it even more if you are goal-driven 
 gamer who enjoys unlocking every single secret, bonus missions and characters because there are 
 plenty of those in the game. There are 3 bonus missions in single-player mode as well as new characters 
 to unlock for both single and multiplayer modes as you move up the ranks. If you good and ambitious 
 enough, you may be able to open up a new difficulty level, too. Trying to unlock all of them and 
 trying to best your previous high scores will certainly keep you glued to the game.
  
  I would love to see a sequel to Elite Beat Agents that features a wider genre of music. It would 
 be pretty wild to play the game to classical music, reggae, rap and hip-hop. (Imagine dancing 
 to old school hits by MC Hammer or Vanilla Ice and to recognizable ballets like Tchaikovskys The 
 Nutcracker. Wouldnt that be something?) But until that happens, you can count on me revisiting 
 Elite Beat Agents whenever I need a break from play New Super Mario Bros. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: videl18_3
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is great but, the spinning wheel will scratch your screen If you want it go ahead it's 
 a great game but, if you don't want a broken touch screen don't buy it. I'm voting for the buying 
 part it is a great game. Songs are great everything is great except the spinning wheel. I will 
 tell you spinning wheel will scratch your screen permanently. Whatever you do if you buy this go 
 lightly on the spinning wheeland when you press the circles go lightly also if you have big fingers 
 I say do not I repeat do not buy this game or a Nintendo ds for that matter. Now go out there and 
 buy it or NOT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaxxyGamer18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Hilarious; fantastic soundtrack and sound effects; tight, responsive gameplay; tons of 
 stuff to do; very, very addicting.
  
  The Bad: No online; can be too brutal on higher settings; no option to turn off sound effects; 
 doesn't feel quite responsive enough on occasion. Elite Beat Agents is the US revision of a Japanese 
 DS game titled 'Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan.' It is unique in that it is the only rhythm game available 
 for the DS, and it's great.
  
  The premise is simple, but silly. An organization, the Elite Beat Agents, help people with their 
 troubles by showing off their dancing skills. Their success depends entirely upon how well you 
 do, and it's quite funny to see what happens when you don't do well.
  
  The gameplay involves touching circles in a specified order once an outer circle lines up with 
 them. An in-game tutorial makes this easy to learn. There's also spots where you need to drag the 
 stylus across the screen in time to the rhythm, and spots where you simply draw repetitive circles 
 as quickly as possible. It works very well, and it's very challenging. Once you get in the zone, 
 it's very addicting.
  
  Elite Beat Agents also has significantly more value than Ouendan did. It has great multiplayer 
 modes and gives you the ability to save replays and play against your own ghost. There's 19 songs 
 (including the three unlockables) and plenty of incentives to try the harder difficulty levels. 
 All in all, there's lots of bang for your buck, and you'll come back again and again.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is easy to recommend to anyone who has a DS. It's simply one of the best rhythm 
 games in years, and it has great music and excellent sound effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattytheogre
Rating: 3.7
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  The game was released and then the rumours spread. ITS THE BEST DS GAME EVER! Everyone said. So 
 with money saved up I went and bought it thinking it was a good buy with all the positive reviews. 
 I was, however, very disappointed with the game. I played for half an hour to begin with thinking 
 that it was great and very addictive, but after another hour the repetition in the game began to 
 drive me insane. Tap the circles and.............. slide the stylus and spin the thing. Oh no after 
 all this playing my screen is now wrecked!!! w00t scratch marks on my brand new DS Lite. After 
 waiting ages to get one from the shops I now had some nice scratches... The music although at sometimes 
 great has some unfortunate piles of filth mixed in for good measure. The fantastic song selections 
 of ABC and Highway Star surely show that the creators have good taste but then to add the other 
 rubbish! This is personal taste of course. Please think before buying this game! Borrow or beg 
 (not steal) beforehand and test the game before buying. Do not make the same mistake I made and 
 waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Review: Elite Beat Agents
  
  Rhythm games for me have usually been hit or miss, either I get it or I don't. Good examples would 
 be; I got and loved Guitar Hero, and I despise all DDR clones. With that said, which of these two 
 camps will Elite Beat Agents fall into?
  
  Story:
  You are a member of an elite group of agents whose sole purpose of existence is to cheer up those 
 in need of cheering up by performing a cheer, to help someone out of a jam. But if you fail your 
 organization will crumble and you will be out of a job, so get out there and cheer people up Elite 
 Beat Agent, your livelihood depends on it!
  
  Graphics:
  Usually in a rhythm game you don't expect to get much graphically, but the characters look clean 
 and the game is bright and cheerful, while the animations at the top of the screen are rolling, 
 and those are absolutely hilarious, and can sometimes distract from the game play, but it is well 
 worth it.
  
  Music:
  This is always the highpoint of any rhythm game, and in Elite Beat Agents this is no exception, 
 with a licensed soundtrack that includes the likes of my Mates from New Zealand, Stereogram, Madonna, 
 Sum 41, Queen, The Rolling Stones, The Village People, Good Charlotte, Cher, Chicago, The Jackson 
 5, David Bowe, Destiny's Child, and many more. And even though the soundtrack is not sung by the 
 original artist, it is done with in reason; in that some of the beats would be off if they used 
 some of the original artist's vocals.
  
  Control:
  It takes a little while to get used to the controls in EBA, but once you do you will be having 
 a blast! This is a game completely controlled by the stylus, and you have to hit certain points 
 of the screen when the beat hits, or you may need to drag out a beat across the touch screen. Sounds 
 simple right? Well it is not quite as easy as it sounds like in a song like Material Girl; you 
 will be hitting double beats, at a good pace as well with holding a beat with good regularity, 
 and don't get me started with songs like Canned Heat. Needless to say that the tutorial mode for 
 Elite Beat Agents is more than a suggested place to start for new players since it can be confusing, 
 to get started into, but after that initial learning curve, players will feel right at home, and 
 really start enjoying the game.
  
  Design:
  This game looks good, plays good, sounds good, and on top of that is highly addictive. How addictive 
 you ask? As addictive as the best games in the genre are, that is how addictive. The stages and 
 choreography of the patterns are complex, and flow beautifully, and make for some of the best uses 
 of the touch screen to be seen on the DS. If the game has any flaws it is that some of the songs 
 can be quite a challenge for new players, but you are a gamer right? And gamers like a little challenge 
 every now and again right?
  
  DS owners this is another quality title for your little handheld that is a must own, and should 
 appeal to everyone. DS owners you owe it to your self to at least try this game out. Or you will 
 be missing something great for your DS
  
  Graphics
  9/10
  
  Game play
  9/10
  
  Sound
  10/10
  
  Fun factor
  10/10
  
  Tilt
  10/10
  
  Average score
  9.6
  
 
  Elite Beat Agents:
  
  Pros:
  Fun, addictive, catchy
  Great soundtrack
  Great animations, with a great sense of humor
  Fluid game play
  
  Cons:
  Takes a little 
 while to get used to
  Some of the songs are ungodly tough, so don't get discouraged 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Back when EBA was first annouced i thought that this game WOULD STINK! But then i got it and it 
 was so freakin' awesome...
  
  Here is my review:
  
  The gameplay of EBA is flat out awesome it took me awhile to learn how to play but then i learned 
 and it got AWESOME! The levels last about 5 minutes and you play to the beat (as if you didn't 
 know) . There are markers and spinners right before the markers get down to the number you press 
 them with your stylus on the spinners you spin, duhh! There are also sliders which are pretty fun! 
 9/10 The graphics of EBA are nice comic book style. The agents and the other characters sweet! 
 The best part of the game is the sound and gameplay but the graphics makes this a DS gamer's Heaven...
 
  
  8/10
  
  I hate the sound it sucks eggs... j/k the sound gets a 10 the music is awesome! u could use your 
 DS as a mp3 player on EBA. With hits like YMCA and Skater Boy this is a hit. And if they make an 
 EBA 2 put Sexy Back London Bridges Smack That Fergalisous and Glamorus on it!
  This game ROX out LOUD!
  
  10/10
  
  I love EBA maybe the best DS game ever!!!
  
  I 
 give it a 9.0
  
  Solid gameplay
  Good Graphics
  Awesome music
  
  awesome game
  
  -jw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirbyfanatic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:26 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games I own! The storyline is that Beat Agents are helping people with problems 
 by dancing to the music. When the song starts you must tap circles at the correct time to keep 
 the EliteoMeter up. The story is in comic book formation and depending on how good you do, you'll 
 get a circle or X. You get a grade after, up to S, which is hard.
  
  There is 19 songs in the game, and 4 difficulty levels. Times them and you get 76 unique levels 
 since the higher the difficulty level is, the more notes there is.
  
  All in all, the game play, graphics, sound, value, and tilt is all awesome! It's recommendable 
 to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklepik
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  It's an experience. You know if you're reading this review right now because you are having second 
 thoughts about buying this game, you are out of your mind! . You are able to listen to hit songs 
 created by some of the greatest music artists known in the past decades to just about now. Even 
 if music isn't your thing, but still love games, I highly encourage you to pick up a copy (or rent 
 it, if you can) . To date, EBA can be called one of the top three games of 2006 on the Nintendo 
 DS. What's also good about EBA is that it had such a great set of missions (none of which I'll 
 ruin) that there is a very good chance of a sequel. So when you hear all your friends talking about 
 EBA 2 and you haven't even experienced the first EBA, well whose the one to blame? All I'm saying 
 is that EBA will keep you addicted to it and still give an enjoyable experience for weeks to come. 
 It took me a little while to beat it
  (cough) 3 (cough) months (cough) . So now that you've read this go pick up a copy. Please go now. 
 Come on. COME ON. COME ON!!! GO!!! NOW!!! GO!!! Please leave!.... Oh thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relentlessH52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Lately these days, music games have been finding their own market. Games like Dance Dance Revolution, 
 Guitar Hero, and others have shown that music based games can be popular and profitable. Nintendo 
 themselves are no strangers to the market, as they previously released Donkey Konga and its sequel 
 (under developer Namco, now known as Namco Bandai) . Another one that they did (which saw limited 
 distribution in the US) is Eletroplankton, something that wasnt exactly a game more than it 
 was something that you can use to make music. Now, theyre at it again releasing yet another music 
 based game, called Elite Beat Agents, and this may be one of the best music based games out there.
 
  First, however, a little background is necessary to explain the games origins. In 2005, Nintendo 
 (and developer Inis) released Ossu! Tatakae! Ouendan! The game featured male cheerleaders (dont 
 worry, they wear black leather suits, not skirts) whose job is to help encourage those that are 
 in trouble or need help. You listened to Jpop and used your stylus to hit the markers that appear 
 at the right time during the song. Sadly, despite being imported in such quantities, there was 
 no chance of this game being brought to the US. Instead of just leaving it at that, however, Nintendo 
 asked Inis if they can make a game similar to this for the US market. They changed the cheerleaders 
 to secret agents, put American Pop music instead of Jpop, stories that actually make sense, and 
 added some stuff that the Japanese guys never even got. The result is Elite Beat Agents, which 
 is what this review is about.
  These agents are a secret organization under the guidance of Commander Kahn. Their objective is 
 to arrive whenever someone has a cry for help and step in to help them out. How do they help these 
 people in need, you ask? Well, by dancing, of course! Yes, it does sound ridiculous, but this game 
 really doesnt take itself seriously at all. Also, the missions themselves are actually quite a 
 break from the normal stuff that we see in games these days. Whether its helping an overworked 
 babysitter tell a local football player to go steady with her while trying to baby-sit three little 
 brats, or helping two celebrities survive on a deserted island while maintaining their material 
 grubbing ways, the missions are pretty unusual, yet they are quite enjoyable.
  Graphically, the introduction cut scenes for the individual stories unfold in manga-like panels 
 (if manga were colored) which are quite detailed and expressive, and also have some slight animations. 
 During gameplay, on the top screen, there are some animation frames that go depending on how you 
 handled the last frame of lines, while on the bottom screen (which youll primarily be looking 
 at) has 3D representations of the agents that look quite good (by DS standards) and numbers and 
 other stuff that you need to touch. I will explain now how the game works.
  Essentially, you want to either turn the volume to a good volume or use headphones, because you 
 need to listen to the music throughout the entire game. During the song, circled numbers will appear 
 which will have a clear shrinking circle encompassing them. What you do is hit the center circle 
 at the right time (when the larger circle gets to the size of the smaller circle you have to hit) . 
 The points you get depends on how well your timing was. It ranges from nothing (miss) , 50, 100, 
 and 300. Occasionally, youll have to tap and hold the stylus on the touch screen as you drag it 
 to the next line. Finally, you may be asked to move the stylus in a circular motion as you rotate 
 a spinner. It sounds easy enough at first, and it does start off slow, but it does get frantic. 
 Also, you have a bar on the top of the touch screen that slowly drains away. Getting the beats 
 exactly right helps fill out the meter, while misses drains it much faster. If it gets to the end, 
 then you fail the mission, and you have to start all over, sadly. During each mission, there are 
 skit intermissions. How they play out depends on how well you did earlier on. Successful playing 
 leads to good outcomes (a circle) while near failure will lead to negative, but funny outcomes 
 (an x) . If you clear the whole song, you get to move on to the next song. You can also go back 
 and play the mission again to get a higher score, which will be necessary later on if you want 
 to get a higher rank and unlock some bonus content.
  One thing necessary to note is that the soundtrack itself mostly consist of American pop and rock 
 music. Its all licensed music, but its not from the original artists. Wait, wait, and wait!! 
 Its not as bad as it sounds. In fact, the covers do a very respectable job on maintaining the 
 integrity of the original songs. Some people, however, may complain about the song selection, but 
 mostly the choices are appropriate for whats going on. Some of the more modern songs, like Sk8ter 
 Boi, seem tacked on, just for varietys sake. Still, it is all good, and the gameplay actually 
 makes you actually care about playing through these songs.
  Overall, this game is great. It is very fun and although you may end up trying some songs over 
 and over again, it never really gives off the frustrating vibe, and more of the I just need one 
 more try vibe. Some people may not like this game for its wackiness and weirdness of some of its 
 parts. Aside from that, youll enjoy this game very much (unless you like to buy bad games for 
 your DS, that is, which, Im sorry to say that this is a great game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchconlin
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  The moment i picked this game up i thought juicy, Already looking forward to the second one, Little 
 less country little more rock n roll. Now for the review
  
  This game has a very memorable story. The story had me laughing and crying (im looking at you Chicago) . 
 The best thing is how your performance will affect the story so if you are doing bad, bad things 
 will happen to the character of the story. This game can get tough personally i broke my original 
 ds. But you can holla at yeah boy who got a ds lite. The early difficulties are fairly simple and 
 let you learn the ropes. But the later difficulties are more punishing than taking a Rock Bottom 
 from Dwayne the rock Johnson. You will fail alot but you will always be coming back for more!
 
  
  Now for the Nitty Gritty.
  
  Gameplay: Very Responsive, good menu layouts, no major complaints.
  
  Graphics: Nice clean 
 look but they kinda have a lame anime look to them.
  
  Sound: This game has the best soundtrack no garage rock here. Queen, The Rolling Stones, David 
 Bowie, Earth Wind and Fire, Avril Lavigne and many more make an appearance.
  
  Value: Both single and multicard options, multiple difficulties, unlockable songs will keep you 
 playing for a long time.
  
  Tilt: You wont wanna stop once you start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: web966
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  EBA is one of the most fun games I have ever played. The game is very simple; all you do is tap 
 the screen in rhythm with the music. This may seem simple but the game gets extremely difficult 
 in the later levels. The only trouble I ever had with the controls was that sometimes my hand would 
 block the screen, so I could'nt see what I had to poke next. This rarely happened, but when it 
 did it was rather annoying. Since this is a music game the music is very important. The music selection 
 is perfect for this type of game. I would never listen to Ashlee Simpson or Madonna, but it works 
 really well in the game. The graphical style is great. All the cut scenes look like they were taken 
 straight from a comic book. The stories are also very funny and enjoyable. The game is very addicting 
 and will last you a long time. Its my favorite game on the DS, and one of my favorite games of 
 all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: death919
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Elite Beat Agents is a rhythm game whose concept is simple enough: tap the screen in 
 rhythm to the music that's currently playing. However, as simple as this formula is, it works much 
 better than you would think. This is the type of game that will keep you playing for hours, trying 
 to either beat your scores at current games or progressing through the higher difficulties. The 
 game starts out easy enough, but the difficulty can get pretty brutal at the higher difficulties, 
 particularly near the end of 2 star and throughout 3 star. The final difficulty, 4 star, is just 
 plain insane.
  
  The game features 19 songs that you can play through, 3 of which will not be unlocked throughout 
 the normal progression of story mode, but rather require skill and mastery of the game to unlock. 
 While 19 songs might not sound like a whole lot, it's actually a ton, considering there's 4 difficulty 
 levels and the fact that you'll want to keep playing them over and over again to try and increase 
 your high score. The overall setup of the game is addictive and fun, and you'll be having a blast 
 from the time you turn it on until you turn it off, usually hours later.
  
  But what's perhaps the most appealing aspect of the game is the story mode's actual story (if you 
 can call it that) . Basically, during each song, there are comic, manga-like cut-scenes, and each 
 chapter (song) has its own storyline. The stories cover everything from a car-dealer/ninja who 
 has to steal the plans to the rival company's latest car design, to a retired baseball player that 
 has to fight a giant fire-breathing golemn in a theme park. The cut-scenes are hilarious and will 
 have you laughing out loud, they really are enjoyable to watch and, combined with the gameplay, 
 help make Elite Beat Agents one of the most enjoyable experiences on the DS to date.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: EBA has a unique visual appeal that's sure to please anyone looking for something 
 different. The cut-scenes are nicely drawn and have that hilarious, exaggarated look that's popular 
 in most anime and manga. The gameplay visuals themselves are also pretty good, with the 3D cartoony 
 agents dancing in the background to reflect your button tapping. in terms of the sound, whether 
 you like the songs or not is entirely up to you. I personally loved the soundtrack and felt it 
 matched the game perfectly. While alot of these songs aren't things that I would normally listen 
 to in my free time (example: Madonna's Material Girl ) , when you combine them with the crazy, over-the-top 
 cut-scenes and dancing agents, you can't help but enjoy yourself as you tap to the rhythm. Overall, 
 the graphics and sound in EBA are top-knotch.
  
  Value: EBA is a meaty game that will keep you playing for a long time. While you can go through 
 the story mode on 1 star difficulty in about 3 or 4 hours, stopping there would be foolish and 
 just plain dumb (1 star could be considered like a kind of tutorial) . Once you enter 2 star, you 
 start getting into much harder territory, and 3 star will really test your skill. 4 star is for 
 the true masters, and making it to the end of 4 star not only has an awesome unlockable, but will 
 take you hours upon hours of mastery to get to. There's alot to do in EBA, and I guarentee that 
 once you start playing it, it won't leave your DS for weeks.
  
  Tilt: Well, what can I say, EBA is truly an awesome game. I'll admit that I used to be a hater: 
 when I originally saw this game getting high reviews, had the same thoughts as everyone else (what 
 is this game!? It looks dumb!) . But now I have seen the light. Elite Beat Agents is not only an 
 awesome game, but its also easily one of the best. I'd go as far as to say that this is probably 
 the best DS game that I've ever played, or at least its tied for first place with one or two other 
 games. EBA has everything that you could possibly want in a game, and I cannot urge you to get 
 over your fear and buy this game! Without a doubt my choice for 2006's DS Game of the Year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceBowser
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  If you have a DS you should deffinately pick this game up. It is a wonderful addition to any DS 
 collection. The gameplay is so much fun. there are 16 songs in the game and for each song you hit 
 balloons to the beat of the song. its simple yet extremely fun. There are 4 difficulties and it 
 can get really hard. but if you keep playing you will find that you keep getting better and better. 
 The graphics are bright and colorful and the sound is good. Some of the songs might not be your 
 style but they are still fun to play through. The value is perfect. you are getting your moneys 
 worth with this game. you'll be playing it till the end of your DS. Theres not much to say about 
 the tilt but its good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panzerfaust1014
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  When this game came out, I thought it was gay I made fun of my friend cause he got it, then he 
 made me play it. Then it dawned on me, THIS IS AN AMAZING GAME!. The whole Grown-men-groovin-to-Madonna 
 thing that i thought was gay turned out to be the games charm, that and the most AMAZING gameplay 
 ive seen for a DS game, and thats saying alot. First Question: um.... wtf.... why are there guys 
 in suits groovin? These guys (and later girls) r the EBA, Elite Beat Agents, and they solve peoples 
 problems around the world by groovin for em, encouraging them i guess. And your basicly the director, 
 if you mess up, they mess up, the people r discouraged and ultimatly you fail the mission. The 
 whole thing is controlled by the bar at the top, which is constantly falling and being restored 
 when you hit a beat on the screen, mess up and u dont get the boost from the beat, which at the 
 first is easily overcomable, but in the later levels 1 or 2 misses will kill you. The gameplay, 
 which may take a couple levels to get the hang of, is extremely good. Even though in the earlier 
 levels the beats dont seem to really match the song, at the end itll just flow right along, as 
 long as you can keep up. The more accuratly timed your hit on the beat is, the more points you 
 get for it and the higher the boost you get to the bar. This is also one of the few, maybe the 
 only, game ive played where you absolutely have to have the sound on for it to work. It doesnt 
 seem like you need the music, but you really do to make it flow, listenin for the beats and hittin 
 them at the same time. The recordings arnt the original artist, but are still pretty good. Ive 
 heard tons of reviewers griping about the song selection, but honestly, they could have played 
 Bulgarian polka and still be good as long as the game was set up the same. Concentration is also 
 very important, you lose your place or look up, ull prolly miss a couple. The start of the levels 
 have a comic book setup which is fairly original and works out really well. And even though Spin, 
 Jay, Chieftain and the Divas dont really say much during the game, youll eventually become a lil 
 attached to them (well, maybe not Spin, he kinda sucks) . But the biggest plus to this game is the 
 almost endless replay value. You can pretty much play every level of this game a million times 
 and it still wont get old. This game has so much replay value, it just may blow your freakin mind!!! 
 Overall, i think EBA is the best DS game to date, which any DS owner should buy. P. S. I cant wait 
 till EBA2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seasponge2004
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents for the Nintendo DS has you playing as an agent in a world where song and dance 
 fix all the problems (Lost dog? Sing. Casino being robbed? Dance) . The game is wacky, over-the-top 
 and is extremely enjoyable. You play the game by tapping circular buttons on the touch screen at 
 the appropriate times. Each level has a different, seemingly cliched story. But when you play them, 
 you have a unique game. One is a love story but you also have to save the girl from stampeding 
 bulls. Another is that you have to help a son impress his dad. But you have to dress up as a ninja, 
 steal some secret plans, and get out. Also, the game is incredibly hard in the later levels. It 
 eventually becomes you playing the song so many times you eventually just memorize the patterns.
 
  
  The look of EBA is that of a comic. Each of the unique characters have a hand-drawn look and feel 
 to them and they all are well drawn. The cutscenes are obviously like comic books, with panels 
 and speech bubbles, all with the same hand-drawn look. The Agents themselves are in 3D during the 
 songs itself, and don't look amazing, but that is probably because I have played too much XBox 
 360. While not technically impressive, it sure is artistically.
  
  Elite Beat Agent's soundtrack is one of the best I have ever heard. Featuring no specific genre, 
 the game moves from slow moving to ultrafast. Also, the names in the game are pretty special (Queen, 
 Rolling Stones, The Jackson 5, etc.) but they are not master tracks unfortunately. But with such 
 a varied and diverse soundtrack, Elite Beat Agents actually pulls it off. Each song feels right 
 for the game and makes the game even more humorous.
  
  While extremely tough, Elite Beat Agents is a great game. It's comic style is a perfect fit for 
 the wacky world of EBA. The songs, while random, are lots of fun and go from easy to challenging 
 very well. And the gameplay is simple enough to make you think you are awesome, and then kicks 
 you in the butt to give you a reality check. This is a great game and worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is one new game that combines music and tapping your DS stick together. Even 
 having to listen, tap, see and play the game.
  
  gameplay : tapping to the music and even listening to the great music in this game is really nice, 
 you can even listen to walkie talkie man or even YMCA in this game which offers some of todays 
 great songs. Tapping and listening equals great fun!!!
  
  Graphics: Great comic styled pictures scene to scene and frame to frame.
  
  Sound: Looks at 
 game play, its the great music and great including today greatest mix of music.
  
  Get or Rent: Get it, its great fun and will grab you
  
  Score 9.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redchina
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  *****GAMEPLAY*****
  
  Tapping circles to the beat of music.
  
  Its an innovative and completely addictive game that is just extremely fun to play.
  
  My only 
 problem is with the spinning section. It's difficult to pull off, and can really scratch your touch 
 screen after a while, so get some screen protectors before playing!
  
  *****GRAPHICS*****
  
  I'm giving graphics a 10 because the visuals are perfect and couldn't 
 be improved in any way. The manga-inspired look is fantastic. The game looks sharp and colorful, 
 and is by far the most attractive DS game I have played.
  
  ******SOUND******
  
  Great sound quality. Some good song choices as well, but there are a few that don't suit my tastes. 
 Sk8er boi is one of the songs I really don't like. My favorite song of the bunch is easily September 
 by Earth, wind, and fire.
  
  *******VALUE*******
  
  This is a very pick up and play game, and I still go back to try and beat the 4 difficulty levels 
 and getting better ratings. Plus its just extremely fun, and so far hasn't gotten old at all.
 
  
  *******TILT*******
  
  FUN. THIS GAME IS FRIKIN FUN. Good times on the DS, good times. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_ghost
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 16, 2007 8:45 pm PT
Review:  What are the odds that a quirky and comic style music game released by a little known developer 
 would be the best DS game of 2006? Well apparently very good, if Elite Beat Agents is anything 
 to judge by. Elite Beat Agents comes very close to flawlessly combining colorful manga, beat dancing, 
 and saving the world, while still creating an environment that is loads of fun. Developed by little-known 
 company Inis, Elite Beat delivers an experience unlike anything youve probably played before. 
 Furthermore, Nintendo shows why they chose to implement a touch screen, as without it the game 
 simply isnt possible.
  
  Elite Beat exemplifies its weirdness through over the top cartoons for each level. Instead of one 
 overall arching storyline the game is composed of fifteen separate short-stories. In each of them 
 you are introduced to the characters as they undertake tough challenges. For instance, one level 
 has you saving kids from a Golem and resurrecting a baseball career, while another has you guide 
 a lost dog back home. So, how do you help these poor people? Why by dancing of course! Dancing 
 provides people the motivation to succeed against all odds. Each story is unique, witty, funny, 
 and told excellently. In only a minute you gain a great feel for the characters and their struggles.
 
  
  These stories transition excellently into the great song selection that matches the colorful and 
 light tone. With exception to my inspiration a love song, the songs are all upbeat pop punk beats 
 that have you hopelessly singing along with them. Among these catchy tunes are sk8er boi, YMCA, 
 and Lets Dance. The pacing of the songs allows the game to get more difficult, but still enable 
 you to keep up the beat. Because of the quick rhythms Elite Beat is able to allow you to just tap 
 with the beat and smiling with its simplicity and sheer want to save the characters.
  
  To keep the beat youll solely be using the touch screen. As the song plays, small circular targets 
 appear on the screen with a larger shrinking around it. When this circle surrounds the target you 
 tap the target. Depending how close the circle were youre award points ranging from 0-300. Naturally, 
 multiple targets begin to appear at once and youll have to rapidly move between targets. The other 
 beat keeping mechanic used is a drag, where you tap a target and then guide a ball to the next 
 target along a set-path. The speed and pacing of the ball is dependant on the song and it works 
 well into further immersing you. These mechanics are mixed up perfectly and really cause you to 
 pay attention to the beat and pace of each song.
  
  Unfortunately, this brings up the games biggest flaw, the difficulty. The game ramps up the difficulty 
 way too fast, even on the easiest mode of play. Each mission is also ranked on its difficulty, 
 and there is a steep increase between D and S. When you finish a difficulty and move up to the 
 medium or hard modes, it gets even tougher with targets appearing everywhere, while you relentlessly 
 try to keep up. It winds up being a true test of patience and will power rather then fun and exciting. 
 Initially there are two difficulties, but finishing difficulties unlocks harder stages. Furthermore, 
 Elite Beat has 3 bonus stages, which are as good as the regular levels and tack on excellent replay 
 value. As mentioned, you are ranked by performance after each level with a perfect S ranking 
 unlocking a new picture that your human nature wants you to get.
  
  Finally, there is co-op and competitive multiplayer modes. In Co-op you and a partner play through 
 a song splitting the beats about fifty-percent each. This works rather nicely and alters the game 
 enough to keep you interested and play through each song at least once. In a more competitive mode 
 you play against each other on the same song against, trying to outscore your opponent. These battles 
 can quite intense especially between two equal opponents, where a quality beat is the difference 
 between a gleeful victory and a heartbreaking loss. The multiplayer isnt the best the DS has to 
 offer, but its fun and functional despite only share-play.
  
  Quite Simply, Elite beat Agents takes a few really bizarre ideas and makes them all work almost 
 perfectly. With the exception of the way too harsh difficulty the game is amazing. The art style 
 is beautiful, the agents themselves look terrific, and the music is perfection. It combines the 
 best aspect of many rhythm games and adds a ton of unique touches that only the DS could provide. 
 Nintendo and Inis deliver one of the quirkiest, addictive, and most enjoyable games on the DS that 
 no owner should be without. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicity72
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 10:51 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Elite Beat Agents after hearing it was good but not really knowing what to expect. 
 After playing through the first couple of songs, I knew it was an awesome game. Some of the songs 
 I didn't quite care for, like Ashley SImpson's Lala , Avril Lavigne's Sk8ter Boi and Good Charlotte's 
 The Anthem . Even though they weren't songs that I particularly enjoy, the rythym action of the 
 game and crazy comic book-like cartoons made me forget about the few less than stellar song choices. 
 As I progressed through the game, the songs continued to get more and more challenging, which at 
 times could be extremely frustrating (ie Jumping Jack Flash) , yet still fun at the same time. It 
 also has great re-playability with three bonus songs to unlock and the pursuit of S rankings. The 
 stories that lead up to each song are funny, interesting, and often downright weird. The concept 
 of three agents doing choreographed dances to help a girl get a boyfriend, help two spoiled rich 
 girls survive on a deserted island, and even save the world, is completely absurd, but it makes 
 for surprisingly fun entertainment. Finding a game that is both challenging and fun can be tough 
 with the state of the video game industry as it has been, but this game is a breath of fresh air 
 that provides both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanzzo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:32 am PT
Review:  I got this game based purely on reviews and a couple of user videos. Looked like it was worth a 
 shot... I was very dissapointed and frustrated for 2 days!! I hated it! Even after the training 
 session! I knew I had 5 days before I could take it back for a full refund coz I got it used at 
 a local game trader. I gave it to my wife coz she likes to dance and I figured she'd like it. Man 
 was I wrong she hated it too! I fiddled around a bit more and noticed that all the stages were 
 unlocked, and I had full reign of the game. I did a little research and figured out how to erase 
 all previous data. I then started Fresh with lower beat stages. BIG IMPROVEMENT! Turns out, I was 
 choosing all the advanced stages! 1 month later, I've worked my way up from the lower beat levels 
 to the advanced stages (double-tap) , and I love the game!! I cant get some of those tunes outta 
 my head I play so much!! High replay value, interesting animation, great songs! High fun factor.. 
 Word of advice, if u get it used, be sure to erase all previous data and start fresh on the lower 
 (easy) levels. It will save you a lot of frustration and enjoy the game more from the beginning!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedro_Sannuzuki
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is the great rythim game I've ever played... This game is a mix of Japanese Manwa 
 and American songs, the song are only success, like Jumpin' Jack Flash, La La, Rock This Town.... 
 I'm MrIlluminati's friend, and I borrowed the game from him, after that, I bought my copy and I 
 played a LOT, the game is really great, sometimes, it has some difficult parts, like the one in 
 Cruisin' Mode, the stage that you need to help a ninja guy... You can have very good laughts and 
 a lot of fun, the game is really addictive, it's gameplay is great, and the fact that you can send 
 the DEMO to your friends and it doesn't require multi-card play, 'cause teh most part of My games 
 are Multi-Card play... I tried, liked, had fun, and a really good time, you should try it too... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrIlluminati
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Whoa, I've bought this game some time ago, and I Was Waving to Begin to Play it. When I Turned my 
 DS On, I toughtMan, i'm going to play ELITE BEAT AGENTS !!". And I Was'nt Wrong. I've began to play 
 it waiting to see some musics I Knew, and at the End, I've Seen a Dozen of'em, Like Jumpin'Jack Flash, Y. M. C. A., La 
 La, and others. I showed it to my friends and they LOVED it.
  'Til Today i've not Finished it in the "Cruisin'Mode, But it's because I Simply LOVE to play 
 some stages in theBreezin'Mode, Like the Stages i've said Before.
  This Game is one of the Best Games for DS, and I Hope Nintendo should make a Continue for It. I've 
 Bought It, Enjoyed It, Loved It, And i think you should too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RemmyX25
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 1, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  While a DDR type game for the Nintendo DS may seem difficult, Elite Beat Agents is one of those 
 games that goes out of its way and makes it work. The Elite Beat Agents are a government agency 
 who help those in trouble by..... dancing? Sounds weird but the dancing serves as a motivation to 
 whoever you have to help. You (as the player) tap numbered, colored bubbles on the bottom screen. 
 As you tap, depending on the timing, you can earn 300, 100, or 50 points, or an X which means you 
 completely missed the target. Each song you dance to is broken up into several segments to show 
 how well you're doing as well as an Elite-O-Meter which decreases over time and if you miss beats, 
 but fills up as you progress successfully. As in DDR, if it completely disappears, you lose. The 
 soundtrack to the game consists of cover songs from new artists like Good Charlotte, Avril Lavigne, 
 and Ashlee Simpson, as well as older artists like The Village People, Rolling Stones, and Chicago. 
 Just as a note the songs in the game are not actually sung by the artists, but the cover up singers 
 do a great job sounding like the original artists. Collectively, EBA has a total of 20 (including 
 3 secret songs) to dance to. Elite Beat Agents use the DS's Stereo/Surround Sound Speakers well. 
 The songs sound like your listening to a brand new CD on your favorite CD player. The multiplayer 
 mode gives the game a fun time waster with friends, whether they have the game or not. EBA supports 
 both multi- and single card play. If someone has to download the game though, the host can only 
 select from the first 2 difficulty levels, and is limited to only 5 of the songs. The guest will 
 hear the song with a monaural sound. If all players own the game, the host can pick from any song 
 that he or she has cleared in that difficulty in Single Player mode. Either way, if 3 or 4 players 
 are playing, all players will be split into teams of 2 vs. 2 or a 2 vs. 1. Also, if all players 
 own the game, there is a co-op mode where each segment of a song is broken into smaller segments 
 where each player will take turns tapping the beats. The Elite-O-Meter monitors all players, which 
 definitely gives it a co-op feeling. The only thing with this game that gives it a 9.7 instead 
 of 10 are some of the unlockable characters. I don't mean to spoil, but once you beat the third 
 difficulty, you unlock the fourth level, but you don't play as the Agents. Instead, you have the 
 Elite Beat Divas. The Diva's outfits and dancing are the reasons why the game is rated E10+ instead 
 of just E. To me, it ruins the look of the game. The other characters that can be unlocked for 
 multiplayer mode are worth the effort to unlock them, but enough with the spoilers. This is a game 
 that cannot be put down unless you absolutely have to. When you play this game, I recommend having 
 your charger nearby. The amount of time spent on this game, and the stereo soundtracks use a lot 
 of battery, but you can't help it. Plus you can show up your friends with your elite dance moves. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ranaky
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Dancing is good for the soul, or so I've heard. The developers have taken this idea and made it 
 the central theme for this game and man is it weird. Not that that's a bad thing or anything it's 
 just very confusing when you first pick up this game. How do they do this? They give you normal 
 situation for instance a girl is dating Mr. High School football star on her day off from babysitting. 
 However, this is ruined when a mother drop off 3 of her noisy and bratty children without notice. 
 What's a poor girl to do than scream for help. Out of nowhere, three agents armed with music help 
 overcome her ordeal. For those of you who haven't played the game, you're probably scratching your 
 head and asking yourself why someone would put this in a game. However, once you get through a 
 few levels you begin to understand how quirky this game really is. Not only do the intros become 
 wierd but some of the things that happen in level are hillarious as well, such as when Da Vinci 
 takes Mona Lisa to a rock concert after he forges tickets so he can go out with her. This is one 
 of the reasons why I got addicted to this game, mainly because I like weird games like Katamari 
 Damacy. Even if you didn't like KD, this may still be interesting for you.
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay is set up so that just about anyone can pick up and play. You tap your stylus on a 
 number that appears on screen after a circle completely surrounds it. There are other times where 
 you have to slide the stylus across a meter. This takes a little time to get used to, but once 
 you got it down, it becomes second nature. After getting past the learning curve, the game gradually 
 gets harder and harder until you reach the extremely difficult final level that features two songs. 
 To this day, I still have trouble beating Jumpin' Jack Flash on Cruisin' (Normal) difficulty even 
 though I'm there on Hard mode. The levels are set up so you have 3 little branching points that 
 carry out the story in certain depending on your meter at the top. If it is in the 'Yes' zone, 
 you're rewarded with a positive outcome that usually ends up looking cool or funny. If it's in 
 the 'No' zone however, something bad happens during that event, which can also end up being funny.
 
  
  Sound
  Some of the songs really fit the story they're with (like Rock This Town in the Casino level) while 
 others are very questionable (Sk8er Boi on a level with a taxi?) At any rate, most of the songs 
 sound decent when listened to on screen and the only one that really bothered me was the Bonus 
 Level that featured A-B-C. There is some VA for the comic book level intros that usually involves 
 the character screaming for help in a humorous manner. There are also a few that appear during 
 the interuppted sequences like a baseball player who likes to say You bet, kid every time that 
 kid makes a compliment to him.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in this game are set up in a manga/comic book style that ends up fitting the quirky 
 stories that seem to happen. The dancers on screen are done in 3D and have no lags and seem to 
 dance just fine.
  
  I would highly recommend this game, it is a lot of fun and I still play even though I have almost 
 completely finished it. The only problems with this game I've ever faced is that occasionally there 
 are times when the game will not register you tapping a button. This can cause problems in later 
 difficulties as they are easier to lose in. Other than that, Elite Beat Agents is an awesome rhythm 
 based game that anyone can get into even if you're one of those people who don't play games like 
 DDR, Guitar Hero, or Space Channel 5. I've tested this game out on other people who don't even 
 like some of the above games and they loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 5.1
Date: Feb 25, 2007 4:46 pm PT
Review:  I first played this game out of sheer hype of the game however I found myself disappointed from 
 the get-go. So thus I will start with the positive elements. The idea does make me reminisce upon 
 DDR but has a different edge and an actual story line. I do like the cinematic story presentation 
 and it is fun to look at. The graphics are great and the sounds is awesome. Given that I must say 
 that without gameplay there is nothing in a game. This game reminded me of the pointless repetitive 
 actions of point blank where you do the same thing over and over again and it loses its fun factor. 
 Maybe cause I am a bit older but that really turned me off. I can honestly say that the gameplay 
 ruins it for me and ruins my ability to look at this game as a positive experience. However that's 
 just me. Maybe this type of game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ybrik222
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 24, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I don't normally like these kind of games, but it is so AWESOME! The songs 
 also somehow sound different when you're playing the game. over half of these songs I wouldn't 
 like if I didn't have this game.
  
  Gameplay: All of the tapping is really going to wear your screen out in the later stages, because 
 there is a LOT of it. I know tapping a screen frantically doesn't sound to fun, but it's oddly 
 entertaining.
  
  Graphics: I like the comic scenarios, they add a lot of personality. The story-lines in the middle 
 of the songs are really funny, too. I don't really like how the agents look in 3D when you're tapping 
 away, though.
  
  Sound: The sound is pretty good with the speakers, and the song choices are good, but they sound 
 even better with headphones. It's too bad most of the songs aren't done by the real artists, they 
 would've sounded even better.
  
  Value: This game is definitely worth it value-wise. You get a lot of tapping for $35 Canadian. 
 It would of had a better value if it had WiFi.
  
  Tilt: I still don't really know what tilt is, but I'll just say it's awesome.
  
  Overall: This 
 is a great game I'd recommend for anyone. Don't rent it, or you won't want to own it. GET IT NOW!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: its_liljesse
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 22, 2007 11:05 pm PT
Review:  this game is pretty much one of the most addicting ds games i own. once i got it i couldnt stop 
 tappin my way to the finish. the game is fun and shows the real potental of the ds. i really recommend 
 this game to any one looking to have a good time and have fun with there ds. the only bad thing 
 is that towards the end it just seems repetitive. but all in all its a good game. graphics are 
 well made story is odd but fun and the music is witty yet satisfiying. a must have.
  
  the good things about this game
  *gameplay is highly addictive
  *sounds and music is fun
 
  *cant stop playing
  
  bads
  *somewhat difficult at time
  *repetitive towards the end
  *replay value isnt very high 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morfivinet
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 20, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Angels is a GREAT game for playing 1-2 days, max 3 day. After that you will get boared. 
 It has a lot of addictive songs, and the micro-storys are very good. You will have a lot of fun 
 when you play it, and you will probably play hours and hours without a rest (I didn't stop playing 
 it until I finish it xD) .
  
  The Gameplay is very intersting, I had never payed something like it, you have to ''press buttons'' 
 acording to the rithm of the song, but the buttons have different positions, and diferet order 
 acording to the song. The Graphics are good, not exelent, but very good for the nintendo DS. The 
 angels dance in the lower screen with 3d graphics, and in the upper scren dane the other people, 
 but with a comic (american, not japanese) style.
  
  About the Sound, It's a rythm game, so the most important part of the game is this point. As I 
 said, some song are very good, but other are really bad, but it is thing of pleasures.
  
  The difficulty is variable, you can chose two difficultys at the beggining (easy and normal) When 
 you finish the game once, you unlock another difficulty (hard)
  
  I recomend you to buy this game, only if you like music. You must consider, that you won't play 
 this game days and days. I recomend you to buy a longer game. Anyway it's a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immortality20
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:23 pm PT
Review:  There is no denying it, I felt really girly when I went into Wal Mart and picked up Elite Beat 
 Agents for my underplayed DS (not even a DS Lite... for shame) . I was, however, instantly satisfied 
 when I turned on the game. I was greeted with over the top cutscenes, strange actions, and addictive 
 gameplay. Just your usual Japanese game.
  
  The game has very little room for error was you get a few levels in, and you'll find yourself never 
 wanting to hear certain songs again (hey, I didn't want to hear La La before I played it) . This, 
 however, does not take away from the experience, more or less makes your ear more fine tune to 
 beats. Oh yes, you will need to know the beat. Once you do, it all falls into place, and even then 
 it is tough.
  
  As circles fall closer to numbered circles, you must pop them when they join, but if you know the 
 beat, it's almost second nature. My only problem is some songs had no beat that I could pick up. 
 Take for example, the level where a fellow breaks into a building, I had no idea what the song 
 was, and through 2 hours (thats right) on the damn level, I still have no idea what it was. It 
 was all luck and memory. Memory will do you know good if you have no luck in this game.
  
  The gameplay also has half pipes/lines where you must follow the circle with your stylus, which 
 is quite frantic in some parts, and a spinner, where, you guessed it, you spin your stylus as frantic 
 as Ms. Ritchie at happy hour. As of the diffuculity I spoke of earlier, levels will seem easy and 
 insanely hard the next. That is not to say its off balanced, but it is an unexpected curve in some 
 parts. Normal mode is quite challenging and took me near twenty hours to complete, and hard mode 
 is just, well, hard. There is no second guessing, the game is great. It's fun, it's innovative, 
 it is everything a DS game should be. What does it need? Downloable songs. A better online interface, 
 and frankly, better songs and more levels. I'm hoping that Elite Beat Agents 2 (you know its coming) 
 will look after these details and push the game even further.
  
  Do not be afraid to buy this game. You will have fun, that I promise you. It's insane, over the 
 top visuals are pleasing. It had hilarious dancing, text, and even dancing animals that would make 
 your math teacher giggle like a school girl. It has controls that are easy, with a nice steep curve 
 to climb. And, for now, it will sit inside my DS, waiting to be beat on hard mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NintendoRus
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is probably the funnest, most addicting game you'll ever play on the DS. Its a simple 
 rythme game that you'll never want to let go! Your role is as the Elite Beat Agents, you can play 
 he missions as either Spin , J , Cheiftan ,the Elite Beat Divas and later on in the game, Commander 
 Khan . in each difficulty level... there are 16 missions and 3 Bonus levels that you unlock. In 
 Each difficulty, there is a new beat that goes a little faster and trickier. Most of the songs 
 are pretty old songs (not TOO old.... songs from 2000 to 2006) but ther still catchy tunes. This 
 game is almost PERFECT!! A 9.5 for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shion_jr_kosmos
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Agents are.... GO!! It maybe grammatically incorrect, but subject-verb agreement aside, Elite Beat 
 Agents is one of THE best music/rhythm games out there. Sure, some people may complain about the 
 song list, but I'm (even though I didn't know like half the artists on this) enjoying EBA regardless 
 of what the songs are. I'm even starting to like Cher O_O. The apocolypse must be coming for me 
 to do that. But, I digress. EBA is such a fun game that you'll have a hard time putting it down 
 or taking it out of the DS. The gameplay, even if you've got great rhythm or not, will have tapping, 
 dragging, and spinning your way to victory, granted you understand the basics. Ever since I got 
 this game the day after Christmas, it's remained in my DS for about (at the time this review was 
 written) 2 months almost, and I still haven't S Ranked (How the game is scored) every song yet. 
 If you got a DS and a heart, you'll want to buy this game for you or your loved ones. Happy Valentine's 
 Day!! Dated: 2/14/2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 13, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I am sort of deciding whether this is the most addictive game of all time or not. Last week I almost 
 did none of my homework in favor of trying jumpin jack flash on sweatin mode 200 more times. I 
 know, it's crazy. It's hard. Elite Beat Agents on top of being addictive , is probably also the 
 best ds game to come out this year. New Super Mario Bros. comes close, but this is just a smidge 
 better. I cannot begin to tell you how much this game has made me hate jumpin jjack flash though. 
 I found the song harder to beat on the breezin difficulties than most of the other songs on sweatin 
 difficulty. And I still havn't beaten it on sweatin. The gameplay is simple, yet addicting, like 
 Tetris. These little circles come on the screen and you tap them in repetition with the beat to 
 play the game, there are also parts where you roll balls around and spin a ginormous wheel. It 
 may sound too simple, but oh man... it's hard and works just right. The songs in the game are good, 
 but incosistent, for every walkie talkie man there's a believe. My biggest complaint is the addition 
 of sk8ter boi in a story about a taxi driver taking a pregnant woman to the hospital. Do these 
 guys even know what the difference between skating and taxi driving is? I think not. Another complaint 
 is the song Canned Heat, because the beat is almost completely off in the first verse, but it's 
 passable. I hope for the best in Elite Beat Agents 2. There are already a ton of songs I know would 
 work better than some of the ones they chose. There are some neat voice acting parts every once 
 in a while, which is cool for a ds game, but in the baseball star mission the line no problem kid 
 or somethin like that just gets old after the 14th time he says it and doesn't even sound like 
 a black guy. It's goin Red Steel on me. But still.... just because of Kahn's awesome Agents are 
 go! part the randomly dubbed parts are great. The cutscenes are arguably the best parts of the 
 game, they are presented in comic book style with the story unfolding on the screen with dramatic 
 actions and cries for help. They really are entertaining and you will really appreciate the effort 
 that went into the art style and making them. The 3d dancing graphics are good too, even at close 
 up it looks good, it actually manages to look better than some ps2 games. In short, this game is 
 the most addicting game I've ever played and link7654 was right for once about that Ouendan game, 
 which... still probably sucks just because he's so stupid. I'm not even close to done with the game 
 either, I still have to beat ***** ***** *** jumpin jack flash on sweatin, and then the entire 
 hardrock mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevin091
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most original, as well as one of the wackiest, rhythm game on the DS. Just try 
 and miss this one and you'll regret it.
  The presentation is great and the roster of songs range from genres like rock or dance. And it 
 even includes more recent hits like Sk8tr Boi or Survivor as well as classic favorites like September 
 and.... You're The Inspiration?! Just see how they use it by getting yourself a copy.
  Anyway, the main objective is simple. Like other rhythm games (DDR, Guitar Hero) , you should clear 
 the stage (or mission as it is called here) and you'll see the outcome of your hardwork which reminds 
 me... the missions. Well, they're very very strange. Let's state an example. In a mission, a weather 
 forecaster should be predicting that the weather tomorrow is rainy but since she promised her kid 
 that they'll be able to go to a picnic tomorrow, she instead predicts that it will be sunny. She 
 then considers the consequences of her action which is getting fired and getting hated by her child. 
 So as all the other player reviewers have been saying in the title of their reviews, HEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEELLLLP! 
 . When the agents come, you'll see how desperate she is to stay at the station and keep her promise. 
 This is where the player part comes. Every segment you fail (most of the songs have 3 segments) 
 gives you of course, a different outcome and one negative outcome affects the overall outcome of 
 the stage. For example, the casino owner awards the actors with flowers IF you get a bad outcome 
 on one or 2 of the segments but he gives you a gold bar if you get all the segments right.
  OK. The gameplay. It is simple. (There will be a tutorial the first time you run the game but if 
 you borrowed it from a friend, there is a Training button on the main menu anyway.) You press the 
 numbered marker numerically and whenever the shrinking red circle shrinks into the same size as 
 the marker. You'll of course have to follow the beat. Otherwise, the Elite-o-meter will deplete 
 and you'll fail the stage.
  Once you get used to playing this game, you'll find yourself hooked on it. And with 3 bonus unlockable 
 stages and bonus difficulty levels, you'll also get yourself racking up points to get promoted 
 as well as finishing these difficulties to become the ultimate Elite Beat master! Even if the songs 
 are no different in every level, the setup of the markers as well as the numerical placement, will 
 get more complicated and more synchronized with the beat so you better hone your wrist to overcome 
 the challenges presented at even the slowest of songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omochao
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2007 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Anyway...
  Elite Beat Agents is the spiritual successor to the Japanese game Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan, and as 
 such, features situations similar to that of Ouendan.
  
  ===Gameplay===
  Score: 10/10
  
  The gameplay is pretty basic. There are 3 main things you should get used to.
  
  ==Hit 
 Markers==
  A circle will appear with a number inside it. A ring will close in on the circle. Your task is 
 to tap the circle when the ring touches the outer edge of the circle. The more accurate your tap, 
 the more points you get. Some hit markers will be on top of one another. Use the rings to determine 
 when to tap.
  
  ==Phrase Markers==
  A circle will appear with a number inside it, but a trail of some sort will appear as well. Your 
 task is to tap the circle like you would for a hit marker. Only this time, you need to slide your 
 stylus along the ball that appears. Sometimes, you will have to go back to the beginning of the 
 track once you reach the end. At times, you will have to do this multiple times.
  
  ==Spin Markers==
  A spinner will appear. Your task is to spin the spinner as fast as you can 
 using the stylus. If you can get the bars on the sides of the spinner to the top before the ring 
 hits the center of the spinner, you can keep spinning for major bonus points.
  
  All of that seems simple, right? You might think that, but when you start playing, it's a whole 
 different story. Some of these will come one after another, some will occur a great distance apart, 
 some will appear out of nowhere, and some will be a combination of the 3.
  
  There's one other thing you should know about. The meter at the top of the touch screen acts as 
 your life meter (called the Elite-O-Meter) . It gradually decreases. If you do well, it increases. 
 If you miss, it makes a huge drop. On later difficulties and levels, it decreases faster. If it 
 enters the red, YES will change to NO The Agents will enter a tired position. There will also be 
 a zoom effect. If it drops to the ! area, the zoom moves to the leader's face. If it reaches the 
 far left, the mission fails. Don't let that happen! It's possible to fail without getting any misses. 
 This is because your timing is a bit off and you're not scoring the big points enough to counter 
 the loss from the natural decrease.
  
  ===Graphics===
  Score: 9/10
  
  The graphics are almost the same as Ouendan. The map you select a stage on is 3-D, unlike Ouendan's 
 2-D map. If you haven't cleared one yet, the location of the target will show the person yelling 
 for help. After you complete the mission, the EBA icon will replace the HELP! The storyline is 
 shown on both screens, with the character (s) yelling HEEEEEELP! at the end. The Agents arrive on 
 the scene in one of several ways. The gameplay then starts. On the top screen, it shows how much 
 progress the person (or animal) is making. If you do well, (s) he will do well. If you do poorly, 
 (s) he will encounter setbacks. All the gameplay is on the touch screen. As you do well, the Agents 
 will make their dance moves. If you miss something, they will fall flat on their asses. After a 
 section, it shows the character attempt something, then either a good or bad outcome, depending 
 on where the Elite-O-Meter was at the time. In general, the graphics are pretty good.
  
  ===Sound===
  Score: 8/10
  
  The songs on the game are all of various genres, such as Rock, 
 Blues, and Pop. Most covers sound much like the originals, and some surpass the originals. 19 songs 
 in all, with 3 of them unlockable as you progress through the game. However, the DS's audio speakers 
 kinda lower the audio quality. I suggest you use headphones when playing this game.
  
  ===Story===
  Score: 9/10
  
  Some scenes are pretty bizarre and make little sense. But that 
 makes some of them pretty funny. The scenes in EBA are like a comic book, and as a result, you 
 read from left to right, unlike in Ouendan, where it's in manga (right-to-left) format.
  
  ===Overall===
  Score: 9.5/10
  
  If you're a fan of rhythm games, this is a good game to get.
 
  
  ===Final Verdict===
  
  Rent or buy: The song list could decide whether you buy the game or not. I'd suggest you either 
 rent it first or download a demo of the game at a DS Download Station. If you enjoyed Ouendan, 
 you will probably enjoy EBA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteFlame-XIII
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  Everyone heard that Elite beat Agents was like Quendan in Japan right? Elite beat Agents is Pretty 
 Awesome too though. STORY/ELEMENTS (reviewer's tilt) : This game has a basic storyline , but it isn't 
 a storyline . Instead it's an overview prompt to trigger Mini story clips. The mini story clips 
 are entertaining, but in the least bit, wierd. This game, straight up, is WIERD!!! not just wierd, 
 but WIERD. With that being said, It's just really funny!! Who doesn't like Guys in a suit n' tie 
 get up dancing in strange ways to wierd music and falling when you mess up? Well if you think about 
 it, it just makes no sense. Which is why it's hilarious. The Movie clips are funny too, don't forget. 
 There is one of them were if you get things right, stinky diapers = Football. So it makes less 
 sense than it does in humor. It's plain funny/ awesome.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This game is composed of using the touch screen only. So D-pad and ABXY lovers, this 
 ain't fo U. But if you can get used to this, this is fo U. Trash aside, The gameplay is Spectacular. 
 You are supposed to touch the targets on the touch screen in perfect rhythm to the music. If you 
 miss too many targets, you lose. The cutscene works like this. If you miss too many, but are still 
 alive, you fail the scene and something bad happens to your target/person you're trying to save. 
 So the gameplay is complicated, but ADDICTING.
  
  GRAPHICS: So the graphics aren't the stongest part. I know. But who can resist the cutscenes? (I 
 mean besides me) . But the graphics are just Average. Nothing else. So In further detail, you see 
 3 3-D rendered People in Suits dancing while you click buttons. On the top screen, you see your 
 target reacting to your combos and such. In the middle of the song. the touch screen part stops 
 and a cutscene part plays on the top screen. So top screen=Cutscenes, Touch screen= Guys in suits 
 dancing. (HA HA)
  
  SOUND: Have you ever played a music game without sound? Well that sucks when that happens. So this 
 game is a MUSIC game. (with sound) . The songs include Walkie Talkie Man, ABC (lol) , Believe ( some 
 REALLY old artist called Cher?) (Wierd) . And Jumpin Jack flash. Some songs are wierd but some songs 
 are M-Azing. But most of them are wierd just like the game's attitude. There isn't much more than 
 just that... (Next topic...)
  
  VALUE: This game lasts long enough for it to be good for atleast 5 hours. But that's if you're 
 a Musical Genius. (like me) It took me about 2 hours to beat easy mode, 3 hours to beat Regular 
 mode. And I'm still playing it sort of... -ish. There are 4 modes so be ready for enough time playing 
 it. This game is hard though. Which is why it took so long to beat it. Overall, expect a good, 
 short to normal game from this.
  
  BREAKDOWN:
  
  Story (reviewer's tilt) : 10- For Funny-ness
  
  Gameplay: 10- For Unique addicting elements 
 and play
  
  Graphics: 7- For normal-ness
  
  Sound: 10- For good and wierd songs.
  
  Value: 7- For nothingspecial-ness or tooshort-ness
  
  Final: 9.1 out of Average 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lightstriker_Qc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 5, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  This game is Dance Dance Revolution for you DS pen. The basic of the gameplay behind it is amazingly 
 simple... But not so easy to perform!
  
  Simply... The world has problems, and the Agents are there to make things right, with a beat. Everytime, 
 they are there to cheer up the main actor with the right song. As for the gameplay, quite simple. 
 A number appear on the screen with a cercle shrinking. When the cercle overlap the number, tap! 
 Sometime there is long line, that require you to tap and follow that line.
  
  Simple right? Yeah. But so damn hard when you come closer to the end of the game. Your score if 
 multiplicative to how many touch you manage to do in a row. So, when you start, you will score 
 in the 50 - 70,000 points... But when you do a perfect song, you can go in the millions!
  
  Aside from that, the game is perfectly tuned. It's smooth and really responsive for this totally 
 new type of gameplay for a DS. Sure, the DS sound quality is horrible when used with the normal 
 speaker. If you buy this game, be sure to have a good headset. The graphic are all 2D aside from 
 the selection screen and the dancing agent. It has a kind of manga style that copy nobody else.
 
  
  This game is, if you have a DS, a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g-stuart
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I saw the review here on gamespot, and I immediately wanted to get the game. Pop it in the slot, 
 start it up, and you've got /very loud/ music playing. Choose Career on the menu and get going. 
 Everything is fast-paced from there. The comic style intro to a song is extremely well drawn and 
 has a great story to it. At a certain point in each song, there's always a snippet of comic to 
 continue the story. Amazing. The Agents graphics may not be the best, but it's a nice 3D effect 
 throw into a 2D comic. Sound is incredible for the most part. Whatever voice over there is (that's 
 not the music) , it's clear as crystal. The percussion effects may become annoying to some people, 
 but I learned to deal with it. The tap rhythm thing style is well executed, right to the downbeat. 
 It's as addicting as... anything. Some of the combos can be VERY tough, and you might fail he song 
 because of it. That can be VERY frustrating when you're almost done with a song. The spin the wheel 
 part is okay, for the most part. It's just that it's not the best for the screen, and can be exhausting 
 if you're really really intensely into the game where you try too hard. I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phil709
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  Agents are go!! -Commander Khan
  Elite Beat Agent is the perfect rhythm game for the Nintendo DS. It utilizes the touch screen so 
 well and will get you very addicted.
  The 'Elite Beat Agents' are an organization led by Commander Khan that tracks down people in distress 
 and solves their problem with... well... DANCING! Thats right! Dancing! And how do you dance on the 
 DS you ask? Let me explain.
  Every problem, or mission, in the game has a specific song. Depending on the beat of the song you 
 must wait for a large circle to close in on a smaller circle and when it does you must tap it. 
 Sounds easy? Well its not. You may have to tap many circles in a matter of seconds depending on 
 how fast the song is going. Your timing matters too. If you tap the circle too quick or slow you 
 get low points but if you tap just at the right moment you get 300 points or if your lucky 'Elite 
 Beat 300 points!'. Also, if there is a long note in the song a small ball will appear and you must 
 keep your stylus on it as it moves at the speed of the note. Also, in some songs you may have to 
 spin a disc fast enough to get the full amount of points. Also watch for those double-taps!
  But what is happening while you are doing all this? Well you are solving someones problem. Before 
 the start of every song you see a hilarious comic-book-like cinematic introducing you to the problem. 
 Every mission has 3, 4 or even 5 stages and depending on your score before the end of every stage, 
 the person you are helping will solve, or fail to solve a part of their problem. If you miss too 
 many beats you may just downright fail the song and have to restart but if you succeed, you beat 
 the mission and may move on to another one.
  The game can be easy or hard depending on the difficulty you choose but what will amaze you the 
 most is how the beats you tap perfectly match the song that is playing either way. And of course, 
 when you beat one difficutly you unlock another and more characters/dancers.
  In the end this game, in its comic-book like fashion, looks amazing. The music and sounds are great 
 and you will laugh... a lot. Any DS owner owes themselves to play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 3, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  I am not a big fan of rythm games. It is the truth. I own two versions of DDR, and I casually play 
 about once a month. I find them fun, but just can't really get into them. Elite Beat Agents completely 
 changed this for me, well... to an extent. Read on to understand.
  
  Gameplay (10/10) : Honestly, it doesn't get more simple, yet complex at the same time, then this. 
 You tap numbers on the screen according to the beat of the song that is playing. Can it be more 
 simple? Sometimes you have to slide the stylus across the screen to follow a ball or spin it in 
 circles, but essentially that is it. Now the trick, of course, is keeping up with the beat. The 
 numbers are in a circle, and each circle has another circle that closes in on it, so that when 
 the two circles overlap is when you want to tap. Now if you are off, then you either get less points 
 or you just miss completely (depends on how much you miss by) . Getting perfects is encouraged of 
 course. Even though the gameplay is simple, it also has a very effective tutorial that it plays 
 for you when you first power this game on. There are four difficulty levels, and if you start off 
 with the easiest, you will get better at an acceptable pace so that when you finally get to Very 
 Hard (called Hard Rockin'!) ... you will be able to tap the screen so many times in a few seconds 
 that you would have never imagined when you first started. So the actual gameplay part is absolutely 
 wonderful, because it is simple, yet as time moves on it gets more and more challenging. Then there 
 is the story. Instead of being a typical rythm game where it is all about the music only, this 
 game actually has little stories to go with each song. These stories actually go quite well with 
 the mood of the songs too... and are quite interesting and amusing as well. So what is there to 
 complain about? Well there could have been more songs, but considering the fact that they fit 19 
 songs with pretty good quality on the cartridge, I'm impressed. When it comes to fun, this game 
 does not fail. Oh yes, and every Agent is funny in his or her own way. They actually dance to keep 
 up with the beat according to how you are performing. You likely won't see it unless you replay 
 (that option is present) , but it is a nice touch... since their task IS to help people through the 
 power of song and dance.
  
  Graphics (9/10) : Now I feel like I am being critical here when I shouldn't be, but I just don't 
 feel comfortable giving a game a perfect score unless I truely feel like it deserves it. Anyway, 
 the graphics are good. The agents are in 3D while the rest is in 2D, but it is done Manga style. 
 So it is like reading an amusing manga while listening to some good music. The combination is really 
 well done and the hilarious stories (and moving... which some are) are perfectly fit for that style. 
 The things you need to tap and such are clearly visible and in different colors for each sequence, 
 so that your eyes can better keep up. So the graphics work just how they need to and that is good. 
 I feel like some of the parts in the stories could have been a bit more animated though, and sometimes 
 there are way more words on the screen to read then you can keep up with before the song continues. 
 So that is the only thing preventing this from a perfect 10. GREAT otherwise.
  
  Sound (10/10) : It is a rythm game. So if the music is good, there you go. The collection of 19 
 songs is a good choice and I honestly can't say I disliked more than one of the songs. The songs 
 are in great quality (though they sound better in headphones) . Also there are sound effects that 
 go with how you tap the screen, so if you do it on beat then it complements the music. If not... well... then 
 not only does it throw you off, but it starts to mess with the music's flow. That isn't bad though, 
 it is merely a good reason to keep up and not mess up. Nonetheless if the sound effects bother 
 you, you are given the option to turn it off. Nice.
  
  Value (9/10) : Considering there are 19 songs, you will likely be able to plow through them all 
 in one to two days... depending on how much you play it. Then again it IS a rythm game. Nonetheless 
 there is plenty reason to come back. There are 4 total difficulty levels, and as you go through 
 the game, you unlock 3 songs (16 basic songs, 3 bonus makes 19 total) . Also, there is the incentive 
 to get S Ranks in every song in ever difficulty, which will likely not be done very quickly. So 
 this game is pretty good to come back to, for more reasons than it being addictive. As I said before 
 though, it could have used at least a couple more songs, but then again I might just be getting 
 greedy. It could have used other unlockables though, like a sound test where you can listen to 
 the songs without having to risk messing up while playing. There is, of course, multiplayer. That 
 is LOADS of fun. It is a little limited for single-pak, but that is to be expected. You have access 
 to every song the host has unlocked for multi-pak and there are unique scenarios for multiplayer. 
 It is actually quite fun, like most rythm games, to play with friends (up to 4) . Plenty of fun 
 to be had after beating all the songs on Easy.
  
  There is a reason this game is under the 'Touch Generation' category of games. It really is a game 
 that anybody can pick up and learn to play. It does get more difficult though, so everybody can 
 find challenge in this game.
  
  Is this game for you then? Really this is a game hard to dislike, unless you absolutely despise 
 popular music and are very picky. Nonetheless this is something you should at least try before 
 deciding not to buy. It is a game that has overruled Advance Wars as the one DS game I must ALWAYS 
 have with me. I suggest a purchase, but it can't hurt to try first. Enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gigabrowser12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 29, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  So.. you think youv'e seen rythem based games. But have you seen a good one? The key elements for 
 a game of this genre is good graphic presentation good music and gameplay that ties into the music. 
 Elite beat agents has that but that's it, but it does amazing in each of those catagories. For 
 an exeample on the top screen there is a video going on depending on how good you are doing while 
 on the bottem screen the elite beat agents are dancing and you must tap slide and spin to help 
 them keep the beat and save the day! This may sound easy and at first it's slow and boring but 
 then later it's challenging VERY CHALLENGING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mega_masta
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  I had saw the great reviews for the game and I didn't know if I was gonna like it because I had 
 never played a rythme game before. I decided to buy it anyway and that was a great decision. This 
 game is highly addicitve I played non-stop for two weeks. It even made me like songs I didn't like 
 or hated before. Gameplay : The gameplay of this game is perfect : it's innovative, simple, fun, 
 well-made. When you die you know it's because you sucked and not because of the game.
  
  Graphics : The graphics are really good. From the comic book style storylines to the dancing agents 
 everything is gorgeous.
  
  Sound : They really did a fine job with the sound. The songs are well-choosed for the most part 
 the covers are good. I had no problems what so ever with the sound.
  
  The only thing is that some of the tunes are hard, I spent so much time beating Jumpin Jack Flash 
 on sweatin'. If you're a fan of rythme games : go on this one is great, and if you're new to the 
 genre like me : this is a great one to start with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosDrone
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 27, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  After hearing all the buzz about this game, I went out on a limb and decided to import this game. 
 Damn, was I surprised to how awesome this game was. Known as a 'rhythm' game, it takes awhile to 
 grasp the basics but at the same time your enjoying 'over the top', 'cliche', 'cheesy' situations 
 which you must solve going through a variety of songs, some well known and some... not so much. 
 The animations is just crisp and clean, the best I've seen on the DS to date and also just downright 
 funny at times.
  Be warned that the difficulty can ramp alot through the first few songs, but practice makes perfect. 
 Having played this while travelling, I was so immersed, nothing else mattered. I really hope there 
 will be an EBA 2 in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chingadopollo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  An amazing rhythm game which reminds me of Konami's DDR, Samba de Amigo and the PS1 Parappa the 
 Rapper game! You just have to play this game if you own a DS. Beautiful design in every scene and 
 it's really fun to play or just watch your own saved replay data, so you can enjoy the graphics 
 appearing on the upper screen while you were playing on the touch screen.
  You'll love this surprisingly amazing game. Elite BA makes your stylus dance. Fun but also challenging. 
 I recommend this game if you like those weird funny manga style games in which the story is just 
 ridiculous but hilarious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faraz3671
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:33 am PT
Review:  Agents are GO !!!! WOOHOO !!!
  
  Lets start with the gameplay.... wow.... its hard to get a good rank but u just want to keep on trying 
 till u get it... it was just the right diffuculty... not too easy not too hard... the way the songs 
 had been organised with the dance moves and the markers was very accurate, innovative and FUN !!!
 
  
  Lets move on to the graphics.... one of the best that i have seen on the DS... the part where they 
 are telling the story gets a ten but when the agents start dancing i would not give a full marks 
 because the agents could have been better while dancing...
  
  Next the sound.... awesome covers and just the way the music was put together with the music was 
 awesome !!! But some songs were not appropriate for the problem that u were solving for example 
 lala by ashlee simpson for when u r helping someone sick.... or sk8ter boi by avril lavigne when 
 u r helping a crazy taxi driver....
  
  Great value with four difficulty levels and just loads of fun with all the levels....
  
  To 
 sum it up EBA is one of the best DS games made yet.... it is innovative, fun and everyone and anyone 
 would love it.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnakeIRye
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9.0
  The controls and timing are perfect. Easy and fun to pick up, hard to master - the way any game 
 should be made.
  
  Graphics - 8.0
  Cartoon characters act out their crazy Japanese styled drama. Agents dance (and fall) according 
 to how well you're playing. Additional points for very cool 80s dancing.
  
  Sound - 9.0
  Some of the songs sound a bit weird due to the covers (the real songs are way too expensive for 
 a game studio to purchase a license) , but they are fun to play and don't get as repetitive to hear 
 as it first seems. Additional points for David Bowie.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is hands down, the best rhythm game I've ever played. 9.0 Overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forensic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 23, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  So I've been playing a game for the past couple of months or so called Elite Beat Agents . I imagine 
 there's an article like the which is supposed to come before the title Elite Beat Agents , but 
 I'll be damned if I can see one... anyway, EBA is basically Dance Dance Revolution for the Nintendo 
 DS.
  
  Don't know DDR? Okay... what about Guitar Hero? Every bloody generation, there's a new version 
 of these games for the new consoles. Not very hard in principle, but definitely fun puzzlers.
 
  
  Anyway, the game is basically an electronic comic with music. That doesn't really make a lot of 
 sense so I guess I'll explain it as such:
  
  The game has three guys which look like they're from a division of the Men In Black. Let's just 
 say that these MIB-Wannabe's actually come from an elite division of  
 called the Elite Beat Agency. Their mission is this... to help people out of completely messed 
 up situations by... dancing.
  
  Oh yeah, I know that when I'm trying to impress chicks, there's nothing I like more than three 
 suited men to come along and start bustin' some beats to jiving music to help me win her heart. 
 Except they'd go home with them. All three of them. Damn it. My girlfriend has just gone home with 
 three of the EBA's. Now that would be one strange orgy. It'd sound good, though.
  
  Anyway, you as an EBA, get sent to help these people in their problems... like helping a taxi driver 
 speed to a hospital because the girl in the backseat is about to give birth on the leatherette, 
 and you just had that thing waxed. Or helping a weatherlady-mum make the rain go away because she 
 promised her son that she'd go on a picnic with him. Or even helping a future-car-owner get back 
 the plans for making their new sweet car from the Moo Moo bloody car maker that competes with them... 
 by using your ninja skills.
  
  Remember kids: you can use your ninja skills to get almost anything done these days. Why you can 
 even open jars with them!
  
  Anyway, when you arrive on the scene, you'll be busting bubbles with numbers in them and spinning 
 random wheels around all to the beats of your favourite songs.
  
  And when I say your favourite songs, I really mean Inis' and Nintendo's favourite songs. All that 
 said, the soundtrack is actually really good, with music coming from artists like the Stray Cats, 
 Ashlee Simpson, Jamiroquai, Earth Wind &amp; Fire, and more.
  
  And when I say it comes from artists, I mean the artist wrote the song. Inis didn't pay for the 
 use of the original song, so they've grabbed people who sound similar to the original artists to 
 sing them for them. And some of them are very good. The guy pretending to be David Bowie... wow. 
 I think I actually prefer it (don't kill me) .
  
  So it works like this: you hear the song, and you hit the number as it corresponds to a beat. It's 
 actually more complicated than that, and one of the quibbles I have with this game (especially 
 the last level in it) is that the numbers and bubbles aren't actually occurring where the beat 
 structure should be. As a musician, this is really frustrating and I'm sitting here attacking the 
 console with a tenacity that'd make Furious George want to go back to being Curious George again.
 
  
  But here's the clincher: it actually doesn't get boring.
  
  As much as I'd like to give this game up, it's replay factor has you constantly just wanting to 
 beat it or not give up on things you suck at. It's got a great soundtrack and I just want to get 
 better at the tracks I'm not getting, or play the ones I've got so I can play them again.
  
  The themes in this game are actually pretty interesting as well.
  
  You see, they've got 
 Manga comics with different stories of the events you're sent in to help with (with your wild-assed 
 beat munching, of course) and the events actually match the events to a degree.
  
  For instance, when you're beating up your console when Earth, Wind &amp; Fire's September is on 
 (and it feels sped up to me) , you're the mum trying to get a sunny day so she and her son (and 
 sun) can go on a picnic...
  
  ... and when you're a sea-captain who's been cast off of your ship and you can't find any treasures 
 (so the EBA come and help you) , you're actually playing The Village People's YMCA .
  
  Wait... what?!
  
  Ok... I'm not actually sure if Inis, the developers, purposely linked up 
 The Village People with a story about seamen, but that's the only linker I can come up with...
 
  
  As a bonus, if you play through the game past it's difficulty levels with the male agents, you'll 
 be given access to the female Elite Beat Agents, which come dressed like hyper-cheerleaders... 
 which isn't a bad thong -- err .. thing. Strangely, the beats in this difficulty level are the closest 
 to being accurate this game has to offer, so if you prefer accuracy to simplicity, work your way 
 on to the harder difficulty levels as quickly as possible.
  
  Anyway, it sounds great, looks great, plays great... it's just one of those games that is great.
 
  
  To me, it rates up there as one of the better DS games on the market. Definitely something to look 
 at even if you're not normally a rhythm gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reggie186
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 22, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of music and rhythm games, and so I was quick to buy a copy of Elite Beat 
 Agents. It was a fantastic purchase.
  
  The game has 19 songs, each with their own quirky story to go with them. While not all of the songs 
 are good (S8ter Boi comes to mind) , the gameplay to go with all of the songs is amazing.
  
  It works like this: little circles with numbers in them will pop up, and you have to tap said circles, 
 in numerical order, with the beat. It proves to be very challenging, yet extremely rewarding when 
 you get that 30-tap combo.
  
  All of the songs are covers... which might get on the nerves of some people. The difference between 
 covers on this game and covers on Guitar Hero are that the Nintendo DS doesn't have the best speakers, 
 so it's almost hard to tell (most of the time) who is actually singing. You can make out the words 
 just fine, but it's certainly not high-fidelty... nor would anyone expect it to be.
  
  The anime style of the game is, like I said before, quirky and fun. While it's not pushing any 
 graphics boundaries, it does fit the fun gameplay and overall light-hearted feel of the game.
 
  
  Elite Beat Agents is not just the best rhythm/music game for the Nintendo DS, but it's one of the 
 best rhythm/music games ever made. Let's hope we get a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReeceBrown
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 22, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the most addicting games i have ever played, i mean there are somepeople that say 
 the Osu! tekada whatever is better some say this is better... i say get both. although i have never 
 played the Japanese version of EBA i would like to its basically just japanese, and your not agents 
 your ninjas. Well on with the review..... buy this game like now man, this is the greatest rythme 
 game i have ever played. Better than DDR, Guitar hero (2) , or rayman raving rabbids dancing games 
 combined. i mean i love how dancing saves a bunch of people but.... how exactly? Like when you dance 
 by tap the buttons on screen with rapid sucession then things seam top go.... better rather that 
 worse. Like on this one if your doing good they'll be a picture of his family in this dead guys 
 diary, but if you suck.... he's in a speedo.... kinda gross but this game is funny as hell with half 
 the chance of 3rd degree burns. In closing please disregard any negative press or negative burning 
 you may experience while playing EBA. Get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rob20
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Elite beat agents is one of the best games ever made. Besides from your touch screen getting scrathed 
 up to pieces when you play for hours and you feel a pain in your right stomach that you never knew 
 existed. You tap to the beat and your performence changes the cut scenes and most of them are very 
 cool to wacth. This game has a weird topic because these agents come then they break into your 
 house and start dancing. (very weird) Also the commander who can't talk proper English; Agents 
 are go!!!!!!!!! Sadly it came out in late 2006 but all the songs are from the middle ages, you 
 get used to them. Once you fail you will have this feeling that you want to keep trying and this 
 is how you get better at this game and waste away huge chunks of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _deadrat
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 19, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  I'm one of the guys that imported the original Ouendan and played it to death. I saw Ricardo demo 
 it on on the spot and I loved the weird style so much that I went out and bought a DS and imported 
 Ouendan from Japan, just like that.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is like Ouendan but better. It has more songs, easier wheels, no fire in the 
 background, and includes the ability to save your replays for each song. It really is everything 
 you could want from a sequel to an already awesome game.
  
  When the game's soundtrack was leaked I was originally disappointed because I didnt really like 
 any of the songs, I didnt even know a few of them. Im surprised by how many of the the songs have 
 grown on me over the course of playing the game, so I suggest that you give the soundtrack the 
 benefit of the doubt and give it a go.
  
  I think the reason why I would give this game such a high score is because it keeps pulling me 
 back in. Ive beaten the game on all the difficulty settings and have unlocked Kahn but I still 
 find i play this game more than any of my other games, not including Ouendan or counter-strike.
 
  
  The only thing that I can find lacking in the game is that some of the stories are just boring, 
 YMCA im looking at you! I've also noticed that a few of the songs have the numbers mixed up.
  
  Since this is one of the very few games that I cant seem to put down I give it a perfect 10. 
 Games like this dont come by very often so I hope you pick it up and dont miss out on this classic 
 and genuinely awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agentspin
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  This game was originally in japan but not with the songs in the U. S. version of the game. The point 
 of the game is that when you choose a song, a small story line start and it shows the dilemma of 
 the person or animal and it is up to you to keep encouraging that person so they can solve their 
 dilemma and get on with their weird lives. Elite Beat Agents is a perfect game if you're into the 
 touch screen and not the buttons, because this game mostly uses the touch screen, the button you 
 use is the start button to pause the game. This game has breat 80s and 90s music like Y. M. C. A, 
 survivor, ABC, walky talkie man, and much more great songs. There are great characters in the game 
 like agent spin (easy difficulty) , agent J (normal difficulty) , agent Chieftain (hard difficulty) , 
 and the Elite Beat Divas (really hard difficulty) . I recommend this game to people who love music 
 and playing video games, this game has both. This is my first review so go easy on the comments 
 because im barely a new member. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Based on the J-pop rhythm game only in Japan called Osu! Tatake! Ouendan! by the same developer 
 Inis, Elite Beat Agents takes you to play as a secret agent trio helping people's problems, from 
 helping a babysitter go steady with a football-maniac dude while, well, babysitting; to helping 
 a car dealer's son getting his father's plans back by using... er... ninja powers ; to helping young 
 snobbish celebrities surviving in an island, mainly by sex-appealing; and to something best left 
 for you to get to (I could go all day) . By how? Why, by having the agents dancing to hits from 
 the 60's or 70's to mordern-day, how else!? Here's the review:
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Gameplay: To begin, Elite Beat Agents has a simple rhythm mechanic. Well, there's an outer circle, 
 an inner circle, and a yes-no-meter. The point is to tap the inner circle on your touch screen 
 once the outer circle overlaps the inner one. You will then be scored based on your timing, and 
 will most likely affect your yes-no-meter. Sometimes the circle will have a path with a moving 
 ball that you have to place your stylus on and slide 'til it gets an ending spot, with a sometimes 
 placed repeat sign to retrace your path. Sometimes you'll have to just spin in a certain amount 
 of time at a certain speed. So basically, the object of the game is to tap, slide, and spin to 
 the beat of popular songs in order to help people with their whacky, dumb-luck, worst-day, problems. 
 To tell how you do, you'll have the yes-no-meter, which, depending if it goes toward yes or no 
 , will affect the outcome of your victim's circumstance, having some scene intermissions that tell 
 how your helping magic is working with the victim. Once the meter is empty, however, then it is 
 game over. It's all pretty simple, as well as quick and easy to get used to. What I said may sound 
 a little complicated, but you'll have a very direct tutorial right when you start the game, in 
 case if there is trouble still understanding. It all may be easy to get used to, but as the difficulties 
 and/or songs get more challenging, don't be surprised if you fail more than five or ten times. 
 But still, as challenging as the game can be, you'll just might not get frustrated starting over, 
 which shows how fun, addictive, and, in a way, simple it is to get into Elite Beat Agents. To top 
 off the entertaining gameplay is the fun, whacky style, that definitely fits the game, as well 
 as making the game even better. Songs are all pretty fun to play through, as well, proving that 
 you don't have to exactly like all the songs at all to get into the songs, for all the storylines 
 make up the for some weakness in a few song selections, which can be as crazy as helping a weather-woman 
 having her son believing in her by literally forcing the dark, rainy clouds turn into a bright, 
 sunny day so she can have a picnic with her son, as well as avoidance of getting fired, and can 
 be as touching as helping a young girl bring her dead dad back to visit her one last time for Christmas. 
 Either way, all the storylines have some chuckling antics or moments. To tell you the truth, Elite 
 Beat Agents have very few problems with the gameplay. The only problem is that there just isn't 
 enough, and feels like it is over just too soon. Otherwise, EBA is a real innovative, addictive, 
 simple, and fun game with a great style, crazy sense of humor, and an overall good song selection 
 that mostly fits in some parts of the games. So much, I could easily say that this game is by far 
 the best the DS is offering now, let alone the best rhythm game of 2006.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Graphics: Suprisingly easy on the eyes, Elite Beat Agents looks pretty good. Not so much techincally, 
 but more of its bizarre-looking and a little cheesy style, which perfectly fits the game, with 
 a comic book style, as well as nicely-drawn characters. Still, the agents have very smooth, nice 
 dance moves, as well. Not much to talk about other than what's here. Quite superb, in short.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Sound: The most important part of any rhythm game, the songlist isn't bad at all for what it offers. 
 Including The Stray Cats, David Bowie, Chicago, Queen, The Rolling Stones, Deep Purple; and if 
 you happen to like Hoobastank, Sum 41, Good Charlotte, or even Ashlee Simpson, then there's something 
 for you, too, let alone almost anyone. All these hit songs, some of my favorite being Let's Dance, 
 Jumpin' Jack Flash, Highway Star, Walkie Talkie Man, et cettera, are all pretty good and varied, 
 however, I really don't like some songs, such as Destiny's Child's Survivor, but it's all still 
 good. Occasional sound effects and near-perfect covers also help the sound, as well.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Value: It's addicting, fun, and has a solid multiplayer experience, as well as enough to play through 
 all the difficulty levels. Sure, there should be more songs, but it's enough for replay value to 
 last a long time.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Tilt: Overall, I would reccomend Elite Beat Agents to anyone who happens to have a DS. This is 
 the one of the best games the handheld offers, and one of the best rhythm games I've played last 
 year. Inis does an amazing job with the DS hardware, namely the touch screen, and makes a simple, 
 addicting experience that anyone can get into. And it doesn't matter if you're an exact fan of 
 some of these songs; you will hopefully just might like what it offers either way. Overall, a definite 
 buy, especially if you love rhythm games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeNMaStEr206
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2007 11:59 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents puts you in the role of these government agents that are sort of like male cheerleaders 
 trying to solve everyday problems by dancing to songs and its your job to tap the little circles 
 and move with the groove to get the beat going right. Think of it as a newer way of playing Dance 
 Dance Revolution on your Nintendo DS. There are about 18 songs total I think and 3 of them you 
 unlock, there are also 2 or 3 modes I believe but I haven't finished the game, the hardest pits 
 you rooting as female agents instead of male agents. The game is a sequel to the import game from 
 Japan called Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan which was really appealing to gamers and sales were pretty high 
 which was why they brought Elite Beat Agents to us. The game also has compatibility with 4 players 
 using one cartridge and a rumble pack sold seperately. The Multiplayer mode pits you against each 
 other to see who has the higher score sort of like DDR's multiplayer. The game's interface is clean, 
 and the cutscenes and cartoony look is real appealing and it's sort of like a comic. It's real 
 funny, real addicting. I give it a 9.0 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoreanPork
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best! It's like DDR but it's not. It's not that hard but it is frustrating. And 
 when you beat it you still won't get bored cause you can save your best replays and vs. them on 
 ghost. Most of the songs are alright, but they seem kinda' out of date, but it's still really fun. 
 Before every song there's a little story that has something to do with the song but they're pretty 
 boring but you can just skip them if you get tired of watching them over and over again. All n' 
 all this game's still fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth81
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  If someone had described to me the premise in Elite Beat Agents on its own, I dunno if I would 
 have bit, I mean it's effectively a game about a bunch of dudes cheerleading. Regardless of that 
 quirky idea, Elite Beat Agents is one of the most fun games I've played in a long time. It combines 
 addictive gameplay with a compelling soundtrack, bizzare stories and colorful graphics to be one 
 of the most fun games to be had on the Nintendo DS. The Basic gameplay in Elite Beat agents is 
 kind of unique. It starts by placing dots down on the touch screen. Around these dots a concentric 
 circle starts to close, when this circle reaches the edge of the dot you need to tap the dot with 
 the stylus. In addition their are times when you need to do a multiple tap mechanic, tap and drag 
 or spin the stylus in circles. This all sounds pretty simple but everytime the game throws a new 
 wrinkle at you it can begin to seem pretty complex. It's also worth noting that the game has a 
 longer learning curve than most as it takes a bit of time to get the timing right. If you miss 
 too many points then your meter will start to sink and if it gets to zero you have to restart. 
 While the gameplay is great it wouldn't be anywhere near as much fun if the game didn't have some 
 really awesome music. It's an ecclectic mix of pop with such highlights as: YMCA, Highway Star, 
 Rock this Town, Material Girl, Jumping Jack Flash and Anthem. If there is one complaint that could 
 be had with a few of the songs is that there are one or two songs that kind of feel tacked on to 
 add some modern music. The most glaring of these songs is Sk8er Boi. While these songs are covers 
 they are very close to the original and in only one or two of the songs did differences with the 
 original really stand out. All in all this game's soundtrack stands as one of the best I've ever 
 heard and by far the best music I've ever heard in a portable game. The game also has a great multiplayer 
 mode where you play songs either competitively or co-operatively. Not only that but you can play 
 songs you've unlocked against your save game to just practice the song for multiplayer. It's really 
 unfortunate to see this game coming out without Nintendo Wifi connection support as it would be 
 a great game to play online. However it does a fine job at local multiplayer. The games graphics 
 are about as good as you can expect for a DS rhythm game. The Agents are nicely modeled in 3d and 
 have very colorful backgrounds and the stories are nicely shown in a sort of traditional cartoon 
 style. Which brings me to the game's narratives. Each level has its own mini-story within a story. 
 These are all 100 percent surreal. They range from two prima dona pop-stars stuck on deserted island 
 to washed up Athletes saving a child from a monster to a casino that's attacked by bandits and 
 earth being enslaved by aliens who are afraid of music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riggs8595
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  this game is so fun but so freakin hard. agent J (the guy on the front cove showing his badge) 
 is hard!!! agent spin (you dont see him intill you start the game) has all the easy missions. I 
 already beat the game with agent spin, i only got half far on agent J. i looked in the manual thing 
 in side the case, and says you can unlock the cowboy character and these 3 girls. i havent unlocked 
 any characters. im trying to beat the game with agent J, to see if i can unlock any characters. 
 anyways its real fun and dont get mad when your playing agent J. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitchgeeman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is in a sense, the spiritual sequel to Osu Tatakae Quendan! which was released 
 only in Japan. The story of Elite Beat Agents is that you play as a secret government organization 
 who helps people through dancing. From fighting evil bacteria to finding hidden treasure, you help 
 all kinda of very unique and crazy people.
  
  The gameplay is exactly like Osu Tatakae Quendan! in that you tap bubbles with circles closing 
 around them, and you tap the bubble when the circle is as close to the bubble as possible. Sliders 
 are also here and are like the bubbles except you hold the bubble and slide it along a path. Spinners 
 are where you simply spin using the stylus very quicly or risk missing a mark.
  
  The music selection is overall pretty good though there are a few songs that seem to stick out 
 in both good and bad ways.
  
  The graphics are also very good and feature many hilarious expressions and artowork that is totally 
 over the top in every way. There's little normal in this game which is the appeal of Elite Beat 
 Agents.
  
  But as a warning, this game is hard to master and even harder to play. Many people I know have 
 tried playing it only to be frustrated by it easily, but if you keep at it, it's amazingly fun. 
 But difficulty increases dramatically in some of the scenarios and especially the last scenario, 
 which makes the one before it seem tame. The game's pretty hard and don't expect to beat all the 
 scenarios in just one try. You could be trying 10, 20, even 30 times before you finally nail down 
 the rythem and pull off a passing score.
  
  The only complaint that could be said about this game other then the not always perfect music score 
 is the length of the game. Unfortunately, I have beaten not only Easy, Normal, and Hard, but Super 
 Hard mode as well and all in the span of less then 12 or 13 hours. This game is very short, it 
 might not last as long as you'd want it to. Luckily, multiplayer has its own scenarios which are 
 also funny and you can redo levels to try and get hi-scores which keeps Elite Beat Agents alive 
 longer then if it didn't have it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud30236
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is a real treat for those that love rhythm games (DDR, Donkey Konga, etc.) . It gives 
 a good tutorial of how all the game mechanics work and starts you off at a relatively easy. It 
 will take some getting used to (especially on the higher difficulties) , but it is a must have. 
 Plus, the multi-player experience is also a huge blast to share with your friends. The only downside 
 I can find is that there are limited unlockable songs and that there aren't more songs, but that's 
 what a sequel is for. Again, this game is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TESM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents, much like Phoenix Wright, when I first read about it instantly got me interested. 
 The game looked smooth, the concepts good, and the artwork made me laugh. I'm not one to laugh 
 out loud at many things in video games, but sometimes humor (situational and visual) is so clever 
 that I can't help it. EBA is one of those games.
  
  The graphics are smooth, with very few technical errors. The multiplayer has some noticible, minimal 
 lags when playing with someone else, but on the whole, pleasing 3-d graphics (Commander Khan is 
 especially ... odd EBD) . The cutscenes are funny and strange, as one might expect of a manga presentation 
 ( MY ten-thousand dollar china!! ) , and always fun to watch a few times over.
  
  The music, although regrettably 19 songs in total, making it a bit difficult to play over and over 
 again, is a good variety of older and newer songs. Some songs have a difficult tap-rhythm (Canned 
 Heat, Let's Dance, Highway) on certain difficulties and can be frustrating.
  
  The difficulty eases you into the levels relativly well. Let's Dance and Canned Heat, and Jump'n 
 Jack Flash were considerably difficult, but the former two can be an exception. Sweat'n and Hard 
 Rock mode are very difficult, in retrospect, and take a lot of practice to get down (A ranks and 
 very rare S ranks especially) . However, the difficulty is a fun thing, where you want to uncover 
 new cutscenes and prove to yourself that 'you can'.
  However, Haerd Rock and Sweat'n modes never failed at some point to get me pretty pissed off, but 
 hard rock's last song can be beat'n.
  
  Overall, the game is a lot of fun, I still play it often and enjoy waving my arms around in the 
 air so I can improve my situation (i've had a few room-mates do it too (we think it's funny) ) and 
 see little circles with umbers come at me whenever I hear any of these songs... it's that addicting. 
 For a DS owner with an appreciation for graphics and gameplay, this is an excellent game and a 
 very enjoyable experience that's sure to immerse you into the life of an... elite beat agent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fantasticlink
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 7, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  I only spent 10 or less hours on this game because i just got it but if you like a rythum game 
 and something so stupid that it makes you laugh, this game is definitely for you. Its also very 
 addictive and one of the best games for DS. There is not much to say about this game because I 
 pretty much said it all so now I have to go and play it. See ya.
  
  I only spent 10 or less hours on this game because i just got it but if you like a rythum game 
 and something so stupid that it makes you laugh, this game is definitely for you. Its also very 
 addictive and one of the best games for DS. There is not much to say about this game because I 
 pretty much said it all so now I have to go and play it. See ya.
  
  I only spent 10 or less hours on this game because i just got it but if you like a rythum game 
 and something so stupid that it makes you laugh, this game is definitely for you. Its also very 
 addictive and one of the best games for DS. There is not much to say about this game because I 
 pretty much said it all so now I have to go and play it. See ya. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MysticalMatt517
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Let me just get this out of the way: Elite Beat Agents is one of the best games of 2006. I came 
 into this game with relatively low expectations. What I found was a crazy, fun, offbeat experience. 
 It won me over instantly with its easy to learn / hard to master game play and quirky sense of 
 humor.
  
  Elite Beat Agents (EBA from now on) is a rhythm based action game. You may already know if this 
 is for you. For everyone else here's a simple test: Can you keep a beat? Could you sit through 
 a middle school band / choir class and not make a fool of yourself? Can you dance in real life? 
 If you said yes to any of this EBA is for you. If not, consider buying Phoenix Wright: Ace Attorney 
 instead...
  
  --- GAME PLAY SCORE: 9/10 ---
  
  The game play consists of tapping and sliding the stylus across various points on the screen in 
 time with the music. Describing the details would be a long and hard process for something that 
 isn't that difficult. Simply put everyone would do well to sit through the tutorial before starting. 
 The game interface is slick and well designed so you shouldn't experience too much confusion. As 
 you do well the agents dance to the music and your health meter goes up. If you do poorly the agents 
 fall over and your health meter goes down. When the meter reaches the bottom your song is over. 
 The game starts out fairly easy but the difficulty quickly ramps up towards the end... This brings 
 me to my first negative point... The last songs are freaking HARD... This shouldn't be a deterrent 
 to you, just know that you'll be repeating the last couple of levels a multitude of times.
  
  --- SOUND SCORE: 9.5/10 ---
  
  Great sound is essential for any rhythm / action game. EBA 
 hits it right on the mark. My first reaction was astonishment that the DS cards could hold this 
 much music. It's certainly not CD quality, but it gets the job done. The other sound effects were 
 done nicely and work well to give the game its overall funky vibe. Next time you walk into a dance 
 club you'll be hearing Agents are Go! in the back of your head... Although the game guides you 
 regarding when to tap, you really need to feel the music to succeed. I recommend plugging in a 
 pair of headphones. The DS speakers are adequate, but it was much easier to feel the beat when 
 I used headphones. I've talked to a number of people who tried to play this game at a store kiosk 
 and failed miserably. This is because of the noisy store environment. Success at this game means 
 being able to focus on the music. --- STORY SCORE: 8/10 ---
  
  EBA features a fun, crazy, funky story. Don't try too hard to understand it and don't take it too 
 seriously. The EBA wait in their command center for someone in trouble to cry for help. The agents 
 are then dispatched to the location and get their groove on to solve the problem. That's right... 
 Apparently the worlds problems can all be solved by... dancing. (I will withhold my jest about 
 this being a potential exit strategy for Iraq)
  
  You will help a taxi driver deliver a pregnant woman to a hospital, save a teenage girl from a 
 relationship disaster when she is forced to baby-sit, save two divas from a deserted island, ward 
 off an alien invasion, and much much more... As I said, don't take it too seriously. The translation 
 from Japan is a smidgen shaky, but it gives the game more character. Only a soulless zombie could 
 suppress a goofy grin as this story progresses... Here's my second negative point: the story is 
 short. On the easiest difficulty you can probably complete it in one or two sittings. The game 
 offers plenty of replay value, but most people will beat it the first time in less than five hours. 
 I suspect this has more to do with the amount of music that can be placed on the game card. From 
 that perspective the amount of content is staggering. --- GRAPHICS SCORE: 7/10 ---
  
  EBA makes a strong case for the style over processing power argument. You won't find any killer 
 3D graphics to write home about here... What you will find is an art style that is executed so 
 well that it doesn't matter. The cut scenes consist of comic book panels that appear with accompanying 
 sound effects. While it won't be winning any technical awards the graphics work well and get the 
 job done. Overall the graphics are slightly sub-par when compared with other DS games. --- FINAL 
 SCORE: 9/10 ---
  
  There you have it. EBA is one of the best DS games I've played in a while. It is certainly a prime 
 example of a game where the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. If you're looking for a 
 fun upbeat experience you won't find anywhere else, EBA might just be for you. Highly Recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ValKilmerStyle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  It's amusing to think that I was first apprehensive about buying Elite Beat Agents. It looked cool, 
 but I never thought a game like that would be able to hold my interest for any more than a week. 
 I was wrong. I was very, very wrong.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is a rhythm game in which you use the stylus to touch on-screen markers in time 
 with the music. The Agents from the game's title will then dance according to how accurately you 
 keep the beat. Once you complete a song you'll be able to move on to more challenging ones, and 
 eventually harder difficulties. It's the most simplistic concept a game could have, but Elite Beat 
 Agents works for many reasons. In the end, this is one of the best rhythm games out there.
  
  One of the coolest parts of this game is it's story. The titular Agents use their dance to 
 help all sorts of people with their problems. These can range from helping a cab driver get a pregnant 
 woman to the hospital to teaming up with an ex-baseball great and defeating a fire-breathing golem 
 at a theme park. All of the various tasks are carried out in some outrageous matter, and many of 
 them will make you laugh out loud.
  
  The game uses the top screen to show the story unfold while the Agents dance on the bottom screen. 
 Comic book style stills display all of the elements of the story. Each song will start with someone 
 who needs help, and your success (or lack thereof) on the touch screen determines how much help 
 these people are going to get. As you progress through each stage the story will continually run 
 on the top screen, and every once in a while you'll get a break to watch your client either overcome 
 some difficulty or meet some more of it. This part of the game certainly wasn't necessary at all, 
 and it's nice to see how much thought went into it. The overall story is very satisfying, even 
 if it isn't the game's main draw.
  
  Gameplay is the main reason why Elite Beat Agents works so well. Each marker has a 'timer ring' 
 that closes in on it. When the ring touches the marker, you hit it with the stylus. That's all 
 there is to it. The reason it's so much fun is because the markers are all aligned with either 
 the beat or the lyrics of the songs. You can hit all the markers solely based on the timer rings, 
 but if you listen to the songs you'll be able to figure out the timing for yourself. This is when 
 the game gets awesome. Once you get in a groove you really start to feel like a conductor, and 
 even if you don't like the song you're dancing to, playing through it is still a hell of a lot 
 of fun. It's such a great rhythm mechanic I'm surprised it's taken this long for someone to come 
 up with it.
  
  Even with such great gameplay, a rhythm game is nothing without it's music. This aspect of the 
 game is, in general, another success for Elite Beat Agents. The soundtrack is all licenced music, 
 and it's quite diverse. There's a few pop tunes, some new-age rock, some classic rock, a little 
 disco and a couple cheesy ballads. These songs, even if they'd make you turn your radio off in 
 real life, have all been covered to sound better on the DS, and they all work with the game. There 
 are only a few selections that seem questionable, but playing through them is never a pain. I don't 
 want to give too much away (there are a couple gems in here) , but you'll go from Sum 41 to Madonna 
 to Deep Purple, and you'll never get sick of it. There are also a few cymbals and claps to accompany 
 your touch screen antics and help to keep you on beat with the song.
  
  Graphically, the game maintains its own high standards. The anime-inspired comic book scenes are 
 vibrant and emotive, putting another layer of goofiness onto the story. The Agents are done up 
 in 3D, and they look great while they rock out to whatever song is playing. Even though the screen 
 will often be full of touch markers, they're all numbered so it's always clear which order you'll 
 have to hit them in.
  
  There are four different difficulty levels in Elite Beat Agents, each comprised of sixteen songs 
 (with some more to be unlocked) . Each song also has it's own difficulty rating ranging from one 
 to eight stars. This effectively makes the game go from insultingly easy to insidiously hard, although 
 the steps between the two are gradual enough for you to hold your own through most of the game. 
 With only sixteen songs you'll be able to breeze through the game in an hour or two on the lowest 
 difficulty. However, all the subsequent difficulties will keep you coming back, as will the built 
 in rank system. Every time you accumulate a set amount of points you'll move up in rank. This is 
 how you'll unlock your other songs, or how you'll just end up feeling good about yourself. You 
 can only record one score for each song, so if you want to increase your rank you'll have to go 
 back and try and beat all your high scores. Since the game never really gets old it's easy to put 
 in 3 or 4 hour sessions just trying to increase your total score. You can also play competitive 
 multiplayer with one game pak, or co-op if all your friends own the game (which they should) .
 
  
  Overall, Elite Beat Agents is just plain fun. It's perfect for both short stints or hours-long 
 marathons. It delivers on all levels to bring a game that's unique, refreshing and addictive. The 
 diversity of it's soundtrack also makes it easy to recommend to anyone that has even the slightest 
 interest in purchasing a new rhythm game. Simply put, Elite Beat Agents is one of the best DS games 
 available. Go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSonicKirby
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  When the Nintendo DS hit stores in Japan, it was only a matter of time until a developer from the 
 creative nation would come up with some crazy idea for the touch-centric handheld. There were titles 
 that utilized surgery, law drama and risqu&eacute; casino games, but none captured the hearts of 
 importers quite like Ouendan, a rhythmic tapping game featuring many songs from the Japanese culture. 
 Being a favorite among the aforementioned importers, Nintendo of America decided to have Inis develop 
 a game much like the Japanese favorite. The result was Elite Beat Agents, the same rhythm-based 
 game completely revamped and localized for North American shores.
  
  If any someone were to ask you for a rhythm game that had a great plot, chances are that Dance 
 Dance Revolution or Guitar Hero would not even come close to popping into your head. Amazingly 
 enough, Elite Beat Agents does have a plot and a well-executed one at that: As a member of the 
 illustrious Elite Beat Agents, it is up to you to cure the world of its problems and conflicts 
 all through a matter of song and dance. Immediately after a brief training session from the commander, 
 you are unleashed upon the world to help those in need. Each person you help has their own sub-plot 
 told in a wonderfully drawn comic book style leading up to the point where the Elite Beat Agents 
 come in for the rescue. From helping a baby sitter to helping a white blood cell, the game does 
 an excellent job covering many typical instances in which people need help (with a few surprise 
 missions you probably wouldnt expect) .
  
  As far as gameplay goes, Elite Beat Agents, like any other Touch Generations title, is simple to 
 point where it is a pick-up-and-play game. As numbered dots appear on the screen, you have to tap 
 them along to the beat of the song playing in the background. On top of the tapping, there are 
 sequences where you will have to drag a ball across a predetermined path and sequences where you 
 will have to spin your stylus around the touch screen as fast as you can. Even though the game 
 is simple to start, the harder difficulty modes will most likely have any rhythm gamer bound on 
 a course of frustration. Overall, the only problem with the gameplay is the fact that the touch 
 screen is sometimes too small to accommodate the pattern of dots; this means that at certain times 
 your hand covers up your view of the dots causing you to guess where to tap.
  
  In terms of graphics, Elite Beat Agents goes off on a tangent that is most certainly pleasing to 
 look at. If you are able to picture comics like Spiderman, Superman, etc., then you have a good 
 idea of what Elite Beat Agents will look like. The entire game revolves around a humorous rendition 
 of the comic book style and the art compliments the action well. Just describing what the game 
 looks like is not doing it justice, so gaze at a few screenshots and download a few videos to get 
 a small dose of the wonders that await you. As mentioned before, the storylines unfold through 
 a series of mini-comics, but the action does not stop there. While you are tapping away on the 
 touch screen, more comics appear on the top screen which change depending on how well your rhythm 
 is. Since you would most likely be distracted by what is going on in the touch screen, the game 
 allows you to save a replay file to view later on.
  
  Sound is Elite Beat Agents strongest aspect, and it shows. With songs from both the modern days 
 and the olden days, the game is guaranteed to ring the bells of a universal audience; two examples 
 would be Sum 41s Makes No Difference and Village Peoples Y. M. C. A. Some of the songs do not fit 
 with their respective mission, but it is hardly a problem since all of the songs sound great and 
 are near-perfect impersonations of the original. In addition to the great lineup of songs, the 
 voice samples and sound effects are the best in any DS game so far. The voice samples do not sound 
 choppy at all and the sound effects only heighten the gameplay rather than hinder it. You would 
 be hard-pressed to find a better sounding game on the DS.
  
  The most disappointing part about Elite Beat Agents is the value. Even though the game has good 
 songs, there are only 19 that make up the playlist. Inis also included four difficulty modes, but 
 considering the low number of songs there is still not much going on for the game in terms of value. 
 Though one of the coolest additions is the inclusion of a multiplayer mode, (both single-cart and 
 multi-cart) but in a game so simple, an online mode would have definitely boosted the longevity 
 of the title. The reason for this is that when using the single-cart play, there is more than likely 
 going to be a difference in experience level seeing as how you would have had the game for some 
 time while your friend is left in the dust. Even still, there are some awesome options that can 
 help get another friend addicted to the game: You can send your friend a tutorial, a demo stage 
 or a broadcast of one of your replay saves.
  
  In this gamers opinion, there is nothing quite like Elite Beat Agents out on the market. While 
 some games are utilizing the touch functionality of the DS handheld, this particular game breaks 
 beyond the boundaries of the ordinary. If you are looking for a change from the hum-drum of handheld 
 gaming, the Elite Beat Agents are at your service! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 6, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Super-easy to learn gameplay that is incredibly fun; guilty pleasure song selections; four 
 difficulty settings that ramp up fairly well; ridiculous cutscene stories that play on the top; 
 funny animations; addictive and unique; multiplayer modes.
  
  Cons: Later difficulty settings ramp up a BIT too quickly, and easy is totally superfluous; no 
 online multiplayer unfortunately.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is the American version of a Japanese DS game launched in 2005 called Osu! Tatakae! 
 Ouendan! that gained a lot of recognition among critics and game connoisseurs as one of the best 
 DS games around. In it, you encouraged people who were going through some sort of difficulty by 
 - what else - dancing, as male cheerleaders. People worried that the Americanization of the game 
 would remove it's Japanese predecessor's endearing wackiness, but thankfully, Elite Beat Agents 
 makes the transition with the charm and fun of the original all intact.
  
  The premise is similar, and the gameplay all but identical. You play as three agents (the middle 
 lead one will be different based on which difficulty) who also encourage people by dancing, because, 
 you know, secret agents are cooler than male cheerleaders. In any case, slick suits aside, the 
 game looks pretty similar - like the original, it sports crazy anime-style drawn storylines that 
 play out on the top screen as you frantically work on the bottom screen.
  
  The game is a rhythm game played completely with the stylus and the touchscreen, and the basic 
 premise is that you tap the screen in time with the rhythm of the music. Of course, you don't just 
 tap randomly, there are small circles that appear with a ring that slowly shrinks around it, and 
 just when the ring hits that circle, you're supposed to tap it right at the time. Depending on 
 how well you'll get it, you'll get some amount of points that will keep your constantly decreasing 
 life bar in the clear. There's one other main move, in which you tap and then trace the path of 
 a ball to a certain spot, and the occasional spin the wheel thrown in in the middle of it all.
 
  
  This is all making it sound really complicated, but actually, it's super-easy to pick up with no 
 explanation, and the best way to explain it to somebody is just hand them a stylus and a DS and 
 say Get ready. There's an easy difficulty setting, but almost anybody should be able to pick it 
 up on the normal well enough, and that includes people who don't normally play games.
  
  Song selection, as in any rhythm game, is extremely important in Elite Beat Agents, and one aspect 
 of the game fans of the Japanese version were wary of was how it would turn out when they were 
 hearing covers of songs they recognized as opposed to covers of songs they've never heard of sung 
 in a different language. In fact, you will recognize all the songs here - you might not even realize 
 in most cases that they are covers - and most of them are huge pop songs, with the occasional rock 
 song like Rolling Stones classic Jumpin Jack Flash (which is the hardest song in the game) thrown 
 in there. There are fifteen songs with a few bonus tracks thrown in for good measure, and all the 
 songs, despite being stuff that you would never admit to listening to or just wouldn't normally 
 listen to, can mostly file under the guilty pleasure category, and even if you don't like the song 
 (nobody needed to hear Sk8er Boi again, ever, ever, ever) it'll make for good stylus tapping anyway, 
 guaranteed. Obviously you always wish that there are more songs, but there are certainly enough, 
 and the added multiplayer modes (though they're only local wireless) just add to an already great 
 game in terms of value.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is a DS game well worth purchasing, and a shining example of a game that can 
 really only be done on the DS. Few rhythm games are this satisfying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkywardToHeaven
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 6, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  Elite beat agents for the ds (lite) is a great rythem game its unique in its own way but a little 
 short...
  
  Gameplay:
  Alothough the whole game only has 19 songs (3 bonus unlockables included) it does have 4 difficultys 
 and some multiplayer modes to keep you coming back including a co-op only avalible thorough multicard 
 and the single card vs. only allows a few of the already few songs in the game but the gameplay 
 will have you laughing and having some fun wasting your life playing videogames. the gameplay is 
 simple there is a problem in someones life you dance to a song and boost there spirts to help them 
 get out of trouble the music plays as the story unfolds at the top the better you do the better 
 the story will go as there are 4 endings numberd circles apear and an outer circle is around it 
 that caves in as soon as it overlaps the inner circle you tap depending on how acc. itll score 
 you 50 100 or 300 and boost your elite o meter (health bar) up depending on how high you scored.
 
  If you missed itll be a big red X you must tap the circles in the number order also there are 
 drag notes were you tap and follow a path at a speed depending on the ebat of the music. The difficulty 
 might be hard even on the lowest diff setting the last song Jumpin Jack Flash (rolling stones) is 
 HARD the first time around on the lowest diff setting but it is very fun to tap like a maniac while 
 a story unfolds and a song is playing
  
  Sound:
  sound/music is important in rythem games like this, there arnt many songs but there all enjoyable, 
 the songs are basically popular american songs from pop to rock theres at least 1 song youll love
 
  
  Graphics:
  the graphics are comic like and have that japenese charm to it the daning agents on the bottem 
 screen are very good for a handheld but if youre into XBOX360 or PS3 graphics the technical graphics 
 arnt very good but articly theyre very charming and enjoyable
  
  Overall:
  Alothough i dont think it dezerves rythem game or ds game of 06 it is up there with MKDS, AWDS, Meteos, 
 and other popular ds games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lloyd_Irving1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This is one game you need to get if you own a DS. I was biased to purchase it because Gamespot 
 titled it the #1 DS of 2006, so it couldn't hurt. This game packs great music, great gameplay, 
 alot of cool extras, and a small storyline that tops it pretty good. Playing this game will make 
 you want to go out musci shopping, and keep playing over and over again. I haven't tried the multiplayer 
 but the single play makes the game soo cool alone, this game was well made and all of the song 
 redos are extrememly good. Nintendo really opened up to new ideas when planning this game, and 
 they really took their time to make a great first impression. I can't truly desribe the greatness 
 of this game but I think this game is underrated, all of my friends keep making an ugly face anytime 
 they see me playing this, they just don't understand. Well, buy this game because you won't regret 
 it, it's a little rusty at first for most players but after the first 2 levels, you're good to 
 go and beat the game. AGENTS ARE GO!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Sefiros
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:21 am PT
Review:  This game is, by far, one of the best games one the DS right now; it original and it fully utilizes 
 the touch-screen of the DS. It has amazing songs on it too with artists from Steriogram to Earth, 
 Wind, and Fire and Queen to Rolling Stones; folks, you can't get any better than that! I originally 
 thought that a rhythm-based game was impossible on the DS; Inis completely proved me wrong. This 
 game is very easy to pick up on, so basically anybody of any age can play this game. The songs 
 may be a bit easy at first but they gradually become harder and harder and faster and faster. Everyone 
 in my family loves this game and we wireless play each other all the time. If you have a DS and 
 love music, then this ones for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JubJub677
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Your first thought on the game is gay But is not. The point of the game is that you are the Elite 
 Beat Agents. You go around helping people with there problem. It problem has there own song. Like 
 the first mission is that this girl want to go steady with this guy. But in order for her to do 
 this is to take care of the children she is babysitting. So she calls in the EBA to help her out. 
 So is from there. There are very weird mission. There really good music. They are all guilty pleasure 
 songs. There song like YMCA and walkie talkie man. There also Earth, Wind, and Fire. The song are 
 great, the gameplay is great. What could make this better. How about you throw some multiplayer 
 into it.. You can have up to four player playing at the same time. There muilt card and single 
 card. The single card has some pretty long load time. But you have to remember is downloading a 
 stream of the song. With all of that you have a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DOA_Syndrome67F
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 13, 2007 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Everyone heard that Elite beat Agents was like Quendan in Japan right? Elite beat Agents is Pretty 
 Awesome too though. STORY/ELEMENTS (reviewer's tilt) : This game has a basic storyline , but it isn't 
 a storyline . Instead it's an overview prompt to trigger Mini story clips. The mini story clips 
 are entertaining, but in the least bit, wierd. This game, straight up, is WIERD!!! not just wierd, 
 but WIERD. With that being said, It's just really funny!! Who doesn't like Guys in a suit n' tie 
 get up dancing in strange ways to wierd music and falling when you mess up? Well if you think about 
 it, it just makes no sense. Which is why it's hilarious. The Movie clips are funny too, don't forget. 
 There is one of them were if you get things right, stinky diapers = Football. So it makes less 
 sense than it does in humor. It's plain funny/ awesome.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This game is composed of using the touch screen only. So D-pad and ABXY lovers, this 
 ain't fo U. But if you can get used to this, this is fo U. Trash aside, The gameplay is Spectacular. 
 You are supposed to touch the targets on the touch screen in perfect rhythm to the music. If you 
 miss too many targets, you lose. The cutscene works like this. If you miss too many, but are still 
 alive, you fail the scene and something bad happens to your target/person you're trying to save. 
 So the gameplay is complicated, but ADDICTING.
  
  GRAPHICS: So the graphics aren't the stongest part. I know. But who can resist the cutscenes? (I 
 mean besides me) . But the graphics are just Average. Nothing else. So In further detail, you see 
 3 3-D rendered People in Suits dancing while you click buttons. On the top screen, you see your 
 target reacting to your combos and such. In the middle of the song. the touch screen part stops 
 and a cutscene part plays on the top screen. So top screen=Cutscenes, Touch screen= Guys in suits 
 dancing. (HA HA)
  
  SOUND: Have you ever played a music game without sound? Well that sucks when that happens. So this 
 game is a MUSIC game. (with sound) . The songs include Walkie Talkie Man, ABC (lol) , Believe ( some 
 REALLY old artist called Cher?) (Wierd) . And Jumpin Jack flash. Some songs are wierd but some songs 
 are M-Azing. But most of them are wierd just like the game's attitude. There isn't much more than 
 just that... (Next topic...)
  
  VALUE: This game lasts long enough for it to be good for atleast 5 hours. But that's if you're 
 a Musical Genius. (like me) It took me about 2 hours to beat easy mode, 3 hours to beat Regular 
 mode. And I'm still playing it sort of... -ish. There are 4 modes so be ready for enough time playing 
 it. This game is hard though. Which is why it took so long to beat it. Overall, expect a good, 
 short to normal game from this.
  
  BREAKDOWN:
  
  Story (reviewer's tilt) : 10- For Funny-ness
  
  Gameplay: 10- For Unique addicting elements 
 and play
  
  Graphics: 7- For normal-ness
  
  Sound: 10- For good and wierd songs.
  
  Value: 7- For nothingspecial-ness or tooshort-ness
  
  Final: 9.1 out of Average 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyFanatic
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Now, you must understand, quirkiness, rhythm games, and campy '80s music are some of my favorite 
 things, and that's what makes this game such a hitter with me! But unless you hate buff cheerleading 
 government agents that look like they came out of a b-movie titled Men In Black Go To The '70s 
 , this game will be just as hard to put down for you as it was for me! The addictive gameplay, 
 beautiful anime, and stellar combination of recent hits and oldies make for a wonderfully deep 
 game that is cooked to the perfect level of difficulty for casual gamers and hardcores alike, and 
 this exceptionally well-made DS title is only slightly bogged down by 3 ultra-minor problems. 1. 
 It will make you barf with revulsion every time you here Jumpin' Jack Flash . 2. The hand-drawn 
 anime cutscenes are amazing pieces of art that could be framed and put in an art museum,
  but the pixelated agents on the bottom dancing just lack the 2-D perfection of those beautiful 
 cutscenes playing on the top screen, and on the harder songs, staring at your lead dancer, (who's 
 grimacing back at you with a depressed lokk on his face) is a rather boring experience compared 
 to seeing the 3-D pixelified agents dance childishly. I mean, the 3-D comes very close to being 
 the best 3-D animation on the DS (albeit repititive) I've ever seen, but it is dwarfed when put 
 next to the 
  anime. 3. On harder levels the songs can get extremely difficult for someone who has just picked 
 up the game, but it doesn't make much of a difference, as a new player can go to Breezin' (Easy 
 mode) at any time they like. Although these smaller problems can sometimes be seen, Elite Beat 
 Agents is a solid rhythm game that will enertain far beyond its years.
  
  ~ RoyFanatic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:27 am PT
Review:  Welcome to the craziest, most peculiar yet addictive rhythm game you could ever wish to experience. 
 The Elite Beat Agents are a band of secret agents who wouldnt look out of place in the next Men 
 in Black movie, infact you even get to play as agent Smith who doesnt look all that dissimilar 
 to Big Willie himself. The premise is simple yet disturbing. Somebody faces an utterly bizarre 
 problem and shouts for help, then its agents to the rescue as they attempt to dance away any obstacle 
 that stands in their path. Apparently looking stylish and shaking your groove thang is the key 
 to solving all the worlds problems; if only.
  
  You wont be all that surprised to hear this is based on a game by the name of Osu! Tatkae! Ounden! 
 A game released in Japan last year which featured some crazy superhero cheerleaders who also danced 
 their woes away with some tight moves. The game was never released over here, probably because 
 of its strange Japanese audio but thankfully they kept the core gameplay and decided to remold 
 the game into something that would appeal to a wider audience.
  
  The game is presented through some superb anime-style comics, with every song featuring its own 
 outlandish story and unique problems which need solving. One of the levels for example features 
 a weather broadcaster who cant get home to her son until the weather improves (dont ask why) . 
 As you successfully complete each section of the song she changes the weather to bright skies with 
 the help of some jungle creatures (dont ask why) until finally she achieves her goal. It really 
 is hard not to laugh at some of the random things that occur in these cut-scenes, you have to 
 wonder if theyre intended to be this way or something was lost in translation. Its also pretty 
 hilarious watching the agents swinging their hips and waving their arms in time with the music 
 as you attempt to play the game, a little off-putting but all makes for a beautifully bewildering 
 experience.
  
  The game plays out on the touch screen and requires you to hit numbered circles in time with the 
 music, the timing is depicted by wider circles which descend into them. Once one overlaps the other 
 you tap it with your stylus and move onto the next number in any given sequence. Where it starts 
 getting complicated is when you have multiple colour-coded sequences immediately following one 
 another. The game also implements other game mechanics such as dragging a ball along a track with 
 your stylus, this is used to represent prolonged notes in most cases. Theres also a spinning wheel 
 which pops up from time to time, this requires a pretty rapid spin of your stylus to fill a meter 
 on screen. While its fun at first over time it will have you fearing for the safety of your touch 
 screen, I guess its a little reminiscent of some mini-games found in WarioWare.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is simple in principle but can get incredibly fast-paced and frantic at times. 
 Theres also little room for error which makes things extremely challenging and takes a lot of 
 practice to perfect. The game is split into four difficulty settings and even on the easiest (1 
 star) you wont get an easy ride, by the time you reach 3 and 4 stars you will probably struggle 
 to keep up. Perhaps the most fascinating thing about this is even after youve played through a 
 song for the Nth time it doesnt get frustrating and keeps you coming back for more. Even after 
 youve completed every song the game offers theres always that urge to go back and achieve a better 
 ranking.
  
  There are an initial 16 songs to play through with a further 3 bonus tracks coming available once 
 you rank high enough. Increasing your rank depends on the combined scores from every level the 
 game offers so replaying them is paramount to completing the game in its entirety. Obtaining the 
 perfect score isnt based solely on achieving 100% though, that would be much too easy. If you 
 want a ranking of A or higher you are required to hit each note in perfect time with the rhythm. 
 The tutorial may explain the basics but unless you have a good sense of timing you will struggle 
 with this game considerably.
  
  The soundtrack is insanely varied and makes little sense, you have dance classics such as YMCA 
 and September in there but at the same time you have contemporary covers of Good Charlotte and 
 Sum 41 songs. Personally I welcome the sporadic nature of the track list but Im sure many wont 
 be as appreciative. Ironically in an attempt to appeal to a wider audience theyve probably alienated 
 large portions. Plus none of the songs are originals and while a few of the covers are spot on 
 some of them are just plain awful.
  
  The multiplayer has both Competitive and Co-Operative play but neither should hold your interest 
 for very long. Competitive Mode sees up to four players competing in teams to hit all of the notes 
 while Co-Op shares the notes between all players as you work for an overall score. The game also 
 has the option of download play but only allows you to play through a handful of songs, it also 
 has pretty dire loading times.
  
  I know tapping circles and spinning wheels doesnt sound like the most enjoyable experience but 
 between its crazy cut-scenes and those funky men in suits Elite Beat Agents is one of the best 
 rhythm games available. It doesnt try to over excel itself with complex game mechanics, it keeps 
 things fun and simple and thats just the way we like it.
  
  Gameplay - Simple in principle but can get incredibly fast-paced and frantic at times.
  
  Graphics 
 - Some superb anime-style comics and an overall enjoyable interface.
  
  Sound - Insanely varied track list but great songs none-the-less.
  
  Value - Hours of addictive 
 tapping, the games difficulty means plenty of practice is needed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oceanshoreview
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  When first playing Elite Beat Agents, I hated it, there appeared to be no rhythm to the game (and 
 yes I do have rhythm) and I just couldn't get the hang of it, but after the round I just put down 
 I've become totally engrossed in this game. Compared to Nintendo's other attempts at music based 
 games (I'm looking at Donkey Konga right now) this game is outstanding. However, when I look at 
 games like Guitar Hero this game just falls a little short. The basis of this game requires you 
 to tap circles on the screen in rhythm with the music currently playing. However, as I said, when 
 first playing I found no rhythm once so ever at the circles appearing on the screen. Well, I think 
 I've figured this out. When you start off there are two difficulties available to you, given funny 
 names they are basically 'easy' and 'medium'. Due to the fact that they wanted to make these modes 
 accessible to all players they don't have a ton of circles for tapping so it doesn't feel like 
 your doing something in rhythm with the song. This however adds a level of difficulty to it because 
 you have to focus on the tapping more than the rhythm of the song. The real fun of the game comes 
 in play when you jump up the next higher two difficulties. The next step up actually starts to 
 feel like your going along with the song while your tapping. Then after that it gets incredibly 
 fast and challenging which is when I really found myself enjoying the game. The songs are each 
 split up into mini stories where you must help a range of different people. For example, help a 
 football player help is girlfriend while she's babysitting, or help a taxi driver get a lady to 
 the hospital. They are really some pretty crazy stories and very humorous. Its actually a shame 
 that you can't just sit down and watch them since you have to focus on your tapping. The music 
 selection is fairly good. As I said earlier its much better than any of Nintendo's other attempts. 
 All tunes are basically pop songs that you will probably recognize whether you listen to that style 
 or not. You really have to give this game a bit of a chance before you can judge it because it's 
 not quite perfect on its easier stages, but its really cool when you get up to the harder difficulty 
 levels. On top of the good action its quite humorous which you can't ever get enough of. So, if 
 you are a rhythm fan and a DS owner give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  A good quote I heard recently goes, "If you laugh, cry, and think in the same day, you had a very 
 good day." Well, the day I beat Elite Beat Agents, I laughed, thought, and yes, EBA made me cry. 
 In a very good way. Welcome to a review of a game I am flattered to be reviewing: Elite Beat Agents.
 
  
  Elite Beat Agents
  Nintendo DS
  
  I will say it now, and it will be my mantra for the entire review: Elite Beat Agents is one of 
 the best games I have ever played. Not only does it feature a fun and intuitive gameplay mechanism, 
 but it's also backed up by a stunning presentation.
  
  The game is simple in concept. You touch and drag dots as they appear on the touch screen at specific 
 times, usually to the beat or the melody of the song playing. If you miss, your health bar decreases, 
 and if you hit your health bar rises. Yeah, it sounds stupid, but not as stupid as you try and 
 sum it up in one sentence: "DDR with a stylus." It is so much more.
  
  Each song has a specific episode partnered with it, and the episode shows a story on the top screen 
 as you play. To take a new approach to the game, this review will pertain to each song individually, 
 explaining its strengths and weaknesses and how it all ties into the game.
  
  1. Walkie Talkie Man  Steriogram
  This one is fun because it is so fast in some parts but so 
 simple and slow in others. The beat is a super slow 4/4, but the lyrics will cramp anybody up who 
 tries to match their belt-out. The story in this one is surprisingly funny, involving a girl-boy 
 pair separated by yelling brats.
  
  2. ABC - Jackson Five
  Hey, this song was good before it was in the game, and it's even better now, though the cover is 
 a bit iffy.
  
  3. Sk8er Boi - Avril Lavigne
  Does not work. Period. It's a broken song that wasn't that interesting to begin with. The scenario 
 is only moderately engaging as well, and it probably won't go in the hall of EBA fame.
  
  4. I Was Born to Love You  Queen
  God no. Just no. This song totally ruins the hilarious story 
 on the level, and when it's over, you'll be glad. It's boring and slow.
  
  5. Rock This Town - Stray Cats
  An above average song with an above average story, the song has 
 such a recognizable beat and a great sense of variable difficulty that it works perfectly. This 
 is the showcase tune to show other people when displaying replays.
  
  6. Highway Star - Deep Purple
  I didn't have much for the song before, and now I do. The adapting 
 to the game is perfect. Just perfect. It is slightly easier by nature than the rest, but it's also 
 very, very fun and will keep anybody in coming-back mode.
  
  7. Y. M. C. A. - Village People
  The story reeks, but the song was and is so good it makes up for 
 it by far, with the best and most convincing cover in the game. The agents actually do the YMCA 
 in the background, just displaying the love and effort the developers put into this title.
  
  8. September - Earth, Wind and Fire
  Both the song and the episode are average, and might 
 bring back a few gamers. Nothing special, but nothing horrid either.
  
  9. Canned Heat  Jamiroquai
  One of the hardest songs by far, but being the song from Napoleon 
 Dynamite near then end, it's a great dance tune and has a nice beat, if you know it. *Smile* But 
 be forewarned, this song can make you very, very mad. A hard song if you aren't familiar with it.
 
  
  10. Material Girl  Madonna
  The worst song on this playlist, and it will never be played for anything other than progression 
 goals. The remix with dogs yipping just sounds terrible. The stars of the story evoke no pity at 
 all.
  
  11. La La - Ashlee Simpson
  The surprise hit of the game, it's a great song IF you can ignore the Ashlee Simpson part. It's 
 a very good cover, so relax. The song's pretty well rocking and is one of my favorites.
  
  12. You're the Inspiration  Chicago
  This one, forum browsers, made me cry. Not out of frustration, 
 or anything negative. The story is the most touching, beautiful stories that have touched any video 
 game. The song only adds to this atmosphere, and it's a nice challenge but isn't too difficult.
 
  
  13. Survivor - Destiny's Child
  Nice beat, and that's all I can say. Everything else kind of went, if you know what I mean. Of 
 course, the song wasn't all there in the first place.
  
  14. Without a Fight  Hoobastank
  If only it were longer; there are some really fun moments in 
 this song. The verses are great to tap to, but the second verse is only a line long, and it's taken 
 by a cut-scene! But any person with average skills will fall to the knees of this song at least 
 once in the game. It also begins a great two-part finale with "Jumpin Jack Flash," which means 
 the story is the best in the game.
  
  15. Believe  Cher
  The worst cover on the game, which takes away from the song a bit. The episode is a little different 
 than the others, which in nice, but Cher really had this song, and this version kind of parodies 
 it. The remixing stuff is also gone.
  
  16. Let's Dance - David Bowie
  Another hard track, and it's accompanied by another pitiless victim in the story. The lyrics are 
 pretty irregular, and the game is pretty unforgiving in this song, taking off nearly half of your 
 health bar for a missed note. But with the hard songs comes relief and bliss once you beat them.
 
  
  17. Jumpin Jack Flash - Rolling Stones
  The climax of the game, and very well presented. The story and the stakes run high, but the song 
 keeps in moving with a great paced track full of energy. And, of course, being the last song, it's 
 also the most difficult. It will make grown men beg for mercy below its unforgiving feet as it 
 stomps them into the dirt. But it ends well, at least.
  
  18. Makes No Difference - Sum 41
  The punk rock didn't really work here, nor did the next one, 
 because the lyrics are pretty dull (but crazy rhythm wise) . Expect full blown cramps if you are 
 trying to play a hard mode version of this baby.
  
  19. The Anthem - Good Charlotte
  Again, nothing good to listen to, but it is a nice, meaty challenge. It is one of the harder songs, 
 mainly because it is so fast and unforgiving. It's also way too long and drags itself way part 
 its stay.
  
  Well, that sums up the meat of the game, now on to the details.
  
  The sound quality is pretty good for the DS (for audio junkies I estimate a 64-96 kbps mp3 quality) 
 Though some songs have so much going on at once that the DS starts to crackle a bit (even with 
 headphones) . But this really isn't a problem. The songs are freaking vocal, recent songs that are 
 pretty good on the most part. The voiceovers are done well and are pretty believable, though anybody 
 who played this game enough will be saying "You bet, kid!" in a dopey accent and laughing hysterically.
 
  
  The graphics share the same kind of presentation as the rest of the game. Every detail shows a 
 great amount of effort in it, and it really pays off. EBA has a great style of its own, and like 
 the rest of the game, it could only be pulled off on the DS. The art style is manga but still has 
 a conventional cartoon feel to it, and the angry faces look especially funny. The links between 
 the song and the picture are prefect, and everything moves nice and clean.
  
  Well, that wraps up my review. Now go buy this game. Now. You will never regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodariquo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents
  Are you Elite?
  
  Presentation (10%) - 8
  Controls (17.5%) - 9.5
  Variety (25%) - 7
  Audio (7.5%) - 10
  Depth (15%) - 9.5
  Value &amp; Fun (25%) - 9
  
 
  OVERALL - 8.64
  
  My Review Policy:
  http://www. gamespot. com/pages/profile/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-24801077&amp; user=yodariquo
 
  
  Multiplayer Importance: Low.
  
  Previously played game in the series: N/A.
  
  NOTE: If you consider the song list a spoiler, disregard the audio section as it contains it. There 
 is also a reference to a single song at the end of Value &amp; Fun.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay Outline
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Elite Beat Agents is a rhythm game in which you use the stylus to tap the beats in rhythm with 
 different songs.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Dedication 
 Meter - 40%
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  It's easy 
 to jump in, and has a good quick tutorial to make you understand how to play the game. But if you 
 want to get the most out of the game, you'll have to play through the various difficulties as not 
 only does it make the game better, but you must do so to unlock all the songs. Ultimately, though, 
 you can go in and out and have fun in a matter of minutes.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Presentation 
 - 8
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  I'll start with the game mechanics. A series of coloured circles will appear on screen with a larger 
 ring of the same colour around it that shrinks as time passes; when that ring is on the circumference 
 of the filled circle, you tap it. Each circle has a number on it for the order in which to tap 
 them; when the colour of the beats changes (at a short interval between sections) , the numbers 
 start back at zero. There are also some beats in which when you tap the circle, you keep your stylus 
 on the screen and guide a ball down a tube, which is very well utilzed (mostly for when the vocal 
 track holds a note) . The last mechanic is the spinner; this is a large disc that will occasionally 
 show up (usually once or twice per song) and you just spin it. Also, during each song, there are 
 little cut-scenes that show up about 4 times per song. As for how you succeed, there's a health 
 bar that slowly declines during the song, but goes up when you do well and down when you miss. 
 It's split in half into Yes and No which, when you reach a cutscene, determines whether the character 
 is successful or not. In order to win, all you have to do is keep it from reaching the end entirely, 
 though.
  
  The visuals themselves are excellent. The sprites have a nice cartoon mixed with anim&eacute; style 
 that works perfectly. The way the wacky stories are told is ranges from hilarious to surprisingly 
 touching and heart-felt. The stories are mostly completely inane and illogical (at one point apparently 
 the agents travel through time and help Leonardo Da Vinci create the Mona Lisa) which is actually 
 fine for the game. The characters in the little stories will dance and have little animations before 
 and during the song that help get you right into the song. The agents themselves are rendered in 
 3D and dance on the bottom screen. What's great about the dancing is that it's synched with the 
 tempo of the song, so they pretty much are dancing to the beat of the song.
  
  Where there are some issues, though, is in the actual way the game mechanics are presented to the 
 player. When you start getting into challenging difficulties and songs, you'll begin to get clusters 
 of beats that are very close together which causes the outer rings to overlap the other beats making 
 it quite difficult to read the numbers and consequently tap the beats in order. With the tube beats, 
 the circle actually appears slightly before the tube section (which indicates whether to keep your 
 stylus down or not) and in harder difficulties I found myself tapping the beat before I even recognized 
 it was a tube one and because of that lifted and got a miss. When you only have a split-second 
 in which to read and tap each beat, having any clarity problem can be devastating to your success. 
 The cutscenes also drag on a bit in songs leaving too much time doing nothing (and you can't skip 
 them as you'd be skipping part of the song) .
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Controls - 
 9.5
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The controls are simple but effective. Detection on each beat is, well, perfect. When keeping your 
 stylus on the ball in a tube, it's a little flexible, which is a good thing, as I still found myself 
 missing sometimes in the hard levels. The only detractor is if you're overly hectic on the spinner 
 it will hardly spin at all and it can feel unresponsive.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Variety - 7
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The variety in songs is excellent, and is really the stand out in the variety category. This combined 
 with two initial difficulty levels and two more unlockable ones makes for what you can expect most 
 of your play time to take place. For additional modes, there are Versus modes for single-card, 
 multi-card and against saved ghosts. Additionally, there are also Replay mode to see replays that 
 you've saved of songs you've completed (you can save only one per song) , Gallery where you can 
 view the cutscenes, Rank where you can see your current rank (based on cumulative high scores, 
 and of course High Scores where you can see not only your high scores, but your letter grade for 
 each song and whether or not you had you score bar in the Yes range for each cutscene. The cutscenes 
 are also incredibly varied in content, theme and emotion.
  
  Ultimately, however, the only modes worth playing is the single player campaign. The Versus mode 
 style is a decent idea but poorly implemented. I'll note that I did not test the multi-card play. 
 The single-card play has a selection of five songs on two difficulties, with each player playing 
 the same difficulty. Given how intense the game gets in higher difficulties, hte two lower levels 
 will be a walk-in-the-park before long for the experienced player, and obviously if it's single-card 
 play, the other person doesn't have the game and won't be experienced. As for versus Ghost, it 
 works like Versus multiplayer, except against a saved replay. The problem with this is that not 
 only are the frame-rate issues, but there are specials activated when you get on a good streak 
 that causes the beats to shrink and the screen to shake. Since you're playing a replay, it doesn't 
 affect your opponent, who is your best score prior on that level, and makes it even harder. And 
 the kicker is if you win (which isn't even based on score, but rather your life bar at the top) 
 it won't save any new high score if you set one.
  
  Replay mode is a nice addition to the game, though. Due to the frantic pace and excessive difficulty 
 by the end, being able to show off your amazing run is a great bonus.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Audio - 10
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  As I said, the song selection is excellent in its variance. There are 19 songs from many genres, 
 eras and artists, and most lend themselves incredibly well to rhythm games. While each song is 
 a cover version, the covers are beyond reproach; I honestly wouldn't be able to tell the difference 
 from the original. For one song, I thought to myself, that sounds like Freddie Mercury (of Queen) , 
 and in fact the song was by Queen, only it was of course the cover version.
  
  Here is the complete song list:
  1. Walkie Talkie Man - Steriogram
  2. ABC - Jackson Five
 
  3. Sk8er Boi - Avril Lavigne
  4. I Was Born to Love You - Queen
  5. Rock This Town - Stray Cats
  6. Highway Star - Deep Purple
  7. Y. M. C. A. - Village People
 
  8. September - Earth, Wind and Fire
  9. Canned Heat - Jamiroquai
  10. Material Girl - Madonna
  11. La La - Ashlee Simpson
  12. You're the Inspiration - Chicago
 
  13. Survivor - Destiny's Child
  14. Without a Fight - Hoobastank
  15. Believe - Cher
  16. Let's Dance - David Bowie
  17. Jumpin Jack Flash - Rolling Stones
  18. Makes No Difference 
 - Sum 41
  19. The Anthem - Good Charlotte
  
  But the audio isn't all about the music. There's a lot of other sound in the game. There are little 
 audio clips and sound effects sprinkled throughout the cutscenes, which helps add to the weird 
 nature of them. Most importantly, though, are the instruments hits that play when you tap each 
 beat. Usually drums, but there's some variation, they work near flawlessly to add a sense of tactility.
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Depth - 9.5
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  It's hard to evaluate depth in a genre that is as simple as rhythm games. However, Elite Beat Agents 
 manages, for the most part, to keep the beats with the music yet keep it very challenging. In that, 
 there's not a lot more one can ask of a game. Unfortunately, though, there are some instances where 
 the beats switch from vocals to instrumentals to just random points for no discernable reason, 
 although these instances are rare.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Value &amp; 
 Fun - 9
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Where Elite Beat Agents lacks in variety it very much makes up for it in its addicting nature and 
 perfect learning curve. Going through each difficulty level isn't really a decision, you just do 
 it. If you want to play a song, you play the next highest in the difficulty until you fail, practice 
 up on songs you like and then go back at it. There are four difficulty levels: Breezin', Cruisin', 
 Sweatin', and Hard ROCK. If you stop at Cruisin', you're just not going to get the most out of 
 the game. The thing is, it's doubtful you will. The game does a great job of not only spreading 
 out the notes on lower difficulties to be filled in on harder ones, but making you better as you 
 do it. Every song seems to get just a little bit faster and more complex and by the end, you don't 
 notice how far you've come until you try and play songs you once thought challenging.
  
  The difficulty gets very hard on the harder modes, so one naturally calls it Hard as that is what 
 they played. However, difficulty is usually determined by its default difficulty, which isn't overly 
 difficult, so that's why I peg it as Just Right . However, by recommendation, I'd suggest you aren't 
 getting your money's worth not playing the harder difficulties.
  
  Where the game loses marks in value is lack of variety in modes. It could have really used a practice 
 mode and a better way of playing against a ghost, if not more. Where the game loses points in fun 
 while playing through the first time is the presentational qualms with clarity due to clutter and 
 complications with the health bar. The health bar has some strange properties, particularly that 
 it is always declining. If you miss a few right before a slow point in the song, you could hit 
 every note in the slow portion and still lose. The spinner is used to balance the slow portions, 
 but I say it shouldn't need balancing at all. There's also a strange glitch (I only noticed it 
 in one song) in which it has actually gone down after hitting a beat.
  
  What it comes down to for myself, though, is that this is the only option on the system aside from 
 its Japanese only predecessor, Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan, in terms of rhythm games, and it does a very 
 commendable job. And aside from that, it is a rare game in which I find myself not wanting to stop, 
 even when failing repeatedly (if you plan to beat Jumpin' Jack Flash on Hard ROCKIN' mode, prepare 
 to hear the song more than any Stones fanatic) .
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall - 8.64
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Overall there's just a lot to like about Elite Beat Agents. In every capacity the game is charming 
 and delightful, even moving. Even songs you'd have never thought you'd like seem to surprise. While 
 there are flaws seen throughout the game, there's also a great plus to overshadow it. Elite Beat 
 Agents does what every rhythm game should -- make you want more songs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nely_nelson
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  This game deserved a 9.7 in everyway. The interesting comic style throughout the game looked very 
 originale and very good. On the touchscreen there was the elitebeat agents dancing the graphics 
 wernt quite as good there so thats why the graphics gets a 9/10. The sound was amazing !!! definatly 
 the best part of the game. It featured real songs like LaLa, The anthem, Canned Heat, Y. M. C. A. 
 Though they wernt the real song they were the same lyrics and music prefformed by different artists 
 they sounded very good. Gameplay was unique and interesting. It involved tapping numbers according 
 to the beat. It is challenging enough that when you play harder diffictulty settings you can be 
 there for a while and easy is great for someone who really dosnt get into it. Plus it has one of 
 the highest replay value's for the DS. There is different ranks that you can get according to your 
 highscore that can keep you occupied plus you unlock bonus stages and harder difficulty settings. 
 The storyline was kinda odd but some missions were pretty originale. For example: Your a Ninja 
 working with sushi motors and Your rival Moo Moo motors steals the plans for the ninjamobile. You 
 must use your ninja powers to go get the Plans back and save your company. This game immensely 
 entertained me and i sure it will entertain anyone who picks this game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipzor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 2, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Before the review starts I would like to mention that this game, though it is incredible, is just 
 as hard as ninja gaiden. (If not Harder)
  
  Gameplay: Most people think that it all just tapping away at the screen, but does that make them 
 wrong? No it doesn't, because that is what the game is, but that's only the half-truth. Since the 
 gameplay is all about the songs, you must be able to listen to music and follow along. But its 
 not as easy as it sounds, take into consideration that you have limited time, and alot of the songs 
 go fast, so very fast. You will lose alot and get extremely frustrated if it weren't for the fact 
 that the game is as addictive as clodhoppers, you cannot stop by choice. And with the ranking system 
 and the different songs, you might spend a couple of hours on a single song and I know I have.
 
  
  Graphics: This game lives and breathes the 90's, in every way (look at their suits for cryin' out 
 loud!) . Its all about charm and the duel screens, with the eyes fixed to the touch screen during 
 gameplay and eyes glancing every once in a while to the top screen. The top screen is basically 
 the the cut-scenes and the action that the customers are doing. But the top screen has the feeling 
 of old anime cartoons and the touch screen regular graphics.
  
  Sound: Well if the game is all about the beat of music, you'd expect good sound right? Absolutely! 
 Sure some of the songs will get on your nerves because (Who want's to listen to Cher?) . But the 
 game makes it all good, don't worry. But besides for Cher and sk8ter boi, there are some memorable 
 songs in it.
  
  All around, this game is grade A quality for hours of play, and most of the day will be spent on 
 this game. Good luck, You'll need it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axe_336
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  This... Is the greatest game on the DS... Now some might say thats not saying much for the DS, 
 but this is an incredible experience.
  
  The gameplay premise is a different approach to a familiar music/rhythm game concept in which you 
 tap, drag, and spin and certain times according to visual cues which line up with the fairly good 
 soundtrack that they have for the game. The soundtrack should is a collection of songs most people 
 will know a majority of (Though I must say I'd never heard the first song) and generally fit the 
 scene that is playing in the background.
  
  Now, the main reason this game is so awesome is the scenes going on in the background, aka the 
 storyline. Each song is a mission that the 6 star commander Commander Kahn sends the EBA, the Elite 
 Beat Agents, on. It starts with a situation that is troublesome to the character, but generally 
 hilarious for the player and that character calling for HEEEAAALLP!!!! This problems are then solved 
 by the EBA's ability to dance and is narrated through cutscenes in the top screen which can have 
 good or bad outcomes depending on how you are doing in the song (I've only done it on the easy 
 setting so far, so I haven't seen very many bad outcomes, but they're usually even funnier than 
 the good ones) These stories are some of the most hilarious and ridiculous series of events ever 
 and work perfectly with the game and soundtrack. Plus, there is one serious story part in the game 
 and they do it REALLY well in contrast, I was just like Dude, the game creators actually knew what 
 they were doing when they made this game. 
  
  Really the only reasons that you wouldn't like this game is 1. You don't like the music or music 
 games. 2. Anything funny/insane makes you shriek like a demon hit with Holy Water. 3. Your soul 
 is consumed by darkness.
  
  Like every game like this you'll probably burn through it initially pretty fast, but you'll want 
 to go back and up your score since you get rank increases based on your total Hi-Scores. Also there's 
 a multiplayer mode that I haven't tried yet, but it seems cool since I think the story changes 
 based on who is winning the game at the time.
  
  If you have a DS you should get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornholio360
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents was the first game to get me into rhythm games. You may look at this game and 
 think that tapping circles to music would get old and boring really fast. That's not the case with 
 Elite Beat Agents. With 3 difficulties and around 20 different songs, this game will keep you busy 
 for quite a while. The first difficulty, Breezin', is the easiest (obviously) out of the 3. It's 
 possible to beat all the missions on Breezin' in one day, but it's still slightly hard. Cruisin', 
 the second difficulty, starts to pick up a bit and gives you more circle tapping and 'ball dragging' 
 to do at faster speeds. Once you get past all the missions on Cruisin', you will unlock the 3rd 
 difficulty, Sweatin'. This is when the game will become really fast and throw more circle tapping, 
 ball dragging, and wheel spinning at you. When you complete a mission, your results on how well 
 you did on that mission will appear, along with a line graph, showing how well you did throughout 
 the whole mission. You will also be given a rank, D, C, B, A, or S, on how well you did on a mission. 
 You can replay the missions and try to get better rankings if you wish. The music selection in 
 this game is rather stange, but that doesn't take away any of the fun. The worst thing about the 
 music though, is that all the songs are covers, which my be a good thing or a bad thing depending 
 on which version you prefer. Most covers are fine, with the exception of very few. Elite Beat Agents 
 is a very fun game which you can just pick up and play. I would reccommend this game to anyone 
 who would simply like to have fun, whether or not you're into rhythm games or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackhawk925
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Im not a big fan of rhythm games, but Elite Beat Agents brings to the table a crazy, strange, 
 and down right fun game. Youll find yourself instantly hooked to this game and not be able to 
 put it down for hours. Some may even find themselves, like me, playing into the wee hours of the 
 morning. The game play is easy to pick up and get into, but challenging to master. The last few 
 levels youll find yourself retrying over and over again, but youll have a sunny disposition about 
 it. The story . . . well. You wont be too infatuated with the story with the sure amount of craziness 
 going on the screens. All you need to know is that you are apart of a secret agency with the soul 
 mission of helping the people of the world through dancing. Yes, dancing. The songs in the game 
 range from the rock&amp;#768; in to the downright mushy. But the soundtrack levels out to be quite 
 good. The art style has Japanese written all over it, which is a good thing. The cut scenes play 
 out as a comic book before and after (and during) each song. The whole feel of the game is fun. 
 Game play, graphics, music, story; all fun. If youre a fan of rhythm games or are looking to get 
 into them. EBA is a great game to try out. And if you already own a DS this title is a must.
  
  One last thing. Might I suggest playing this game while sleep deprived? Itll be even better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Er0KMarioMan
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents has to be one of the strangest and greatest games out today. The story revolves 
 around a group of agents who solve people's remedial promblems by dancing. It's all told through 
 Japanese comic panels. It works out great.
  But the core essential of EBA, which is the gameplay, works out even better. You must keep with 
 the rhythm of the song your listening to by tapping a circle when a bigger circle around it makes 
 an outline around that circle. It's not as complicated as it sounds when you actually play. You 
 also have to drag the stylus across the screen and spin the stylus in a few parts. Luckily, the 
 key aspect of the game scores big time. And that's sound. All of the songs sound great coming out 
 of the DS and I was suprised how well the speakers can work. Whether you like the music or not 
 will really depend on your personal taste, but their all songs with good beats that fit the game 
 well.
  The graphics are great too. You character is on the bottom screen in 3D, and the top screen has 
 comic book like drawings. It sounds strange but it all flows together so well somehow. The replay 
 value for the game is great, it never really gets old. Especially because their are some unlockable 
 songs near the end. The multi-player isn't as strong as I felt it could have been, but it's still 
 enjoyable.
  Overall, Elite Beat Agents has to be one of the best DS games out there, and anyone who has any 
 intrest in pure and simple fun video games should pick this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tacofiasco
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Lousy rhythm and beat games in the video game market have become somewhat prevalent to try and 
 capitalize on an interesting and (apparently) worthwhile economic opportunity. While there are 
 exceptions to this nasty trend (Guitar Hero etc.) , the genre seems permanently stuck in the casual 
 gamer curse. The premise alluded to here is one where a game that has the potential to appeal 
 to an audience besides hardcore gamers is exploited by third-party developers looking to capitalize 
 on the misinformed video game consumer. A flood of unoriginal and ultimately mediocre hackney gaming 
 filth is sure to follow. Yet, with Elite Beat Agents, a gamer may rediscover what made this genre 
 so absolutely appealing in the first place.
  
  Since the revolutionary days of PaRappa, rhythm and beat games have inevitably been expanding on 
 the basic conceptual approach put forth by this first musically-derived entry into the video game 
 landscape. EBA doesnt necessarily deviate, but gets it right at a level that many other games 
 within the genre could only dream of doing. Although the extent of what youre actually accomplishing 
 in the game doesnt drift far away from popping, dragging, and outlining circles, this is all extremely 
 deceptive as to the simplicity and depth to be had. Nevermind the appealing pseudo-anime characters 
 which all move perfectly in sync with the tunes, this bubble-popping slowly becomes a ridiculously 
 addictive and engrossing endeavor that begins to creep underneath your skin as you attempt each 
 musical piece (i. e. level) over and over. A lack of comprehension (in terms of game design) may 
 well be the culprit, but the game seems almost mysterious in the addictive qualities previously 
 mentioned. Taking a look back away from the DS, Elite Beat Agents appears to be this crazy, nonsensical, 
 neural overload that could only entertain a child of the ADD generation. However, if one were to 
 think that; they would be robbing themselves of a phenomenal gaming experience. Even grotesque 
 songs like Chers Believe prove highly tolerable under the veil of the bubble-popping. Indeed, 
 hypnotism was (and is) under full effect. Like other hypnotism, though, little guilt should be 
 incurred from this mind control.
  
  Bright, fun, and engaging: EBA is a must-have for DS owners. One may find the music quality a bit 
 lacking. However, this seems to be a fair trade considering the copious amounts of difficulty levels 
 and high replay value. Another problem that may tug at a gamers ear is that of covered songs. 
 Essentially, theyre hit-and-miss at best. Gripes aside, a want to become an Elite Beat Agent should 
 be had by all gamers with an open mind a love for popping balloons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duderdude
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  elite beat agents. what more can i say. this game is so pointless it actually is funny. with missions 
 so corny a 7-year old would enjoy. the only problem is it's rated e+10. don't look at the start 
 of this and say it's bad. no. it is quite a good game. it took popular music, now voice wasn't 
 that great. like in the level with the song the anthem all hulk says is you bet kid . what is the 
 point of having one line of voice in the entire level! it looked like nintendo needed an idea and 
 was desperate, but luckily it sold. nintendo took the idea of a dance revolution game and put it 
 on the touch screen. it isn't original, but the ds makes it look original. all in all i wold recommend 
 this game to people who want to have a little fun with their ds. PS if you don't already have headphones 
 for the ds, you may want to get them before getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 4:30 am PT
Review:  Just bought this game yesterday and I find this game very addicting as well. This game is very 
 fun, I love playing this game. The music are good when you are rescuing people when they are needed, 
 it also a pretty funny game as well. Sometimes it can be difficult to beat some of the mission, 
 but I'm still practicing and getting use to it. This game takes time to get use too, it kind of 
 fast beat game to hit the right time. But once you get use to it, it will be easy enough and able 
 to do it faster. The graphics are cute, and the comic is a funny to read. I really enjoy playing 
 this game, people should aleast try and pick up this game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushrat
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 29, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  So, I sat here tonight and watched the video game awards earlier today, and was QUITE surprised. 
 When the category of best music game came up, I fully expected to see Guitar Hero 2 walk away easily 
 with the award, but low and behold, I was thrown off a bit by a handheld game. So, what did I do? 
 The same thing any other gamer would do, who has money burning a hole in his pockets! I went right 
 out the door and bought it. Anything that could win over Guitar Hero HAD to be special. That or 
 someone on here was on the pipe. So, I bought the game about 4 hours ago, beat it on breeze mode, 
 and I'm playing it again now on Crusin' mode. Why? BECAUSE I'M ADDICTED! Not only is the sound 
 unbelievable (I swear my DS has sounds like a Bose system) , it's genuinely FUN! Even when I have 
 a tough time with a song, and repeat it over and over, I still have a smile on my face. VERY cool! 
 So, does this thing have replay value? Hell yeah! There's enough songs in it that it doesn't bore 
 you, and I love the challenge I get from the higher levels. It's good stuff! So, the next time 
 you walk into the videogame section at the store, don't feel shy at all at buying this game. It's 
 well worth the money! Thanks for reading, and remember. Playing with yourself can cause you to 
 go blind. (I mean single player games, ya pervs)
  
  Mushrat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anonymoe
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Addicting, unique, rhythm based gameplay that acheives everything a rhythm game should have 
 first try (explaining the 10) ; sound quality is good; manga scenes are hilariously drawn; challengin 
 on higher difficulties
  
  Cons: Over too fast (even though you can come back as much as you want) ; song list has its issues
 
  
  Rhythm games are quite possibly the most unoriginal genre of games ever made. They all consist 
 of any amount of scrolling bars with notes that you have to hit to a certain rhythm along with 
 the right note. Its a great formula, which is no doubt why it has lasted, but it lacks any real 
 surprises. Thus its a great thing when a game such as Elite Beat Agents (or its Japanese counterpart) 
 is able to shake things up in a fun way, without sparing rhythm based gameplay.
  
  In EBA there are no scrolling bars. Instead circles with numbers (stating their order) show up 
 on the DS touch screen with rings around them. Those rings get smaller and smaller, and then when 
 they reach the edges of the circles you tap them. Then there are circles with tails, which you 
 tap and slide at the same pace as something that looks similar to a beach ball for longer notes. 
 And there is also a spinner (which, as the name says, you spin on the screen until the circle reaches 
 the center) for REALLY long notes. And they all go to the rhythm of whatever tune you play.
  
  It may not sound like an exciting, or hard style of gameplay, but once you play it, you will 
 be proven wrong. The circles keep appearing in large groups that keep you tapping and dragging 
 in an almost zen-like state until you mess up. And with a bar that constantly drains, mistakes 
 can cost you.
  
  However, its not always hard. The game has a great balance of difficulty. The lowest difficulty 
 is easy to breeze through, and each one gets harder, where you have to practice more to beat the 
 19 songs in the game. And the hardest will take several tries to get through.
  
  The song selection will be a dividing point for some, but there is something for everyone. From 
 slower, heartfelt songs, to faster paced rock songs, etc. And for once even if you dont like the 
 song, you might want to play through it.
  
  Thats because the developers of the game realized that the DS had two screens and not just 1 touch 
 screen. So, they added stories. The game is based around these agents that show up when people 
 are in trouble to give them a morale boost of sorts, to help them solve their problems. And this 
 lets them continue several stories (told manga-style) on the top screen, and lets you have power 
 over what happens (by how well you are doing on the song) . And the stories dont ever take away 
 from the game, and are often quite amusing, and often dont feel out of place with the song they 
 get paired with (Survivor is during a zombie infestation, and Material Girl follows two rich 
 girls as they get stranded on an island for a couple examples) .
  
  And those illustrations that tell the stories are well done, giving off a crazy atmosphere fitting 
 to the game. You can always tell what the characters are thinking at any time just from their faces. 
 And the graphics (the 3-D agents) on the bottom screen are well done and animated (though they 
 are a little pointy, such as one guys afro)
  
  Elite Beat Agents is great in so many ways that I can only hope that it doesnt fall prey to the 
 typical original IP dilemma of lacking sales. It gets its gameplay perfect (for a rhythm game I 
 mean) first game, it has great graphics, and sound quality is good (no matter what your opinion 
 about the song list) . In fact the only thing it gets wrong is length, because youll experience 
 everything soon (mostly because its hard to put down) . This is the most recent must-have title 
 on the DS. Give us a sequel Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonedsodapop
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Rhythm games are among my favorite game types so maybe I'm a little bit biased in my opinion of 
 them. Elite Beat Agents is an awesome game that I find myself having trouble putting down. I just 
 got t yesterday but I played through almost all of the songs on the easiest level. I'll probably 
 play them all again because the game is a little bit tricky to play. The graphics are pretty good, 
 the cooky story is told through manga-type artwork and the agents themselves are cel-shaded 3-d 
 type figures (think along the lines of Jet Set Radio Future) . A lot of the songs are rather fast 
 so you'll have to be fast in your movements and pay close attention. During the songs themselves 
 they also show the story occurring (since you are helping people it shows the outcomes) but the 
 song can resume very quickly the next moment so you always have to be prepared. It's also a little 
 bit difficult to see everything that's happening because you're using the touch screen and your 
 hand may hide some of the things you have to press/roll. Other than that it's mostly your reflexes. 
 I haven't beaten it yet but I'm really enjoying it so far. I will definently play it many more 
 times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LOLhahaDEAD
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Some of you import crazy gamers will know of a Japanese DS game by the name of Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan. 
 In Ouendan, you play as three cheerleaders who go out and solve peoples problems by dancing. You 
 have to hit on-screen markers in time with the music to get points. Consecutive hits result in 
 combos for higher scores. Some markers required you to hit the marker then drag it along a path, 
 and occasionally backtrack across said path, while keeping the stylus on the moving marker at all 
 times. The premise Elite Beat Agents is essentially the American version of this game, with some 
 minor (and a few major) differences. The real big difference is the soundtrack. Instead of keeping 
 a J-pop only soundtrack like Ouendan, theyve decided to use covers of popular English songs. Other 
 differences noted are that you play as secrets agents whos leader is the very enthusiastic Commander 
 Kahn.
  
  The audio in this is game extremely well done for a handheld game. But because the DSs speakers 
 still arent the greatest in the world, it is still recommended that you use headphones for best 
 sound quality. The soundtrack, on the other hand, isnt very memorable or moving. As mentioned 
 before, its comprised of covers of popular English singles. Some of the artists included are Ashlee 
 Simpson, Sum 41, Avril Lavigne, and Earth Wind &amp; Fire. Some of the most original sounding tracks 
 are Makes No Difference (Sum 41) and YMCA (The Village People) , while many others are quite honestly 
 just plain bad, most notably La La (Ashlee Simpson) and Sk8er Boi (Avril Lavigne) . Its not that 
 the original versions of these tracks are bad, its just that the people who cover them dont exactly 
 seem like they should be on American Idol.
  
  The graphics are also very well done. On the top screen during a song, youre show the in game 
 2D cut scenes (that you usually cant watch because youre actually trying to play the game) , and 
 at the bottom youll be shown some 2D backgrounds, the Agents dancing (in 3D) , and the game markers. 
 Also on the bottom screen youll be shown the Yes/No bar that shows whether youre failing or not, 
 and the combo multiplier. The Animanga 2D scenes are very well drawn and have some nice color to 
 them, and the three dimensional agents look pretty good also.
  
  Each song has its own story to it. Once you choose a song from the map (A giant 3D globe that you 
 rotate by dragging the stylus) it will give you a brief description of the client, some screen 
 shots from the song, the name of the song, and the title of the story chapter. Once you choose 
 that chapter it will give you a short cut scene lain out in comic book format that explains the 
 story, the problem, and the character (s) for that song, eventually leading up to them calling the 
 Elite Beat Agents by screaming HELP! From there, youre ready to go. While youre playing the 
 song, there will some comic book/anime style scenes showing the story in progress. After you complete 
 each section of the song, the beat markers will stop and youll be shown a fairly short little 
 scene of the story progressing, and then a big circle showing that you successfully completed that 
 section of the song, or a big X to show you failed that section. Usually towards the end youll 
 be given a huge wheel youll have to spin using the stylus to rack up some good bonus points, but 
 in some of the later songs there will be more multiple wheels peppered throughout the track. Once 
 youve completed the song itll show you the ending cut scene and a congratulatory resolution picture 
 to show you that youve completed that song and solved that persons problem. After that, you get 
 the song breakdown screen. Here you can see what sections of the song you completed, how many markers 
 you missed and hit, and your score. It also has a line graph of how you did and which parts you 
 werent doing too well on.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty fun, too. Each song has a different story here than in single player, 
 and usually involves two people or teams competing against each other, and the agents dancing to 
 help them complete their tasks. Each player plays as one separate agent, which you can choose from 
 any of the ones youve unlocked. Unfortunately, there are only a certain number of songs you can 
 play if both players dont have their own copy of the game, and you can only play Versus Mode.
 
  
  Each difficulty has its own separate main agent, with the two backup dancer agents. You can use 
 any of these agents in multiplayer mode once youve unlocked them. There are a total of 19 songs, 
 three of which are unlockables. There are also 4 different difficulty levels you can play and a 
 truckload of extra features, such as the ability to save your game play of a song and view it whenever 
 you please. You can also send these to your friends through the DSs wireless connectivity. Theres 
 also a gallery, a section where you can view your overall rank, a place where you can view your 
 high score for each song, and the ability to broadcast the training and demo stages to your friends 
 wirelessly. All of this adds up to a surprising amount of depth for a handheld rhythm game.
  
  Although this isnt a game that youll sit down and try to complete for hours on end (though 
 you can do that if you wish) , this is a game that you can pull out and play whenever, where ever, 
 alone or with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KensterFox
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 28, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Last year, Guitar Hero took the standard idea of performing actions (pressing buttons, strumming 
 a paddle) in time to music, and wrapped its own very distinctive style and charm around it. In 
 much the same way, Elite Beat Agents will have you tapping, dragging, and spinning surrounded by 
 a manic flair all its own, all wrapped up in a funny and pleasing package.
  
  The mechanics really couldn't be simpler. The game only asks you to do three things - tap an indicated 
 area of the screen on an indicated beat of a song, drag the stylus from one indicated area to another 
 in an indicated rhythm, or draw circles on the screen as fast as you can. That said, you will be 
 asked to do these things quickly and precisely, so levels can very anywhere between incredibly 
 hard and frustratingly difficult, most often falling in the area of OK, I'll really get it this 
 time... 
  
  The style is a bit bizarre, but always entertaining and fast-paced, which suits the substance of 
 the game perfectly. The songs are obviously covers, which dampens the enjoyability if you happen 
 to be familiar with the songs (although familiarity with the music makes the game considerably 
 easier) . The game also will not have the lasting appeal of an RPG or strategy game it will take 
 forever to complete - the songs are limited, and once you have them down, there's little replay 
 value. Still, there are few games for the DS that are as start-to-finish entertaining as Elite 
 Beat Agents. Agents are GO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ubermoe
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  wtf is this?? 
  thats actually what i really thought when i first saw this game. my friend was talking about it 
 and i thought it was going to be really bad. man, i was wrong. this game took a new approach upon 
 the use of he stylus and music. lolZ i'm playing it like right now and it's still fun. i only wished 
 that there were more songs than there is in the game. although each song comes in three difficulties 
 each ... i want more!! maybe in the next game. even though there are like 15+ songs the songs that 
 were chosen were carefully picked for the gamer's liking ... well, mos of them.
  i couldn't find much wrong wth this game other than the fact that there weren't alot of features 
 to it as i would have liked there to be. lolZi wish that when i'm in trouble the Elite Beat Agents 
 would come to help me :D) ) Agents are GO!!!
  ~toodles~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: comof1stplatun
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  When I say rhythm game you probably think of the long series of Dance Dance Revolution games and 
 spin-offs right? Well get ready to add another game to that list except with a catch, its on a 
 hand-held. Elite Beat Agents for the DS has you playing a team of agents called 'Elite Beat Agents', 
 which is a group similiar in look to the stereotypical CIA. The Agents travel around the world 
 helping and inspiring people through song and dance. The humor in the game is hard to miss as you 
 progress through the game helping people ranging from a truck driver in the middle of a giggling-zombie 
 outbreak to a baseball player fighting a fire-breathing golem. With a wide genre of songs, the 
 game's music will appeal to many player's taste in music. The gameplay in EBA is easy to pick up, 
 with players tapping, dragging, and spinning the stylus along with the beat of the song to make 
 the agents dance. The graphics are good for the DS and with 4 difficulties and 19 total songs along 
 with multi-player (single-card and multi-card available, no wifi) make this game's replay value 
 very high. The easier modes are easy enough to pick up, but as you progress through the other modes 
 some of the songs can be downright insane. Playing the game without headphones is possible, but 
 not recommended as the sound isn't that high-quality on the DS speakers. If your a fan of the DDR 
 series or new to rhythm games and you own a DS, then atleast do yourself a favor and check out 
 Elite Beat Agents for the DS. Players can download a demo of the game at participating retailers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cupajoe38
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a game about three rhythmicly gifted agents working under an army general 
 to save problems through the power of music. As ridiculous as the game's concept sounds, it's actually 
 quite fun to see the different adventures you travel through. Me being the anime lover I am, i 
 fell in love with the quirky japanese animations flying all over the top screen. I also happen 
 to be a huge rythm genre fan, so this game was a must get from the moment i sampled it in a cramped 
 gamespot.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The gameplay is awesome in EBA. What you do is use the touch screen to press the numbers in order 
 to the beat. It's like Dance Dance Revolution but with unpreditcible placements and frenzied gameplay. One 
 of my friends refused to try this game because he thought that it was just pressing numbers in 
 order, but i assure you that there's so much more to it than that. Its hard to explain, but you 
 really have to try it yourself to find out how fun the gameplay is.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics are actually one of the biggest highlights of the game, next to its music. With crazy 
 and spastic japanese animations on the top screen and the 3D agents dancing on the bottom, your 
 eyes will never stop loving the constant flurry of graphical nirvana. I was shocked to also see 
 completely different animations for the songs on multiplayer, you can tell that this game was worked 
 on very hard in the graphic department.
  
  Sound:9/10
  Clearly the best part of the game is its music. The actual quality of the songs has never been 
 achieved for a DS game... it almost sounds like a CD it's so good. Some of the songs are actually 
 pretty decent too. Besides a maddona song sprinkled over there, and an ashlee simpson song over 
 here, the tracks are actually easy to tolerate. What shocked me the most was how there was no techno 
 songs! I thought that's all rythm games had! But it is nice to have a change up, even though having 
 a techno song in there would be awesome...
  
  Value:7/10
  This is begining to be a big downfall in today's games. EBA is extremely fun and is one of the 
 greater games of this year, but there just not enough incentives to keep you coming back for more. 
 This is constantly the area of a games suffering, and it needs to be adressed. EBA could have been 
 a much better game if it had some really awesome features, like different endings...
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8/10
  EBA is a great rythm game with some substance, but is really dissapointing 
 with it's bear boned value. You should deffinitly give it a spin because it can really capture 
 and introduce people to the rythm genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fanboy-buster
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Highly Addictive, this is the kind of game you will never want to leave.
  THis game is about a trio of black suited Agents saving the world from distress in many bizarre, 
 but fun adventures in which you have to dance.
  
  You play the game by tapping circles in the right moment, according to the beat of the song, you 
 also have to drag a ball or spin a roulette so fast you may want to buy a screen protector. Sounds 
 easy right? Well the first level is easy, but there are some songs like Jumpin' Jack Flash in which 
 you will have to make many tries. When I got to that song in the normal level, i had to try it 
 for at least 2 hours, thats how hard it gets. The hard level is really hard, and im not talking 
 about the other two levels that go after it because the can get so hard you may want to throw your 
 DS at the wall. But this game never is going to get you frustrated too much, because it has this 
 addcitive thing that makes you try once more until you beat the song.
  
  Elite Beat Agents have a set of nice songs from the 70's from today. Songs go from YMCA to La La 
 of Ashlee SImpson. Many Songs fit very well in their adventures but there are songs that feel somehow 
 misplaced. It has very good songs, I specially like the song of You're the Inspiration from CHicago 
 because it fits very, very well to the adventure in which is playing. I reccomend this game to 
 everyone that likes music, it is a must have for any DS owner. Trust me, once you play it you will 
 never want to leave it.
  
  The adventures are on the top screen while the dancing is in the bottom screen. The adventures 
 are like a comic with manga style which is pretty good, even if you are not a manga fan like me. 
 The agents are 3D models and are well made, their dance moves look cool and even they have personalized 
 moves for a special song like the classic YMCA move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScionofEntropy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Call me a heretic for saying so; I don't care. Let me begin by saying that Elite Beat Agents is 
 not only the best rhythm/music game I've played, but also one of the best games out for the DS. 
 Complain all you want about how it was so tragically Americanized during localization, but it won't 
 do any good. (As a matter of preference, I'd take the American soundtrack over the Japanese one... 
 for the most part. And really, secret agents put cheerleaders to shame.)
  
  I happened to play this game in passing at a GameStop once and immediately grew to like it both 
 for its less-than-terrible soundtrack, amusing cutscenes and missions, and its interesting use 
 of the stylus. Now I've been playing it when friends will allow me to if they own it. If I can 
 say one thing about Elite Beat Agents, it's that it actually succeeds when it tries to be funny, 
 unlike many games. The over-the-top silliness in all the cutscenes doesn't feel like the developer 
 is trying to shove lame jokes down my throat, surprisingly enough.
  
  Elite Beat Agents's graphics aren't what I'd call top notch, but they look great. From the silly 
 anime-style cutscenes to the dancing secret agents displayed onscreen much of the time. Even the 
 rhythm icons look good, as far as simple icons go.
  
  The soundtrack, for being only some twelve or thirteen songs, is fairly diverse. Ranging from Stereogram 
 to Madonna, it covers current rock, popular music, classic rock, and even that obnoxious 80s hit, 
 Material Girl. Music aside, the sounds and voices are great, too. They sound loud and clear, and 
 they're not badly-done either. Not that there isn't much of a reason for that, as the actors didn't 
 really have massive amounts of work anyway.
  
  Gameplay-wise, Elite Beat Agents is solid and extremely fun. While it sticks to the typical formula 
 of rhythm games, it adds a few elements of its own to the mix. The missions you'll unlock as you 
 progress consist of tapping or sliding the stylus in various ways around the bottom screen in rhythm 
 with the songs to score points. Simple enough, right? Wrong. This game isn't easy, and some of 
 the missions, especially on higher difficulties, can be extremely unforgiving when you make a mistake. 
 This won't deter most, as rhythm games tend to be very challenging anyway, especially the first 
 couple times around. I won't say it's the only rhythm game I like, as I'm also quite fond of a 
 couple others, but Elite Beat Agents is the most enjoyable I've played so far. It's definitely 
 worth trying out, if only to sample it, but I can almost guarantee you'll have fun, especially 
 if you're already a fan of rhythm games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicShadowBat
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Here is a really good game every one should play and if they don't , to bad!! Good: Great music 
 in the missions. Graphics are a good blend of Comic Book form and 3-D. The goofy storys of each 
 level is really goofy but are all funy. Great sense of humor in the game. Great use of touch screen. 
 Bad: Not enough levels. Well here we go again with another music game. We all know how good Gutar 
 Hero is and how you get to be a superstar. The one thing that it is laking is that you don't accually 
 become a hero to people. That is were Elite Beat Agents comes in. In the game you play as a seceret 
 agency that helps people through their problems by shouting help and the agents come and help them 
 through the power of music. If this sounds weird it is but it works really well and I mean really 
 well. Now the graphics in this game are just great. When you are doing a level the top screen has 
 comic book graphics will the touch screen has normal graphics you would expect in a game. This 
 works really well and just adds to the weirdnes in a good way off coures. Now the best part of 
 the game is the gameplay. The gameplay is so good that it is so hard not to have fun. What you 
 do in the level is that you tap dots on the touch screen in the right order. When you do this it 
 makes the agents in the back ground continue to dance. ( They are very good dancers.) If you tap 
 the dots to early or to late you get it wrong and the agents wipe out and it also ends your combo 
 so that stinks. Now the sound in this game is the best part of the game. In each level you get 
 a different song from Lets Dance to WMCA. This makes the levels really good and you just want to 
 sing along. ( Trust me I do. It's fun.) Really if you have a life go and buy this game. You will 
 not regret it. It is really fun and you get to practice your singing. Just go buy it darn it. Go!!! 
 GET OF YOUR CHAIRS AND BUY IT DARN IT!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spixter534
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is one of the few rhythm games that can really be called bizarre, but in EBA 
 that isnt necessarily a bad thing, basically youre a team of agents that goes around the world 
 solving peoples problems with the power of dance and Pop/rock music. One thing that you notice 
 immediately is the art style its really wacky and set in a kind of comic book way. The game play 
 is easy to get into yet hard to master, difficulty is often bit too hard even on easy, you could 
 probably get to the end of the game in about 3 to 4 days if you play non stop, or 7 to 10 days 
 if youre not good and dont constantly play. EBA is that type of game when you lose you just keep 
 on playing, even in the harder levels of the game you may get frustrated and turn it off but 5 
 minutes later you pick it up again. Also if you want greater challenges play on the harder difficulties. 
 The soundtrack is ok but really limited. Even if you dont like rap youll probably find your self 
 singing to it. The songs are mostly pop/rock as I said before. To enjoy EBA to the fullest put 
 your volume all the way up or put headphones on.
  
  Value is great 35 bucks for a game that you beat and still play for a long time, and if you want 
 get it used 5 bucks less.
  
  Graphics are pretty good for a Ds game the only 3d characters that you see are the agents dancing.
 
  
  Overall this is a great crazy game that any Nintendo DS owner should have. Even though threes a 
 couple people who might hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightabunny2453
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 23, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing as it combines music from a variety of era's and genres with beats that work 
 well in the later stages.
  
  My only 3 bones to pick with it is the tendency for your hand to cover the oncoming dots, which 
 isn't much of a problem in the Early difficulty levels. In the later levels however, (actually 
 it's pretty much limited to HARD ROCK! mode) the dots appear much quicker before the time you're 
 supposed to press them than in the other stages, and moving your hand out of the way to see can 
 sometimes cause you to fail quickly. It woulda been a better game if the dots had always moved 
 from top left to bottom right and then back up if you were right handed and vice versa if you were 
 left, to eliminate this problem.
  
  Also, the DS lite has a tendency to register less at the very edges of the screen, which developers 
 of EBA seem keen on using as much as possible. Hitting a note and missing it in the game is as 
 frustrating as anything, plus sometimes your frustration throws your beat off and causes you to 
 fail.
  
  Last, the difficulty on most of the songs in Hard Rock mode is a tad insane. Though, I know it 
 was done so people didn't cycle through the game so quickly, on the last few stages it was a tad 
 over-done. Especially for the male gamers on songs like Material Girls where they had to sit through 
 the song several times in agony before passing it.
  
  But none of that is to take away from the fact that this is a rhythm game up there with the sensation 
 of DDR/Stepmania. Do not pass this up because of childish looks. It's a spectacularly well-done 
 game, and if you're like me, you won't be able to put it down until you've gotten A's on all the 
 songs in HARD ROCK! mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sword-Hunter277
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 21, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a relatively awkward game to say the least. Like most typical Japanese-made 
 games, it has a quite immersive storyline that is perhaps very hard to follow, backed up with many 
 anime-esque characters and an easy to follow control system to make the game much more enjoyable. 
 Typical. However, Elite Beat Agents has something that most games of this genre don't: Music Made 
 in America. You may not realize it, but the average gamer chooses to understand what they are playing, 
 rather than just play it and assume for the best. In Elite Beat Agents, you can play quite well-known 
 songs from America's past, such as Steriograph's Walkie Talkie Man, Destiny's Child's Survivor, 
 to Hoobastank's Without a Fight. The mix of a Jap-American feel leaves you dazzled as you play 
 through this colorful game. There are also little cutscenes in between songs, giving you a bit 
 of enjoyment (as well as a rest) before the song restarts again. One might presume that this game 
 is terribly easy. Think again. This game will push you to your limits, and be prepared to experience 
 hand cramps accompanyed by many moments of frustration. The stylus is quite a great controller 
 though, allowing you to hit the beats with relative ease. All in all, Elite Beat Agents is a great 
 game. It is a MUST BUY for ANY DS owner. However, this game is not a system seller, so if you are 
 just buying a DS, I suggest buying something more lengthy first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: garrettskye
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is quite possibly the first rhythm game for the DS (except for it's original 
 Japanese counterpart) and it's arrived here in style. The game is rather innovative, and uses the 
 touchscreen controls very well, for a game that sounds lame in theory, but is fun and even quite 
 challenging in execution.
  
  The game contains a truly bizarre storyline which left me gasping for air a few times because it's 
 just so darn ridiculous. The story is revealed as a series of comic book panels along the top screen 
 during the 'intermission' of the songs.
  
  EBA utilizes the touchscreen very well, with a control scheme that's easy to figure out but can 
 be difficult in the later stages as there's just so many bubbles and rings on your screen it can 
 be confusing the first time or two through a song.
  
  The song choice of the game is overall good, with some odd choices making this title only that 
 much more quirky. But even the worst songs on here are still a blast to play through.
  
  Overall, I'd recommend this game to just about anyone with a DS, as the controls are really intuitive 
 and easy enough for even the simplest gamer to understand.
  
  Kudos! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Jaminson
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a rhythm game about an organisation who use music, rhythm and dancing to solve 
 problems all around the world. These problems can range from having trouble putting kids to sleep 
 while babysitting, to being bankrupt after being one of the richest people on the planet or even 
 saving the world. All of these stories or problems seem to fit in. Gameplay: This game has to be 
 one of the most original and addicting games i have ever played. The gameplay is really interesting 
 because it is a rhythm game, but only using the stylus to touch numbered circles as they appear 
 on the screen to a certain beat. Theres also others where you must spin and drag back and forth. 
 All these different beats obviously play different like they should and each one is used effectively 
 and accurately whereever they are in the songs. Having scores, rankings and alternate difficulties 
 adds to how addicting game is. The game is challenging even on the later levels of the easiest 
 difficultie, but it rarely becomes frustratingly so because the game is just so fun. Graphics: 
 While they were not technically outstanding, they managed to be stylish, smooth and often wuite 
 funny. This type of animation really works during the cutscenes and shows off a little more of 
 the games humour. They were cartoony in a nice way as well.
  
  Sound: With headphones, the sound is just awesome, plus they make the game easier to play. The 
 songs were varied for the best. There were newer artists such as Avril Lavigne and Hoobastank, 
 while there were also some older artists such as The rolling stones and David Bowie. All of the 
 songs play well and most are simply good songs to an extent. They could have left out Cher, and 
 possbily Avril however.
  
  Value: The game is very addicting as i said so it is worth playing the alternat e difficulties. 
 The challenge only gets better as you progress through the game. There are also some fun multiplayer 
 modes, but its a bit of a shame you cant play most of the songs via single card play. And there 
 are only 19 songs (including extras) , and i would have expected maybe a few more.
  
  Basically this is an awesome game no DS owner should pass up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metroid_Time
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2006 4:58 am PT
Review:  One of the most addictive games yet for the DS has hit and this is definately a must for hardcore 
 and casual gamers alike. Within the game there are many interesting and varied scenarios in which 
 you must help the characters by the only way the Elite Beat Agents know how, by dancing. The gameplay 
 premise of tapping and dragging the beats is simple but leads to a great amount of depth in the 
 later difficulty stages. Gameplay: Addictive and easy to pick up with a surprising amount of depth 
 which can become quite challenging in the later stages allowing for some rewarding moments in the 
 game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are nothing spectacular but the presentation can not be faulted with its 
 vibrant colours and impressive anime drawings which leave nothing to be desired. Sound: The quality 
 of the songs could definately be improved but they are not horrible and the inclusion of some popular 
 songs such as YMCA and The Anthem gives a more enjoyable experience than unknown songs would create.
 
  
  Value: Four stages of increasing difficulty including unlockable levels means there is a great 
 deal of content in the game. The multiplayer modes also add replayability and is designed to work 
 with both single and multi- card play.
  
  Overall: 9.7
  
  An enjoyable game with addictive gameplay and multiplayer makes this a must have title for the 
 DS and showcases great use of the touch screen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungStacks
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 17, 2006 8:09 pm PT
Review:  How can anyone just sit around and play a dancing game? Its boring okay the first thirty minutes 
 is fun but after a while its repetitive and you stop playing. I do not mean to sound mean but its 
 true you can not play for hours like mario 64 ds or animal crossing. I mean the graphics are good 
 and it has good music and good game play but nothing that I would actually want to play unless 
 I'm super bored. you may or may not agree with me but that's my opinion and dont believe the hype. 
 But if your a gamer who likes this kind of game knock yourself out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyebrowless
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  You really have to WANT to play this game. You cant go into it and say, ill check it out because 
 you really have to get into the groove to really start getting into the fun. Everytime i play a 
 harder (and more fun) song, i have to work my way up to it and get my reflexes going. The reason 
 i say that it is more fun when it is hard is because when you really start sticking these tough 
 lines, you'll start to feel really good and be all oh yeah and boo yah! . The harder difficulties 
 really do ramp it up quite a bit. And even the final song on the easiest difficulty had me redoing 
 it about 20 times. You basically have to be really good or memorize where each placement is. I'd 
 be remissed if i didnt talk about the great art style. Its like a comic book and it has a TON of 
 humor to it. I actually did laugh out loud quite a few times. The scenarios are pretty wacky, whether 
 you are helping Davinci paint the Mona Lisa or help a dog find its way home. EBA also has a great 
 song selection that gets you pumped up and ready to help these people. This game is definately worth 
 the try, but like i said, you have to WANT to play this game. If your wondering if i like this 
 game i say to you, You bet kid! *
  
  *EBA players know what this is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pfilosophy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 16, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Finally, a really good rhythm game for the DS. From the moment you turn on the game, you're thrown 
 into its world, using your stylus to tap, drag, and spin in time with the music... why? Because 
 you are one of the elite few. The Elite Beat Agents. It's your duty to save the day, the lost, 
 the bored, the mourning with your powerful sexy dance rhythm moves.
  
  There are 19 songs in total for you to enjoy. And, yes, you can indeed enjoy the Avril track thrown 
 on there. I must admit, there's nothing quite like dancing to help a taxi driver speed faster than 
 sound to Sk8r Boi. It felt pretty damn good, I must say. The quirky fun dosn't just come from the 
 presentation of M. I. B. dancing about on a deserted island or the wicked hilarious cutscenes between 
 song verses, but the gameplay itself is new and refreshing.
  
  However, it gets real hard real quick. The last stages... hurt. Like, really hurt. It'll take you 
 quite a few attempts, but you'll feel beyond proud when you dance like you've never... stylus danced 
 before. Actually, that's the only flaw I could pick out. In other words, you should really get 
 this game. Or (and, actually) import Ouendan! since they're both one and the same, save for the 
 American music. Also, wasn't this David Bowie track in the recent DDR? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionGuy07
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Alright EBA, when it first hit the market looked a bit strange to me for a while. When I got some 
 money I decided to buy it and try it since many of my friends enjoyed it so much. They were'nt 
 wrong: EBA is great and can be entertaining to anyone who picks it up and plays it.
  ELite beat Agents may seem strange, but truthfully their job is cool. Simply, people need help 
 whether it's making money, or helping a lost dog home, there is a various and humerous twist to 
 the plot. The job of the Agents is to help them by... dancing to an okay set of songs. Somehow, 
 it helps the people who need help. Although rather strange and maybe even stupid, the comical scenes 
 throughout the stage make up for every tiny bit with pleasure even adults can find funny. The game 
 starts off very slow on easy mode... You just wait for the circle to come down and click the number 
 when the circle comes down at the exact time. You use the stylus for this job. The game may seem 
 easy and rather boring at first, but in some time, you may actually even sweat as you press the 
 increasingly fast supply of numbers thrown at you throughout the song you are playing. You also 
 drag, and spin, adding a fun extra when gameplay comes around. The song selection is not of my 
 pleasure, but it is indeed various. The DS speakers project sound in this game unusually well too. 
 The touch screen doesn't mess up too often, but there may be occasional moments where you tap the 
 number and you lose points anyway. The game also contains bonus stages which are achieved by increasing 
 ranks, and there is an addicting multiplayer mode. EBA, all in all is an instant classic and should 
 not be missed by a single DS user. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GS16
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents can be described in one word: weird. You play as the Elite Beat Agents, fighting 
 crime through the power of music and dance. The gameplay involves you tapping beat markers on the 
 screen at the right time to the rhythm of the song. Sounds easy right? Wrong! At the lower difficulty 
 levels it can get somewhat difficult, but at the higher difficulty settings it can be downright 
 brutal. The good thing is, you never really mind losing, because the game is insanely addictive. 
 You could play the same level 50 times and still be having a blast. Trust me, its happened to 
 me. The scenarios develop on the top screen through comic book-style cutscenes. Depending on how 
 you perform, the story will go good, or turn south. But the stories are so hilarious; sometimes 
 you might just want to do poorly on purpose to see what happens. Elite Beast Agent s is just an 
 all-around great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GM_Link
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Have you ever thought of playing DDR on your handheld console? Of course not. How could you plug 
 a dance pad in and see the arrows on a screen that size? But are you looking for a new rhythm game 
 that doesnt involve stomping on arrows that appear on screen? Then check out this neat rhythm 
 game for the Nintendo DS.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is the American rendition of our Japanese counterpart, Ouendan. Elite Beat Agents 
 is simple. Someone, or something, is in need of assistance. To put forth, they need help, and lots 
 of it. As a part of the Elite Beat Agents its your job to run forth to dance and sing. In doing 
 so allows the task to be accomplished, that is if you succeed. Its quirky, its strange, and its 
 fun.
  
  Gameplay is simple. A circle appears on screen in a certain color and has a number on it. An outline 
 of a circle appears in the same color and shrinks to the size of the solid circle. When the two 
 circles overlap one another, tap it. When you tap it determines how many points you receive, 50, 
 100, or 300. Sometimes there may be a track. In that case, you touch and drag to move a ball to 
 the end of the track. If a spinner comes up, spin it as fast as you can before the outlining circle 
 closes. If you know the song, youll be able to anticipate the beats, but for the ones you dont 
 know expect some failures. Yes, its that tough. But with a well put game like this, you will not 
 put it down until you complete the song.
  
  The soundtracks are not that bad. There are some in there, such as September and Rock This Town, 
 that will keep stuck in your head and may be your favorite to play. Others, such as Sk8ter Boy 
 and La La, might not. It all depends on your personal choice in music. However, Elite Beat Agents 
 delivers everything from classic rock from Chicago and the Rolling Stones to current rock such 
 as Good Charlotte and Hoobastank. Many who have played Ouendan might have their doubts about Elite 
 Beat Agents. Dont. Elite Beat Agents is a fun musical game for the handheld systems. Put simply, 
 its DDR for your handheld console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinrat
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  I love this game - until I got this, my favorites on the DS were the New Super Mario Bros. and 
 Trauma Center. Now Elite Beat Agents took that place. Of course I like rhythm games, but I had 
 doubts that this would play great on a portable machine.
  
  Elite Beat Agents impressed me by its innovative mixture of a very solid rhythm game with great 
 graphics and music, and how well the small stories were weaved into it (the story to You're the 
 inspiration is just magnificent) . It is a proof that rhythm games don't have to look lousy.
  
  The game's is pretty tough, but never unfair and it's nice to see how the story changes when 
 you fail, so the motivation stays high.
  
  Play this game with headphones, and standing, so you can tap your feet while you play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Z3r02007
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Every now and again, a game comes along that defines what a game console is all about. A game that 
 personifies what it means to have fun with video game again. Elite Beat Agents is without a doubt, 
 one of these games. It is difficult to describe just how incredible this game is. But Elite Beat 
 Agents is easily the best game to ever come out on the DS, and could easily qualify for one of 
 the best games of the year.
  
  The story is that a secret organization exists for the sole purpose of sending out cheerleaders, 
 to help those who are in dire need. With rocking tunes, three of the coolest guys to grace the 
 planet come to help those with their misery and woe. Each song is preceded with an outrageous Manga 
 style cut scene that shows the persons predicament. When they cry into the air, the agents come 
 in to save the day. The first thing that immediately stands out the amazing production values. 
 Every detail, from the crazy anime cut scenes, from the choreographed dancing of the agents, everything 
 is colorful and flows with fluid grace. But, a music rhythm game would be nothing without tunes. 
 Elite Beat Agents fills this requirement wonderfully. At first glance, the names Good Charlotte, 
 Ashlee Simpson, and Avril Lavine can immediately turn people off. However, the game manages to 
 take widely considered bad songs and turns them into something awesome. For example, you use 
 the Sum41 song Makes No Difference and use it to inspire a movie director to direct his greatest 
 film yet. Its totally satisfying to do well in he song, to see how the story ends. The story in 
 each song changes with how well you perform. Plus, the covers of the songs are great, and help 
 the game two-fold. They have been redone to fit the tight gameplay, and made to fit the storys 
 wacky mood and atmosphere. They arent the pitch-perfect recreations found in Guitar Hero, but 
 honestly, do you really want a perfect recreation of The Anthem?
  
  Gameplay in this game redefines what is known as top notch. As markers come up onscreen, you much 
 tap, slide, and spin them to the beat of the music, and make the agents dance. On paper, it is 
 a simple concept. But when playing, the combination of the markers and the unique beat of the music 
 make it a challenge. It by no means an easy game, and even the most seasoned gamer will have difficulty 
 keeping up with the punishing gameplay. But all in all, it is extremely rewarding to finally complete 
 the song you want to beat. And I really doubt youll get tired of the soundtrack. Despite having 
 only 19 tracks, they are excellently chosen ones you wont get tired of for some time. Unlike some 
 games, which go with the mantra throw everything on the wall and see what sticks, the 19 tracks 
 were clearly selected after a lot of thought and consideration. Finally, the gameplay is completely 
 addicting, a requirement by all handheld games. Its real easy to turn a five-minute break into 
 hours long gaming session that leaves you completely satisfied, but still craving for one more 
 song.
  
  I really must say this again; Elite Beat Agents is easily the best game to ever come out on the 
 DS, or any system for that matter. If you still are on the fence about the DS, wondering if you 
 should invest into this kooky handheld, or just looking to bring new life into your DS, Elite Beat 
 Agents is exactly what you need. Elite Beat Agents could not have been done any more excellently, 
 and takes advantage of everything the DS is capable of. You cant do any better. Is it perfect? 
 No. No game ever is. But dammit, Elite Beat Agents is close. Go out there. Buy this game. Let this 
 game teach you what it is to have fun again.
  
  Pros: Excellent production values, addicting and tight gameplay, outrageous and hilarious cut scenes, 
 cool characters, just plain fun!
  Cons: May cause users to hot glue the cartridge permanently to their DSs. (Wait, is that supposed 
 to be a bad thing?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rye303
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  First to start I want to talk about the gameplay. How can anyone just sit around and play a dancing 
 game? It's repetitive. All you do is dance and try to beat the board. How is that possibly fun? 
 Maybe if you like to dance alot and you're a big fan of DDR and you want a portable game.
  I played this game for ten minutes and it was stupid. Basically the whole game is about you DANCING 
 to save someone. And all that's really happening is that you're changing levels entering different 
 commands, and trying to beat a board with a different background.
  How fun is that!!! Makes you wanna get out and buy it now right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustPlainLucas
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 10, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  I've never been one to get into rhythm games. I just can't see myself dancing like a spaz on a 
 floor mat or singing horribly off key in a karaoke game. In fact, I think the last rhythm game 
 I really enjoyed was the first PaRappa the Rapper on the PlayStation One.
  
  A long time ago, I remember hearing some buzz about a game called Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan that would 
 only be released in Japan. It was a rhythm game that had you tapping to the beat of the music, 
 and it distinguished itself in that fact that the stars of the game was a male cheerleading team. 
 Needless to say, it sounded like this game would be another title that never saw the light of day 
 in the states. Well, it has. Sorta. Replace the j-pop with a variety of songs from classic rock 
 Rock This Town to recent R&amp; B smash hit Survivor , swap the cheerleading team with a trio of 
 secret agents armed with microphones and hot feet, create brand new scenarios, and you got yourself 
 Elite Beat Agents.
  
  The premise of the game has you saving ordinary people - and a couple of animals - from troublesome 
 perdicaments through song and dance. The game starts with a baby sitter who wants to tell a boy 
 she likes she's ready to go steady, but just can't because the children need to be tended to. Frustrated, 
 she screams Help! , and the good Commander Kahn orders the Elite Beat Agents to roll out and use 
 their rhythmical abilities to save the day.
  
  When the EBA arrive, they'll dance until the stage is finished. In order to keep them on their 
 toes, you have to tap buttons in time with the music. Each button will have a ring around it that 
 will grow smaller. Once it overlaps the button, that's when you tap. Tap too soon or too late, 
 and your score for that beat is reduced. Completely miss and you get an X and the EBA fall flat 
 on their rears. The game has an Appeal Meter, which is split into red and yellow. Staying on the 
 yellow said has you at Yes , while dipping into the red puts you in No . If it moves too far to 
 the left, the icon will change to an exclamation mark, and you're in danger of failing the stage. 
 Each stage is divided into sequences, and you'll want your meter to display Yes before they end. 
 If that doesn't happen, the characters your helping will take a turn for the worse.
  
  The butons are numbered and colored. The numbers help to prepare you on where you need to tap in 
 sequence, while the colors form beat strings. Depending on how well you tap in that string will 
 determine whether or not you get a Beat or an Elite Beat at the end of the last tap. If you don't 
 do so well at all, you'll simply be given a standard score. You'll want to strive for Beats and 
 Elite Beats because they are counted seperately at the end of the stage and contribute to your 
 ranking for that level. Also, Beats and Elite Beats will help keep the Appeal Meter moving towards 
 the right.
  
  The game doesn't just have you tap buttons. There are also instances called phrases. During a phrase, 
 you tap the button, and it turns into a ball. The ball will move along a path, and you want to 
 keep the stylus on the ball for the duration of the phrase. There will also be arrows that will 
 send the ball back the other way, so you'll want to keep an eye open for those. There is also a 
 spinner that will require you to spin it around and around before a ring closes on the spinner's 
 center. There's a meter in the background that you'll want to fill up as you're spinning, and if 
 you succeed before the ring closes, the remaining spins turn into bonus points. These spinners 
 are usually placed at the end of levels, but in the later difficulties, the start showing up at 
 the end of sequences, and sometimes in the middle of them, being followed instantaneously by another 
 beat string.
  
  The game's soundtrack is the real appeal here. There's 19 songs in total, with 16 available in 
 the first difficulty. They are all reperformed by other people, but each singer did a wonderful 
 job of rerecording. Jamiroquai's Canned Heat and David Bowie's Let's Dance are performed so faithfully, 
 only a discernible ear would be able to notice otherwise. The songs are repeated through each difficulty, 
 but the patterns grow in complexity, and make them all seem fresh again.
  
  The style of the game is just magnifcient. The agents are designed to be cool and slick. The characters 
 they help are loaded with emotion and charm. The rhythm gameplay is alive with color and effects. 
 It's just as much of a visual game as it is an audible one. My one minor gripe in the game's graphics 
 is that I feel the agents could have been animated a little better. Sometimes they come off as 
 stiff and jerky.
  
  The game's easiest difficulty, Breezin', makes the game accessible to everyone. It definately gets 
 harder the higher up you go, and at times, the difficulty becomes extruciating and unforgiveable, 
 which is the only thing that's broken about this game. The Appeal Meter will begin to fall to the 
 left so fast that if there are pauses during the beats, or if you're on a very long phrase, you 
 will watch helplessly as it reaches all the way to the left, ending your game. You have to be in 
 pretty bad shape this to happen, but it only takes a few missed beats to do it. When you get that 
 low, it's nigh impossible to get out of the hole, unless a really long beat string starts.
  
  Insane difficuly aside, this game had me addicted. I was going to put it down after I finished 
 Cruisin', but then I had to try out Sweatin' just to see what it was like. I then found myself 
 playing through it for the third time. I rarely, rarely ever do that with a game nowadays. This 
 a testament to just how fun this game really is. As frustrated and irritated as you get, you just 
 can't help but to come back to it and give it another try. The feeling of hopelessness soon turns 
 into confidence as you feel yourself getting better and better. I even played a few stages of Hard 
 ROCK! and swore I had my fill, only to return to it the next morning. This is a game that everyone 
 with a DS needs to try at least one. Yeah, it may not be your genre, but look at me. I never play 
 rhythm games anymore, but I couldn't put this down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TigerFangRed
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  What game offers anime inspired secret agent detectives that solve the world's problems by dancing? 
 Elite Beat Agents my friends.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is a rythym game by all definitions offered by developer Inis on the Nintendo 
 DS.
  
  It is a rythym game, meaning you hit notes and such to further the song but also in accordance 
 to the song, which is where the challenge comes in. And let it be known, Elite Beat Agents is definitely 
 challenging, but never frustrating. You must hit the notes with the stylus when appropriate to 
 aquire points and further the song.
  
  The graphics are, in an artistic sense, some of the best I've ever seen from a game inspired by 
 Anime. From the cel shaded insanity to the zaniest combination of colors imaginable, it's all offered 
 here.
  
  The sound, as you may expect from a game about music, is insane. There is never a dull moment and 
 you will actually find yourself humming along to the tunes and getting into it when you play. Don't 
 be afraid, it's natural.
  
  Value wise, its a great game to have no matter the price, and there is an amazing amount of replayablity, 
 as you will want to play your songs over again on harder difficulties, most likely for bragging 
 rights.
  
  The gameplay is probably the best for any rythym game. It feels so natural wiht the stylus that 
 even DDR may not look like much of a rythym game anymore.
  
  All in all, if you have a DS, you simply must buy this game. You will have an incredible amount 
 of fun, and the money you invest in it, is definitely worth it.
  This is one of the most addictive games I've played all year, and even though it's a bit silly, 
 you know it's damn cool to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  Osu! Takatae! Ouendan, a rhythm game in which you controlled a band of male cheerleaders and fought 
 crime through the power of dance, is one of the strangest games released for the Nintendo DSwhich 
 is probably why it never made it to North America. Many players who arent import-savvy shed a 
 tear for the fact that the chance of playing the game was slim to none. Luckily, Nintendo saw the 
 appeal, and the result is a re-imagining of Ouendan called Elite Beat Agents. The gameplay  tapping 
 on-screen markers to the beat of a bunch of different songs  remains in tact. But with redone 
 graphics, story sequences, and an all-new song list, Elite Beat Agents is much more of a sequel 
 than a straight remake. If youre looking for a rhythm game with an incredibly bizarre sense of 
 style and solid challenge, youd be hard-pressed to find a better option.
  
  The story in Elite Beat Agents is as incredible as it is insane. You essentially take on the role 
 of a trio of government agents that seem to love helping out everyday people with their troubles. 
 Naturally, they choose the power of music as their medium. The grand scheme of things is barely 
 coherent, containing such farfetched plot points as an invasion of nasty, music-hating aliens that 
 threaten Earth. However, its the story attached to each of the individual songs that proves most 
 entertaining. Essentially, the set up is this: after picking a song from the map screen, youll 
 watch a totally crazy introduction cinematic told through anime style art panels, then play through 
 the song. Depending on how well you do, youll receive one of several endings. Then (assuming you 
 passed the performance) , youll unlock more songs and continue in this fashion all the way until 
 the games excellent finale. Having a storyline in a rhythm game may seem like a useless contrivance, 
 but because the game relays these individual story lines with such fervor and oddity, its definitely 
 worth your while to sit through them. Highlights include tales about a car company ninja that has 
 to sneak into a rival company and steal back a stolen car design, and a washed-up major league 
 pitcher-cum-janitor who has to save a fan from a fire-breathing golem.
  
  Regardless of the set up, though, the gameplay consists of tapping numbered markers on the touch 
 screen in time with the music. Each circle has an outer ring that closes in on it  if you tap 
 the circle with your stylus just as the ring touches it, your agents will dance a magnificently 
 choreographed routine that will alter the events occurring on the top screen for the better. If 
 you consistently hit the markers off-time, you may get a negative ending to the song (but still 
 complete it) or fail and have to restart from the beginning. Theres also a mechanic that has you 
 tracking moving balls on screen with the stylus in time with the music, as well as frantically 
 whirling spinners by making circular motions for bonus points.
  
  It sounds a little crazy on paper, and indeed, Elite Beat Agents default difficulty setting is 
 certainly no cakewalk. Itll take you a good amount of tries to get through some of the songs in 
 the second half of the story (especially the fantastic denouement) . However, as you become better 
 at looking ahead of your movements and start memorizing the songs, youll steadily make progress. 
 The amount of skill youll accumulate during the course of Elite Beat Agents is both tangible and 
 impressive. After finishing the story, youll unlock another difficulty, and theres another still 
 after that. In a game where reaction time and rhythm is everything, its good to see a large breadth 
 of challenge to keep things interesting.
  
  The games superb song list will also keep you coming back for weeks. To put it bluntly, Elite 
 Beat Agents contains a collection of radio hits so strange and polar opposite from one another 
 that it comes around full circle and works wonderfully. Youll find a ton of oldies like YMCA, 
 Material Girl, and Bostons Youre The Inspiration, as well as relatively new songs like Ashlee 
 Simpsons Lala and Good Charlottes Anthem. Out of all of the twenty or so tracks, The Rolling 
 Stones Jumpin Jack Flash stands out as the most memorable. All of the songs feel weirdly appropriate 
 in the context of such a strange game, although some fit better with their associated stories. 
 For example, the cool groove of Jamiroquais Canned Heat makes for excellent break-in music for 
 the ninja level described earlier. However, Lala scores a story about a sick pro athlete fighting 
 off a virus before a big race  huh? The fact that some songs dont click as well as others is 
 only slightly disappointing though, and its very easy to look past, especially since youll have 
 so much to look at.
  
  Elite Beat Agents visuals wont blow you away with anything high tech, but the games superb anime 
 artwork and masterfully choreographed dance routines make it one of the better-looking games for 
 Nintendos system. Every panel showcases totally overblown expressions of the characters emotions 
 (like distorted faces baring sharp teeth in anger) , and theyre consistently funny and enjoyable. 
 During gameplay, the two-dimensional artwork tells the story on the top screen while you tap to 
 the beat and watch your three-dimensional agents dance on the bottom. Obviously you wont be able 
 to watch the story while youre playing, but the most important stuff happens when the game gives 
 you a short break before the next section, and a handy replay option helps you get the whole story 
 afterward. The agents dance moves are like something straight out of a variety television show 
 of old, with air guitar strums and power slides abound. Trippy colored backgrounds further fuel 
 the energy of the presentation.
  
  Of course, the game sounds fantastic, too. The storytelling, lamentably, isnt voice acted, but 
 some well-placed, piercing sound effects convey the emotion of the myriad peculiar situations and 
 substitute voices nicely. The songs are covered by session musicians instead of using the original 
 versions, and they all sound superb, channeling the artists without sounding overwrought. The occasional 
 spoken word during cinematics  as well as a lot of little touches like the shout of your agents 
 counting you into the tempo of each song before it starts  add up to lend some real polish to 
 the audio.
  
  Elite Beat Agents features excellent rhythm gameplay with the stylus that makes it once of the 
 more inventive titles in the genre to turn up in some time. Yet its the seamless and terrific 
 integration of a truly bizarre storyline and art style that really make it something special. This 
 is one of the best reasons to own a DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yinyang3
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents (EBA) is originally a game from Japan named Osu! Tatake! Ouendan. What that means, 
 I have no idea, I don't speak Japanese and I am only giving you this information because it will 
 make me feel better about myself. Hell, I know something you may not, that makes me superior in 
 a Bizzaro universe. (I'm not a DC fan, by the way. Also, that last joke about me being superior 
 is satire, we are all equal.) Also, EBA is billed as a sequel to Osu! Tatake! Ouendan. So, if you 
 have not played the first one yet, why not try it?
  
  First the pro's of this game...
  +The style and gameplay in the game are new and somewhat effective. They work with the music and 
 therefore an easy way to have fun.
  +It's easy getting into the game.
  +FUNNY stories.
  +Anyone can play! Now the con's of this game...
  -Gameplay gets repetitive.
  -Levels can sometime's 
 too easy and sometimes become too intense.
  -Music sometimes doesn't mix with the story.
  
  Now the things that I can't really decide on.
  -Music is love it or hate it.
  
  You'll 
 be playing this game for a long time once you get it. It's no Guitar Hero, but where else can you 
 play a good rhythm game on a portable system? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoogleDragoon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  After spending several weeks with the game and trying my best to master every song, it's for me 
 to voice my opinion on the game. I first saw this game months ago as a Japanese import on my friends 
 DS. Very impressed with the game at the time but refusing to play more then 5 minutes of it I hate 
 when I can't read games I'm playing. After months of praying that it would come to the states I 
 was overwhelmed with joy when it I saw the release date.
  
  I'm not normally a fan of the beat type games, but with the humor and the actual style of the game 
 play I put aside my hate for the genre. Almost everything about the game was a wonderful experience 
 from the fast reaction beats to the hilarious stories that occur during the song. The choice in 
 the music isn't my style of music but it did flow well with the game. For those of you who don't 
 know exactly how the story goes, it's something along the lines of this. A group of three men travel 
 the world saving everyday people with their words of encouragement and rhythm. From a stressed 
 out Teenage girl who wants to ask her boyfriend steady but is trapped with the torment of the children 
 she has to baby sit. To an old pirate trying to prove there are treasures to be found in the sea. 
 With plenty of songs to keep you interested and entertained with a few un lockable as well this 
 game has kept me jamming for the past few weeks. The difficulty isn't terrible hard; they start 
 you off with some easier songs to get you in the rhythm and an easier mode if you are having problems 
 maintaining a beat. I call it the White boy mode.
  
  If you like rhythm games I recommend checking out this game, though even if you don't give it a 
 rent and try it out. I for one enjoyed this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigitalBullets
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a loosely based port of the popular Japanese Nintendo DS game titled Osu! 
 Tatakae! Ouendan when translated, it means Go! Fight! Cheer Squad . It's a Rhythmic based game 
 which allows the user to guide the stylus in a rhythm based sequence and your job is to tap each 
 numbered circle in order; think Guitar Hero with a stylus. History has proven that rhythm based 
 games are well known for captivating the key demographic audience of casual gamers by delivering 
 a simple concept to grasp and by providing radio friendly songs. Casual based games carry a misconception 
 that because it is being aimed towards a group of inexperienced people, that the game won't spark 
 any interest to the more dedicated group of gamers, that's not the case with this game.
  
  So what exactly is an Elite Beat Agent? Elite Beat Agents are a group of agents lead by Commander 
 Kahn who assigns the agents to different tasks. Now these tasks all carry a different storyline 
 that won't link to each other, but they all have a character stuck in a situation. This is where 
 the agents are needed, it will be the agents duty to help these individuals out of their predicament 
 by using a special ability called dancing, yes dancing. Apart from the hilarious dance routines 
 these three Men In Black-esque dressed individuals pull off, the Elite Beat Agents don't stand 
 out amongst each other, therefore having a distant interest between the character and the user. 
 A great storyline involving the agents could have helped this game achieve a more notable status, 
 but then again, this is just another rhythmic game, right?
  
  Elite Beat Agents incorporates a simplistic control scheme that will comfort even the most unaccustomed 
 user. The use of the stylus will be your primary and only companion all through out the game as 
 the user will tap the touch screen in a given numeric pattern which will fabricate a stroke of 
 a instrument appropriate to the song. The touchscreen is quite responsive in Elite Beat Agents, 
 this is essential in a game that relies in one's timing.
  
  The graphics could turn some people off with the usage of the manga art style, even though it was 
 utilized in a great satiric manner. Quite honestly, I couldn't have looked at this game quite the 
 same if any other format other than the manga art style was applied as it depicts the story as 
 less than serious. The only characters that you would see outside of the manga art style are the 
 agents dancing in the touch screen located below. The character models are on par with the Nintendo 
 DS's standards. One of the most important aspects in a timed based game is the frame rate; through 
 out my experience with Elite Beat Agents, the frame rate managed to sustain 60 frames per second.
 
  
  Elite Beat Agents requires your utmost attention, which will definitely keep you in a trance during 
 gameplay. These rhythmic games are extremely attention dependant which makes this game real engaging 
 and addictive, you miss one beat pattern, you are guaranteed a game over screen. Difficulty ranges 
 from easy to frustrating hard, the normal difficulty alone will get you frustrated as the only 
 way to pass the stage is to master atleast 85% of the song patterns. The user has a choice of selecting 
 between two characters from the start, Agent J and Agent Spin; each character bears its own difficulty. 
 At the end of each stage you will be presented with a chart analyzing your performance, ultimately 
 giving you a Agent alphabetical Score accordingly. There is no fear of losing replay value as Elite 
 Beat Agents contains moderately high replay value as unlocking additional songs and characters 
 (harder difficulties) are a true incentive.
  
  The option of multiplayer play is a pretty nice feature to help spread the enjoyment of Elite Beat 
 Agents to your friends, but it doesn't necessarily propose anything ground breaking. In multiplayer, 
 you have the option of three different modes. VS Player mode, allows for up to a maximum of 4 players 
 to duke it out in two teams of two to find out who has the most skill. There will be a meter on 
 your left or right side which should indicate your advantage and your opponents advantage. VS Ghost, 
 Is a nice way to get acquainted with a certain song and to also go against your best run on a saved 
 stage replay, you are also free to exchange ghost's with friends. The last mode is Co-op for up 
 to three other players; you get to pick a certain song and are assigned different sequences in 
 a song; I personally found this one the most fun out of the bunch. Through out all modes in multiplayer 
 play, the player will be given smaller patterns to try and throw you off. Elite Beat Agents even 
 supports users without the Elite Beat Agents cartridges but with limited play.
  
  Not only does Elite Beat Agents grant you with exceptional gameplay, but it brings forth a multitude 
 of chart topping songs for your enjoyment. The list includes such notable songs like Madonna's 
 Material Girl , David Bowie's Lets Dance, and Rolling Stone's Jumpin' Jack Flash . The majority 
 of the songs are performed by cover artist's and I have to say, iNiS did a fabulous
  job in acquiring these songs and selecting cover artist's that sound identical to the original 
 artist's.
  
  It all boils down to this, If you have a Nintendo DS and want a game that will be addictive and 
 extremely fun, then I assure you that this will satisfy even those that may dislike rhythmic based 
 titles. With the difficulty escalating after each stage, the challenge will always remain. The 
 ease of the control scheme is one of the aspects of gaming that befriends the non gamer which this 
 game was initially aimed for. So keep in mind, no matter what type of gamer you are or think you 
 are, Elite Beat Agents will captivate you and subdue you; but most importantly, keep you content. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjata123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents, a rhythm game on the DS. Now Before you think it's just another game like DDR 
 and the only point of this game is to help people by dancing, your wrong, Elite Beat Agents is 
 about motivating people through song and dance, so they can solve there own problems, if it was 
 like DDR it wouldnt be on the DS, and it would have a dancing mat. This game is highly addictive 
 to basically everyone first day i got it, played it for like 7 hours straight. The Gameplay is 
 excellent, so far some of the best gameplay that you can get on the ds with its touch screen capabilities.
 
  
  Graphics are really nice for the DS
  
  Sound is great, only downside it isn't the actually music but it's still great, some of the songs 
 arn't to great but it happens
  
  I highly recommend it on everyones DS Game list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazeDragon132
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a game starring three male cheerleaders that help people out by dancing. You 
 think the concept is too weird, but it is the weirdness of it that makes the game fun.
  Each case involves a story from car plans getting stolen to baby getting lost at construction site. 
 Each person staring in it has to do something about it: from finding treasure to digging for oil.
 
  The scenes play like a comic book with panels at the start, then it leans toward a cartoon. The 
 humor in EBA is just right, some of the fail screens will make you smile. The stories are also 
 delightfully entertaining.
  The gameplay consists of pressing a button at the right time, following a ball in connecting buttons, 
 and spinning a spinner really fast. These techniques take awhile to master, but they are super 
 easy once you do.
  Replay value is high in this one. There are 2 modes to unlock, a nice bonus dancer to star if you 
 complete every song in every difficulty. You can also try to get S for many songs or get enough 
 points to unlock all three bonus songs.
  Overall, Elite Beat Agents offers a fun and unique experience. This game is no doubt the best DS 
 game to date.
  Pros:
  -Great Stories
  -Artwork style is great
  -Great Gameplay
  -Big Replay Value
  -Kahn dancing like a girl is always funny
  
  Cons:
  -Soundtrack could 
 be better
  -A little soundtrack compared to Amplitude/DDR
  -Jumping Jack Flash will make you curse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIR1928
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  When i picked this game up i couldnt stop playing it for about 3 hours. I was amazed how addicting 
 it was. The graphics are colorful and look great, it has a sence of humor, and the sound is off 
 the chain. I would recomment this game to all DS owners. Try it, you'll like it, even if it looks 
 weird at first. i really like the music selection, it has some great songs on there. i hope they 
 will make a sequil. I would really like to see something like this on the Wii. If you are a DDR 
 fan or just like music and you own a DS, this is a must buy. i got it last week, if they make a 
 second one they should put more rock songs. have present day bands like Breaking Benjamin, Crossfade, 
 My chemical Romance, Metalica (i know they arnt present day but still they kick @$$) and some other 
 cool stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spuddge
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is easily the best rhythm game out there, with lots of different song tracks 
 and difficulty levels, this game will keep you busy for a long time. First, the graphics. This 
 game is presented using a manga-type art style. All of the characters are well drawn and animated. 
 The cutscenes are smooth and extremely funny as well. The music and sound in this game is top-notch. 
 With many popular songs, you wont find yourself getting bored with this game anytime soon. Elite 
 Beat Agents is also a very hard game. Its easy to mess up and if you do, its hard to recover. You'll 
 need to spend a lot of time with it before the game actually starts getting really fun. Finally, 
 the gameplay. The gameplay in this game is superb. With lots of rhythmic action, this is one of 
 the most fun game on the DS. So Elite Beat Agents is one of the most addicting and lengthy games 
 you can buy for your DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docnintendo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  With Elite Beat Agents, the Nintendo DS's entry to the rhythm-gaming genre, Nintendo adds an exciting 
 new depth to tapping. The game's theme revolves around stepping in to various scenarios and acting 
 as an agent (pun intended- ouch) of change. By tapping the touch screen at precisely the right 
 times, you will help protagonists like little Janie win the love of her life ( a big football jock) 
 or help an aspiring film producer capture the perfect shot. Poorly timed beats will throw the story 
 off toward an unhappy course whilst the Elite Agents shower you with gloomy faces. Of course, the 
 beats are not random but are related to the songs that are playing in the background. A good choice 
 of music ranging from the 60's all the way up until today's hits are a great recipe for continuous 
 fun. Overall, an outstandingly enjoyable game for both rhythm fans and DS lovers alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sacif
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I was browsing my local Target to see what games I needed to get. I had heard a lot about this 
 game on gamspot and from a few of my friends. They were telling me DOOOD pick this up it is a really 
 fun game. At first I decided to hold off on it, because I am not a huge fan of rhythm games. BUT 
 I finally picked it up and this is they rhythm game that I have truly enjoyed. The library of songs 
 that is in EBA is of a classic blend mixed with some newer songs. One of my favorite moments from 
 the game so far is the little girl who lost her daddy who promised her he would be home for Christmas. 
 It was a very touching scene, and anyone who has lived through anything like that knows what I 
 say when I became a bit emotional, with the story and Chicago's You're My Inspiration playing. 
 Just goes to show you that our emotions are tied to the music we enjoy and people we surround ourselves 
 with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssjvegito137
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 23, 2006 8:41 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents mixes good presentation with highly addictive gameplay. it is one of the only 
 rhythm games that i feel actually immerses you into the songs. while playing you may get a run 
 of good beats and you will start to feel a rhythm going and it is highly addictive. There is not 
 much that i can fault it on, the songs choosen are all brilliant but sometimes may seem a bit random 
 also the songs may seem a bit difficult at first but its not to difficult to get past them with 
 some practice over all i would recomend this game to any nintendo DS owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TommyD100
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is one of those games that comes straight out of left field and leaves a lasting 
 impression. It was originally a Japanese rhythm game where the main characters are male cheerleaders 
 who help people in distress by dancing. The music was a collection of J-Pop songs, and the game 
 was big with importers.
  
  However, we are very fortunate that Nintendo saw some potential in the game and decided to bring 
 it over to the western market, although they have made adjustments to the presentation. Instead 
 of male cheerleaders, the heroes of the game are agents; men dressed in sharp, black clothes. The 
 J-Pop music has been replaced with songs that are going to be more familiar with its respective 
 market. A few examples are Sk8ter Boi by Avril Lavigne, Material Girl by Madonna, and my favorite 
 of the bunch, Canned Heat by Jamiroquai. The game does not take itself seriously, as the situations 
 and animations are pretty off the wall. Each song, or mission, has an introduction to a story, 
 and as you play through the song on the bottom screen, the story will progress in the top screen. 
 You will be able to watch it in between verses when there is nothing to do.
  
  What makes Elite Beat Agents a fun rhythm game has a lot to do with the fact that it is played 
 on the DS. The entire game must be played with the touch screen. In the most basic explanation, 
 you must tap the screen in rhythm with the music. As the song is being played, numbered circles 
 will appear on the screen, which will indicate where to hit and in what order. Each circle also 
 has a timing circle which will shrink down to the same size as the numbered circle. When the sizes 
 are equal, that is the perfect time to tap that circle with the stylus. This may sound complicated 
 because there are no videos to accompany this review, but you would understand as soon as you see 
 the opening tutorial. There is no need to depend on the visual accuracy of the circle sizes, though. 
 If you are in the right rhythm, you can tap the circles with precision; all you have to do is know 
 where to hit on the screen.
  
  Other than the circles, there will also be a circle in a small path, where once you tap the circle 
 in the right timing, you simply keep the stylus on the circle as it moves through the path. This 
 usually happens in parts of a song where the vocalist holds a note for a while. Lastly, there is 
 a spinner that comes up towards the end of each song. All you do is spin it with the stylus to 
 rack up points. What are the points for? Everything.
  
  Each mission has a meter at the top of the bottom screen. Half of it is yellow and the other half 
 is red, with a marker starting off on the yellow side. If you are hitting your beats right, the 
 marker will hold itself in the yellow zone, and you will rack up points through multipliers and 
 good timing. If you miss a beat, the marker takes a slide over towards the red. The video on the 
 top screen will progress depending on where the marker is at the end of each verse. If it is in 
 the yellow, good things happen to the main character of that story. If red, bad things happen. 
 You can slowly raise the marker back by hitting many consecutive beats. As long as the marker stays 
 somewhere in the meter, you can pass the mission, but if it falls past the red, the mission automatically 
 fails.
  
  What makes Elite Beat Agents so fun is that it is incredibly easy to pick up and play. This makes 
 sense, considering it is part of Nintendos Touch Generations games, which is a collection of games 
 geared toward the casual market. Although purists of the Japanese game may say the J-Pop songs 
 are better than the music in Elite Beat Agents, I found most of the songs worthy of tapping the 
 screen to. The difficulty also does a great job of keeping you drawn into the game. It is incredibly 
 hard on the last difficulty, but the transition from the easy mode to the hardest is subtle enough 
 for anyone to make a solid attempt. I struggled a little on the easiest mode, but laughed at its 
 incredibly slow speed once I got through the hardest difficulty.
  
  Since Elite Beat Agents is a rhythm game, it is tough to find much depth in it. Sure, there are 
 four difficulties to play through, 20 songs including a couple of unlockables, and the ability 
 to level up in ranks, with the highest rank only achievable to those who get a score of A or better 
 on each song. If you intend on getting the highest rank, then yes, you will be playing this game 
 for hours on end. Beating it on every difficulty should unlock every song, and in doing so, would 
 take roughly about ten to twelve hours to complete.
  
  The problems with Elite Beat Agents are small, but effective. On harder difficulties, many numbered 
 circles will appear on screen, and you will have to tap fast to keep up with the rhythm. The problem 
 lies within the numbering. My natural instinct would make me tap in a specific order, and although 
 the game does a great job of placing the circles on the screen, there would be that one circle 
 that is clearly out of place and makes me accidentally hit the wrong circle. When I retry it, the 
 same thing would happen. The only way I would pass those particular parts is if I made a conscious 
 effort to remember the location of that one, tricky circle. EBA is about rhythm, and should not 
 be about memorization of where the circles are located. Again, it only occurred a few times throughout 
 the entire game, but it hurt whenever I came upon it.
  
  Elite Beat Agents came with no hype surrounding it. I bet very few people even know this game exists. 
 This is why I urge you not to overlook this title. It is fun, unique, and memorable. It has everything 
 one would want in a rhythm game, and since it takes unique advantage of the DS, it is the only 
 rhythm game of its type. Elite Beat Agents will be the best game that nobody played of 2006, which 
 is why I recommend everyone to check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendorocks
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a a rhythm game where you play as the Elite Beat Agents, a secret organziation 
 of dancing agents. Your goal as the Elite Beat Agents is to help anyone in need no matter how bizarre 
 it is. And believe me, it gets bizarre. So, somehow you solve these problems dancing to songs like 
 YMCA or Canned Heat .
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  Rhythm gameplay doesn't get much better than this. Elite Beat Agents has a very complitcated and 
 innovative gameplay system but I'll try to explain it. The basic notes are spheres and there is 
 an outer circle around it which closes in on the sphere. The key is to time your tap perfectly 
 so that the circle is about to close in on the sphere when you tap it. The longs notes are played 
 out the same way but once you hit the note you must slide your stylus along a ball that appears. 
 And then there is a huge spinner that takes up the whole touch screen in which you must spin until 
 the gauge behind it fills up but you must do this before the outer circle closes in on the spinner. 
 Sound complitcated? Well, don't worry. It isn't. And it works great.
  
  Now for the story of Elite Beat Agents, oh, lord, where do I start? Ok, well I'll start with the 
 first level where you must help a babysitter put the child she is sitting to bed so she can ask 
 her boyfriend to go steady with her. Sound strange? You havn't heard anything yet. How about helping 
 a washed up baseball player save an amusement park from a fire-breathing golem? Is that strange 
 enough for you? And that's just the tip of the iceberg. The cutscences are just so ridiculous and 
 funny that you just can't help but burst out laughing when you see them even if there is no voice 
 acting. A rhythm game is only as good as its music. Well, music in Elite Beat Agents may not be 
 your style (it is not by any means mine) but it fits perfectly. The game features mostly 80s-early 
 90s pop songs such as YMCA, Canned Heat (the song at the end of Napolean Dynomite) and even a Madonna 
 song. The songs are not done by their original artists but they sound accurate enough that they 
 still seem pretty authentic. Elite Beat Agents is a very short game, only about 4 or so hours but 
 the game offers a mess of replay value. You start the game off with two difficulty levels, Breezin' 
 and Crusin' with Breezin' being the easier of the two. Once you beat Cursin', you get Sweatin'. 
 And once you beat Sweatin', you get Hard ROCK!. Each difficulty has a different playable character 
 including another playable character once you beat the game on every difficulty which means 5 different 
 ways to play the game. So, 5 times 4... Come on, we all love math. That's 20 hours of gameplay in 
 the single player. Not too shaby. But wait, there's more. There is also a multiplayer mode for 
 multi-card and download play. The game offers co-op and one-on-one battle mode. So, if you have 
 some friends, this should even more time.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  Ok, one question. Why the hell is The Anthem by Good Charolette in this game? Some of the songs 
 are just so out of place and just so... well.... dumb. For example, the first level is Walkie Talkie 
 Man which doesn't fit the story or the game at all. And I think the most out of place song is Sk8ter 
 Boi. I never wanna hear that song. And I especially don't wanna hear it while I'm helping a taxi 
 driver get a pregnant woman to the hospital. Some of the songs just seemed to be put in to catch 
 the mainstream audience.
  
  So, now I mentioned those 4 difficulty levels right? Well, they are all very, very hard. Even the 
 easiest difficulty level is painfully difficult. There really isn't much I can say about the difficulty 
 except it's hard and practice makes perfect. And believe me, it will take LOTS of practice. Overall, 
 Elite Beat Agents is a very welcome first rhythm game for the DS and hopefully will lead to more 
 DS rhythm games in the future. Maybe Elite Beat Agents 2 for the Wii? Huh? Huh? Maybe? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arsyad05
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:28 am PT
Review:  One of the greatest ds game i have worth of buying it although it eat all my pocket money. . . 
 . .nice thinking producer of the game, everybody out there this is one of MUST BUY game in ds. Inis 
 corporation still new but they will become popular faster with this kind of game. People out there 
 come get ur EBA game NOW! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! don`t need psp anymore if u have this game, the up 
 screen graphics really nice and funny with comedy strip in anime style.
  
  
  
  *btw im fasting almost 3 three days to buy this game. . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoughryderGT
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2006 2:35 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is not your ordinary type of game. But then again if you have a DS, you're used 
 to the crazy and outrageous games that have been released for this handheld. I have to agree with 
 Alex when he mentions that some songs feel out of place. But they are still fun to play. When you 
 hear its a rhythm game, you automatically think: DDR, Amplitude and Guitar Hero. If you mastered 
 every one of those listed. Don't go into this game with your gloves off. It takes some time to 
 get used to this games wacky animation and out of the ordinary (yet satisfying) song list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluemanSteele
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  It never fails. At some point in your life you need a bit of help, an extra push to get you on 
 your way -- in jump the Elite Beat Agents.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is a rhythm game where you tap your stylus in time to the music onto dots and 
 slides that appear on screen. Mixed into an odd assortment of recent and former pop hits is a collection 
 of stories that unfold on both screens.
  
  Each skill level contains the same music, but with faster and trickier patterns. Additional skill 
 levels can be unlocked as you progress through the game. Much like other rhythm games, some level 
 of memorization is needed to keep up with insane patterns that appear that must be tapped perfectly 
 in order and to the beat.
  
  Elite Beat Agents was easy to pick up and I've found each song to have a great deal of replay value. 
 Multiplayer adds a bit more life, but I found myself more concerned with trying to beat S8R Boi 
 on sweatin . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sheik_n_Zelda
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  http://www. n-insanity. com/modules. php? module=reviews&amp; id=336
  
  Sometimes life just gets you down. Failing a test tends to make you feel stupid and disappointed. 
 Not making the school team for your favorite sport can cause you to give up on it forever. Even 
 a first date gone horribly wrong can potentially destroy your psyche. Wouldn't it be wonderful 
 if we had personal cheerleaders standing by in the event that we just need a little extra boost? 
 Shockingly enough, in one of the most recent releases for the Nintendo DS, that has become a reality. 
 Utilizing motivational power driven by song and dance, the Elite Beat Agents help the average American 
 with their problematic lives.
  
  This game is the dual-screen handheld's first ever entry in the rhythm/music genre, and there's 
 no denying just how well-suited it is. Elite Beat Agents is actually the westernized version of 
 the Japanese title Osu! Takakae! Ouendan. For many Japanese and American gamers, the quirky and 
 frenzied tapping experience brought something completely new to gaming, something most have truly 
 adored. A trio from the Land of the Rising Sun donned karate-like gear and headbands and used J-Pop 
 for the very some reason that the EBA uses their music. At first however, most Americans felt EBA 
 would simply drop the spirit of Ouendan to the way-side, offering a mere shadow of its true self. 
 How wrong those people ended up being.
  
  Not only does Elite Beat Agents retain the joy so many have felt with Ouendan, but some are even 
 shocked at how the game in some respects is even better. My friend whom I've allowed to play EBA 
 and who's also messed with Ouendan continues to claim that it's a full-blown sequel, which could 
 very well be true. But that's a topic for rather needless debate. If you're into franchises like 
 DDR, Guitar Hero and Beat Mania, there's really no reason why EBA couldn't fancy you. The game 
 features over 15 different missions, each with its own song to rally a troubled person, or in one 
 case, a poor little doggy.
  
  In EBA's Single Player missions, you journey through the scenarios with one of three lead Agents. 
 You have the African American 'Spin' who's always wearing headphones. Pretty normal if you ask 
 me. Then there's 'Agent J' who appears to be your stereotypical 70's throwback who has a serious 
 'tornado-like' hair problem. Finally, we have 'Chieftain', who for some reason always has a pissed 
 off look on his face, but ultimately has a gentle and caring heart. Each of these guys who look 
 like musical representatives of Men In Black are the game's heroes, and the difficulty increases 
 accordingly.
  
  All of the episodes are conveyed through a series of incredibly well-drawn and vibrant anime still 
 images, accompanied by subtle animation. Before actually starting your tapping flurry to help the 
 EBA perform, players are given a rundown of someone's current problem. Most of them are completely 
 exaggerated, but that's what'll make you laugh out loud and truly enjoy it. There are so many I 
 could bring up, but I'll leave it to you to experience since it's so darn worth it. One slight 
 drawback is that it's virtually impossible to view the unfolding action above as you're playing, 
 since looking away for a mere second can cause you to fail. But hey, you always have the option 
 of looking on as someone else is playing.
  
  How the game works is actually pretty simple, I just don't quite understand why the 'Touch Generations' 
 logo is on the box. Does Nintendo honestly expect casual and non-gamers to be able to pick-up-and-play 
 this rather challenging game? Methinks not, my mother could never handle this. Anyway, the touch 
 screen is obviously the home of all the gameplay, as you'll be using the plastic stick to help 
 the EBA keep their job. There are numbered 'timed circles' in that you have to wait for a shrinking 
 circle to just surround the edge of it before finally tapping it. 'Rolling circles' have a path 
 extended from their origin on the screen, so when that shrinking circle arrives to the appropriate 
 point, you tap and hold the stylus as it literally treks from one end to the other. Finally 'spin 
 circles' are a little odd, and truthfully questionable in terms of meaningful purpose. At random 
 points of a song, the entire touch screen changes to a circle with 'broken' edges, and it's your 
 job to rapidly turn it before the life of the giant shrinker (you know what I mean by now) ends. 
 In the end, while learning how to read the taps and understanding it all may take some time, addiction 
 could be imminent. The only real complaint I have is needing to play a few songs quite a few times 
 before truly understanding how the tapping coincides to them.
  
  The song list happens to be pretty solid, with a mix of oldies rock, modern pop and tear-tugging 
 ballads. I will always question the presence of Ashlee Simpson (gag?) , but the rest are entertaining 
 all-around, even if there are a couple disputable scenario/song pairs. It could take a few days 
 or a couple of weeks to actually play through the entire campaign, but it's always fun no matter 
 what. As is with most other rhythm franchises, you could easily play this for months or even years. 
 There are unlockable scenarios/songs and an impressive multiplayer feature to boot. Up to four 
 people can play each other in a team match to decide who the best EBAs are, or you can actually 
 compete with your own ghosts as the game allows you to save memorable performances. The real eye-opener 
 though, is the possible four player Co-op thats allow you to delve into the music together (a la 
 Guitar Hero II) .
  
  I'm continuing to grow fonder of the entire rhythm/music scene. DDR promotes exercise, Guitar Hero 
 offers you an alternative from doing the real thing and Elite Beat Agents is a fantastic new way 
 to experience the genre both in-house and on the go. These games stimulate your mind and body in 
 so many ways that those who continue to shun games for being supposedly 'hazardous' to us can kiss 
 my behind. Inis and Nintendo have something truly special with both Ouendan and EBA, so major props 
 to them. If you enjoy the genre like me, or if you like handheld games with 'a lot of tapping', 
 you simply can't go wrong with the quirky troupe that is the Elite Beat Agents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shidohari
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 19, 2006 8:06 am PT
Review:  I love this game... Plain and simple. It takes the top tracks from artists like David Bowie (Let's 
 Dance) , and sets it to a backdrop of a storyline where you have to complete the mission by keeping 
 up to the beat of the song played.
  
  The first two songs on the Breezin (easy) level are there to warm you up but then i noticed that 
 as you go further into the missions the songs got progressively harder. Songs featured are Sk8tr 
 boy, Anthem, and a really sweet surprise choice for a special christmas mission that is in the 
 game. I won't spoil the title for you.
  
  I am very picky on the types of games i play so this was a pleasant change from what i've seen 
 in the gaming industry lately. So if you like to keep the beat and fulfilling the dreams of people 
 in need... ELITE BEAT AGENTS is for you... GET IT TODAY... AGENTS ARE GO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STArmadillo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  It's difficult to think of many people who have played Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan. Like, there are people 
 I've shown it to, who tried it, who liked it, but aside from people I introduced it to, it would 
 be rare to find someone who discovered the game for themself. I'm sure this is the same in Japan, 
 where the game didn't do all too well. iNiS, the developers behind Ouendan, probably discovered 
 something along with Nintendo; lots of people were importing it from Japan. Still, it didn't do 
 too hot in the country it was readily available from, nor the country that was importing it... 
 but it sparked an idea.
  
  Ouendan, except American. Elite Beat Agents.
  
  The wacky cheerleading men of Ouendan were replaced by the wacky agents of a mock-CIA organization, 
 and instead of doing choreographed moves to Jpop, they sung and danced to American/British/Occasionally 
 Australian pop tunes. Still, their missions remain the same; to motivate people to overcome everyday 
 problems. The manga styled cutscenes and characters still remain in tact as well (even the over-the-top 
 expressions they share) .
  
  The gameplay remains the same. You use the touch screen to tap beats in tune with the rhythm. Also, 
 there are tracks you trace along to the song and spinners to spin. Nothing is changed of the core 
 gameplay at all. The stages, however, are radically different. The original Ouendan had ramen shop 
 owners with no business and everyday salarymen fighting giant mice. Elite Beat Agents brings forth 
 some more American friendly scenarios, including bandits taking over a casino and a magician (and 
 his assistant) saving the day with magic, as well as a retired baseball heavy-hitter fighting a 
 fire golem using his base-stealing, home-run-hitting and pitching skills.
  
  Yeah, it's still zany.
  
  The big question concerned the soundtrack. Omg Amerikkkan tunes!? 
 EW GIMME JPOP INSTEAD BAKA-DESU! 
  
  It's fortunate that the soundtrack rocks. Filled with just about anything, from 70s rock/funk tunes, 
 80s heavy rock, 90s pop and newer billboard hits, the pop songs are all over the place. I admit 
 there are some almost lacking songs that could have been replaced with more suitable ones, but 
 the tracks that belong work marvelously.
  
  The last game was addicting and lasted a long time, and this one follows suit. Including 4 more 
 songs total than Ouendan originally had (15) , with 3 bonus songs and a 2-parter finale... AS WELL 
 AS the 4 difficulties making a return... it's an excellent adaptation. The features added to Elite 
 Beat Agents are very welcome, which include a skip button to skip to the first beat of the song, 
 and more accessible high scores and rankings in the options. The game even has single-pack multiplayer, 
 so it's guaranteed to be in your DS for a long, long time.
  
  Get it. Don't let this game fall under your radar like Japan did with Ouendan. The song list is 
 very good, the style is likeable and the gameplay is addictive. Come on, say it with me.
  
  
  
  (btw Bulls., You bet, kid!! and YOU SELL THE OASIS! 
 IT BECOMES A WATER PARK!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:22 am PT
Review:  Well, speaking as someone who has imported the original, I felt that I might be able to submit 
 a review that would be useful. The original Japanese game has fantastic J-pop songs, and a wicked 
 difficulty. Normal mode took me weeks to complete, and I am a veteran rhythm gamer. The bar in 
 the Japanese game consistently drops at about triple the rate of the American version.
  
  Now then, this is a review for Elite Beat Agents... if you want more about the Japanese title, 
 see my review of it. Elite Beat Agents is a fantastic rhythm game in its own right. Some of the 
 songs really are horrifying (see Sk8ter Boi by someone that sounds even worse than Avril Lavigne... 
 yes this is possible) but overall there is a great mix of songs and the difficulty feels just right. 
 Nintendo has another winner on it's hands and this game will keep getting popped back into your 
 DS for many months (or years) to come. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kattleox
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2006 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Many people in the Sony camp have grown to hate the NDS. It has far poorer graphics than the PSP. 
 The touch screen is gimmicky. They call it a DS Lite but it weighs about the same as a PSP. The 
 games are oriented toward a more feminine crowd.
  
  I could go on forever about the things I and others have said about the DS and it's poor game selection. 
 It is truly a poor system, but Elite Beat Agents overcomes every hurdle and comes out with an amazing 
 game wihich is quite addicting and fun.
  
  Graphically it is not very interesting. The agents are not dull but they have far too many polygons 
 to look realistic. This gives it a cartoony feel, however. After coming off a Gitarro Man/ Mega 
 Man Powered Up/ LocoRoco high, this is a quite acceptable alternative to trying to go realistic 
 on the weak hardware. The Manga cartoons which are displayed in the top screen were probably made 
 in PowerPoint, but it just adds to the feel.
  
  As far as the story goes, If you don't like corny, then just close your eyes during the cutscenes. 
 The stories are sappier than a Delaware maple forest in the middle of winter, but I like them because 
 of this. It just adds to the overall feel.
  
  The actual game is of utmost importance, overall. It contains a very basic but addicting mechanic 
 that could not be duplicated on any system except for maybe a Tapware or Palm pilot. It uses actual 
 songs that you have probably heard, which adds to immersion, but they do not quite sound like the 
 actual bands. They may actually be the original bands, but I doubt this. At any rate, they are 
 good songs and the tapping and sliding on the screen does not seem to become dull, for whatever 
 reason. The dancing of the agents is amusing and the story folding out on the top screen is often 
 hilarious.
  
  This is a laudable game from iNiS. It overcomes the poor hardware and manages to use it to its 
 advantage. If you own a DS, you had better own this game. If you do not, however, avoid this game 
 at all costs. You WILL become addicted as I have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastercid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Every once in a while a game comes along that truly turns a genre upside down and becomes a masterpiece 
 in the process. Rhythm games such as DDR and others have been around for quite some time. It was 
 not until recently that guitar hero came along and showed another side to music games, well now 
 Elite Beat Agents is here, and it is changing the genre and perfecting it. Elite Beat is a funny 
 tale of 3 special agents, hence the name, whose it is to help out the lives of people by cheering 
 them on. Although it sounds weird at first you quickly become drawn into this world of people, 
 and you actually start to care about the characters, as you work hard to help them succeed. The 
 goal in this task is to pass a song in order to move on. The system is like that of a normal rhythm 
 game as you go along with the beat of the song. How elite beat works is that you have circles with 
 numbers on them and circles on the outside that are closing in on them. As the outside circles 
 close in on the numbered circles your goal is to tap the numbered circle perfectly with the beat, 
 as the circle will close in and form a perfect circle of the two. It sounds confusing at first, 
 but once you get into it you quickly get the hang of things, and become addicted. Elite Beat in 
 addiction to its great gameplay has great graphics and sound. Unlike any other game on the ds in 
 the sound department elite beat features actual songs from real artists. Graphic wise this game 
 is not the prettiest ds game, but, it definitely has the most charm in its character designs. In 
 the end the only complaint i have from this is that there was not as many songs as i would have 
 liked, and that some of the songs were kinda bad, but overall this is one ds game that a ds owner 
 cannot afford to miss. Pick this one up now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErikWaters
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Fans of such quirky rhythm games as Gitaroo-Man and Taiko Drum Master should go ahead and get 
 their money ready; Elite Beat Agents for the Nintendo DS is here and its addictive.
  
  Originally released as Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan in Japan last year, the game Elite Beat Agents 
 is basically the same great game as its Japanese counterpart. The only difference is that the original 
 Japanese songs and story cutscenes have now been replaced with American songs and characters to 
 make it more relevant in the Western market.
  
  Changes aside, Elite Beat Agents is quite easy to pick up and play.
  
  As one of the three 
 black-suited agents of the mysterious Elite Beat Agency, gamers are responsible for aiding distraught 
 people around the world with an uncanny knack for rhythm and dance. Of course how rhythm and dancing 
 actually helps anyone in trouble is completely left up to the gamer.
  
  Each level is comprised of a relatively popular song from the past 50 years and a story that can 
 either turn out for better or worse depending on how well the gamer does. Each level and song is 
 then broken up into five smaller parts to help separate the often intense action and to help the 
 story flow.
  
  Fans of rhythm games will feel right at home with how Elite Beat Agents is played. As a song 
 begins, small little buttons will appear on the Nintendo DS touch screen. Rings will then form 
 around said buttons and can be used to time when players should jab the onscreen buttons.
  
  These buttons can follow many different facets of a song, such as the beat of the percussion 
 or the words of the chorus, and require perfect timing to match up with the song. Gamers will also 
 need to recognize aspects like short and long rests, extended notes, and all around have a good 
 grasp on rhythm in order to excel in the game, especially in the tougher levels later.
  
  If a player is doing well in a section of a song, they will be able to watch the central character 
 of said song overcome a small problem. Play well enough through the entire level and the character 
 will solve the larger issue that is troubling them. Likewise, do poorly during the song and reap 
 the consequences of watching the levels character fail miserably and a Try Again? screen.
  
  While its easy to speak positively about Elite Beat Agents into the wee hours of the night, 
 one thing is certainly not memorable about this game. That one thing is some horrendous song selections.
 
  
  If listening to mediocre cover of a good song isnt bad enough, this game excels at forcing gamers 
 to listen to many mediocre covers to already horrible songs, essentially making them cringe worthy. 
 This is especially cruel during the more difficult levels in the game that often require multiple 
 attempts to beat.
  
  These songs can range from anywhere to Ashlee Simpsons La La bad to the Rolling Stones Jumping 
 Jack Flash good, with songs from groups like the Jackson 5, Village People, Sum 41, Cher, and 
 Chicago filling up the middle grounds.
  
  Despite some less than pleasurable music, Elite Beats Agents is still worth the time and money. 
 Although if gamers find themselves reaching for something to plug their ears with while playing, 
 then spending a little extra money on importing Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan may not be such a bad idea. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmataSSKKorosu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 14, 2006 9:34 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a game developed by Inis. It is intended to be played on the Nintendo DS portable 
 console.
  
  Elite Beat Agents happens to be the sequel/spin-off to the import-popular rhythm game Osu! Takase! 
 Ouendan (which translates to Go! Fight! Cheer Squad) . It is also on the Nintendo DS and they both 
 play the same, with the difference being the song tracks and characters in the two games.
  
  In terms of storyline, it is rather wacky. Basically, there is this organization in which these 
 agents will be summoned to victims in rather dire situations. The agents assist them with music.
 
  
  The objective is rather simple: Being a rhythm game, you will see circles in which will go with 
 the beat of the song. An outline will approach and encircle the circle. Once it reaches to the 
 edge of the circle, you must tap it to create a beat. Circles like these will appear to go with 
 the rhythm in the song, so it's important to have either headphones or have a decent volume while 
 playing so you won't get too frustrated when playing.
  Aside from circles, there are also tracks in which you drag the stylus around a thick line around. 
 Usually at the end of each track (or around the middle) , there will be a spinner for you in which 
 you must rotate the circle as fast as you can.
  
  Many people think this game's song track is simply outrageous, and they are right, but in this 
 game, aside from crazy music, you're also accompanied by the rather crazy and humorous storylines 
 as the protagonists do just about anything to accomplish and succeed in their problems. The thing 
 is, the fun, crazy soundtrack and the rather comical stories are what make Elite Beat Agents so 
 addicting.
  
  For graphics, they are rather superbly done. The stories' intro are presented in a comic-style 
 fashion and the events that happen during gameplay are animated quite way. It is fun, albeit perhaps 
 distracting to see your agents (displayed in 3D) dance as you tap circles, although I must personally 
 say they know what they're doing and their dances are rather enjoyable, if over the top. At least 
 they're modeled well for a 3D render.
  
  The sound is just as contributing as everything else. Many may think this being a DS game, the 
 music would be a bit of a low-quality. It is, but only oh so little. It should not really hamper 
 your gameplay even if you've heard the songs before.
  
  With at least 15 songs to play and over 3 difficulties to play, this is one of the most wackiest 
 and better rhythm games to have come out for the Nintendo DS, or any portable system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skessler
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 13, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I went out and bought this game a week ago and have been playing it ever since. A must have game 
 to add to your ds collection. A funny comic book like story line where you have to dance to help 
 people. The only bad i could find in the game was there just was not enough songs but playing the 
 other songs over again and trying to beat your old score makes up for it plus there are 2 difficulties 
 that i know of. Like i said a MUST HAVE game for people of ALL ages. Hope this helps somebody 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodleduh7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Before I say anything else, I would like to make a prediction: This game will be virtually ingnored 
 by most people until the price plummits to $15.00. Then everyone will look back and say Wow, this 
 game was rated so high, and I should buy it. 
  
  Anyway, don't be one of those people. Buy this game now. It's very fun and addictive. I can't play 
 this game without going insane (the good kind) . The difficulty is harder than most games, but that 
 works in it's favor, giving it an edge of skill, not just luck.
  
  One warning though: If your DS has a messed up sound system, or you aren't able to play very loud 
 in your house, don't buy this game. It's virtually impossible to play without sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eduardjm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2006 8:19 am PT
Review:  If you feel the need to be completely unproductive, for a good amount of time, go buy this game. 
 Like, right now. After reading favorable reviews and trying the demo at GameStop, I decided to 
 bite and get the game. When I walked up to the counter to pay, the associate asked what the deal 
 was with the game, because apparently the copies at that store have been scooped up as quick as 
 they could stock it. I told him that it's hard to explain, it's a cross between the DDR series, 
 Duck Hunt, Guitar Hero, and yet, a game all unto itself.
  
  At its heart, its a simple rhythm game with the simplest of moves, tap, and drag in a straight 
 line or a slight curve. What sets this game apart though, is its neurotic, hyper and endearing 
 setup for the game. As every level passes, you feel that there is more and more to be found. Slowly 
 you'll find bonus levels, and every time you finish a difficulty, it gives an ominous To be continued... 
 tag that leaves you wondering what, if ANY story there could possibly be to it. Yet, with that 
 temptation, you plunge in time and time again to hear Agents are... GO! 
  
  The game is set up with the most absurd of situations. From helping a young lady to find time to 
 ask her male friend to go steady, to helping a home run hitter regain his stroke after losing it, 
 this is all accomplished through the power of dance. As outrageous as it is, you even find yourself 
 rooting for the agents toward the end, and find yourself as tied to the story as they are. Without 
 ruining anything, there's actually something to it, which is something that sets this apart from 
 the acclaimed DDR's and Guitar Hero's of the rhythm world. Not to diminsh those in the least, but 
 EBA gives that extra bit of umphh that makes it all that more addictive.
  
  The graphics on the game dont leave anything to be desired, with the wild animations constantly 
 whirling on the top screen, while three 3-D model agents dance behind your stylus strokes and taps. 
 While the music is as extensive as any DS game I've seen (and some console games for that matter) , 
 some of the music choices could have been better, and that's the only thing that keeps me from 
 reviewing this as a perfect 10.
  
  However, because of the frantic nature of the game (it gets REALLY fast) , you're left missing more 
 than half the game. As you focus on your task at hand, you miss the animation going on at the top 
 of the screen which helps to tell a great part of the story, as well as the fancy moves of the 
 dancers behind you. I almost wish there were some way to watch the movies themselves after completing 
 a level, but I'm not too sure I would want to anyway, instead of forging on to the next level.
 
  
  For those wondering what sort of value you can get out of this game (read: how far is my 30 shells 
 going?) , this game has great depth. Having played well over 30 hours alone on single player, this 
 game also has a decent multi-player, and just as in Guitar Hero or Trauma Center, you'll be hooked 
 trying to get those uber-high scores that are only achievable by immaculate runs through the levels. 
 There's nothing like playing to Bowie and trying to get a high score.
  
  For all intents and purposes, this game is cocaine. I read it reviewed as addictive , but it comes 
 nowhere near describing this game. The gameplay, comined with the colorful images swirling about 
 you, the sometimes intense and captivating choice of soundtrack, mixed with the originality of 
 the game, this is the perfect time-waster, or depending on your view, time fulfillment. If you 
 feel your time has been wasted on let-downs on the DS lately (Mario Hoops / Lego Star Wars II anyone?) , 
 then get back on track and get on the EBA bandwagon before your friends are telling you what a 
 great and weird game this is. Dont be fooled by the commercials and cartoonish appeal; while this 
 can be played by kids, this is not a children's game, but of appeal for everyone, and has a great 
 learning curve that will challenge any gamer. This game is a GO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SEEN187
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 12, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is one of the few rhythm games that can really be called bizarre, but in EBA 
 that isnt necessarily a bad thing, basically youre a team of agents that goes around the world 
 solving peoples problems with the power of dance and Pop/rock music. One thing that you notice 
 immediately is the art style its really wacky and set in a kind of comic book way. The game play 
 is easy to get into yet hard to master, difficulty is often bit too hard even on easy, you could 
 probably get to the end of the game in about 3 to 4 days if you play non stop, or 7 to 10 days 
 if youre not good and dont constantly play. EBA is that type of game when you lose you just keep 
 on playing, even in the harder levels of the game you may get frustrated and turn it off but 5 
 minutes later you pick it up again. Also if you want greater challenges play on the harder difficulties. 
 The soundtrack is ok but really limited. Even if you dont like rap youll probably find your self 
 singing to it. The songs are mostly pop/rock as I said before. To enjoy EBA to the fullest put 
 your volume all the way up or put headphones on.
  
  Value is great 35 bucks for a game that you beat and still play for a long time, and if you want 
 get it used 5 bucks less.
  
  Graphics are pretty good for a Ds game the only 3d characters that you see are the agents dancing.
 
  
  Overall this is a great crazy game that any Nintendo owner should have. Even though threes a couple 
 people who might hate it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Here we go again... I seem to be on an accidental winning streak. Sure, there have been a few losers 
 that have crossed my path, but they were also the thumb that pulled out a plumb. For example, I 
 got Rayman DS and encountered utter disappointment. I sold it and tried a game I really had little 
 attraction to: March of the Minis. It turned out to be one of my all-time favorite games.
  
  Similarly, I bought Children of Mana recently as something to tide me over `til the release 
 of Final Fantasy III (FFIII) . Though it wasn't nearly the letdown Rayman DS was, I was still less 
 than completely satisfied with it and just couldn't justify keeping it as part of a DS collection 
 of games that I have been trying to nurture as a top-shelf library. So, out it went. Still desperate 
 for something to take my mind off of FFIII, I said to myself, let me see what all the fuss is about 
 with Elite Beat Agents
  
  Story: There actually is a story here, and surprisingly, it's a great one. The Elite Beat Agents 
 are a secret group of be-boppers  men in black  whose job it is to help those in need by using 
 their powers of dance. That's right  got a problem with that!? It's funky, it's funny and, best 
 of all, it's a total party!
  
  Okay, now I feel that with this particular game, I really am going to have to break away from the 
 tried & true review sections, i. e. Gameplay, Graphics, Sounds, etc. Elite Beat Agents (EBA) , I 
 think, really has to be considered as a package, and to try to dissect the various elements of 
 the game would be to distract you from really understanding what you're getting in this game.
 
  
  Turning on your DS
  
  Start screen: "The Elite Beat Agents are at your service!"
  
  You can begin by choosing from one of two difficulty levels: Breezin' (the easiest) or Cruisin'. 
 Once you select your preferred difficulty, you are taken into a selection map. I love this part. 
 The map is an actual globe of the earth that you can move around  kinda like a globe you might 
 have at home  using the stylus. Your first mission is made available, and it will have a "Help" 
 sign over it. You can select missions by simply tapping on the mission icon. When you do so, a 
 preview of the mission will pop up telling you the name of the episode, with a sample of the song 
 you'll be playing to and a description of the person (s) you'll be helping; it's like a case file. 
 If you choose to take on the mission, just click "Ok" to begin. As you complete various missions, 
 others will become available. There are 17 missions in all, plus 3 unlockable ones.
  
  Once you enter a mission, you will then watch a short story of the situation, which is done using 
 comic-book storyboards. It is really beautiful stuff! If you like this sort of thing, you're gonna 
 love this game. Then the music starts to rev up, and your agents get ready to dance. But they first 
 ask, "Are you ready?" Wuh!?
  
  Well, it's your time to shine! You are the conductor in this game, and without you, the agents 
 will be unable to stay on the beat and save the day. The mechanics are very basic, but the gameplay 
 will progressively get incredibly complicated. The game uses a series of circles that appear on 
 the touch screen, which you must tap at the appropriate time. Knowing when to tap the circles is 
 indicated by rings that shrink around the circles; when the ring shrinks down to meet the outer 
 edge of the circle, tap it. There are also areas where you must tap a circle and then follow a 
 ball, in rhythm, along a certain line  sometimes back & forth. The last device is a spinner that 
 is periodically thrown into the song; you must use your stylus to spin it continuously until a 
 meter reaches the top.
  
  Simple, huh? Not so fast
  
  Okay, the basic principle of gameplay in EBA is that you're accenting certain notes in a song. 
 It might sound easy in theory, but the game, more often than not, puts the accents (circles you 
 must tap) on notes that are not on the beat, but rather on the upbeat. If you're familiar with 
 reading music, as I am, you'll notice the game even throws many accents on 1/8 and 1/16 notes of 
 an upbeat, often in succession. But fret not. The game does get crazy but not frustratingly so. 
 Let me come back to that later though.
  
  EBA can't be summed up by its gameplay mechanics alone. I'll confess to you right now that I think 
 this game is smack-you-in-the-face amazing! And it's not one particular element of the game that 
 makes it amazing, but rather all the little things. The presentation  from the comic stills to 
 the many various game options  is really as good as it gets. The artwork is very polished, and 
 the skits are hilarious. Additionally, all the characters from all the other skits eventually come 
 together to make for one of the finest gaming climaxes I've ever experienced. I was literally almost 
 in tears of laughter the first time through the story mode because the timing of the moment was 
 just so right on the mark.
  
  Now, the game can be alarming at first in the sense of how short it is and how few songs there 
 are. But then you get deeper into the gameplay, and you realize the set-up is darn-near perfect. 
 You can almost think of yourself as part of a band, and the songs are your set list. As with playing 
 in any rock band, the songs in EBA take time to perfect; when you choose to play the songs at greater 
 difficulties, it's like learning them all over again. Once you complete the story mode in Cruisin', 
 you will unlock Sweatin' (and by completing Sweatin' you unlock Hard Rock, the last difficulty 
 level) , the next difficulty level. Let me tell you, it holds no punches. However, though things 
 might get kinda crazy, EBA never gets you in a frustrated mood, and the songs never get old; it's 
 actually quite the opposite. The more you play through a mission (song) , the more fun it becomes. 
 With each pass, you'll get better at hitting your marks, and it's a very rewarding feeling to be 
 able to start to breeze through certain areas with relative ease.
  
  So what's missing? Absolutely nothing. As IGN stated in their review, it's hard to be critical 
 of a game that seems to hit all the right marks with near flawless execution. Elite Beat Agents 
 is one of those games that plays like something you'd expect to see in a Las Vegas casino, but 
 without the cost of having to mortgage your home in order to enjoy it. It's fast but not furious; 
 it's funny but has touches of truly heart-warming tenderness; and by the end of your first go through 
 the story mode, you'll likely feel like the Elite Beat Agents are real heroes or at least wish 
 they were.
  
  If you're 10-years old or older and own a DS, get this game. Don't think it about it like I did; 
 you may end up having to take a loss first (oh, Children of Mana) . If you're still uncertain though, 
 since I, of course, cannot offer a guarantee you'll actually find it as mind-bogglingly amazing 
 as I do  go to your nearest download station and try the demo.
  
  Okay, kids, thanks for reading, and happy gaming!
  
  -GD
  
  The Breakdown: 9.5 (Out of 
 this world!  people who already own this game should get the pun .) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VincentVendetta
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:57 am PT
Review:  In 2005, Nintendo has launched a music game for the DS named Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan!. When it was 
 launched in Japan, it was a incredible game. Badly, the game never been launched in the US. The 
 biggest reason is that it was too japanese. The characters that you play were ninjas, the music 
 was from artists from Japan, and theres other reason. The good news is that Nintendo, because 
 the game was a huge success, they decide to do a brand new version thats more American named Elite 
 Beat Agents. It's still a very great game.
  
  We cannot say that the gameplay of Elite Beat Agents is totally innovative, because we have seen 
 it in Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan!, but we still have so much of fun it. You play as 3 agents who save 
 the day... while dancing. That's right. They dance and save the world. It's kind of a 70s music 
 movie scenario that is totally stupid, but in this game it's great. Even if one of these guys have 
 weird red hair. But let's forget it. When you begin to play this game, Nintendo developers been 
 very smart and they put a little tutorial for explain what I will talk about, now.
  
  The controls are really great. First thing that you should know is that you got to touch with the 
 stylus some spot at the right time. After, it's the bowl thing. When you touch some spots, you 
 got to keep touching a ball thats rolling into a little road. Speed can change. The last control 
 you got to know the the spin. Sometimes, a wheel will appears in the screen. You got to spin it. 
 That was all for the controls.
  
  But there's not just a single player, but the game can use the rumble pack (that I don't have) 
 and it also has a multiplayer mode. I didn't play the multiplayer but I play the VS Ghost thing. 
 Please, don't play this mode. All the things in this mode is making the game slow. And it make 
 this mode unplayable.
  
  Goodly, another thing who's coming from Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan! have stayed for Elite Beat Agents 
 is the comic book graphic style. I love this thing in Viewtiful Joe, so I also love in this game. 
 You know, when you begin missions, there're cutscenes that explain the situation, an it seriously 
 look like comic book. Maybe there's also 3D animation and graphics... but I don't care. What is 
 the most important is the comic book style.
  
  The soundtrack of Elite Beat Agents has a lot of pop songs. In paper, I don't really like the idea. 
 I like electronic and alternative, but pop... no. Anyway, Nintendo really have made a miracle, 
 and makes me loves the soundtrack. This soundtrack got Sum41, Madonna, Jamiroquai, Good Charlotte 
 and, for the last stage, two songs! That's right. Hoobstank and the Rollings Stones! Great!
  
  For 40 canadians bucks, Elite Beat Agents worth it. I beat the game in Breezin' (easy) difficulty 
 in less than two hours. Not really impressive, but I got to say that in the Cruisin' (Normal) difficulty, 
 I have done 3 hours in it, and I still have not beat it (and I got to say that I think I will never 
 beat it) . So with the single player mode and the multiplayer, the game is really long. Talking 
 of difficulties, there're 4 levels of difficulties: easy (with agent Spin, a DJ) , normal (with 
 agent J, a disco guy) , hard (with agent Chieftain, a... cowboy?) and really $%! hard (with the 
 Elite Beat Divas, the girls) . But I got to say that this game is hard. Even the last stage on easy 
 is hard!
  
  Maybe this game is hard, but it's incredible that it's not frustrating. And it's not just because 
 you think Hey wait a second. If I throw the controller, the complete console is throwed. , but 
 it is because of... well, I don't really know. But you're never angry while playing Elite Beat 
 Agents. What's making the tilt goes at 9 is the VS Ghost mode on multiplayer. It just becomes slow.
 
  
  Whoever you are, where you are, how old you are, you will enjoy Elite Beat Agents. A great sequel 
 for a great game. It's too bad that it still have problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigma8
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents (EBA) is a rhythm game for the DS that couples a wide selection of pop songs 
 (old and new) with an onscreen interface of buttons and rails that you must either tap or slide 
 the stylus across. These elements must be tapped in time with the rhythm, and only appear shortly 
 before they must be activated. A shrinking ring contracts around the button, indicating the time 
 gap within which it must be tapped.
  
  Sometimes the things you must tap seem to be in time with the lyrics, other times it's in time 
 with an instrument or the baseline. Often, the physical arrangement and placement will help visually 
 cue you about timing differences. Things that have require more rapid taps will tend to be placed 
 more closely together.
  
  While this is all happening, you have the EBA's themselves dancing onscreen, presumably using their 
 elite dancing skills to aid everyday citizens around the part of the globe that seems to be the 
 EBA's jurisdiction (looks like we only get one hemisphere) .. The stories play out on the top screen, 
 while the action takes place below. You will almost never have an opportunity to observe any of 
 this, except during the interludes between musical sections, or by watching a replay (and you can 
 save the replays for viewing later, or competing against in a ghost mode) .
  
  The song selection includes hits from the 70's through the current decade, including Village People, 
 David Bowie, Madonna, Brian Setzer Orchestra, and Avril Lavigne, and several others. All of the 
 picks are bonafide hits, so while not every track may appeal to everyone, there's a very good chance 
 that anyone will be able to find multiple tracks they like.
  
  There are four difficulty levels, Breezin, Cruisin, Sweatin, and Hard Rockin. Each difficulty level 
 uses a different head agent, except for Hard Rockin, which uses an altogether different group of 
 female agents, called the Elite Beat Divas.
  
  The difficulty of this game is substantial. Many songs require a combination of memorization and 
 a sense of timing, as well as a good deal of manual dexterity with the stylus. In general, the 
 songs do scale in difficulty, saving the hardest for last. There will inevitably be some songs 
 a person is better at, due to familiarity with the song, however the last song, Jumping Jack Flash, 
 will be difficult even if you're Mick Jagger.
  
  While the gameplay above may not sound like much, when you combine it with its difficulty and unforgiving 
 sense of time, it's really challenging. The sound effects for success are very satisfying, and 
 complement the song as a form of percussion. Each successful tap is a very effective mental reward 
 that is likely to addict you to the whole process.
  
  The audio is pretty typical for a DS game. It's not as crackle-free as midi tracks (like the music 
 in Animal Crossing) , but it's clean enough. It sounds similar to a low bitrate mp3. You probably 
 won't be bringing your DS along in lieu of an iPod, but even at a reduced audio quality, playing 
 along with legit pop hits on the DS is a treat.
  
  Graphically, the EBA's are rendered in polygons on the lower screen, and are nothing to write home 
 about. However, the stories and illustrations are very colorful and clean. Even though they aren't 
 really a direct part of the gameplay, they increase the slick-value of the package.
  
  The game's quirkiness and/or Japanese-ness may be offputting to some, but in essence, this is an 
 addictive pure-gameplay experience to be had, with some comical and well-scored window dressing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hianhwee
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 11, 2006 9:26 am PT
Review:  cleared 8 cases after getting the game for 90mins. i love this game!
  
  graphical presentation is simple - like you read a comic magazine with texts for you read so mininial 
 dialogue to bore the gamer. having ds displaying the stages on solving the case at the upper portion 
 and the game using the stylus to tap on the hit marker to extend the elite-o-metre, it makes one 
 loses focus since this game requires great alert, attention and precise execution this makes viewing 
 of the little movie not so simple... especially for song with lots of dance sequences aka hit markers 
 for one to score and extend the lives of the agents. audio has to be good right?! as this is a 
 rhythm action game that requires to hear the beats before tapping on the screen, the sound si great. 
 now, i wish my ds can play my mp3! LOL... great songs too! i listed the songlist in my blog at 
 http://hianhwee. livejournal. com/264009. html, take a look. some songs are really fun to hear with 
 while playing but do put on a pair of earphones for greater audio entertainment!
  
  gameplay is definitely refreshing. something different from the normal action adventure games that 
 i have been playing. story for each case is simple and short yet it is sufficient to allow a gamer 
 to take a breather with each new case unveil. in each case, it is divided into 3-4 portions to 
 solve the case by dancing and at the end of each case, it allows you to spin for bonus points. 
 for tha, i find that the spinning isn't so responsive despite i calibrated my screen. wonder is 
 it me who can' spin clockwise/counter clockwise. this, however, did not mar my spirit to complete 
 each case. the difficulty levels - breezing and cruising are options for selection prior to the 
 gameplay. for me, i am breezing yet the best rank i can obtain is rank c. : ( have to keep trying 
 to get good scores.
  
  no chance to try the mutliplayer mode as the game is relatively new in Singapore. in fact the shop 
 i went to purchase only carries one piece. like mario vs DK2, this game is highly addictive. in 
 fact, it is much more difficult than mario collections. if you are looking something different, 
 i will recommend this game for a change... great music with precise movements and great attention 
 seeker! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuckomedia
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Man, do I need to explain. This game rocks!!! Hands down!! I think everybody should play this game, 
 it keeps you active throughout the whole game. The gameplay is off the hook, the agents dancing 
 in the background and the cartoons you see after every bit or so. Learning the game is easy, come 
 on they show u how to play the game in the begining. What more can you ask for?!?!? The only thing 
 I want to complain is the volume level. I don't know about you, but I think it was a little pit 
 to loud. Other than that, once again a great game!!! Well worth the price and the wait!!!!
  
  AGENTS ARE GO!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: str1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  The history behind Elite Beat Agents is an interesting one. Last year, Nintendo teamed up with 
 iNiS, the development house behind Gitaroo Man, to create a rhythm game for the Nintendo DS. The 
 result was Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan, a peculiarly engrossing game based around the premise of intensely 
 passionate male cheerleaders that help those in need by cheering them on in all kinds of ridiculous 
 situations, all to the sound of J-pop. When the game finally reached the western import market, 
 its premise and gameplay proved surprisingly captivating, and word of mouth caused it to become 
 one of the it import titles.
  
  Nintendo apparently saw this fascination and has capitalized on it by teaming back up with iNiS 
 to create Elite Beat Agents, which is in essence everything that Ouendan was, but tailored to appeal 
 to North Americans not familiar with the previous game's intrinsicly Japanese music and style. 
 The end result is a game that is not only as every bit as good as Ouendan, but one that excels 
 by making key improvements to the formula.
  
  The basics of the gameplay are simple. The game is divided into stages, each set to a different 
 song. As the song plays, numbered circles appear on screen, and the player must tap them in their 
 proper order in time with the music. There are also circles attached to tracks that run along the 
 screen, and the player must drag the stylus to keep pace with a rolling ball in order to keep the 
 beat. Finally, most songs include the use of a spinner, which the player simply has to rotate as 
 fast as humanly possible. The better the player is at matching the rhythm, the higher the score, 
 but make too many mistakes and the stage will end in failure.
  
  What truly sets Elite Beat Agents apart from other rhythm games, however, is its presentation. 
 The game stars a group of characters styled after government agents who arrive on the scene of 
 a crisis to help those in need. Through the magic of song and dance, the agents give people the 
 energy to face their problems head-on. Each stage begins with an introduction to a particular character 
 and his or her plight, and over the course of the song, the game measures how much progress is 
 being made by displaying manga-style story sequences during brief breaks in the action. The better 
 the agents dance, the better the characters will do.
  
  However, these aren't just any average, ordinary problems the agents must help contend with. Some 
 stages are relatively mundane, such as helping a teenager contend with her babysitting duties while 
 trying to ask the star football jock to go steady, but others are completely insane. Whether it's 
 helping a white blood cell that resembles a sexy nurse fight off a viral infection or a baseball 
 player save children from a monster, the scenarios these people must face are truly inspired in 
 their lunacy.
  
  It is unfortunate, then, that the soundtrack as a whole won't appeal to everyone. Like Ouendan, 
 the song list for Elite Beat Agents is a mix of tracks ranging from recent hits to '70s classics, 
 covering a wide range of styles and eras. For the most part, the older songs like YMCA, Material 
 Girl, and September are a classic, if eclectic, mix of old hits. Next to a listing such as these, 
 some of the more recent songs like Ashlee Simpson's La La just don't fit as well as they really 
 should. On the other hand, most of the songs are paired with stage scenarios that fit well in terms 
 of theme and tone, and so most of those questionable song choices are still able to fit in thanks 
 to the context of the game.
  
  Elite Beat Agents also features a multiplayer component that allowes up to four players to connect 
 and battle in two-on-two battles or to cooperate and take turns playing through particular portions 
 of each song. There are options for multicard and single card play (the latter of which Ouendan 
 lacked) , making for an inviting experience. Elite Beat Agents also contains a few other new features, 
 including the ability to save stage replays, as well as an option to watch a brief replay of the 
 critical moment a stage was failed.
  
  The game features four difficulty levels, and so while those familar with Ouendan may be able to 
 breeze through the default difficulty with little trouble, the upper-tier difficulties may provide 
 a better challenge. For those that have no experience with the gameplay format, however, the experience 
 is one that is both challenging and rewarding. The game is structured in a way that allows repeated 
 attempts to clear stages with higher scores, and it's challengingly addictive in the manner that 
 easily coaxes people into retrying that stage they just failed until they can get it right.
  
  Elite Beat Agents may not have the quirky, obscure charms of its Japanese counterpart, but 
 it is a successful conversion of what made Ouendan so great into a game that westerners can understand 
 and enjoy without losing any of the charm or challenge. What it may lack in some of the music selections, 
 it makes up for in its charmingly wacky presentation, and Ouendan veterans will appreciate the 
 added replay features. As one of the most addictive, fun, and challenging titles for the DS, Elite 
 Beat Agents is an easy rhythym game to recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kidou
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 8, 2006 8:49 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Manga style animation, insane storyboard with songs; good song selection; Guys in tuxes 
 making fools of themselves; girls that respemble Paris and Nicole wooing animals on a deserted 
 island
  
  The Bad: Certain songs just seem slapped on because they were licensed; Difficulty jumps too high 
 too early. (Yeah, I agree with the official review on the bad.)
  
  Elite Beat Agents is based off of the Japan-only release game, Ossu! Tatake! Ouendan! While most 
 people we expecting this to be a sequel of Ouendan, this game goes off as its own and just fixes 
 up the formula of the game to better suit American audiences. In Elite Beat Agents, youre basically 
 a bunch of agents helping people in crazy situations. But how do you save them? Of course! By dancing! 
 The spontaneous 80s dancing of the agents will leave a smile on your face and make you wonder, 
 Who in the world dances like that? If the agents dancing doesnt make you laugh, Im sure the 
 story in the song will make you laugh. Each song is attached with a crazy story. It ranges from 
 a little dog that lost its way home to a fat 21-year-old ninja trying to steal back car plans 
 from a rival company to a mom who wants to make the sun come out despite a whole weekend full of 
 rain. The concepts may seem simple enough, but the way it happens is insane.
  
  As for the control, everything is done with the touch screen, from the gameplay itself to selecting 
 things from the menu. Just make sure your DS is well calibrated before you play, not that it would 
 horribly mess you up, just do it so you dont miss anything while playing. The game is not lenient 
 at all when you miss, you could be doing amazing when you start out, but if you miss even two, 
 your Elite Bar (as they call it) could fall halfway and odds are, youre probably going to miss 
 the good end to that particular scene.
  
  The sound is top notch though. Its not 5.1 Dolby Digital, but it works for what the DS has. People 
 might be shot down by the fact the sound quality isnt all that amazing, but this isnt a Gamecube 
 or a Wii. Live with the sound, its what the DS can pump out. Did I mention how important sound 
 is in this game. Its recommended you play with headphones if the speakers dont quite satisfy 
 your listening preference.
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty unique. With manga style animations going on at the top of 
 the screen and 3d agents dancing in the bottom, it looks pretty good from what I can tell. Its 
 really hard to improve off of what they have. On top of that, all the dance movements from the 
 agents are pretty smooth and nothing is glitchy or anything like that.
  
  As for the bad things about this game, some songs seem like theyre just slapped on because they 
 were licensed. Two to note are Ashlee Simpsons La La and Avril Lavinges Sk8er Boi. They just 
 dont seem to fit with the animation they were assigned to, which makes it obvious at some point 
 that they mightve rushed it. Also, the difficulty at times is too hard for its own good. Even 
 when youre just doing 3-star songs on the Cruisin difficulty, they seem a little hard. You might 
 have to play the song a couple of times to get everything down, and then pass it with flying colors. 
 It took me about five times to beat I Was Born To Love You when I got it. These are pretty much 
 the only things that plague Elite Beat Agents
  
  As the main Gamesstop review says, Elite Beat Agents is probably the best rhythm game on the DS. 
 Its probably one of those games you need to have in your collection before its gone, since this 
 might be a sleeper hit. Who knows? It might not since people who have played Ouendan! have been 
 anticipating this one for a while. To close out, Elite Beat Agents is probably the most fun youll 
 have with your stylus in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omnitarian
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Elite Beat Agents is a sequel of sorts to a game a called Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan!. Ouendan was the 
 first game I had ever imported- The moment I saw gameplay footage of Ouendan, I knew it was going 
 to be the most charming, addictive, and enjoyable game to be on the DS for a long time. And boy, 
 was my intuition right- Ouendan was one of the most entertaining games I had ever played. When 
 news about Elite Beat Agents first came out it seemed I was far more excited than most other Ouendan 
 fans. While they moaned about the abandonment of Ouendan's quirky male cheerleaders, I was thrilled 
 that I would be able to experience the game all over again. Folks, Elite Beat Agents does not disapoint. 
 Make no mistake- this is Ouendan 2, and all of the charm and fun of the original is present here 
 as well.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is a rhythm-action game that could only have been imagined for the DS. The basic 
 gameplay is simple- with cues from circular markers, you must tap and slide your stylus along the 
 screen in time with the music. This may not sound like gameplay that could be completely engrossing, 
 but trust me- something about the whole procedure just *works*. Later levels will have you nimbly 
 piloting your stylus around the screen, tapping and sliding the game's fantastically complex designs 
 with effortless grace and rhythm. Soon you'll be 'clicking' into place with the game and scribbling 
 to tunes like a pro. The gameplay is simply charming, and a whole basket of fun. Don't ask me how 
 tapping a series of markers can produce such engrossing gameplay. It's hard to imagine until you 
 play the game yourself.
  
  Wrapped around the basic gameplay is the game's... unique... plot and level design. In the game, 
 you play as the Elite Beat Agents, a secret government agency dedicated to assisting troubled citizens. 
 The EBA helps out those in trouble by... dancing. The agents show up in every stage and dance along 
 to your screen-tapping, which in turn provides the desperate rescuee with the will-power they need 
 to get themselves out of their jam. The whole dancing government agents angle is a little bit hokey, 
 especially if you're used to the male cheerleaders of Ouendan!, as I am. But the truly great part 
 comes when you play through each stage. Each stage is a unique scenario- in one you'll be assisting 
 a babysitter, later on you'll be helping an oil tycoon... well, I won't spoil anything for you. 
 But as the story of each stage unfolds, you'll be treated with hilarious cutscenes that present 
 your target's road to success. I genuinely cracked up at some of the humor in this game- it does 
 its job very well.
  
  The music of this game... okay, to be honest, the music selection doesn't look too good at face 
 value. Think of EBA's playlist as a cross between your town's classic rock radio station that you 
 never listen to, and your 11-year old niece's iPod. We've got two tween-rock songs, two power ballads, 
 and... The Village People?! How did that happen? But this is where the glory of EBA's enchanting 
 gameplay comes to the rescue- it turns this mismatch of otherwise awkward dance music into pure 
 gold. This is how I found myself, a normally mature young man, lip-synching to Ashlee Simpson. 
 So basically, while the music of EBA won't wow you at first, it'll grow on you, and the songs will 
 work into the fold of the gameplay and presentation and become mostly inconsequential. Just don't 
 let anyone catch you rocking your head to the slow-ballad song by Chicago.
  
  Oh and as far as lasting appeal is concerned, if Ouendan is any indication then you'll return to 
 this game again and again without being bored. There are also four difficulty modes to wade through. 
 I breezed through the 'normal' mode, though I mostly credit that to my mastery of Ouendan. Novice 
 players will find the going pretty tough, but again, if Ouendan is any indication, it will rarely 
 become frustrating.
  
  Elite Beat Agents is one of those uniquely charming games that only comes once in a blue moon. 
 If you can look past the less-than-graceful playlist and Americanization, you'll find a true gem-of-a-title 
 for your DS. I was a little skeptical at first, too, but this game is simply too good to dissapoint. 
 Go start boogeyin' down, mi amigos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hakisamas
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 7, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Being a BIG fan of Oeundan, I had to give at least a try to Elite Beat Agents! At first, I didn't 
 want to play it again saying that I did play the older Japanese version, but I had to come back 
 for more.
  
  Gameplay: Elite Beat Agents is very simple to pick up, but extreme skill needed to master it. It 
 can be extremely difficult sometimes, but it's extremely addictive gameplay doesn't leave way for 
 quitting. Remember: rhythm is key and don't press on too hard for those wheels.
  
  Graphics: The manga art is fun and tells it's story quite well. Also gives story just quick enough 
 for the short breaks between the insane screen tapping goodness. And of course, the 3D models in 
 the background sure look good while doing all those strangely erotic dancing moves.
  
  Sound: The tracks could have been better, but fit the game and story well. I enjoyed the japanese 
 soundtrack more, and that's the only reason I didn't enjoy Elite Beat Agents as much as Oeudan. 
 Still, I didn't hate any of the songs even after all the tedious amounts of times I had to play 
 through them.
  
  EBA is challenging.. Still trying to get through the Diva Mode and only played multiplayer once 
 on download play. The load time was long, and there were a pause for synch/lag? once every cutscene 
 which doesn't affect gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: m0zart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  Rhythm games aren't usually for shy people. If you have any aversion at all to performing in front 
 of others, reality dictates that most rhythm games won't be for you.
  
  I am definitely one of those shy types who couldn't play a performance rhythm game in front of 
 anyone -- well, at least, never again. The last time I played a performance rhythm game, I was 
 at a 4th of July party, and the game of choice was Samba De Amigo . When I woke up the next day, 
 I can politely say that I never wanted to see any of those people again, and that feeling hasn't 
 went away in the five years since. I looked like a fool, and I knew it. It's such a traumatic experience, 
 I doubt I'll ever completely recover my ego.
  
  Mind you, it's not that I have no rhythm. Quite the contrary, actually. I play piano, and I do 
 so pretty well. I can strum some fast and heavy Mozart or Beethoven across the keys with precise 
 accuracy, especially when I'm inspired. The problem is rather that I am just not cut out for being 
 in the limelight. Put me in front of an audience for a piano recital, and I'll likely make more 
 mistakes than I ever would alone. Yet that is precisely the audience that most rhythm games target 
 -- the audience at the party scene. I couldn't take part in something like that again if my life 
 literally depended on it. For instance, I do believe that if an asteroid were falling to the earth 
 at lightning speed, threatening to wipe out all of humanity, and the only way to save it were to 
 sing and dance to the beat of a pop song, I would just assume crash-kiss the asteroid.
  
  Lately, a slew of rhythm games have come out which attempt to be more accessible to the socially 
 impaired, targeting not just the party audience, but the hermit as well. Games like Guitar Hero 
 are introducing a whole group of individuals never before interested in rhythm games to the goodness 
 of the genre, and they are doing it without requiring them to leave their homes.
  
  Last year, a Japanese rhythm game came out in this vein for the NIntendo DS, and it quickly became 
 one of the hottest import items available. It was called Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan , and it took a 
 lot of Western gamers by complete surprise. I am one of those. I haven't played a game more addicting 
 on my DS, and I can say with certainty that no game on any system has become as addicting to me 
 personally as that game has become. Built on the concept of Japanese male cheerleaders, who come 
 to the rescue of individuals caught in various dilemmas by dancing to the beat of Japanese pop 
 tunes, it was one of the quirkiest games I have ever played in my life. The goal is to lead the 
 ouendan (translated: cheer squad) in a given choreographed dance number by tapping circles, dragging 
 circular objects, and spinning a wheel of fortune, to the tune of a given song.
  
  The fact that the game was entirely in Japanese, and thus virtually incomprehensible to a Western 
 audience, was immaterial. Part of the fun of the game is not knowing precisely what is going on 
 in the manga storyboards, and not really understanding the lyrics of the pop songs accompanying 
 the dances you tap your way through. Given that game's success in the West, It was announced that 
 while a port would not be released, a new game would be made based on the same addicting gameplay 
 and game engine, only Americanized. Instead of cheerleaders dancing kung-foo style to J-pop, it 
 would feature elite American Government agents dancing disco style to a variety of classic and 
 recent American pop favorites to solve a set of problems we would better identify with. The news 
 was met with thrills and chills. Many were excited about the possibilities. More than few others 
 were concerned that a game they could actually understand would take away some of the mystery behind 
 it.
  
  Now that that game, titled Elite Beat Agents , has been released, I can say with some certainty 
 that those concerns were unfounded. Let me put this bluntly: Elite Beat Agents is not just one 
 of the best rhythm games you will ever have the privilege of playing, nor is it just one of the 
 best games available on the Nintendo DS -- it is without a doubt a game that meets almost all of 
 the expectations that follow from its Japanese predecessor's exacting standards. It isn't merely 
 successful in attempting to bring the same gameplay to a wider audience in terms they will understand, 
 it is also successful in giving Ouendan fans like me more of what we want.
  
  As previously noted, the game is built on directing a three-member group of usually male dancers 
 to accomplish their smooth moves as flawlessly as possible. This is done by tapping, dragging, 
 and spinning specific markers timed with the beat of a given song. The more precise, the better 
 the dancing. Miss a beat, and it sends the dancers toppling backwards followed by a danceless period 
 of confused daze. An Elite-O-Meter hangs above the dancers like a Sword of Damocles. It is energized 
 by perfect hits, and loses steam over time as less than perfect hits or outright misses are encountered. 
 As each story chapter is divided up into three or four subchapters, each of which correspond to 
 a given song section (such as the beginning or end of a chorus) , the goal is to finish those subchapters 
 with the Elite-O-Meter above the point required for success. This will mark a particular subchapter 
 as successful (with an O ) or as a failure (with an X ) . Make it all the way through the chapter, 
 and a resolution follows bringing a happy end to the story's dilema, and satisfaction to the gamer 
 for a job well done. However, allow your Elite-O-Meter to drop to zero at any point in the game, 
 and you will be left with a humiliating scene of abject failure.
  
  It sounds easy enough, and it certainly does start off simply. But over time, the beats you must 
 drive will become increasingly more exacting. And unlike Ouendan's mostly regular and logical cheerleading 
 moves, these dance moves are associated with irregular beats more often than not. There is a lot 
 more syncopation. This is groove dancing, not cheerleading, and the difference really shows. The 
 game has four difficulty modes: Breezin , Cruisin , Sweatin , and Hard Rock . These correspond 
 to easy, normal, hard, and insanely hard, respectively. Breezin and Cruisin are initially available. 
 Sweatin is unlocked after completing Cruisin , and presents some challenge even to gamers with 
 extreme tapping skills. Hard Rock , which is unlocked on completing Sweatin mode, will leave all 
 but the most determined gamers in the dust. Even on the easiest gameplay mode, chapters will increase 
 in difficulty over time, leading to some real challenges. Much of the difficulty will come from 
 the fact that many of the beat markers appearing on the touch screen can appear in spots which 
 are covered by your hand while you're trying to hit markers on the opposite side of the screen. 
 While this can be perplexing, it is overcome over time through memorization of the beat patterns 
 as the gamer repeats a stage over and over again. This repetition could ruin almost any other type 
 of game, but in Elite Beat Agents , there is little feeling of frustration to be had in the experience. 
 As daunting as any given chapter can be, none of them are impossible. In fact, many will find themselves 
 returning to chapters they have already mastered just to enjoy the experience again and again.
 
  
  The storylines take place on the top screen while your dancing gameplay takes place on the bottom 
 touch-screen. Trying to watch the storylines taking place at the top while hitting the beats below 
 is a near impossible venture. Luckily, the game gives the option to view performances in successful 
 chapters which have been completed, allowing the gamer to see not only how he did, but to see exactly 
 what was going on in the story board while he was doing it.. In addition, a great new feature has 
 been added to the game which allows the player to actually save those performances for future viewing. 
 This improvement on the original game is limited to one save per chapter on any difficulty setting, 
 but as starting new chapters no longer has to cost you your option to view or showcase your best 
 performances at a later time, this new option provides for a significantly better overall experience.
 
  
  Ouendan fans might be a bit put off by the fact that they can actually understand the music coming 
 their way this time around, but the mix of music is so eclectic and usually so fitting to their 
 relative story chapters that it defies most criticism. The game now has at least nineteen songs 
 coming from a wide selection made up of several musical eras. There are songs for most of the generations 
 that comprise the gaming community: flower children who still have hangovers from the '60s, those 
 '70s cool cats who dream of dressing up like American Indians or construction workers and dancing 
 disco at Studio 54, and even 80's-ophiles who still wear their boy-toy belts, zipper-jackets, and/or 
 parachute pants while moonwalking and/or break-dancing. Songs from the '90s and the pop scene since 
 the start of the new millennium are also represented. Throw in a little speed metal from Deep Purple, 
 some bubble gum music from teenybopper superstars like Ashlee Simpson, and some Generation X alternative 
 tracks from bands like Good Charlotte, and you end up with a mix that will fit most every taste.
 
  
  The agents themselves are individually packaged slices of pure American cheese . The first background 
 dancer is a mix of Shaft and Tubbs from Miami Vice . The second one is a strange combination of 
 Napolean Dynamite and the only white member of the Harlem Globe Trotters, with a huge mushroom 
 cloud of red-orange hair to boot. Like Ouendan , a different team leader is included in each of 
 the first three modes to make each game mode a little more interesting. These include Spin , a 
 hip dawg with earphones and smooth moves, J , a slick '80s yuppie type with a feathered pompadour 
 hairdo, and Chieftain , an aging hippie who looks like those evil Texas sheriff types from all 
 those car chasing '70s films, complete with cowboy hat and shaggy facial hair. Also similar to 
 Ouendan's female cheerleading team introduced at its hardest level, Hard Rock mode in Elite Beat 
 Agents features a full female team of sexy Elite Beat Divas taking center-stage, replacing the 
 male dancers entirely. These ladies are nothing like Ouendan's wholesome squad made up of girl-next-door 
 types, as they resemble exotic dancers more than they do High School cheerleaders. The change is 
 welcome to anyone who celebrates the female form as I do.
  
  Story boards in Elite Beat Agents have been given a similar quirky flavor to those featured in 
 Osu! Tatakae! Ouendan . One scenario has you assisting a part-time mother, part-time meteorologist, 
 who wants to take her child out on her only weekend off but is hindered by forecasts for rain. 
 A little rain dance (with various wildlife participating) , and a little help from her trusty vacuum 
 cleaner and the US Air Force while flying through the clouds on a hanglider, and the heroine's 
 weekend (and job, and reputation) are saved. A second story has you helping an abandoned diver 
 to find treasure 20,000 leagues under the sea, only to find an unexpected threat from some razor-toothed 
 sharks and a long-armed giant octopus, as well as the animated skeleton of a long-dead pirate protecting 
 the booty. At one point you will assist a babysitter at getting her jock love interest to agree 
 to go steady with her by inspiring him to use his mad football skills to solve the various problems 
 she's having with her temporary wards. There are even some episodes that somewhat mirror those 
 found in Ouendan , such as a scenario with the agents assisting a performer with his internal bodily 
 processes, a scenario with an adult saving a child from an enormous creature, and a touching love 
 story involving Christmas wishes and a ghost. There's plenty for fans of Ouendan to like as well 
 as those experiencing this for the first time.
  
  Multiplayer mode has been expanded well beyond Ouendan's already excellent multiplayer features. 
 In addition to the Vs. Player mode, which allows you to play against up to four friends at a time 
 competitively, there is also a Vs. Ghost mode. This allows you to play against your own saved games 
 to improve your performance over time, but with the added ability to transfer saved performances 
 back and forth from other game owners, it also allows you to play against the saved files of others. 
 A Co-op mode is also provided, allowing you to play cooperatively by sharing beats, with beats 
 that your opponent is supposed to hit colored grey and yours colored normally. Multiplayer has 
 new story scenarios to accompany the available games, including a competition among hard rock guitarists, 
 a cooking contest among competitive chefs from the Renaissance, and a Star Wars -esque spaceship 
 battle between Coq, the interstellar chicken warrior of Novia, and Skwid, the space-travelling 
 squid warrior of Agos. To sweeten the pot even more, a single-card multiplayer mode has been added. 
 Though the song selection is limited, and download times can be lengthy, this is a great improvement 
 on Ouendan's multicard-only features.
  
  This game will reach a broader audience than Ouendan ever could. That much is almost certain. I 
 feel that if anyone is going to rationalize ignoring the game, it's likely to be the very ones 
 who discovered said predecessor first and who just can't accept the fact that the only Japanese 
 left in the game is the manga-style of storytelling. That's unfair in many ways, but ultimately 
 will constitute more of a loss to those who have closed their minds to the game for that reason 
 than to those the game was developed for. The fact has to be faced that Osu! Tatake! Ouendan , 
 while a fantastic rhythm game that almost anyone could pick up and play, only ever had the potential 
 to garner a niche market in the West. Elite Beat Agents is the developers' answer to bringing this 
 awesome gameplay to a wider audience, and the result is incredible. There's no doubt that some 
 of the charm of Ouendan was tied to its Japanese presentation. Having said that, this game is everything 
 that Ouedan was except for incomprehensible. And for gamers like me who need the entertainment 
 behind rhythm gaming in a setting less saturated with the potential for public humility, it's always 
 good to have more of an already good thing. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
