-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Eragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/eragon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Large, open levels to explore.
 Lots of different attacks to learn.
 Characters look good and move well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The touch-screen controls are poorly integrated and often unresponsive.
 You can finish the game in about five hours, and there's little replay value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 6.7, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 6.7, 150 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Vivendi Games
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Eragon is short and the touch-screen controls don't work very well, but it's still a fairly decent 
 action adventure game. 

  As the biggest fantasy epic to hit the box office this holiday season, it's not surprising that 
  Eragon  has already spawned a video game adaptation for just about every platform on the market. 
 Of these, the Eragon for the Nintendo DS is easily one of the best. It's a simple action adventure 
 game with some platforming elements and touch-screen control gimmicks, but Eragon also has good 
 graphics, a simple but effective combat system, and an impressively large world to explore. It 
 won't change the way you think about the book or the movie, but Eragon is a surprisingly enjoyable 
 game while it lasts.         No, it's not Aragorn, it's Eragon.     

  As the story goes, the world of Alagaesia was once full of dragons and the special warriors who 
 commanded them, known as dragon riders. But an evil tyrant decided that the dragon riders were 
 standing between him and total world dominance, so he killed off most of the dragon riders and 
 dragons. Eragon is a young farmer who finds a mysterious blue stone in the woods one day. Taking 
 it home, he finds out that it's not a stone, but a dragon egg. The dragon hatches, and Eragon soon 
 finds out that he has a mysterious bond with the magic beast, and that he has been chosen to become 
 a dragon rider. It's up to Eragon to save the world from the forces of evil.  

  You control Eragon and you have to fight your way through five large areas, killing enemies, solving 
 puzzles, and completing side quests. For most of the game you'll wander through the mazelike levels 
 fighting two or three enemies at a time. Eragon has both a sword and a bow, each of which get stronger 
 as you use them. For melee combat you have a quick attack and a slower, stronger attack. You can 
 string these moves together to perform combos, and as you become more proficient with your sword 
 you'll learn new combos. The combat is made easier by the targeting system, which lets you lock 
 on to an enemy and then circle-strafe around him. While you're locked on, you can tap the R button 
 and any direction on the D pad to roll and tumble out of the way of enemy attacks. This makes it 
 easy to dodge and counter, and unless you're up against several enemies at a time you don't have 
 to worry about getting hurt. You can even use the same dodge-and-strike technique to easily finish 
 off most of the handful of bosses in the game.  

  In addition to basic melee combat, you can attack with your bow. You have a limited number of arrows, 
 but since the bow isn't very useful you'll always seem to have more than enough arrows on hand. 
 To use the bow you have to tap an icon on the touch screen to enter first-person mode. You can 
 then aim with the D pad, face buttons, or touch screen, and fire arrows with the L or R buttons. 
 The problem is you can't move at all while using your bow, and if you get close enough to actually 
 be within firing range of an enemy it will just rush you and start attacking before you can finish 
 it off with your arrows.  

  Since Eragon is a dragon rider, he's able to use magic. Eragon will eventually learn a few magic 
 spells, although only a couple of them are ever actually useful. There are a couple of spots in 
 the game where you have to use a spell, such as a harden spell that will steady a wobbly bridge, 
 or a bolt spell that will clear debris from a switch you need to hit. For the most part, though, 
 you'll want to use magic as little as possible, because it's a pain to cast a spell. To cast a 
 spell, you start by drawing a symbol on the lower screen. If you draw the symbol correctly a small 
 spell icon will appear, which you have to touch with the stylus and "flick" toward the top screen 
 to execute the spell. It's a cumbersome interface that just doesn't work well when you're in the 
 midst of combat. You can activate "Spellcast time," which slows time for a few seconds to let you 
 get your spell off, but it doesn't make the process any less of a hassle. To make this control 
 mechanic even worse, the touch screen is often unresponsive, so it either won't recognize the symbol 
 you draw, or it will incorrectly interpret your scribblings and you'll end up casting the wrong 
 spell.  

  There are a couple of flying sections in the game as well, where you hop atop your dragon, Saphira, 
 and fly through a series of floating rings. That's right, floating rings. Hasn't game design progressed 
 beyond this by now? Apparently not for Eragon. These levels are thankfully short, and they're extremely 
 easy. Each time you miss a ring you lose health, but since you're stuck flying on rails there's 
 hardly any room to deviate from the path, which means you actually have to go out of your way to 
 miss rings. You are rewarded for putting up with the tedium, though, in the form of a couple of 
 minigames that you'll unlock when you fly through enough rings. One of the minigames just has you 
 tracing symbols as they appear on the bottom screen, and it's every bit as inane as it sounds. 
 The other minigame is a top-down shooter in which you dogfight with up to three other dragons and 
 score points by shooting your enemies. It's certainly better than the symbol-tracing minigame, 
 but it still doesn't lend the game any longevity.  

  You can finish Eragon in four or five hours, and once you do there's not much reason to ever go 
 back to it. There are some side quests that you can pick up from non-player characters throughout 
 the world, but they are mostly just fetch tasks that require you to collect a certain number of 
 a specific item. You can earn items for completing these quests, but the items aren't necessary 
 or useful.  

          You can talk to townsfolk to take on quests, but the quests aren't very fun or interesting. 
     

  The graphics in Eragon are good. The character models are all a little blocky, but they're fairly 
 detailed for 3D characters in a handheld game. They also animate quite well, and Eragon in particular 
 has an impressive array of attack animations that all look good. The highlight of the presentation 
 is the level design. The areas you'll explore are all very large, and the draw distance gives you 
 a great view of distant landscapes. The levels all feel different and look good, with the wide-open 
 spaces of outdoor areas and the narrow, twisting corridors of dark castles and underground caverns. 
 The one problem with the presentation is the unstable frame rate. When there are a couple of enemies 
 onscreen the game tends to slow considerably. The drop in frame rate is usually sustained for several 
 seconds at a time, and it happens frequently. Unlike the frame rate, the music keeps up with the 
 action quite well. The tunes do get slightly repetitive after awhile, but in most areas you'll 
 find that the music sounds clear and fits the theme of each area perfectly.  

  Eragon does have its problems, but it's still a decent game overall. The combat is repetitive but 
 it works well, the levels are huge and fun to explore, and the game is easy on the eyes. The touch-screen 
 controls are poorly designed and tend to clash with the rest of the action, but for the most part 
 you can ignore them. The game is also quite short and can easily be finished on a single charge 
 of your DS. But despite all of that, Eragon is worth a look if you're in the market for a simple 
 action adventure game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: DSFanaticNerd
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 10:03 am PT
Review:  From the top, YES I SOLD IT GET OVER IT!!!!
  
  Okay, first yes it is based on the novel so if you watched the movie, not enough to know what's 
 going on. This was one of my first games, and I regret selling the 2 that I did and now I didn't 
 even want to sell them.... but you regret the dumb things you do.
  
  Okay, It is hard and I needed my older brothers help on a few parts, however I could manage and 
 so can you.
  
  The hard is drawing the symbols so fast and remembering what one does what one spell...
  
  
 The good:
  1. The graphics are okay, it's a portable game system, what do you expect?
  2. Storyline follows the book. I know some HATE that, but don't, that's a good thing.
  3. Easy 
 storyline to follow, even you haven't read the book.
  4. Gameplay is good, interesting...
  
  The bad:
  1. The spells take too long, to write and to remember.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: graffiti14
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 26, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  I have quite a few games, most of them keep my attention for at least a few days
  This game however lost my attention within about... about as long as it takes to say BORINGGGGG, 
 when you say it really really quickly
  Of course i appreciated the thought behind the present but honestly don't buy it
  It has good 
 graphics, poor sound, but it seems to lack the storyline and well... everything else
  Some might like it but i just couldn't stand it, most RPGs i like, Eragon however lacked substance 
 and playability
  Sound: 3/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Playability: 1/10 (can't go lower :O )
  Fun: 1/10 (Looking good!!)
  Overall: 3/10
  
  (The Difficulty i put for it, ignore, beacuse 
 i haven't played this enough to know, sorry :P)
  
  Oh dear it's telling me i need to write more, it said the minimum was 100 words, and now it's 800?!
 
  Odd...
  But i really don't have anything else to write, i mean i could rant more but you don't really want 
 to hear that do you?
  Mhm... 800 words yet? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scouttrooperbob
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Like I said at the top, Eragon for the ds goes more twords the book than the movie witch is a good 
 thing. The movie was completly off. you start out as Eragon and go through the story upgrading 
 your sword and archery skills. The magic is fun but hard to use. a lot of time your enemy is only 
 a few steps away and if you want to use magic you have to draw a simble realy fast. a lot of times 
 the symble doesn't read. Thats about the only problem other than it being to short. It's a realy 
 good game though. The cool part about this game is when you aim your Bow if you aim you are in 
 control of the targeting reticle. The game is all sett out in a large 3d world. (It's large for 
 the ds) This would be a good game for an eragon fan. If you've read the book you would enjoy this 
 more than the other eragon games for the larger consoles. Those are way off. now if you never read 
 the eragon books give those games a try too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIGEORG3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  if many of you have seen the movie of eragon ,you will know that it was awsome. the ds version 
 of eragon follows the exact storyline of the movie and has impressive 3d graphics. however the 
 gameplay is very similar to that of the ocarina of time.
  you will encounter many bosses such as durza and the two razac.
  despite there being no voice 
 overs, the sound of the swords, arrows and magic are all very impressive and make up for the lack 
 of voice work.
  also alegasia is so vast you will need to take full advantage of your map and dragon travel (like 
 fast travel on oblivion) .
  my advice: 
  spell combinations- stone, lightning,
  mist, lightning, stone
  stone, levitation, lightning
  push, stone, lightning 
  overall this 
 is a very good game with only one flaw (no voice overs) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oscillating
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  the ds has many terrible games like lego star wars 2 ds and tmnt but this is a game i reccomend 
 to anyone who likes medieval games the game is a tiny bit like runescape because you level up in 
 different skills and yo do heaps of side quests and when you finish the game you can still explore 
 and play mini games the sound gets quite annoying and the graphics arent great but all in all a 
 very good game and well worth $50 lets get a hundred words bob bob bob bob bob bob bob bob bob 
 bob bob bob bob
  
  bbbbbbbbbbb
  ooooooooooo
  bbbbbbbbbbb
  
  rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr
  ooooooooooo
  ccccccccccccc
  kkkkkkkkkkkkk
  sssssssssss
  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a 
 a a a a a a a a aa a a a aa a a aaaaaaa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a a aa a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa a 
 a a aa a a a a aa a a a a a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SBF9304
Rating: 7
Date: May 14, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Eragon is one of those games you'll either like or dislike. Its very similar to the Harry 
 Potter games on PC, so if you liked those games you should like this game. Doing various tasks, 
 collecting presents/photos, and even dragon riding.
  
  The graphics are pretty cool. The sound/music is okay, but it gets a bit tedious after awhile (it 
 always changes when your going to fight an enemy; so that might get annoying after a bit) .
  
  The play control doesn't take long to get used to. At most 30 minutes. 
  
  The save situation 
 though kinda sucks. You could mess up about +30 minutes of work (er ah, playing aggravation) . And 
 then it becomes tedious. Also, if you make a foolish mistake like dragon travel to cave, but guess 
 what, you can't get out of it using dragon travel, your sunk there too (like last night I did that, 
 and it wiped out +45 minutes of hard fighting/aggravation) . 
  
  And although, there is very little replay value, I don't see you getting through this game in 5 
 hours (unless your using cheat codes) . I specifically said to myself one day, "you've been working 
 hard with data entry training + WAL*MART, you deserve to have total relaxed day." And so I played 
 this game from start to finish all day long, and still couldn't get through in one day. I played 
 from like 11am-9pm at night (with meal, snack, and stretch breaks in between, but still) . Its more 
 like +10 hours of playtime.
  
  So overall, if your looking for a game like the Harry Potter PC games, then I wouldn't waste my 
 time hesitating whether or not to get this game, because this game is the best match (and you can 
 probably get it for decent price now) . If not, then I'd probably rent first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlehaze416
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 4, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Eragon was a disappointment completely. The touch screen controls are nonresponsive, there are 
 sequences where you must match the drawing shown on the screen, and even if you get it nearly identical, 
 the game will turn you down half the time. Still, this can be overcome with multiple tries. The 
 game's worst problem is the map, which is a terrible and impossible to read blunder that will leave 
 you dazed and confused because of the game's large environments. I routinely got lost and turned 
 around, and the fact that the grainy, dark environments look identical throughout the level doesnt 
 help. The humans look good, but killing the enemies is actually more pleasing, given the fact that 
 they look like a nonshaven, shirtless Michael Moore with a spray-on tan. The combat is simple button-mashing, 
 the side quests will just get you more lost, and the sound is terrible.
  This game sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherlock99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  eragon is a really cool game for the ds i have had so much with fun title i could not put it down 
 i have never seen the movie but i found the game on amazon. com for 12 dollars so i bought it in 
 im glad i did the game is so much fun the graphics are really great for a ds game love the music 
 the only real trouble i had with the game is spell casting the touch screen is not as responseive 
 as it souuld because times you cast the wrong spell by miskate which can be annoying the enemies 
 can be stupid at times i love the parts when you get to ride your dragon it gives the game an epic 
 feel i love this this game alot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melchenyi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 2, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  Eragon DS follows closely to the storyline of the movie, although I haven't watched it yet, the 
 game is able to give an insight to what the story is about. You start in the swarms where you are 
 taught how to jump, cut bushes away, and the basic moves. You are also provided with a bow and 
 arrow to start with. A map is given at which points are marked to show where you need to go to, 
 which is the gold circle.
  
  You then arrive in the village that Eragon stays with his uncle. You are told to find the egg and 
 hide it somewhere. When that happens, the urgals come and destroy your home and kill your uncle. 
 Your quest then begins to search for the ragnouk, kill him and avenge your uncle.
  
  The annoying part is that sometimes you need to repeat levels to gain more health and experiences 
 for your swordplay, archery and spells in order to defeat the kings. Eragon's dragon rides are 
 also pretty hard to control, the 3D view and Sapphira's speed make it hard to control where she 
 flies, thus a few tries are need to get through the rings. Overall, it's still a game worth playing, 
 and it's not too short of a game for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 4
Date: May 28, 2007 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Eragon is based on the motion picture and takes place in Alagaesia (however you spell that) . You 
 get the exciting role of being a farmboy who gets to go kill urgals and a shade to save the continent. 
 The good part about Ergaon are the graphics. Eragon looks good for a DS title, and it is much better 
 than most DS games. Characters look fairly good, and the enviroment is up to par. Now for the bad. 
 The worst thing about Eragon is the gameplay. Enemies can easily take you out in 3 hits, and with 
 normal enemies being surrounded by about 5 or so archers, good-bye weak little farm boy. You're 
 done. The sound is scratchy and the music is very...... lame. And finally, the game. The overall 
 game is very short, and is really dumb when you meet people in the middle of a fores that give 
 you challenges. I mean, realistic at all??? No. And there are even old woman in desolate snowy 
 peaks saying things like, can you find th box i've hidden 5 minutes away? (scratch the last part) . 
 So finally, this is Firefox saying, Don't buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: babybb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 28, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I've heard alot of people say bad things about this game, DONT LISTEN! This game is awsome. The 
 graphics are superb (as far as DS's go) and gameplay is just what you want, has a sort of rpg them 
 to it as well.
  one MAJOR disappointment, nothing like the book for example, in the book the razac kill brom, but 
 not in this. I just want to say if you think this game is going to be like the book your wrong. 
 I havnt seen the movie yet but hope to. So if you really liked the books, but hated the movie, 
 maybe you shouldnt get this game : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellowcoconut
Rating: 3.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  ok ok ok first of all the book was great but then they make a crapy movie and then they make a 
 game of a crapy movie? i meen movie based games r bad as it is but seriously!!! the game was pretty 
 terrible i meen the game play is the same exact thing over and over and over mostly button mashing!! 
 and when u do a spell u have to right a simble.... why?! he says the spell not writes it down if 
 that were the case hed be dead along time ago and on the few times that ur saphire (dragon) the 
 30 secound levle with her is so stupid if u miss a ring ur imedietly shot down by arrows with suprisingly 
 perfect aime i meen come  ok christophere polini i read 
 eragon twice and eldest once and im awaiting ur new book i sat threw that crapy movie that messed 
 up ur book and this is wat i get back? no no no a 2 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeytoes61
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 20, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Eragon is an Action RPG and is definately one of my favorites. The RPG part of the game is different 
 than your average RPG. Instead of leveling up your character you level up your weapons instead. 
 For instance your sword starts of with a 2 weak slash combo and 1 strong slash. But by using the 
 sword those will eventualy turn into 4 or 5 slash combos. But the game is mainly action. You have 
 many weapons at your disposel. You have a dagger (later in the game you will get a sword then a 
 dagger-sword combo) . You also have a bow. You have a limited number of arrows but don't worry about 
 running out. You won't use it often due to the fact you can't move and shoot at the same time. 
 Later on during the game you will get 4 spells. These, like the sword and bow can be upgraded them 
 by using them over and over again. The touch screen is used a lot. To use items such as herbs to 
 heal Eragon or gems to replenish his macic you just draw the symbol. To use spells you must also 
 draw the symbol. There are a few levels where you fly on the back of your trusty dragon Saphira. 
 Don't get too excited. Almost all of them are flying through rings. Not fun. There is one where 
 you must shoot Durza (antagonist of the story) and his dragon out of the sky with fireballs. Still 
 not fun. Along with these are some bad minigames. One is where you talk with Saphira by drawing 
 symbols. It gets faster and faster until you just can't draw that quickly. It gets pretty boring 
 after a while. Another one includes flying a dragon from a top-down perspective and once again 
 firing fireballs at 3 other dragons. This one is too easy and can be beat without much difficulty. 
 Graphics are pretty average. Sometimes blocky but most of the time smooth. I can not tell you enough 
 to buy Eragon so you will enjoy it just as I have. (sorry about spelling errors I let my nephew 
 type it) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madnesspro
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 17, 2007 1:22 am PT
Review:  when i played eragon it was a bit boring but when i got into it it was really extremely fascinating 
 now ive read the book twice seen the movie and cant wait to buy the dvd!!! the game at first i 
 felt to be a bit hard but as the game got more into depth and id been playing it for longer it 
 waas a bit easier! i think this would be a much better game for boys coz there is probably to much 
 fighting involves P. S. this was written by someone else! la la la la la la la la la l al i cant 
 think of much else to say so bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccermaster22
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it movie games are usually never good but maybe Eragon might just skip that section and 
 move into a new one. Eragon DS is a surprisingly good game.
  
  Graphics
  
  Eragon looks good and the enviroments look good as well. Theres not a wide variety of enemies put 
 they have different weapons and different ways of attacking its also fun watching them chopped 
 up into mince meat. Rivers look good and there are couple of good scenery spots to stare at. Eragon 
 has many moves and they look different as he gets better weapons
  
  Sound
  
  Not bad gets repetitive a couple of times though
  
  Gameplay
  Follows the movie though I 
 have not seen it yet but does do a good job retelling it. Draw magic symbols in touchscreen and 
 throw with stylus ( believe or not it can be fun. Variety of large levels. Guessing about 16-17 
 .Enemies can be interesting enough to kill except when the framerate goes real low ( feels like 
 slow-motion matrix ) especially when 10 enemies appear at once in one level. Side- quests get repetitive 
 only played some as they got annoying.
  
  Value
  Lasted me about 7 hours now playing again. but it could get a bit boring playing the third-time 
 though even still pretty satisfied by buying it . and a really fun game through out.
  
  A nice game, great graphics , fair sound , lasts 7 hours playing it the first time. A new standard 
 that all movie tie-in games should follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swrdof1000trths
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Atleast give Eragon on the ds and psp a chance because they are a tiny bit better than the console 
 versions, especially the ds one. Although, it's still not to good, and at best a rental. There 
 are actually quite a few good parts about it. Ign even called it sort of the elder scrolls IV of 
 the ds which I can agree with, but like them I also believe for every good choice and part they 
 put into the game there's a bad one. I'll list the good parts first.
  -The gameplay is surprisingly good, you get sort of the lock on Zelda type gameplay with dodges 
 and rolls and there is some nice upgradable combos that you've got. The bow parts aren't bad but 
 you have to be locked on to hit the guys or else it doesn't work for some reason. Horrible design 
 choice.. but it's fine and dandy
  -good character models and animations
  -decent songs reminiscient of the movie
  -lots of miniquests to sidetrack you from your main 
 ones
  -spellcasting could of been good
  -nice draw distance and an open world
  
  And now the bad.
  -spells system is stupid and inaccurate when it could have been good
  -it's 
 short
  -the miniquests are lame and just the same thing over again, no variety
  -you always have to put the map back up
  -the text is godawful and most people while they do 
 have something to say, it's mostly just the same thing as everyone else. In Daret 90% of the people 
 say Sure are alot of soldiers here, I wonder why. That's ****** annoying!!!
  -textures are muddy and bland
  -the extra mode is the gayest thing I've ever played.
  -Is there 
 a story in this game? I didn't hear any of it, just kinda went by. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: basludanto
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Eragon for the DS is a fun romp that displays some impressive technical aspects and gameplay with 
 innovative uses of the DS touchscreen, although not without a few drawbacks. They're not enough 
 to declare the game a disaster, or even a poor game, but it seems that with a little more effort 
 this could have been one of the strongest entries in the DS library. Notwithstanding, if the player 
 is able to overlook some small things they will get a high amount of satisfaction, albiet somewhat 
 briefly.
  
  The story to the game is nothing revolutionary: evil forces are spreading themselves for some evil 
 purpose, led by an evil looking overlord and doing evil things. The player is in the role of Eragon, 
 a young man who seems to be an orphan (the game is not entirely clear in this aspect. Perhaps the 
 book is, but I have not read it) who is destined for greater things. Unfortunately, there are quite 
 a few loose ends left by the end of the game, with many characters seeming to exist solely to get 
 Eragon to another town. I would assume that this is in order to get everyone to buy the sequel, 
 should it be made, but some things that should be wrapped up in this particular chapter are introduced 
 and then never addressed again. But a somewhat weak story (one must remember that this game is 
 based on a book written by a 15 year old) can be forgiven if the gameplay is engaging enough, right? 
 In Eragon's case, this is mostly true. Combat is fluid, complete with strafing ability and unlockable 
 combos, the spell system is great fun (I experienced no real lack of responsiveness from the touchscreen 
 outside of one spell) , and upgrading is satisfying without being tedious. It starts off as a bit 
 ungainly, but after a few tries it becomes less of a problem to remove the stylus to draw a spell 
 or enable the bow. In the case of the spells, I found it very satisfying to flick the icon in the 
 direction of the enemy and watch them react. And although the bow has been termed useless by some 
 reviewers, with a little patience to upgrade it, it becomes on of the more powerful weapons and 
 helpful tools. There are enough recharge items (for health, spell power, and arrows) scattered 
 around so that you don't have to be stingy with anything or be overly worried of dying, unless 
 you plunge yourself into battle without a plan. The environments are well designed and have enough 
 texture and variety to keep the world interesting to explore.
  
  There are, of course, a few drawbacks. The first and largest is the length of the game: it just 
 feels anti-climactic at the end. This was the first and only time I have been disapointed to defeat 
 the final boss in one battle (something I would normally welcome with tears of joy) . However, most 
 games on the DS so far have been fairly short, so I don't believe that one can fault this game 
 in particular too much. It would seem just to be a technical limitation of the system (I hope I'm 
 wrong on this and it's just laziness on the part of the developers) . The sound in the game is fine, 
 although lacking in the music department. Whether or not it is true, it seemed that there were 
 two songs total in the game. If it IS true, than the developers should be criticized for their 
 laziness. If it is NOT true, the composer should be sacked for his lack of imagination. There are 
 occasional glitches in the graphics, but for the most part they are few and far between. There 
 are several side quests included, but with the reward being most usually some concept art (pretty, 
 but not exciting) , there is little motivation to complete them all.
  
  All in all, I would recomend that anyone pick up this game for a fun adventure, as long as they 
 were prepared for it to be a short one. I can only hope that, if a sequel is made, there is a bit 
 more length packed in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harleyoz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 4, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Did gs evein play the game 6.4 come on this game rocks excellent battle great use of the touch-screen
 
  the only thing that lets it down is low fps in places nothing better than turning a foe to stoned 
 then running up and taking them down apart from taking out chickens with the bow rofl .
  Huge, sprawling environments are knocked down a few notches by murky textures. Character models 
 look great and move well
  ambient music fits the environments
  IF u do all the mini-quests. the game will play out to around 10 hours might find something very 
 special here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  So there are a zillion other reviews for this game already, and for the most part, they tell the 
 tale that is Eragon-DS quite accurately. I write this simply to add a thing or two to the pile 
 of information you can find here at GS, in IGN, in GameRadar, etc.
  
  First off, the 'world' is very immersive, making you feel very much like you are running around 
 an actual 'place', instead of running a maze of boxy rooms (like Deep Labyrinth was) . Quick load 
 times (less than a second) between map segments and decently rendered (but slightly repetitive) 
 textures for walls/ground/sky help maintain the feeling of you actually being somewhere when playing.
 
  
  The bow is not as bad as many reviews make it seem. The intent was, I think, for the bow to be 
 used in a sort of sniper fashion, where you run just close enough that the enemies don't 'see' 
 you, but you can still get a shot or two off. This is accomplished quite easily since you have 
 an overhead map with all enemy locations clearly marked on the second screen. I don't know why 
 people don't like the bow, frankly.... I use it nearly all the time to safely clear out a room, 
 reserving the melee weapons for boss battles or for when I run out of arrows. So what if you can't 
 move when firing a bow... you can't do that in real life, so why allow it in the game?
  
  The game length can be on the short side if you just visit each area once. However, it is possible 
 to return to previously explored regions to find every secret item (dragon teeth and scales, which 
 permanently add to your HP and MP maxes) , as well as to gain more experience using the weapons 
 or magic (which make them stronger when used) .
  
  The game does not feel like a slogfest at all. Despite the hack-n-slash nature of this game, I 
 never felt like I was on a dungeoncrawl (like I did when playing Deep Labyrinth) . It just didn't 
 ever seem to get tedious, thanks to the large, diverse regions to explore, both inside and out. 
 When entering a castle, it really looks and feels like a castle. When in a small town, it looks 
 and feels like a small town, and you can talk to most of the inhabitants to get cheesy side-quests 
 or to just hear what their opinion is of the current state of affairs ( The king isn't helping 
 us... what are we to do? ) . Again, not major earth-moving stuff, but it changes up the activity, 
 rather than simply running in and killing everything that moves. In short, the graphics are decent, 
 the story is good, the world is immersive, and the length is a wee bit shorter than hoped for, 
 but not short enough to feel like a rip-off. Can't ask formuch more than that in a fantasy adventure 
 RPG-like dungeoncrawl. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Master359
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Eragon for DS is a very good magical hack and slash adventure game. Its graphics are pretty good 
 except at an angle it looks like they have triangular faces. Saphira is the best graphical thing 
 in the game. The creators must've worked hard and long to produce her. The urgals are cool. Most 
 games the creatures just stand there waiting for you to hit them. The Urgals are at a distance. 
 You try to creep up on them but they see yu and come slashing to pieces. The difficulty is medium 
 because i died all the friggin time. The story goes more like the book not like the movie. If you 
 have seen the movie and read the book you should know. Riding Saphira was great (u had to try and 
 go through rings while flying) .
  The magic is pretty good. But the problem was that drawing it was so freakin hard that during the 
 pause thing i tried to draw it but no luck. I can't tell you how much i died from that.
  overall Eragon is a pretty inpressive game that keeps you battling more and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: space_cadet89
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  I usually don't play games like Eragon, but once I saw the movie I was addicted to anything about 
 it. So obviously, I am not that good at these kind of games, but I thought it had a very easy learning 
 curve and once I got to remembering what button was what, I thought it was insanley easy.
  
  If you don't play these games like me, it will take you a couple of days to finish the game. 
 But, it still won't take you that long. The graphics were okay. They could have been better, but 
 by game standards, it alright. The only part of the graphics I liked was how the game Saphira looked 
 just like the one in the movie. I was also glad that the game was just like the book and not the 
 movie, since the movie cut out a lot of the parts that were in the book.
  
  From my standards, I thought the game deserved a rating of 7 for how some might find it challenging 
 and how well it was based off the book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikastar
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Eragon mixes hack n slash with magic to create a fun and entertaining game. The use of the touch 
 screen is nice for magic because it allows you to throw it in any direction you wish. There are 
 a variety of moves to use with your dagger and sword that allows this game to be greater than all 
 of the one button mashers. The sword, bow, and magic grow stronger throughout the game as you use 
 them more and more. I wish they had more flying with saphira and fighting with her as well. The 
 places where she talked to you and you have to draw the symbol was boring. It slowed the game down. 
 Overall there are some places where they could have taken the effort to make it an amazing game 
 but still it is very fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrCruel
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I was looking for a fairly priced ($30) RPG game for the DS. Eragon fits the bill nicely. It uses 
 the sort of spell system one sees in Lost Magic and Deep Labyrinth , but couples it with a workable 
 2.5D open world - the main reason, besides cost, I chose this over Final Fantasy III . I only have 
 a passing familiarity with the Eragon saga, so it's not because of fandom that I picked up this 
 title - I wanted an AD&amp; D style 1st-person gaming environment, which Eragon does provide.
  
  It does have interesting features that might not appeal to everyone. Flying the dragon through 
 rings reminded me too much of Starfox , and many of the quests are little more than scavenger hunts. 
 But for a small, handheld game it really does excel. Walking around in the town buildings and talking 
 to residents, or interacting with NPCs in the wilderness, delivers a real depth to the gaming experience 
 - despite the fact that the orcs sit around while you pot them with arrows, it really does transcend 
 the sort of rat hunt experience one might have gotten in the old Everquest game. It's unfortunate 
 that a multiplayer option doesn't exist (this game just cries out for WiFi support) , but for the 
 price and convenience of play I'm more than satisfied. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firedrag
Rating: 3.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. It is a disgrace top Eragon. I would have much rather rea dhte book for 
 the twelfth time then play this game. It is very hard, and the gameplay is very bland. It's the 
 type of gameplay I would have expected form about 4 years ago, but we've changed now with our video 
 game making knowlegde, unfourtunately this game didn't.
  
  The story is very good though. It takes after the novel by Chirstopher Paolini, even thouhg the 
 novel is much, much, much better. The story is obviously about the main character, Eragon. The 
 graphics are good, but they don't deserve any awards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iownhalo
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I was so happy when I made my name on this game. I loved it, great gameplay, amazing graphics for 
 a DS game, and a great fighting system. A good quest system too. Unfortunately, after about two 
 hours of playing I was over. Done the game. I now want to bring the game back to the store, not 
 only did it not have multiplayer like gamespot said (which im not to dissapointed about anyway) 
 but it was short as crap. If you want a great DS open world RPG, get this. But if you do, rent 
 it, because you will definitely beat it by the time it is due to be returned. And all of you who 
 loved this game, I did too, I mean I'm not degrading it in any way, I loved it too. It was just 
 way too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zcds
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Eragon like its console conterparts is a hack n slash adventuer RPG. The combat systom is no one 
 button masher here it ofers viritey! You unlock more moves RPG style. Same goes as the bow your 
 bow will get more powerfull the more you use it. You also get to use spells and finaly FIANLY!, 
 some one put in a time freez for spells. You will have time to draw spells with out geting killed. 
 The spells are fun to use and theres even one that freezes them up in the air and another one to 
 throw them. Kinda like a jedi. Spells also leavel up much like in Final fantasy 2. Combat is like 
 zelda you have a lock on, roll, and a block, It mostley revolves aroun the X and Y button. Y being 
 standerd attack and X being a strong finisher. A can be a kick or a swip (depending on what move 
 you have for that sword and yes you wil lose some moves changeing swords) B is used for a jump 
 and you even have an jump and swipe. The game is not like zelda you wont free roam for town to 
 town going to doungens its like chapters but you can revist certain parts of the game. There are 
 dragon leavels but not like the psp you just go though hoops its still mildley fun thoe. You will 
 also have to go thoe some miney game were you draw symbols on the touch screen to talk to your 
 dragon its fun at first but gets kinda hard as you go along. The bigest complant I have about this 
 game is the cammra its moslty good to you but at times can be N64 bad. The cammra is contoled with 
 a little whell but luckly you can freez time to move it. There are also invisable walls but about 
 99% of the time they are blocking whater and who wants to go in water? When it gets down right 
 to it Eragon is a fun solid adventuer. i would have liked to see some more over the top moves, 
 more of a storey, and no gba like screens (some fvm would have been nice) But sadly Eragon is to 
 short it too kme about 5hrs to beat it (about 2 were spent dieing and doing it over) Theres 2 miney 
 games to unlock ok but nothing to go back and paly. Concept art is avialbe to find after you beat 
 it. Most would want to waite for a price drop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powerruben
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 21, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  This game is a perfect 3d action adventure for the ds.
  The graphics are amazing, it took me 5 hours to finish the game.
  It was too short because i 
 like this game!
  You can play and train after you finish the game, so thats good.
  
  You can't get bored in this game because you get every 20 minutes playing a new magic spell.
 
  you can learn new moves with your knife and if you train the knife 100% you get a red long sword, 
 and if you train that 100% you can attack with the red sword and knife at the same time (:
  
  A lot of magic spells, you can draw a symbol with your stylus and activate a spell.
  
  
 This is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turtle360
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Man, when i first look at the cover and screens for this game i was like, then another gay deep 
 labyrinth game. And was i wrong. This game is really close in many aspects to the Legend of Zelda 
 Ocarina of Time except is more mature and the graphics are a lot better. The first thing that this 
 game drag my attention towards was the graphics. I was really impress by them since is on the ds 
 lite and it's not known for the best graphics especially when compare to the psp. But get this 
 straight, THE GRAPHICS ARE AWESOME! After graphics, i didn't think the game play was gonna be that 
 cool but this time a was more wrong than the first time. The way you lock on to your enemies, do 
 forward, backward and side jumps and the sword, bows and arrow reminded me a lot The Legend of 
 Zelda Ocarina of Time on the n64 and it also disappointed me because The Legend of Zelda Phantom 
 Hourglass (future Zelda game for the ds lite) isn't going to use this type of graphics and controls, 
 but i'm still hoping is a great title and my hopes are up since its the continuation of the Wind 
 Waker and i freaken loved that game. Well overall, THE GAME PLAY IS A MASTER PIECE! Pretty much 
 the only thing i didn't like were the picture that the show when telling the story. They're all 
 distorted and un-alive, but the good thing is that is only that and they're really short when showing 
 them to you. The bosses in this game are actually challenging and required quite a lot of strategy 
 like locking on to him and getting them through their back and dodging their attacks. OVERALL , 
 THIS IS A MUST OWN TITLE FOR THE DS LITE!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
