-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Etrian Odyssey II: Heroes of Lagaard
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/sekaijunomeikyuu2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plethora of weapons, armor, items, and character abilities to unlock.
 Small but welcome interface and cartography improvements.
 Lengthy quest and a challenge level that will keep you invested.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 That challenge level may also induce hair loss.
 Bare-bones story offers very little exposition.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.2, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 159 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Jun 13, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Etrian Odyssey II's brutality and grinding is initially off-putting, but push on and you're in for 
 an intense, rewarding experiences. 

  Last year's Etrian Odyssey delivered classic turn-based role-playing on the Nintendo DS, complete 
 with mapmaking, serious level grinding, and excellent character customization options. Those who 
 played it will undoubtedly remember having to spend hours powering up their parties just to take 
 down one of the game's many vicious enemies. Those who haven't will be able to experience this 
 same action -- with some welcome additions -- in Etrian Odyssey II: Heroes of Lagaard, a sequel that 
 barely alters the core gameplay of the original but refines it just enough to make it more palatable. 

  In Etrian Odyssey II, you trudge through the multiple floors of a forest labyrinth with the ultimate 
 goal of reaching and exploring a mythical floating palace. The game's sparsely presented story 
 revolves around retrieving medicines and a sacred chalice from the forest and this magnificent 
 edifice; other bits and pieces of the plot are delivered through the talking-head introductions 
 to the various side quests you can embark on.  

           Oh, look! A floating box! It's so shiny...      

  If you're not deterred by the bare-bones 
 plot, the game's difficulty might do you in. Don't be surprised if you find yourself in an impossible 
 situation within the game's first hour: Scrappy beasts won't hesitate to eliminate half of your 
 party after just a few battles, and your limited funds -- reduced thanks to the need to purchase 
 your initial weapons and armor -- might not be enough to heal the injured. Your enemies don't drop 
 money; instead, you have to sell the remains they hopefully leave behind.  

  With persistence and a little luck, though, you'll be well on your way to the enjoyable meat of 
 the game. The nameless soldiers you recruit specialize in one of 12 different classes (one of which 
 isn't available from the outset) , each of which sports a combination of more than 15 upgradeable 
 attributes, passive skills, and in-battle skills. Some skills are opened by leveling up others, 
 leaving you with a deep tech tree to play with. You're afforded only one skill point for each level 
 you gain, and there's an initial level cap of 70, meaning that it isn't possible to max out every 
 skill. Progress is slow, but it also has the side effect of motivating you to choose your upgrades 
 wisely and take every battle seriously.  

  The labyrinth's floors are divided into groups of five, called "Strata," and the jump in difficulty 
 between each Stratum's typical battles is tangible. Each one starts off with denizens that can 
 incapacitate one or two of your party members early on. After hours of fighting and regrouping, 
 you'll grow powerful enough to use the auto-fight feature for level grinding. You'll need to employ 
 this practice intently to combat each floor's many FOEs (Foedus Obrepit Errabundus) -- powerful enemies 
 analogous to minibosses -- that block your progress to upper floors and key treasures. Most of them 
 are ferocious enough to send even a victorious party back to town to recharge exhausted health 
 and tech points, and a select few are too powerful for you to fight at all. It's this intense challenge -- the 
 thought that each battle might be your swan song -- that keeps things exciting, and teaches you to 
 know when to turn tail. You're given warps from town directly to certain points in the dungeon 
 every two floors, cutting down on the backtracking; but you're only able to save in town and on 
 every fifth floor, so you won't take any battle for granted.  

  Being able to handily beat the FOEs in a given Stratum signals that you're ready to take on its 
 boss enemy. Oddly, bosses don't yield experience, but they invariably drop rare items that you 
 can exchange both for large sums of money and powerful merchandise. Merchandise management is another 
 gripping aspect of the game. The town's merchant combines every item you sell to create a bevy 
 of new weapons, armor, accessories, and consumable items, an arsenal that grows as you endure combat. 
 So while it would be easy to dismiss the "auto-level" button as an admission of guilt to monotonous 
 level-grinding gameplay, this same grinding leads to better and better toys for you to wield.  
 

           Are you ready to tell your friends how badly the Great Pumpkin trounced you?      

 
  Like its predecessor, Etrian Odyssey II's most unique aspect isn't the hardened challenge, customization, 
 or equipment harvesting. Rather, it's the extensive grid-based mapmaking utility that it grants -- no, 
  pushes --upon you. The game tracks every square you walk on, but it's up to you to note the locations 
 of treasures, FOEs, doors, exits, and shortcuts. Some quests require that you map out every inch 
 of a given floor. Those intimately familiar with the original game will appreciate the much larger 
 arsenal of cartography icons this time around, allowing you to distinguish between one- and two-way 
 shortcuts, different types of doors, and significant monuments. Diligently drawing your surroundings 
 is crucial to survival and at times seems like a job, but having the comprehensive maps to show 
 off at the end of the day is something that the completist in you can be proud of.  

  It's not hard to pay attention to the forest as you jot down details, as the labyrinth is pretty 
 to look at. Trees dominate the background, but a dollop of color has been added since the original 
 game, giving some life to flowers that sprout next to the trees and showing a distinctive drop 
 in light as day gradually turns into night (when FOEs become more aggressive) . Such details as 
 fluttering leaves and snowflakes round out the successful efforts the game makes in masking its 
 corridor-based environments. Composer Yuzo Koshiro, of Streets of Rage and Actraiser fame, lends 
 a unique marriage of synthesized instruments with gentle melodies to the soundtrack. A game like 
 this normally begs for traditional orchestration, but the initially odd music quickly takes on 
 a charm that's hard to find elsewhere.  

  It's rare to find a game that can sometimes feel like work yet still be enjoyable. Etrian Odyssey 
 II: Heroes of Lagaard is definitely one of these games, whether it's due to the sheer sense of 
 accomplishment that comes with defeating FOEs, the excitement of discovering new loot, or the complete 
 control you have over your characters' growth. So long as you're not afraid of a game that'll hold 
 you by the throat and slap you around every now and again, this game -- like Etrian Odyssey before 
 it -- is one of the deeper, more gratifying role-playing experiences you'll find for the Nintendo 
 DS.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (12 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: NardBasket
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:55 am PT
Review:  Etrian Odyssey 2: Heroes of Lagaard is awesome, to put it simply. It's an old-school turn-based 
 RPG, and quite a punishing one at that. The premise of the game is that you're one of numerous 
 explorers travelling to the city of Lagaard, which is built around the base of a giant tree that's 
 referred to as the Yggdrasil Labyrinth. When you start out, you'll create end organize characters 
 in your own guild, and then place those characters in a party to explore the labyrinth at the heart 
 of tne city. Gameplay is very level-grinding, which is a nice throwback from today's all-too-forgiving 
 cinematic rpg's in my opinion. Storyline here is minimal: make it to the top of the labyrinth, 
 and gain wealth and power. If you're a fan of games like Orcs and Elves, Doom RPG, Ultima, or the 
 Elder Scrolls series, here is the masochistic whipping you've been longing for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimsonthegod
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, This game does a good job of showing people just how stupid they can look, all while 
 making them feel like gods when they finally take down the next boss in the chain. The game itself, 
 is the sequel to Etrian Odyssey, And does a good job of keeping up with the tried and true formula 
 that made Etrian Odyssey a cult classic.
  
  Do you like Hours of grinding? Do you like immense customization? Does your Flesh tingle at the 
 thought of taking on a huge boss, that can 1-hit your party if your not smart? Then this is the 
 game for you.
  
  From the start the difficulty is un-relenting, none of the usually learning curve. In fact forget 
 the learning curve, this game throws you into an enviroment that is as hard from the start as it 
 is at the end. The constant growth of difficulty ensures you can never just sit back and take a 
 nap. You always need to be on the ball, and battles are won and lost when you make good decisions 
 or forget to tell your Medic to heal your party. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deralict
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  This game has made no effort at all to be accessable to the general public. It will not bring new 
 fans to the gaming world. It will not convert gamers who like other gaming styles, like real time 
 strategy. Clearly it was made by, and for, hardcore role players. I mean the real hardcore, not 
 the wannabe hardcore. Seriously, if you have never played an RPG before, or if you think that Diablo 
 was an RPG, try Final Fantasy or Dragon Quest instead. 
  
  That said, by golly, there is no more authentic RPG on any platform. Lots of stats, lots of reloading 
 after your whole party was wiped out, lots of items, lots of monsters (many of them willing and 
 able to kick your sweet patootie) . And just in case you thought it might be a little too forgiving, 
 you make your own maps here. I mean it, it's not an option, it is how you do it. Keh. Bwahahaha. 
 
  
  This is for the few, the proud, the nerdy, the un-math-challenged, and the very, very, patient. 
 
  
  I love it. 
  
  PS: Wait a sec. I'm trying to get over certain materialistic tendancies, so let me amend. 
  
 
  I *love* my wife. 
  
  I *like* this game. 
  
  A lot. I do. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: digitaltiger
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Etrian Odyssey 2 is a fun and additive game. Combat is simple turn based and you get to have up 
 to 5 characters in your party. You also have to be sneaky to advance in some parts of the game 
 which is fun, some special monsters called FOE's are so difficult to defeat that you have to sneak 
 around them in order to advance. This can create lots of suspense since the FOE will chase you 
 and will some times corner you in dead ends. The characters also have a child like quality to them 
 that gives Etrian Odyssey 2 a charming feel. Combat and exploration is the core of the game and 
 both are well balanced.
  
  What isn't well balanced is the amount of combat needed to level up a class to see if you want 
 to have it in your party or not. A lot of skills don't work very well until you max them out, this 
 means lots of wasted time combat grinding to see which classes you prefer. During my adventure 
 I had to create many new characters that were much weaker then the rest of the party and then baby 
 sit them until they finally were strong enough to pull their own weight.
  
  Overall Etrian Odyssey 2 is a very good game that is fun but will punish you for any mistakes you 
 make.
  
  Game Play = 7
  Graphics = 7
  Sound = 7
  Value = 9
  
  Overall = 7.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Role-playing games are one of gaming's most popular franchises, and as a result it's one that, 
 generally speaking, is constantly being evolved. Over the years, specific landmarks can be identified 
 as having marked an evolution of RPGs. Final Fantasy IV abandoning a strictly turn-based battle 
 mechanic and incorporating real-time aspects into battles. Or Tales of Phantasia moving completely 
 into real time, where characters moved in a 2D plane and attacked, blocked, and used spells at 
 will. But just because RPGs are different -- "improved" -- than they were 5 or 10 or even 15 years 
 ago doesn't necessarily mean that the RPGs of old are all that bad. Atlus has shown us this before 
 with Etrian Odyssey on the DS, and the hardcore, old-school series is back for a second round with 
 Etrian Odyssey II: Heroes of Lagaard. 
  
  Etrian Odyssey II essentially takes everything you loved about old-school RPGs and pretty much 
 keeps everything it was years and years ago. So as you might expect, there's not a lot of story 
 here. Instead, you're told of a gate to a world in the sky and a treacherous labyrinth that is 
 the secret to the portal. You, as an avid adventurer, are given the task of exploring the dungeon 
 and discovering the mystery of the lost city. It's very standard and storytelling doesn't play 
 much of a role throughout the game. So you're off to the Explorer's Guild, where you'll create 
 your own characters, down to class, name, and cute little portrait. 
  
  Actually, there is one significant aspect of old-school RPGs that Etrian Odyssey II does away with: 
 the mediocre graphics. Rather, this game looks quite good, from the character portraits to background 
 images for the royal city to the intricate labyrinth to the hordes of different enemies that you'll 
 face off against. The game has a very distinct, anime-inspired visual style and it's one that works 
 quite well for the game. Etrian Odyssey II is by no means one of the best-looking games on the 
 DS, but considering the way the game is set up, everything looks quite nice. 
  
  Don't let the cute visuals fool you, though: Etrian Odyssey II is through and through a hardcore 
 game. You'll guide your party of five adventurers around various locations throughout the city, 
 but the place you'll be spending most of your time in is the elaborate labyrinth around which the 
 story is told. You're given a first person perspective of the dungeon -- you can only move forward 
 or backwards, but not to the sides. Having to physically turn 90 degrees every time you want to 
 round a corner can be a little disconcerting at first, but the controls are sharp and so while 
 they're not intuitive at first you'll soon get used to them. 
  
  Combat in Etrian Odyssey II is extremely basic. You won't be waiting for meters to fill up or dealing 
 with any fancy stylus work. It's all menu-based, and you'll execute actions by selecting them from 
 a list, choosing a target (if necessary) , and then waiting for the action to be done. In addition 
 to standard attacking, you can also perform magic attacks, use other various skills, use items, 
 and defend yourself. It's nothing all that new, but playing such an old-school, basic implementation 
 is surprisingly refreshing in an era where everything is all about innovation. 
  
  Of course, Etrian Odyssey II contains all the basic role-playing mechanics: experience points, 
 skills, levels-up, tons of items, equipment, weapons, and side quests. While Etrian Odyssey II 
 doesn't really add much to the genre, it's a fun, solid gameplay system. One interesting thing 
 that Etrian Odyssey II uses is its unique skill system. By defeating enemies, your characters will 
 obtain points that can then be used to unlock new skills or customize skills that you already have. 
 It allows for quite a bit of character customization, as each character possesses quite a wide 
 range of potential skills to use. Additionally, there's the engaging class system; when you enlist 
 a unit, you choose one of several classes, each with certain weapon restrictions and a unique skillset. 
 While you can have only five units in your party at a time, you can have up to 30 "reserve" units 
 that can be swapped in and out of your party when you're in the city. 
  
  One of the most awesome aspects of Etrian Odyssey II, and one that is carried over from the original, 
 is the mapmaking mechanic. Your quest is not only to explore the entire labyrinth, but also to 
 map it. This is supposedly a throwback to the olden days of dungeon crawling RPGs when fans would 
 make their own maps on graph paper or whatnot. But this is considerably simpler and easier; as 
 you wander throughout the labyrinth, the top screen will display your surroundings while the bottom 
 screen will display the map. However, you're only shown the grid spaces on the map that you've 
 actually traveled over, so there's a big motivation to completely explore each floor of the dungeon, 
 just to ensure that your map is complete. Drawing the map is as simple as zooming in with a tap 
 of the stylus, then drawing out boundaries, painting in floors, and filling in items such as doors, 
 staircases, treasure chests, and more. Mapping the labyrinth is surprisingly fun and really addictive, 
 and it definitely adds a lot to the game. 
  
  As big a draw as all these items may be, the biggest reason for the appeal of Etrian Odyssey II 
 is its insane difficulty level. It's a very old-school difficulty, largely because battles rely 
 less on skill and more on having done some level grinding (and some basic strategy never hurts 
 either) . At the beginning of the game, fighting just a few enemies can be hazardous to your party. 
 Having party members die is nothing out of the ordinary, and they can easily be revived once you're 
 out of the dungeon. But if all your characters die, it's game over and you'll have to start over 
 outside the labyrinth. Enemies are tough and plentiful, and even small encounters can take a chunk 
 out of your health. Boss fights are naturally even tougher, and overcoming even the first boss 
 is going to take a lot of dedicated leveling. 
  
  Etrian Odyssey II offers quite a lengthy adventure, largely because of the training you'll have 
 to do to overcome some of the game's most difficulty foes. Even disregarding that, the labyrinth 
 is absolutely huge (though there are helpfully place warp points so that you won't have to trek 
 through the entire dungeon every time you enter it) and will take quite a long time to explore 
 and map completely. Throw into the mix some solid character building and you've got yourself a 
 lengthy, engaging game. 
  
  All told, Etrian Odyssey II: Heroes of Lagaard is definitely one of the best, while by no means 
 the most original, RPG on the DS. It's a lengthy, challenging adventure that is any old-school 
 gamer's dream-come-true. If you're looking for a tough game, Etrian Odyssey II has you covered. 
 It doesn't do much that's creative, but it takes tried and true methods from traditional RPGs and 
 translated them very well into a retro role-playing title on the DS. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireboost11
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  This RPG, the sequel to the first one, is a really great game as it has every quality of a great 
 game.
  
  Graphics- great animeish characters and the monsters are nice too, as far as the attacks, they 
 are pretty standard except that the magic and skills are nice.
  
  Gameplay- the story is quite challenging, and long, but the mapping feature is very entertaining 
 as it allows you hours of extra activities, such as modifing your map. This is a big improvement 
 from games such as final fantasy, where yuou only search the world. The story is very good.
  
  Sound- i think the sound in the game is not bad, the different enviornments unique music specials 
 are good, but not the best.
  
  the character choosing and the many different jobs available from the outset, make the game interesting.
 
  
  overall the game is a good game and not one to be missed, espicially if your an rpg fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TiamatDraconis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 6:57 pm PT
Review:  I love this game.
  
  The end.
  
  No, really, its a great game... I just don't recommend it for non-hardcore RPG gamers. Don't expect 
 mercy and do not expect a walk in the park (or forest... whatever) .
  
  The "Short and Simple":
  
  In the game you spend a lot of time traversing 3d tunnel-style woods 
 with dangerous critters, and huge orange scary things that will kill you. The ultimate goal is 
 to be able to explore EVERYTHING, kill EVERYTHING and collect EVERYTHING so that you can make the 
 best armor, items, and weapons and take on the toughest orange scary things. Because of this you 
 may spend some time walking up and down the same damn hallways, killing the same damn baddies, 
 but in the end that's OK, because you get stronger and can get and kill better EVERYTHINGs.
  
  For those that don't mind a little grinding so they can deal with those scary orange orbs that 
 turn into massive monsters when you touch them, please buy this game. We must make Atlus deliver 
 more sequels or games like this one. Besides, nowhere else in the gaming world can you use a touch 
 screen to draw your own map, while exploring a dangerous, mysterious and beautiful forest. In the 
 words of Zero Punctuation; "If you don't like this game, you're stupid". Ok... not really... you 
 just aren't cool.
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  GRAPHICS: 8.5 - Nice looking 3d corridors, especially for a DS game.
  
  SOUND: 8.0 - Nothing too special, but it does remind me of the greatest SNES games.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
 8.0 - Unique and fun for hardcore gamers that otherwise don't get enough out of the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  VALUE: 9.0 - Its a very long quest with plenty of content.
  
  POSITIVES: Easy to use, unique touch-screen map drawing. Its a challenge. About the only hardcore 
 gaming experience (short of the original) that exists on the Nintendo DS.
  
  NEGATIVES: Meh story. Its hardcore. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roi_yan
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 1, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Author's sense of balance seems to have become amusing a little. 
  Because the occupation increases and the width of the party extended.
  A happy labyrinth search 
 was not so good in the former work this time. 
  
  The main reason is as follows. 
  
  1. A different place in the same floor .. same item.. includes the mining place. 
  This 
 is not a present for the player. It is negligent of the author. 
  
  2. The attack of the monster is variation shortage in the greatness last time. 
  Will 
 it be an evil that increases the occupation?
  Do you feel the sense of balance of quite unquestionable interesting the player 
 as for pressing?
  
  3. There are a lot of bugs. 
  As for this, the game play doesn't become impossible. 
  However, it is likely to come to have 
 to make the character if it doesn't know in advance. 
  It wishes to be corrected when putting it on the market in the United States. 
  Please refer 
 below wiki for details. It is being written in Japanese. 
  
  http://www5. atwiki. jp/sekaiju_maze2/pages/1. html
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphic became beautiful more greatly than last time, and the map became complex if it saw overall. 
 
  However, I thought that something was insufficient this time. 
  I wishes the author to be no inertia. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Challenging gameplay that doesn't hold your hand. Lots of stuff to find/make, and quests to undertake. 
 Tons of customization of the job classes.
  
  The Bad:
  A lot more grinding is necessary than the average player will want to do. Not much story. Little 
 improvement on graphics.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Atlus is one of those enigmatic companies that seems to relish in producing games that get extreme 
 reactions, both positive and negative, often for the same game. Case in point is the Etrian Odyssey 
 series, which is, in many ways, a rogue-style dungeon crawl, but with replays from the last save 
 implemented.
  
  This series is not for the faint of heart, or the impatient. Repeatedly in the game, NPCs warn 
 you to take it slow, and they mean it. Wander down the wrong corridor too soon, and your party 
 will become monster meat in a flash. There's little hand-holding here, to the point where if you 
 start the game and try doing the first dungeon without upgrading the weak-ass weapons your characters 
 began with, you can expect to be restarting in short order, since the first level consists of monsters 
 that can thrash your team into tomorrow if you aren't careful. 
  
  So, grinding is the word of the day here, and grind you must if you hope to take on the baddies 
 that lurk in the dungeon tree you will be climbing. And when I say grinding, I mean Grrrrrrrrinding! 
 An example: with moderate levels of replaying floors, I managed to grind up to lvl 30 with my characters. 
 At this point, I was handed a quest to take on a certain boss. Feeling confident with my crew (since 
 they chew up and spit out all the regular monsters at this point) I went to the room containing 
 said boss, and had my ass handed to me in ONE TURN. How? He breathed on me (literally... a breath 
 spell) . A little searching around, and I discovered that to beat said boss required roughly level 
 50 characters. Now, at this point, it was taking about 30 minutes to grind up a level, and that 
 time can only be expected to get longer and longer with subsequent levels. Getting the picture? 
 To beat said boss required roughly 10 more hours of grinding the same floor over and over.
  
  Luckily, the game is relatively decent to look at and listen to, as you probably already saw 
 in other reviews. 
  
  The bottom line here is, you must love a slow gradual buildup of your characters through thousands 
 of battles, in order to enjoy this game. 
  
  It's an acquired taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furbygan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Kudo's to Atlus for successfully making another sequel for their first release of 'Etrian Odyssey'. 
 As it's predecessor, Etrian Odyssey II will definitely not letting previous player dissapointed. 
 Even veteran player will find it challenging to complete the game~ If you had not played Etrian 
 Odyssey II before, it's a turn-based RPG game that is very challenging especially for the battle 
 tactics. 
  
  For the beginning, you might spent 3-5 hours just to grinding up your level at the first few floors. 
 Unlike other RPG game where you can kill the boss monster after spending around half an hour or 
 so to leveling up your party, Atlus had decided to make an exception with this series. Why? To 
 provide more fun and self-satisfaction to the players. It is always worth the troublesome to leveling 
 up your party at first.
  
  Overall, Atlus had made several improvements which the 1st series lack of :
  - Font style had 
 been change to formal style. In the earlier release, the font is somehow curved and kinda like 
 tree-leaf-style font.
  - 3 more job classes had been added which make it a total of 12.
  - For each skills, x/max skill level parameter had been added where x is the current level of the 
 skill.
  - If you're going to rest your character to reset/reallocate your particular character skill points, 
 your character will only drop down 5 levels instead of 10 levels.
  - If you had completed your first game before, you can enter the password on EOII to obtain a Town 
 Medal. (HP&TP+10, all stats +1) . However, all your characters in your guild (as in EO1) won't be 
 transfered in EOII. For me, I just recreate the exact same party as I completed the game in EO1. 
 Ah, those memories behind those name, hmm~
  - Several map indicators had been added (single way, double way, 3 colors floor map, etc) to ease 
 player to completing their map~
  
  Difference between EO1 and EO2:
  - In EO1, player will need to go deep (basement to basement) from each floor to seek out the Yggdrasil 
 secret. However, in EO2, you'll go to the upper floor to seeking out the Grail. Kinda fun eh?
 
  
  Graphic (9/10)
  As the first series, which previous player will had known, Atlus had decided NOT TO add any character 
 battle style at the screen. All you'll see is your enemies and some slash/elemental magic attack. 
 Yet, the monsters are well displayed and you won't probably forgot those sprites~
  
  Music (8/10)
  As a previous player of Etrian Odyssey, I couldn't get those battle or dungeon 
 crawling music out of my head. It's just upbeating and soothening for your soul. For EOII, all 
 music had changed except the victory music.
  
  The bottom line is if you had not been enjoying EO1 before, don't bother playing this game as it'll 
 probably end up that way. However, if you had complete or like EO1 before, you'll definitely love 
 this game as it's a released based on the comments player had given on EO1.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaichimfizzler
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  I have probably put in about 12 hours to this game already. There isn't anything fancy or special 
 about it, it's just a good solid RPG. The first Person dungeon explore mode is made simple to access, 
 the bottom screen allows you to draw the map out and plot points so that you know where everything 
 is once you have found it. That way you can get back to it quickly if you suddenly get a mission 
 for it. Other then that its just your regular turn based rpg with up to 12 different character 
 classes to use in your party. I enjoy it a lot, but it is definatly not for everyone, it is a slow 
 paced game and can be very challenging at times. Noting that give it a go, you may very well enjoy 
 this.
  I never beat the first game because it was so challenging but I see that they made this game not 
 nearly as bad, but that being said, the one recommendation I can make to you on this game is do 
 your best to not die. Its costly. You don't make a lot of money very easily at the beginning of 
 the game and the last thing you want to do is spend it on reviving your characters instead of buying 
 better gear so you can survive longer. Save a lot, and be ready to reload if your guys get dead 
 because its better to replay sections of the game then to lose your valuable money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naridar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:17 am PT
Review:  Well, it's finally here. The sequel for Etrian Odyssey has arrived. This time, the town of high 
 Lagaard needs help exploring a mysterious labyrinth, inside a massive tree called Yggdrasil. At 
 the start of the game, if we have the original Etrian Odyssey, we can enter a password from the 
 original, which makes us receive a town medal which can come in pretty handy at the beginning. 
 Just like the original, we must recruit some party members to join us inside the maze. This time 
 we have more classes, and only the beast is locked, but we unlock it pretty soon. The 3 new classes 
 are the Gunner, the War mage and the Beast, aside the original 9: Landsknecht (Brawler) , Survivalist, 
 Protector (Paladin) , Dark Hunter, Medic, Alchemist (Elementalist) , Troubadour, Ronin (Ninja) and 
 Hexer.
  
  After we assembled our party, we must go to the palace and accept a mission to be able to enter 
 the labyrinth. We must then map the first floor of the giant tree. As we enter the real part of 
 the game, we notice, that nothing has changed much - including the difficulty, which is still punishing, 
 if not even more than EO1. I've seen quite a few "hard" games, but they don't even get close to 
 the level of EO2. The Final Fantasy series have a better style of difficulty: they start out very 
 easy and get harder at a quick pace, but Etrian Odyssey starts out hard and gets insanely hard, 
 especially at boss battles, which occur pretty often and - as a usual, but stupid RPG feature - 
 they don't even get you experience.
  
  On the technical side, everything is OK and running. The labyrinth has a nice 3d look, and the 
 characters have the charm and characteristics of japanese games. The soundtrack is pretty much 
 like the same as EO1, but that's more good than bad.
  
  About the evolution of the sequel, Etrian Odyssey 2 has even more of those things fans loved the 
 original for, but adds some convenient features, especially when buying equipment or switching 
 between characters.
  
  Map drawing, which is the main aspect of the game, certainly evolved a lot. Almost twice as many 
 signs help us to create an accurate map of Yggdrasil. It was made more convenient, too.
  
  To sum it up, those who liked Etrian Odyssey should definitely buy this one, but those who were 
 frightened by EO's brutal difficulty should stay away from it.
  
  Pros
  + Convinient solutions
  + More dungeon-crawling-mapping experience
  + Good amount of challenge
 
  + Technically advanced
  
  Cons
  - Brutally hard
  - Last stratum is a failure overall 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
