-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Etrian Odyssey
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/sekaikinomeikyuu/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Highly customizable, immersive gameplay.
 extreme difficulty makes for a good deal of excitement.
 deliberate but well paced, especially for being so long.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Far too much backtracking.
 gameplay could have been streamlined with a few minor tweaks.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.8
Critic Score: 7.5, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 456 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atlus Co.
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: May 15, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Etrian Odyssey is a turn-based role-playing game like any other, but it sports one heck of a mean 
 streak to elevate it above the crowd. 

  Remember back in the early '80s when you were scribbling out a map in your notepad as you crawled 
 your way through Wizardry? No? Well, not to worry, because Atlus' newest turn-based role-playing 
 game captures that experience pretty well. Etrian Odyssey gives many nods to its text-based adventure 
 roots, not the least of which is its prodding, omniscient narrator and the necessity to (gasp) 
 create your own map. Like its predecessors, Etrian Odyssey is beguilingly immersive and excessively 
 addictive, but even if it doesn't take the turn-based RPG formula anywhere new, you'll still probably 
 fall prey to its charm.  

          Death will come at you in many guises -- the most apparent of which is a flaming red orb. 
     

  With no real story to speak of, the impetus behind Etrian Odyssey is to map the multilayered, underground 
 forest that has mysteriously emerged outside the small town of Etria. Arriving as an anonymous, 
 inexperienced adventurer, your first task is to create your own guild and then recruit a group 
 of like-minded adventurers to help you delve the depths outside of town. Initially available to 
 you are seven classes that span the typical fighter/scout/healer/mage archetypes. There are also 
 two more classes, the ronin and hexer, which become available to you (much, much) later in the 
 game. Once you've established your party of five and assigned them to a forward or rear position, 
 you're set to begin specializing each character by way of skill points. Each class has 21 possible 
 skills, most of which are unique to each class and all of which can be upgraded 10 times. Each 
 class has at least two different "builds" you can create, which is to say you can create a survivalist 
 that specializes in offensive bow attacks or enemy-tracking, item-scavenging abilities, or, of 
 course, just be mediocre in all of the above. The point of detailing all this out is that there's 
 an almost astonishing amount of customization available to you from the get-go, the complexity 
 of which is rarely seen in a handheld game. What's better is that despite being complex, it's very 
 accessible, so you're free to make strategic choices and clearly set a direction for each of your 
 characters. And that's good because the composition of your group and how well you plan ahead will 
 greatly affect your success later on in the game.  

  To say Etrian Odyssey is a difficult game would be to say traversing Asia on a unicycle while balancing 
 spinning plates in both hands would require a fair amount of finesse. Starting out, you are a fittingly 
 weak, sniveling newbie, vaguely aware that the pointy end of your blade should never, never puncture 
 your own eye. You're tasked with exploring and mapping out the five strata of the Yggdrasil Labryinth, 
 with five floors composing each stratum. Doing so is simply a matter of drawing out on the Nintendo 
 DS's touch screen the perimeter of the forest that you see as a 3D representation on the top screen. 
 With the map unfolding on the bottom screen, you see the fairly well-detailed forestry of the maze 
 from a first-person perspective on the top. The way the two screens play off each other -- combined 
 with a constant dread of impending doom -- lends an illusory impression that the environments are 
 quite large, even if all of the corridors look mostly the same from one to the next. Also, the 
 mapping interface is solid and the controls work nearly flawlessly, so it quickly becomes second 
 nature to map out your route. Aside from marking your path, there are several location icons that 
 you can place to flesh out your map, such as monsters, treasures, and items, among others. But 
 doing so is entirely too time consuming and unnecessary, especially considering rudimentarily mapping 
 out a single stratum will take in excess of 10 hours.  

  Preventing you from accomplishing your task are the labyrinth's denizens, which you'll randomly 
 stumble upon as you progress. Foremost among the predators that lie in wait is the FOE, which is 
 an egregiously overwrought acronym that essentially distills down to, yeah, foe. These are the 
 only visible encounters you'll see and are represented by an appropriately menacing red (and then 
 more menacing black) ball of flame in the first-person view. Once you've seen them, they then appear 
 as a moving icon on your map. Certainly with every FOE encounter, but also even with yard trash, 
 the difficulty is such that you'll more often than not feel as if you've survived an incredibly 
 dangerous battle by the skin of your teeth. At times, this makes the game incredibly frustrating, 
 which is made worse by the fact that initially the only way to restore your hit and magic points, 
 vendor your loot, or save your game is to march all the way back up to town, leading to an ungainly 
 amount of backtracking. Resting and reviving fallen comrades can be a huge financial burden, as 
 well, and you'll probably wince every time party members die, or even get hit, not because you 
 empathize with their pain, but because you just don't have the clams to foot their bill.  

  However, the pain Etrian Odyssey serves up also makes it immersive, satisfying, and fun because 
 despite being difficult, you're well equipped to rise up to the challenge. Save for the many different 
 skills and abilities each character type gets, combat here isn't particularly innovative or unique. 
 It also plays out like most other turn-based fantasy strategy games, where you select your actions, 
 the enemy selects its actions, and then depending on everybody's speed or initiative, the hacking 
 commences. However, despite being extraordinarily deliberate and lengthy, the game is paced really 
 well. Every few levels, you'll have a shiny new weapon to bring to bear against an entirely new 
 manifestation of awful. Nearly all the weapons and other items are unlocked by selling loot you've 
 found to the general store. So, for instance, you'll be able to buy a new bow after harvesting 
 and selling off a certain amount of hardwood. Inventory management typically isn't an issue because 
 by the time you're ready to sell, you're profusely bleeding and desperately in need of the innkeeper 
 to work her magic anyway. While in town, you can also pick up quests from the barkeep or town hall, 
 which add more variety and purpose to your exploits, though it's not usually necessary to do so. 

  Etrian Odyssey has a really good atmospheric look to it. Though there's next to no variety to the 
 environments, the jungles are well detailed, and a few -- especially the third stratum with its iridescent 
 blue hue -- have a really attractive look. It's also neat that the day/night cycle is represented 
 in the forest, even if it doesn't seem to impact the gameplay. Death comes in many different forms 
 from floor to floor, and the models here are all creatively done, typically featuring vibrant colors. 
 And even if most of the females are scantily clad, well-endowed children, the various character 
 portraits have personality and are emotive, and each class has several to choose from. Magic spells 
 feature the only animation you'll come across, but these have a uniformly standout look. The alchemist's 
 advanced spells look especially destructive and imposing, lasting just long enough to impress without 
 hampering the combat's pace. Also, the game sounds good in a synthesized Super Nintendo kind of 
 way, while the different looping tracks and sound effects provide a decent variety.  

          When a trio of butterflies handily levels your group, you know you've got problems.    

  It may seem a bit audacious to compare Etrian Odyssey to the 2006 hit Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, 
 but elements of what made Oblivion so great are present here. While it doesn't pack the exceptional 
 presentation or depth of Oblivion, in terms of being a highly customizable, deeply immersive, and 
 thoroughly addictive fantasy experience, the argument could be made that it comes close. Etrian 
 Odyssey doesn't do anything particularly astonishing with the turn-based RPG formula, but it takes 
 many of the best tried-and-true elements from the genre and executes upon them extremely well. 
 If you've got the time and patience for it, as well as a remaining interest in the formula, you'll 
 definitely want to pick this one up.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (44 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mijahi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 8:37 am PT
Review:  I have yet to beat it, but I could care less. I love this game so far! I am currently running two 
 different parties through the first few levels of the Yggdrasil Labyrinth, gradually building each 
 unique character to decide who I want in my final party. 
  
  This game reeks of old school dungeon crawling and has a unique mapping system that I have never 
 seen in any other game! You use your stylus to actually draw in the walls, floors, stairs, doors, 
 etc., as well as add your own comments and reminders to help yourself delve deeper and deeper into 
 the Labyrinth. 
  
  Now, this game isn't a cakewalk and I'm sure Etrian Odyssey isn't for everybody, but if you're 
 even slightly intrigued, I guarantee you won't be disappointed. I've already bought Etrian Odyssey 
 II: Heros of Lagaard, the sequel, so I guess I better get a move on and get this first one beat, 
 eh? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b4card
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I looked for it for a few months and finally found a used copy at Gamestop (without the book or 
 case) . I am not sure if the production run was low but tracking one of these down was tough. I 
 must be nearing the end of the game now. I have been playing it for some time, mostly while on 
 travel for work or while waiting for my daughter at ballet practice. If you enjoy old school pen 
 and paper style dungeon crawling with a methodical approach you will like this game. I tend to 
 play slow and steady or very conservative. That style is rewarded in this game. Overall it is a 
 fairly standard console style RPG with anime characters and funky monsters. The menu system is 
 simple and the character creation is relatively typical. However, being able to map the dungeons 
 and make notes is well done. It should only run about $15 used, track a copy down and give it a 
 try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: divinenanny
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  Etrian Odyssey is a nice dungeon crawler that is punishing for the player. I found the first level 
 ok to get through. Drawing the map is a great touch, and was the main reason I bought the game. 
 However, I found the second level simply too difficult, I could not get past one particular monster. 
 For this reason I stopped playing (after dying a million times a game ceases to be fun in my opinion. 
 I can imagine that if you are better that fighting in RPG games, this game is more fun.
  The graphics are good, the hidden secrets are fun, there are many options for making your party, 
 which gives you great flexibility. I think this is a good, if difficult RPG/Dungeon Crawler. Prepare 
 to die a lot, and backtrack a lot when you restock and heal in the village. My advice, rent it 
 first to see if it is a game you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anton_YW
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  An old style but addictive turn based RPG, yeah that is my first impression when I start to play 
 this game. First time starting exploring labyrinth, I yell out "wow how hard is this game!" and 
 the hard difficulty itself what make me can't stop playing this game every day. Etrian Odyssey 
 didn't have main character, which means we customize our own characters, and even build our own 
 guild. The best part of this game is where we must draw our own map with stylus. So in one time, 
 we explore the labyrinth, fighting enemy, and drawing map. Many job classes here, so we can pick 
 our favorite one. Etrian Odyssey is a must play for dungeon crawler gamer. Last but not least, 
 Atlus really done their job very well this time, every true RPG player must be like Etrian Odyssey, 
 that's why I gave this game a superb rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sigil-
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Wow, there is so much I want to say about this game. 
  
  Graphics- The character and enemy portraits are gorgeous, totally makes up for the fact there are 
 no actual animated sprites. The in dungeon graphics aren't to bad either, while the scenery has 
 cycling walls and a still background, it still gives you a great first person experience, making 
 you feel as though your a part of the game, especially when the F. O. E clouds come around the corners.
 
  
  Story- Well, the story isn't exactly strong, and doesn't progress fast. The story is kinda deep 
 but progresses really slow. Pretty much you are a traveler and you arrive in a town famous for 
 its landmark, the Yggdrasil Labyrinth. Once you arrive, the spark of adventure ignites and you 
 decide to get yourself a guild together and explore this dungeon but something doesnt seem right. 
 The Chief wont tell you the truth about the dungeon, extremely strong monsters lie in it and no 
 one has reached the end. Your main objective, solve the mystery of the labyrinth.
  
  Game play- It plays like a traditional RPG. Its turn based, you equip weapons and Armor to your 
 party members, and they level up. The Dungeon structure is pretty simple for each floor but gets 
 very complicated as you progress. There are a total of 30 floors in the game but only 25 floors 
 are in the main story. There are mini bosses in the game called F. O. Es in the game which can appear 
 a plenty, unlike bosses which appear at the end of each 5 floors. Now this is where the difficulty 
 comes in. The games already EXTREMELY hard but to make things even more difficult F. O. Es can be 
 found on almost evert floor after loor 2, and thier attack and defense can be punishing if your 
 not leveled high enough, and 9/10 times your not. They are definately the hardest obstacles in 
 the game.
  
  While navigating the labyrinth can be hard the touch screen makes it simpler, it has a map creator 
 for each floor which is a enourmous help. It letts you create walls on the gridded screen, and 
 lets you put icons which represent certain obstacles and terrains in the boxes which are on the 
 screen.
  
  IMO, this game is a must buy for long time RPG fans, and gamers looking for a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer131
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: 9
  GRAPHICS: 8
  SOUND: 8
  VALUE: 10
  TILT: 9
  
  ROUGH SCORE: 8.8
  FINAL SCORE: 9.0
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  The Good:
  - Character 
 selection/customization
  - Easy-to-use map making system (except for B19F)
  - Remarkable exploration aspect
  - Variety of floor mechanics
  - Diverse collection of quests 
 (if only WoW's were this varied)
  
  The Bad:
  - Somewhat limited replayability
  - Only one gamesave
  - Could have used additional map icons
  - Poor gear shopping/replacement 
 interface
  - LOTS of backtracking
  - The Muskoids in the fifth stratum 
  
  ----------------------------------------
  
  I love forests, always have and always will. It 
 comes from both my past as a Boy Scout and the fact that no matter where I have lived, there has 
 been a deep, lush forest in my backyard. I have been exploring forests my whole life. 
  When I first saw this game last June (my brother got it soon after its release) , I was intrigued, 
 but not enough to go out and get a copy of my own. Only when I heard that a second EO was confirmed 
 for release (next week) did I feel compelled to pick this one up. Here are my thoughts. 
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Etrian Odyssey is completely, and intentionally, old-school. I never played any of 
 those "old-school" games from which EO was inspired, but I was willing to give it a shot, given 
 that the game is an RPG with customizable characters and tons of uncharted territory to explore. 
 There is a story, but the game doesn't "play itself", as most modern JRPGs tend to do. In fact, 
 the story doesn't really pick up until the tailend of the adventure. It gives you something to 
 go on in the beginning and that's it. But this is okay, because while the game's main story is 
 taking a back seat, the exploration becomes the story. You get to create your own characters (name 
 them, choose their class, choose their physical appearance) and train them in the skills of their 
 job class. It's entirely up to you. You will spend the entire game wandering around the floors 
 of the forest, drawing out your map as you go, encountering new enemies, discovering new items, 
 finding shortcuts, evading FOEs, accepting quests, etc. The idea that you never know what's coming 
 is exactly what keeps you playing. You hope that your characters are prepared for what lies beyond. 
 You hope that you have what it takes to go that little bit further before heading back to town 
 to rest up. It truly is an adventure - the game does not hold your hand.
  Now, a few last thoughts on the gameplay: There is backtracking, lots of it. There are also random 
 encounters, though the game's explanation for them is actually kinda cool. Both of these aspects 
 only began to get annoying for me in the fifth stratum, since both are par for the course given 
 the scenario. If you could teleport everywhere, that'd just be awkward.
  
  GRAPHICS
  For what this game strives to achieve, the graphics are wonderful. The scenery draws you into the 
 labyrinth. The battles are fine - that's where the old-school kicks in the most. No flashy stuff 
 here.
  
  SOUND
  The music in this game is great. Again, here's an element of the game that helps to draw you into 
 the world you're exploring. It's very masterfully done, even if it doesn't sound like an orchestra.
 
  
  VALUE
  The main game may only contain 25 floors, but every floor is huge. It takes time to map everything 
 out, too. Then, there's also the long list of sidequests you can undertake. On top of all that, 
 there is a postgame stratum and optional bosses to take on as well. My heading does not lie: it 
 probably took me over 100 hours to complete just the main game. I don't know my exact game time 
 since the game never visibly shows you your time played. But I'm pretty sure it's up there.
  So there's no question that there's plenty of content that will take plenty of time to complete. 
 You definitely get your money's worth. Unfortunately, since there is only one gamesave, replayability 
 is limited. Sure, you could start up a brand new party and run through the whole labyrinth again 
 (maybe even erasing your maps to redo them, too!) , but without the quests (which are one-time affairs) , 
 little tidbits of story, and final boss (he's a one timer, too) , it's just not the same as restarting 
 completely. This is a real shame, I feel, since it stinks to have to erase all that previous progress. 
 
  
  TILT
  This game is unique, to say the least. There is nothing else like it out for the DS. Well, except 
 for the sequel which comes out in three days. At this current point in time, I would suggest to 
 those of you interested in this title to just go ahead to the sequel. The two games are related 
 by premise, not story, and you would not be at any disadvantage. 
  In general though, if you're a dungeon crawling enthusiast or would like to try something like 
 this out, EO is the way to go. It doesn't disappoint and provides one heck of an adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyraxkilawatt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  My first thought when I started playing Etrian is how much it reminded me of Wizardry, then as 
 a played it made me remember my experience with Wizardry. This game is wizardry with a new coat 
 of paint and more depth with characters. (If you loved Wizardry like I did, then you'll love this 
 game)
  
  The game play: Off the back, this game is HARD, from the very start enemies will slap you around 
 causing you to have to retreat from the dungeon constantly, till finally you get strong enough 
 to survive for at least for a while but it will get worse as you go. The game is pretty smooth 
 with random encounters and larger sub-boss monsters, and at the end of each dungeon a powerful 
 dungeon boss. There will be main quests and side quests to do to but there is usually a gap between 
 getting them. 
  
  At the beginning there are a few classes to choose from with two that are locked till later. You 
 get to customize them as you go with skill points. Weapons are assigned by class. You have a limited 
 of portraits to choose from for each class which I found a bit disappointed by, I would have liked 
 to see more portraits. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty and the monsters look good, 
  
  Controls: are pretty simple 
 use the directional pad to move around in the maze and select attacks, while in the maze you can 
 harvest at mines, chop sites and Pick sites (Though you must learn these skills first)
  
  Music: The music is alright and the sound effects are pretty good. 
  
  Story: well, there isn't 
 much of a story here, you're an adventure who comes to loot the dungeon and find the mystery of 
 it at the bottom floor (pretty basic) but what's cool is that you get to have a guild and create 
 characters to go treasure hunting with. 
  
  This game is a must have for any dungeon crawling enthusiast, and if not then you'll still love 
 this game. My recommendation is to buy this game if you get the chance.
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neozander227
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I love the game, being able to mash up 5 chars together to beat down various dungeon baddies and 
 collect items. I liked the idea of collecting items to sell off and open up new items in the store 
 to gear up with. But it was horribly annoying fighting dungeon bosses, haveing to skirt around 
 them until I level up several times just to barely win by the skin of my teeth. Oh well, at least 
 I have a good time when I finally beat these things. I hate stalkers I really really do. And so 
 many levels for this game its crazy, and all the secret little goodies to get too, always fun.
 
  
  Overall I love this game and I hate this game too. 
  
  I give it a 8.5 over all.
  
  Some of the enimies are kinda neat too. I hate fighting them but the stalkers
  are cool, 
 but fighting more than one with chars under lvl 30 is suicide. Literally. ( I hate their slash 
 move    
  Ah well, the game is still fun and for hardcore RPG fans, this is a great game to add to the collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woohooboogoo
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  The game is awesome and some of the multiplayer features sucked. Oh wait, ther were no multiplayer 
 features. But however, no matter what the cause is that people think it sucks, it is still a great 
 game and if i could reformat it, i would include more multiplayer. However, i love the fact that 
 you have no map to go by. Though you do have a map, it is at first a really small map. Not that 
 big though. It becomes big when you start to map out the labrynith. And the skills make it almost 
 impossible to have the same indentical character in the game. But back to the intro, sometimes 
 i just wanted to scribble all over the map:) . I think the storyline plot was very interesting, 
 and I'm not finished with the game yet. My brother thinks the game is crappy because it's too hard 
 for him. He's still stuck strying to survive level two. The graphics are somewhat incredible. But 
 overall, the game was great. I gave the game a 9 becaise of the fact that you slowly ever gain 
 points. Though it was still fun, it also was 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Etrian Odyssey is an old fashion dungeon crawler that gives you a first person view of the Etrian 
 world. There are nine character classes to choose from and hundreds of techniques/skills that are 
 customizable.
  New equipment becomes available after certain missions you receive from the Guild -- A group of adventurers 
 trained to protect the Etrian world -- and game play is fairly smooth.
  The only thing that keeps this game for reaching the top is the amount of level grinding (some monsters 
 can be defeated only after training up about 10 levels) and the battles are repetitive as well.
 
  As long as you're prepared to spend a good while perfecting your five-man team, you'll love this 
 game.
  The good-Graphics, customizable characters. hours of game play and missions
  The bad-Difference of levels/strength between you and monsters. Graphics are pretty basic, nothing 
 incredibly flashy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ianx2
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Etrian odyssey is both a simplistic and complicated game. 
  
  The premise: A massive forest labyrinth twists itself through the world slowly taking over much 
 of the land. Deadly and mysterious it divides the world, leaving towns cut off and the people stranded 
 and separated. 
  
  In one such town called Etria, a passage into this labyrinth has appeared, and a call is made for 
 brave explorers to map it's depths and bring back supplies.
  
  If you are looking for a game where you are the lone hero who will save the world, turn back now. 
 This is not that game. Instead you are charged with creating a guild of adventurers to tackle this 
 task.
  
  -----Gameplay -- 8/10
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Etrian odyssey is both a simplistic and complicated game. 
  
  You start off by creating up to 5 characters from a variety of 7 classes. The Landsknecht (Warrior) , 
 Survivalist (Ranger) , Protector (Paladin) , Dark Hunter (Dominatrix?) , Medic (Priest) , Alchemist (Wizard) , 
 Troubadour (Bard) .
  
  Two more classes are available later in the game The Ronin (Samurai) , and the Hexer (Binding chains 
 Wizard)
  
  One of the biggest issues you may find when playing this game is simply the difficulty in making 
 up your mind on how to build your party. Not only do you have to choose the class, the names of 
 these characters, their appearances (Each class has 4 different looks to choose from, two male and 
 two female) You also have to choose which skills they start with and what to train as you level 
 up. I found myself remaking party a few times both for different classes and skills.
  
  Choosing skills can be difficult, because often you aren't given enough description as to what 
 exactly they do. To top it off, some skills are more powerful than others, you may find yourself 
 wishing you had trained something else instead. Never fear though, there is an option that allows 
 you to reallocate skill points at the cost of 10 levels.
  
  After your party is chosen, you can then navigate the town. This is depicted in the form of rooms 
 with nice background art as well as art work of the NPC who inhabits that room (Bartender, Apothecary, 
 Mayor, Shopkeeper, Hotel owner) . In these rooms you can receive quests, rest, heal, buy/sell equipment, 
 and report the findings from your time in the labyrinth.
  
  Which brings us to the main portion of the game. Exploring the labyrinth/dungeon.
  
  This is 
 done from a first person perspective, where you move through a flat 3D forest. As you walk around 
 exploring you have a small device on the side of the screen that will change from blue to red as 
 you get closer to an encounter with a monster. You cannot see basic monsters moving around the 
 map, larger enemies called FOEs are visible as orange or red spheres that move around randomly. 
 Some of them actively chase you as well.
  
  The whole time you are moving around in this labyrinth, the bottom screen is filled with a blue 
 grid that maps out squares as you move around. However, you must use your stylus to drag icons 
 of doors, stairs, or treasure on to the grid to fully map out the dungeon. You also can draw walls 
 with your stylus. The game does not force you to map anything except in the beginning stage as 
 a tutorial. If you don't though... you'll suffer. The more exact your map is, the better off you 
 will be.
  
  Once you encounter an enemy it's pretty straight forward RPG action from there. The combat is turn 
 based, and you choose the actions of your party at the beginning of the turn, and then the enemies 
 and characters will take turns going based on the speed at which that attack can be made. This 
 is calculated by the character or monsters agility mostly.
  
  This game is very difficult and making the wrong choices in combat can lead to your demise quickly. 
 On top of that, there are no save points within the dungeon so you must return to town to rest 
 and save. This means you have to make sure your characters have what they need to survive both 
 the trip into the dungeon, and the trip back to town. You can also by items that will pull you 
 out of the dungeon and send you straight back to town. There are no items to send you down into 
 the dungeons though.
  
  As you progress deeper into the dungeon you will find "Warp" points so you can warp to those locations 
 from the labyrinth entrance. These are sparse though, and you will often have to travel through 
 a few levels of dungeon to get to the one you're mapping. Money is required to do anything in this 
 game, from buying equipment, to healing your characters. On the plus side there are places within 
 the game where you can gather materials to sell. 
  
  It is a good idea to make another party specifically to be your miners and woodcutters, and occasionally 
 send them out on "Supply runs" to bring home the bacon.
  
  **WARNING**
  The game doesn't sport cut scenes, or heavy sections of storyline. For the most part it is up to 
 you to give the characters you create their own personalities and reactions.
  
  Even as the designer says. This game is less of standard RPG, and more a tool to let your imagination 
 run wild.
  
  Also.... This game is very difficult.
  
  I'll say this again. THIS GAME IS VERY DIFFICULT. 
  
  If you like a challenge, this game delivers 
 one.
  
  
  -----Graphics -- 7/10
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  All of the artwork in this game is very well done. 
  
  For the most part though, it is all static artwork. Meaning that your character and NPC portraits 
 don't move, the enemies are all just non moving sprites.
  
  When an attack is made in the game, you'll see a simplistic slash appear over the enemy or over 
 your characters name. Spells are flashier and more colorful but still pretty basic.
  
  The 3d view as you navigate the map is very pretty with woodland surroundings that sparkle and 
 move with the wind but are also very static and simplistic in many ways. That being said, the artwork 
 is all top notch with a very Japanese (anime) flavor to it. It's very well done.
  
  If you're looking for flashy, 3d, or animated graphics. This game will probably let you down. The 
 art in this game is more likely to appeal to lovers of graphic novels and manga.
  
  
  -----Sound -- 7/10
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The sound in this game is pretty run of the mill. It has nice sounding music themes for different 
 modes (Exploring, Battle, Town) .
  
  The combat sounds are simplistic and average. Slash sounds for swords, flame sounds for fire spells, 
 water droplet sounds for liquid, etc.
  
  None of the themes truly stand out as memorable, and it's not likely you'll see anyone playing 
 the etrian odyssey theme with a guitar on youtube. The music stays in the background and doesn't 
 irritate or interrupt and it's unlikely you will ever get sick of it. You just probably won't remember 
 it when you're done playing.
  
  -----Value -- 8/10
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  This game is a long game. 50+ hours easily.
  Not to mention, half the fun of this game is making new characters to level up and try with other 
 characters to see how they work together.
  
  If you enjoy this game, you will be playing it for a long time.
  
  The presentation is excellent. 
 The art is wonderful, and the game is solid.
  
  By today's standards though, with it's lack of hefty animation or graphics, it may be found lacking.
 
  
  
  -----Tilt -- 10/10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Playing this game is the most fun I have had in a long time. It takes me back to Dungeons and 
 Dragons, and even just playing with my toys as a child. It completely immerses you in it's world 
 and you just start love all of the characters you create, and the NPCs you encounter.
  
  I care more about these characters that *I* have created in this game way more than the main character 
 of any RPG I have ever played. This game is incredibly addicting and fun. The difficulty level 
 only adds to the excitement as you actually get nervous and afraid as you progress deeper into 
 the dungeon. I would strongly suggest any RPG fan at least give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  I like old-school RPG's and the whole idea of using the touch-screen abilites of the DS to map 
 explored areas was appealling so I bought this. It is worth pointing out that the game is more 
 "old-school Japanese RPG" than "Western old-school RPG." Once you choose a character type (like 
 ranger) how that character levels up is automatic and utterly prescribed. That in itself isnt a 
 gamekiller but there's a few other issues that eventually made me frown and stop playing the game. 
 
  
  1. Money is ultra-scarce and absolutely everything costs money including resting in town and buying 
 teleport stones to get back to town. It is entirely possible to be out of money in the earlier 
 parts of the game, even when one is careful. No money means trudging back to town thru mazes. Did 
 I mention that it is quite easy to die while trudging back because your spells points for healing 
 dont recharge unless you have -- you got it -- some very expensive potions that you had no moeny 
 for in the first place. The game can be brutal. It just didnt have to be this way since none of 
 the backtracking is remotely fun. Make the teleports free and make resting in town free.
  
  2. The graphics are needlessly ultra-plain. I dont mind fighting 2D sprites at all but they are 
 static sprites. C'mon let's at least have 2 frames for each sprite so that they arent just sittingstill 
 on the screen! The old 8bit NES could do that so why cannot the DS?! Sorry, but it looks like lazy 
 programming to me.
  
  Its a shame because the mapping interface is awesome but this game just misses as an RPG. It is 
 one thing to make an RPG difficult -- that's cool -- but this game is needlessly over=difficult 
 and the fun is reduced because of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akazergling2
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Gameplay -- 8/10
  --------------------
  Etrian Odyssey is an excellent example of the classic RPG system in most regards. A party of 5 
 characters adventures into a dungeon to seek their fortune, both figuratively and financially. 
 One major feature of Etrian Odyssey stands out however, that being the mapping system. Unlike other 
 RPGs were a map is either provided, or you have to start drawing one out either in real life or 
 on MSpaint, Etrian Odyssey provides a build in program which you can utilize by the Stylus. This 
 mapping system allows you to draw any possible obstacle you come across, anything from treasure 
 chests to stairs to doors, not to mention walls and floors. While the Gameplay isn't as varied 
 as some other recent RPGs, the mapping system is a very large leap in the right direction. This 
 pushes the average Gameplay exemplified in it's wellGameplay to a 8/10.
  
  Graphics -- 7/10
  --------------------
  I have two answers in regard to the Graphics of Etrian 
 Odyssey, excellent and below average. The Graphics outside of combat are fantastic. Few games approach 
 the level of realism that Etrian Odyssey does outside of combat. The combat Graphics on the other 
 hand are very lack-luster. I believe that these two aspects equal out to a 7/10.
  
  Sound -- 7/10
  --------------------
  The sound in Etrian Odyssey is average in most if not all 
 regards. The music in Etrian Odyssey actually is quite nice and shouldn't bore you until you are 
 8 hours+ into the game. The sound effects are pretty average, nothing new here but they are not 
 bad either. The sound of Etrian Odyssey I believe is worthy of 7/10 because of the fact that it's 
 average.
  
  Value -- 8/10
  --------------------
  Because of the replay value of Etrian Odyssey as well as its long completion time, Etrian Odyssey 
 is above average in its value.
  
  Tilt -- 9/10
  --------------------
  Etrian Odyssey has excellent replay value, and has many unique features that add to the genre as 
 a whole. I believe that because of this, Etrian Odyssey is an excellent game, worthy of a few hours 
 of anyone's time. Also, while it does lack any real multiplayer option, it is still an excellent 
 game with plenty of avenues to explore after completing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Risk
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Been playing games since pong and Zork. Have seen many flavors of RPGs from Text to FPSMMORPGs. 
 Seems like RPGs are in short supply on the DS and Wii. What RPGs that are available or Real-time, 
 Action, or eastern flavored RPGS. Which are not inheritently bad, but it is nice to see a change 
 a pace. I have been interested in Atlus's games for some time since I played one on the GB. I think 
 they take a different approach that is unique and either pans out or not, but at least they try. 
 This game reminds me a lot to those wonderful Bard's tale, Wizardry, Eye of the Beholder, dragon 
 quest, dragon warrior, etc. games that I loved when I was younger. Of course games have progressed 
 since then and in some respects for good reason, but for all the pitfalls of this type of RPG (Static 
 movements, high difficulty, lot of backtracking, etc) I still love it. I would recommend this to 
 anyone who enjoys RPGs and definately those who remember back to the heyday of RPGs. Maybe I am 
 just being a bit sentimental, but I just can't put the game down. Been playing for 2 weeks and 
 still have not gotten bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSgamer64
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  Atlus has been known to make some great games over the years, however Etrian Odyssey is a rather 
 unique game in many ways, some are good and others are bad.
  
  In the world of Etria, exists the Yggdrasil Labyrinth, a dungeon that has yet to be unmapped and 
 houses many treasures, as well as many vicious enemies, traps and puzzles to solve. There is not 
 a lot of character interaction in this game, something most RPG games have, however for veteran 
 gamers, the 3D design is similar to Myst, a PC puzzle game. You travel in the first person perspective, 
 the combat is done also in 1st person unlike games such as Final Fantasy or Dragon Quest which 
 are in 3rd person for most of the battle. The battles are random most of the time, so enemies will 
 appear at odd times, however do not let the enemies looks fool you early on, they may look weak 
 but they are very powerful and very hard to kill. Odds are you won't even clear the first floor 
 of the labyrinth without having your party at level 10, which is ideal because you will soon run 
 into tough mini boss creatures starting on the second floor. The goal of the game is to traverse 
 the floors and map out each one using the touch screen and stylus, thankfully the floors are not 
 randomly generated so after walking through and leaving again, you can still mark out where you 
 have walked. There are many enemies in the game, as well as lots of items, secrets, traps and various 
 other things to collect.
  
  Like most RPG games, your party levels up and will learn skills as they progress. For each level 
 you gain 3 skill points, which allow you to allocate them to individual abilities, whether it be 
 HP or TP increases (health and magic points) or improving magic for each job classes skills and 
 spells. You can choose to spend all your available points on increasing anything you have unlocked, 
 it is best early on to increase TP and one attack spell so your spellcasters can actually defeat 
 enemies quicker, as they are pretty weak otherwise. Enemies do lots of damage as well and armor 
 seems to have very little effect early in the game so it is best to also give a skill point to 
 HP with each level until you have reached level 10 or so, at which point you can start customizing 
 your own way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkpimpdp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 4:38 am PT
Review:  Etrian Odyssey is a game your gonna either love or hate. If your used to Final Fantasy and its 
 kind you are gonna cry when you play this because this game will hand you your butt ten times over. 
 This game is crazy hard. Dont expect to get past the 1st floor in a few min. Monsters kill with 
 1 or 2 hits and give little exp and gold to upgrade your guys. Resting in a inn costs more money 
 the higher up a level you are. But if your patient your characters will get strong enough and you 
 can explore further and further. This is not a game you can rush, if you do you will die over and 
 over till you give up. But if you take your time you will find a game that you can actually feel 
 like you accomplished something everytime you manage to beat a tough monster or make it to the 
 next floor or completed a quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YaMissed2
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Review: Etrian Odyssey
  
  The Nintendo DS is a truly great system however one thing that the system lacks is a truly great 
 RPG. Will Etrain Odyssey fit the bill or will it be as bad as Lunar Dragon Song?
  
  Story:
  You and your party are new to this land; out to become adventurers you dive into the 
 most dangerous dungeon to prove your mettle, will you succeed and make your mark in legend? Or 
 die like many before you have
  
  Graphics:
  Graphically the game looks really good the dungeon you crawl through is in full out 3D, and it 
 is very good looking, each character class has 4 different images to model your characters after, 
 though I wish that there had been 4 per sex, per character class, so your choice of character images 
 is rather lacking.
  
  Music &amp; Sound:
  Etrian Odyssey has an orchestrated soundtrack that serves the game very well. There is some voice 
 acting for the characters in town and certain enemies, and what is voice acted is done well, but 
 not nearly enough of it I feel. The sounds are also well done and also placed solidly throughout 
 the game, all in all a very solid soundtrack.
  
  Control &amp; Game play:
  On the surface this game seems pretty straightforward as RPG's go, especially as an old style first 
 person dungeon crawler for the modern age, but what makes this game different from almost every 
 RPG that is out there is that you get to make your own maps, which is really nothing new to those 
 of us whom have played D&amp; D but many of us whom have never known what that is like, it definitely 
 adds another level of complexity to this game. But what makes this game so appealing is the challenge 
 presented by the game. How challenging you may ask? Well as a seasoned game player I was humbled 
 as my party fell multiple times in only the first level of the dungeon.
  
  Design &amp; Fun Factor:
  Atlus Software once again delivers another solid title for the hardcore 
 gamer and that is simply on challenge alone. But it is some of the little things in this game that 
 make this game really stand out like in order to get better weapons you need to find better materials 
 for the weapons maker to forge you new weapons, or like item gathering spots where you might be 
 able to find other items to make new weapons with, as well as a mission system to add other reasons 
 for diving into the dungeon than becoming well known adventurers. If there is a detractor to this 
 game other than the difficulty it is the greedy innkeeper whom charges you based on level instead 
 of a steady rate like most inns in the world/ in any other game really
  
  At this point in the DS's life span this is the best RPG available for the DS. And most of us should 
 check this out because the difficulty factor will scare off many, so check it out before you buy 
 it.
  
  Graphics
  8/10
  
  Game play
  9/10
  
  Sound
  8/10
  
  Fun factor
  9/10
  
  Tilt
  10/10
  
  Average score
  8.8
  
  Etrian Odyssey:
  
  Pros:
  Good 
 graphics
  Good Challenge
  Always fun getting your friends in on the action
  Addictive game play
  
  Cons:
  Could be too tough for many
  If you are not used to mapping 
 your own dungeon, that you might be annoyed.
  The inn stays cost too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Games have constantly been improved on aspects such as graphics and customization, but some players 
 yearn for some of the older types of games. Some of them include the traditional 2D fighting styles 
 or the basic first person shooter but one type, the dungeon crawler, has been missed severely. 
 Either because it is not a popular venue or because no one hasn't thought to revisit it, is up 
 to debate.
  
  Etrian Odyssey address this by bringing back the dungeon crawler to the extreme. Why do I say extreme? 
 Atlus wanted to provide a game that didn't have a lot of bells or whistles. Even the story is severely 
 lacking for a RPG. You play as a person who is setting up a guild so you can design any characters 
 from scratch from nine different classes. Two of them will be available later but there is still 
 a lot of customization. Each class, when they level, will also give your characters the ability 
 to choose a new ability.
  
  It is an adequate looking game and the colours are very vibrant. Unfortunately, in battles, which 
 is what you'll be doing most of the game, there are almost no animations. Other than your hp bar 
 shaking a little bit or your sword, represented by a line going through the enemy, there's nothing 
 else to talk about. This is really quite unfortunate because at the beginning of the game, it looks 
 like it could really utilize the DS capabilities.
  
  One aspect of the game is the map. Everything is in a 3D view when you're in the dungeon and it 
 looks good. The trees are generally flat and other things in the background pop up out of no where 
 when you get close enough but it's nice to see something like that on a handheld.
  
  The game took me a long time to finish but there's many side quests and different items to get 
 so there is some replayability.
  
  This is probably the best dungeon crawler to come out in a long time. If you're into grinding and 
 gaining levels with a hefty challenge, this game should be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlfonzoZ121
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 21, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This game wasn't the best. If you like turn base games that are very challenging. You will like 
 this game. I just do not care much for turn base. It was just too hard for me. It was very boring. 
 I dont recomind it unless you like wat i said it was. The first task is really hard, and it gets 
 very old. A cool thing is that you pick your team and name them too. Its all stratrgy. I traded 
 it in i hated it so much. Remember what i said, do not get it unless you like turn base games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedEyedMouse
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Etrian Odyssey is a unique RPG for the DS. It consists of creating a party and exploring a labyrinth 
 of about 30 floors filled with monsters and items for you to discover. It is very involved and 
 you have to spend a lot of time to explore every floor to the labyrinth. This game is a little 
 disappointing with the Skill set - it takes a loooonnng time to get the skills that you're really 
 looking for. But I really like the ability to draw your own map - it adds more depth and encourages 
 you to actually explore everywhere so you don't miss anything. Really cool! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defunct32
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 11, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Deciding whether or not to get this game was really hard for me, cause first I'm not exactly an 
 old-school RPG gamer, and I had bad experiences with First-Person-Perspective kind of games (Mazes 
 of Fate for the GBA came to mind) , I keep telling myself this is an ATLUS title, it's either you 
 get it or you don't, but if I get it and I don't like it, HOW? This game is pretty much an acquired 
 taste.
  
  Well now I can safely say; those fears and doubts are now unfounded. Cause I pretty am much drawn 
 into the game, the gameplay was awesome, very basic yet not boring, think of it like Pokemon (battle-wise) 
 if you will.
  
  Gameplay/Storyline: 4.5/5
  Little to no storyline but unlimited customizations is what draw me to this title in the first 
 place, but discovering it's a FPP kind of game turned me off immediately, I did a lot of researchs 
 myself, and am finally impressed by how the in-game mechanic works, you get to allocate points, 
 create characters, equip weapons/armors, basic RPG fare. If you love building up your characters 
 your way, you'll get a kick out of Etrian Odyssey. No story, no plot? No problem, unlimited customization 
 is where the meat's at.
  
  Sound/BGM: 3.8/5
  Sound FX are not really stellar, the typical swish-swosh of swords and the normal thuds of hammer, 
 very basic, nothing out of this world, the battle music however is really top-notch, (I haven't 
 heard of the boss battle theme yet, but I'm hoping it would kick ass) I catch myself humming to 
 the tune of the battle theme, (I'm crazy like that) .
  
  Animation: 3/5
  Oh, the animation is the poorest aspect of all, your antoganist just stay still and barely move 
 at all, but it did some kind of indication if it attacks you, the magic spells are really simple 
 but kind of interesting to look at (I'm quite the sucker for kick ass magic/spells/summon animation, 
 so I'm somewhat disappointed in this department.) .
  
  Overall: 4.8/5
  Yes! This game is a must-buy, I was heavily skeptical before, but I'm glad all those doubts are 
 gone forever now, I was lucky too, it was the last copy at the store where I bought it
  
  Oh I didn't add this: I just wanted to say, map-drawing with the stylus was fun!
  
  Comments: 
 And don't ask me about my scoring system, I just fit in whatever I felt best fit the different 
 aspects of the game out of 5 points, I bought the game, and personally enjoying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msm0000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:29 am PT
Review:  I will update this review after I finish the game. For now, I'll just say that I really liked the 
 combat system, character customization, the feel of the world, and the fact that you draw the dungeon's 
 maps as you explore it. Ohter reviwers mentioned that the game has too much backtracking and is 
 too hard. I thought the backtracking is not excessive, and I felt it's nice that it forces me to 
 think how to fight through the dungeon without wasting too many resources. And yes, the game is 
 harder than other RPGs I played. I like it because of that.
  
  I wish this game could be made multiplayer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phubbadaman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  I have never played a game quite like this. The basis of the game is that there is a town near 
 this dungeon, and everyone who goes in the dungeon basically dies. So you go to the town and start 
 a guild. In the guild, you can basically make as many characters as you want and you get to pick 
 from several classes, fighter, healer, mage, all the basics. From there, you can take up to 5 into 
 the dungeon. As you take steps, you need to mark it out on your map where you see doors, fountains, 
 walls and other such things. At first, I thought this would be repetitive, but it kinda draws you 
 into the game and makes you feel like you actually are walking through an unknown dungeon. You 
 can unlock two more classes later in the game, but I never really used them because I stuck with 
 my party of 5 throughout. The game was going great and I was at the final level and then I fought 
 the final boss. Since most of the game had been easy, I figured I'd breeze through him. Boy was 
 I wrong. This guy totally dominated me. This turned me off from the game for a few weeks, eventually 
 I picked it back up, did some leveling and was able to beat him, but to play through a game and 
 get dominated by the final boss was pretty rough. The only flaw I saw with the game was the final 
 boss. Everything else was great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spryguy27
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 7:57 am PT
Review:  To begin with, it is a turn-based RPG with battle tactics similar to what many have come to expect 
 and adds extreme customization in the form of nine character classes and a couple dozen abilities 
 each to choose from. Adding to these newer ideas, is the drawing of your own map on the bottom 
 screen (reminiscent of old-school D&amp; D action) and a crushing difficulty at times that reminds 
 old school RPG gamers of the good old days and can send newer and/or less experienced gamers crying 
 to their mommies. More than once I spent three plus hours in the depths of the games labyrinth 
 without venturing to town only to be crushed as I neared the end of one of the stratum. Old-schoolers 
 simply brush it off, but some of my friends refused to go any farther, stating, I just wasted hours 
 of my life man, I am getting rid of this game!!! I remind them that losing those three hours prolongs 
 the game, adding to the value. There are times when level-crunching comes into play so that you 
 don't lose hours of game time, but it is still enjoyable.
  
  As for the gameplay itself, it is incredibly easy to master and does not wear on you in the longest 
 of sessions. The gameplay itself is not the hard bit of this game. That lies in the allocation 
 of your skill points and the utilization of your skills while battling creatures, FOEs, and bosses 
 deep within the labyrinth. I never really felt that keeping up with the map was tedious, probably 
 because I felt it better to have a good map when fleeing back to town and running back through 
 an area.
  
  The graphics are nice as you roam through the Yggdrasil labyrinth from a first-person perspective, 
 though they won't blow anyone away. The creatures and characters encountered are bright and look 
 very sharp, though battle animations are almost nonexistent.
  
  The only aspect of the game that really irked me was traversing to and from town. The only place 
 to rest, restock, and save is the town of Etrian. This long run back and forth got a little annoying 
 from time to time, but I just told myself that I was just gaining more experience toward that next 
 level.
  
  All in all, I would recommend this game to those of you who enjoy a long and difficult RPG. Those 
 who enjoy FPS games and THINK that they like playing RPGs would be better trying something a little 
 easier first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sadist_Anubis
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  An overall great game. It gives a sense of accomplishment when you play it, and its unique mapping 
 system gives you the ability to fully customise your map . Also, the extensive customizing abilities 
 with character skills and stats means it has an in-depth feel to it, and it requires strategy to 
 the allocation of points. Haven't finished playing it yet, but so far, I'm completely addicted 
 to the unique gameplay, and the immersive character customization system. The anime-esque characters 
 are really well done as well. Definitely Wizard with updated graphics and on a hand held system, 
 making it perfect for everyone who's played Wizard, or for the old style games of mapping out levels 
 on paper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: strevena
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  I now remember what kept me up all night playing games like Wizardry back in the early 80's. And 
 yes, as hard as it is to believe, we had stacks and stacks of maps on graph paper back in the day. 
 A friend and I would sell ours to a local guy who sold them at computer shows. Half the fun was 
 in making detailed maps. Etrian Odyssey recaptures the magic of games like Wizardry, Bards Tale, 
 Might and Magic, Ultima Underworld and other early dungeon crawls. I've wanted something like this 
 on a handheld for a long time. I pulled out my copy of Pokemon Diamond and gave it to one of my 
 kids after starting this. The graphics are very nicely done while still drawing inspiration from 
 the originals. Highly recommened for fans fo the classic RPG's. Learning curve will depend on your 
 experience with old school RPG's. This will likely not appeal to the console crowd, or RPG'ers 
 that are accustomed to the game holding their hand through the adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingkui12
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Free to customize character
  7 different classes and 5 people are limited to fight
  Many weapon choices
  Long main quest 
 with many side-quests
  Addictive Eye-popping graphics
  
  The bad:
  Hard, I mean it
  No quick save
  Some battles go by very slowly
  
  Closing Comments: I would say if you are 
 up for a challenge get this, but if you're one of those people who want the game to beat itself 
 than this is the wrong game for you. The game itself has a very small story, but you can take up 
 missions. New missions appear every floor which is nice, because some of the missions require patience. 
 A bad thing is that you will be grinding levels before you can fight a Boss or FOE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkCrisisLord
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a great game to play over summer break or just need something to keep you 
 busy for a long time, this is a good game to buy.
  
  The music may not be great, but the game fx make up for it. It is 1 of the few games on the Nintendo 
 DS that actually has reletively decent graphics. The gamplay is good if you like classic rpgs, 
 and the option to change your party at any part of the game is great. if you have played other 
 clasic games based on wizardry you will probably enjoy this game. Over all i give this game a 9/10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicquebec
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2007 11:15 am PT
Review:  Well i'll give you a little why about my scores on Etrian Odyssey.
  
  Gameplay - 10 : The gameplay is fast, simple and you don't have to walk around in a town to find 
 a certain shop, loading are lightning fast.
  
  Graphics - 9 : For a DS game, i think the FX are amazing, a mix of anime style (which i'm not a 
 fan of) but still like it in the game, and a little 2D/3D.
  
  Sound - 6 : It is good but repetitive.
  
  Value - 9 : If you like hard games, get yours today
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 9: Just love this game, it's like.. i don't want to play too much, i want to 
 spread the fun :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 8, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  Etrian Odyssey is a different RPG game as soon as you start playing. How? Well, it's really customizable, 
 which gives you a wide variety of options right from the get-go, in which you can choose 5 characters 
 from 7 classes (or have 2 or more of 1 out of the 7 classes) to start off your adventure. The big 
 question - is it good? Let's see.
  
  Graphics: Well, most RPGs (at least the ones I've played) present somewhat between decent to very 
 good graphics. Etrians fits quite in the middle, ranking itself as good in this category. It has 
 great 3D animation, and battles are visually clear. One thing I don't like is that the camera shows 
 the landscape as being seen through your eyes, not behind the character as many traditional RPGs 
 do (e. g. Final Fantasy III) .
  
  Sound: Etrian has some great soundtracks. The town music, where you start off, is simply magnificent. 
 It's one of my favorite songs (reminded me of Golden Sun) , and appeals to playing the whole game. 
 The game sounds good, overall.
  
  Gameplay: Here is where things get a little complicated. The game is VERY hard, you need ounces 
 of patience and time to beat the game and obtain every treasure. Every match seems a boss match, 
 especially in the beginning. It's like you are being thrown in to a world where you are an ant 
 and the opponents are giants. See the comparison? I also don't like mapping, it's a tedious task. 
 The game could just present a default map that updates itself instead of you having to explore 
 and map it out, like in Castlevania. Despite this, it's quite solid. Not a very deep history, but 
 short and sweet is the key.
  
  Replay Value: The game doesn't have Wi-Fi, nor I don't think it needed too. It also doesn't present 
 many multiplayer features. In my opinion, this is a game to play alone - around 100 hours have 
 to be put in to fully complete the game, or probably more.
  
  All in all, Etrian Odyssey looks, sounds and plays appealing, but the difficulty level may not 
 appeal to some. Certainly get it if you are willing for a grit-teething challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geotio
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  To start off this game is hard. But it's definitely a great game. The diverse classes come with 
 different avatars to choose different abilities, making you feel more a part of the game. This 
 game is surely something you cannot speed through; doing so leaves you less prepared for the dangers 
 of inexperience. But the game gets kind of annoying when the Rooster Inn [the only way to save] 
 or the Ceft Apocathery [to revive your comrades] are out of reach. And when you die, it's game 
 over pal. That's it. You start over and lose all you worked for. The only thing you wont lose is 
 your map. Thank god. Including the ability to save your map before you die is a brilliant option. 
 Another flaw is that you cant directly make money that easily. It would be better if batles left 
 you with some cash to recover your troops upon arrival to town. You can sell goods from them but 
 at a low cost that could barely effect the weight of your pocket. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trinicks
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 30, 2007 4:52 am PT
Review:  Hey ! i' am just getting into the feel of creating a ds review because this game is old school 
 playing, first person viewed, nice playing action. This game starts you of in the Explorer's Guild 
 where you get to create a guild of adventurers and get to go to a place where the scenery is a 
 2Drific forest typed dungeon which you will battle countless monsters and monstrous enemies called 
 F. O. E. and as you progress through the quest you'll encounter much stronger monsters and much more 
 powerful Foes this game is really a must have for old school gamers and i think one of the reasons 
 to buy a DS so save up some space coz Etrian Odyssey is Coming to you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RidleyTJN
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 29, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a good RPG for your DS look no further. Many of you may not have ever played 
 a some of the older American style RPG's for the PC such as Wizardry or Might &amp; Magic. To those 
 of you who haven't I encourage you to give this a shot if you enjoy RPG's in general. It's definitely 
 a different experience from your typical Final Fantasy style Japanese style RPG. To those of you 
 who grew up with said Wizardry style RPGs and were hoping to find a new rendition of one look no 
 further. Etrian Odyssey is one of the most polished and fun to play games for the DS. And that 
 goes for whether you' are familiar with the Genre or not. Let's start with the graphics. Simply 
 put they are amazing. Polished visuals running at 60 fps. The forest looks beautiful and the character 
 and monster sprites are well crafted, inventive, and interesting to look at.
  
  Gameplay is another category this game shines at. You create your own party and depending on what 
 skills you invest in as you level up, will have you playing the game completely differently from 
 someone else. For example I have a Landsnecht (offensive warrior) , Dark Hunter, Protector (Defensive 
 Warrior/Paladin) , Medic, and Alchemist. My Girlfriend has a Landsnecht, Survivalist, Protector, 
 Medic and Alchemist. Very similar teams, but the skills she has invested in on each character are 
 vastly different from what I have invested in, so her battles play out slower but safer then mine 
 which are faster but I risk dying a lot easier. I could go on forever about how amazing the gameplay 
 is so I'll cut it short with saying its well balanced, well thought out, and well put together 
 and is very fun to play.
  
  The map creation aspect of the game is addictive and there will be many a time where you will just 
 stand there in the forest and carefully craft your map just because its fun to do. Even better 
 you can do it while battling, so if there is an easy battle you just want to hold A through you 
 can draw your map while doing it. It also helps break up the monotony of random battles (if you're 
 adverse to them) by allowing you to multi task. The music was composed by the same Composer responsible 
 for games such as Actraiser, Streets of Rage 2, Shenmue, and Castlevania: Portrait of Ruin (in 
 conjunction) and it shows. It fits the mood of the game perfectly. As far as sound goes there isn't 
 much of it, a couple of sounds to indicate you're attacking or casting magic etc but there is no 
 spoken dialogue or anything.
  
  If there is one thing that some people may not like about the game is it is difficult. Each floor 
 you progress through has a brand new set of monsters that, if you're not prepared, will wipe the 
 floor with you. Random battles in this game are fairly spaced out and they wont happen every couple 
 of steps. There are also skills and items that help reduce the amount of them. But be warned by 
 no means is this game easy. To put this into perspective, I have finally reached the 9th floor 
 of the labyrinth. I am also close to 20-25 hours into the game. There are 30 floors total in the 
 labyrinth, and when the game is completed more floors are unlocked. As you can guess the game is 
 extremely long. The fact that there is no quick save is also a huge nuisance. To save you must 
 either hoof it back to town, use a Warp Wire, or find a Geomagnetic field. No exceptions. If you 
 die you start at your last save file. However all of your map information will be saved and carried 
 over.
  
  Story is another thing some people may not enjoy as if you're used to long, twisting, complicated 
 plots ala Final Fantasy or Xenosaga you will not find it here. While there is a story to follow 
 the games focus is more on giving the gamer a fun through game play experience than having a deep 
 plot driven experience of one of the aforementioned titles. However the story is by no means bad 
 either, its just not the focus of the game.
  
  There are a number of secrets that can be unlocked or found, such as two other character classes 
 unavailable at the start of the game. And given the way you direct your parties skills as they 
 level, each party can be completely different, so there is a bit of replay value as once you beat 
 the game you can keep playing. All in all I highly recommend Etrian Odyssey for purchase it's probably 
 one of the best RPGs you can find on the DS. If you're new to this RPG Sub-genre of Wizardry style 
 RPGs and are willing to try something new and different I wholeheartedly encourage you to check 
 it out. If you're a Wizardry vet you probably already own this game. And if you don't, then you 
 owe it to yourself to try it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkLarcen
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 28, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  This game is pure fun. When the dude at EB said this game was great and explained it to me, I was 
 kind of like... ehhh... But what the hell. I got it and as soon as I put it in, I didnt stop playing 
 for hours. Great graphics, good sound, tons of options. The battles weren't half bad either! I 
 loved it, it reminded me of the good old days of playing RPG's and hunt around for things and having 
 to map out your directions! Yes, this game has a custom map out feature, which is AWESOME! You 
 can draw your map, put little markers on it where you saw stuff and found things.. I love it. I 
 HIGHLY advise any old school RPGer to atleast give this a try for 30- 40 mins. The character creation 
 and customization is great too! Try it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidBeoulve
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 25, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  You can make your own party; character classes work well and are balanced; the shop only carries 
 items made from the stuff you find in the Labyrinth and sell to them; map making is fun and not 
 much of a chore; free-style progression; great music from The Bad:
  This game is hard. Leveling is slow, and if the whole party dies you have to start from your last 
 save (map scribbles can be saved, but nothing else) . Only 1 skill point per level means not only 
 leveling is slow, but building up your characters is as well.
  
  Music:
  An understated feature is that Yuzo Koshiro, who worked on soundtracks for games like Streets of 
 Rage, Sonic the Hedgehog and Actraiser, is responsible for the music in Etrian Odyssey. His synthetic 
 style has been largely abandoned in favor of digital full symphonic orchestras, but his work represents 
 some of the best of what we used to listen to, and he's done a fine job here as well.
  
  Story:
  There's not much story, which is great if you've had your fill of being lead around by 
 the nose. You are free to go where you will and do what you will. The characters are all drawn 
 well.
  
  Mapping &amp; Exploration:
  Exploration feels good as you progress through the Labyrinth and map your way around. The ground 
 draws for you but you have to draw walls, encounter spots, treasure spots, and annotations. A cool 
 feature is that some map points will notify you as you are moving onto them the next time you come 
 towards them, popping up on your screen what you wrote.
  
  Leveling and Encounters:
  The game gets easier as you level up, but every once in a while an encounter will cream you. I've 
 found that certain creatures are just impossible to take down without a balanced party, or - if 
 you know what you're going to face, an overbalanced party filled with the classes that beat that 
 beast best.
  
  Naturally, characters not in the party (or in the party, but dead) don't gain experience.
  
 
  Save Game:
  There is only one save on the cartridge, due to the amount of map data possible to save; however, 
 you can have 20 characters in your guild, so my 10yo daughter and I still play with our own parties. 
 Missions and party inventory is the only conflict, but the former is not essential.
  
  The main negative to this game is the inability to save the game. You can only save in town at 
 the inn (some areas of the Labyrinth feature warp points) . This seems counter-intuitive on a Nintendo 
 DS handheld gaming system; sure, this is the way these types of games used to work, but we used 
 to sit for hours in front of our computers playing them, not on the city bus or while following 
 the family shopping cart like a zombie.
  
  Sequel?:
  There is a password feature which, supposedly, will be used to somehow transfer some part of your 
 progress to a potential sequel to this game. Don't hold your breath, but it would be nice.
  
  Summary:
  A worthy buy if only because the game is so well done and balanced. Just expect 
 to close your NDS when shopping and put it in sleep mode, and expect to curse a few times as you 
 are learning and get your party wiped.
  
  The game is hardcore, without being so hard you don't want to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpublic
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 24, 2007 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Etrian Odyssey can be described, in its simplest form, as an old-school dungeon romp. You start 
 out in a base town, with various shops. From there, you create a party of 5 character from 7 classes 
 (with 2 more unlockable) and go exploring. The classes what you expect, albeit with unusual names 
 - among the basic 7 there's 3 front-line fighters, a couple mixed front/back fighters, and two 
 back-liners. Once you have your party, you're given a basic mission to introduce you to some gameplay 
 elements, and let go.
  
  Upon entering the dungeon, you get a glimpse at what to expect for the rest of the game. The game 
 is essentially a tile-based 3D explorer, allowing you to go step-turn-step-step-etc. The top screen 
 gives you the graphical view, which for the DS, are honestly beautiful. The bottom screen gives 
 you the map, which is where the uniqueness lies.
  
  As you walk, you fill in the floor of a map. But to put in details, like doors, walls, treasure 
 chests, warps, item collection points, etc., you have to draw them yourself. Doing so is the basis 
 of your first mission, just to give you some experience.
  
  Combat in the game is about what you'd expect - pseudo-random encounters (there's a little meter 
 that tells you when to expect one) that bring you to a combat interface. You queue up your actions, 
 and then allow them to execute. Next turn you queue up again.
  
  And this is where the game gets *hard*. The difficulty curve on combat is steep - the critters 
 on each level are anywhere from 2-3x tougher than the ones on the level above, and it's easy to 
 get in over your head, especially with the special combats (called FOEs) that can be ridiculously 
 tough. In fact, when getting to level 3, they even warn you that you can (and sometimes should!) 
 avoid FOEs entirely, because they might be too tough for you - thankfully you can see them on the 
 map. That can be really troublesome, because when you get into combat the FOEs can move in the 
 open map after each turn, which means you might end up with one interrupting a random encounter 
 if you're not careful.
  
  Difficulty aside, Entrian Odyssey is deep, challenging, and incredibly fun. It's one of those Atlus 
 masterpieces you'll regret not picking up earlier when it becomes an impossible-to-find gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaborwaki22
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 22, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I read a few reviews before playing this game and they did me some justice actually. But my first 
 credits to the game is Etrian Odyssey is a real dungeon crawler like old times. I havent seen a 
 modern RPG that is better than this game at the stuff this game tries to implement, and that is 
 dungeon crawling. Etrian Odyssey is a RPG set in one town. Really the game is creating a group 
 of adventurer's being able to have 5 characters in the party at a time. Then you go down into this 
 massive labyrinth and do quests, dig deeper and deeper, while at the same time having a really 
 nice map function. The map is actually as detailed as you want it to be. There is a nice selection 
 of skills that the different classes have (9 classes to chose from) and getting new levels, gear 
 and finding out what group combination works best for you (you can switch out different characters 
 in town) is gratifying. Have you ever played Shining in the darkness for the old Sega? What about 
 wizardry series or might and magic? This RPG is actually hard as well, I was getting a little comfortable 
 and ended up dying several times I was getting really frustrated. I highly suggest this game. If 
 you like Atlus RPG's I especially recomend this game. Graphics and music are very nice for DS. 
 Yah reffering to wizardry and might and magic, yah it's a first person while in dungeon. So you 
 can travel room to room moving forward back or turning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamHo
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  This game is really addictive - you must think throughout playing this game, because if you ever 
 stop paying attention to what you're doing, you'll be severely punished. It's a game that requires 
 attention, which is why it's so addictive!
  
  A great part of the game is the ability to customize your party members, the game gives you 9 different 
 classes, with 2 locked when you begin. You can then place 5 members on your active party (you can 
 make more and leave them at the guild hall) with any combination of classes you like. My own advice 
 though, it's absolutely mandatory to carry a medic with you. I hope you guys have as much as fun 
 as I am playing this game, I haven't really played anything like it in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Congo1977
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2007 5:42 am PT
Review:  I love all the features they have in this game. It is old school play, with current features. I 
 have spent a long time just going though the first level, and working my way though the maze. I 
 am sure this is going to take a long time, but I will have a blast the whole way. The game give 
 you all the options, from what to do, where to go, and what to bring with you. The graphics are 
 the best I have seen on the DS. I look forward to getting back to it, and solving the labyrinth! 
 I belive this to be one of the best games out for the DS, and as such, I think you should give 
 it a try if you like old school play with updated graphics! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hells_kitchen
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 25, 2007 4:50 am PT
Review:  This game is a classic dungeon hack, a genre which goes back to the mainframe days of the 1970s. 
 But it has also been updated for the 2000s, with quests, missions, special weapon skills, and resource 
 gathering reminiscent of Final Fantasy games (and probably some other games as well, but I haven't 
 really played many console RPGs) .
  
  This game also introduces some new twists. The most talked about twist is the map you have to draw 
 yourself using the stylus. The developers of the game are to be commended for taking advantage 
 of the DS's unique capabilities. This reminds us that, unlike most games coming out for portables -- both 
 for the DS and the Sony PSP -- which are ports of non-portable games, this game was built from the 
 ground up to be a DS game. I'm sure we will be seeing more such games, because the DS is the biggest 
 selling dedicated gaming platform on the planet right now. (That's not to say that the PSP doesn't 
 have a lot going for it, but Etrian Odyssey is the type of game that works well on the DS's more 
 limited processing power and makes good use of the two screens.) It's also nice to see an original 
 game and not one with a long Roman Numeral in the title. I sense that the developer put a lot of 
 tender loving care into this. It's not a marketing department driven game, it's one developers 
 attempt to create a game the he himself would like to play.
  
  The do-it-yourself map isn't the only twist. This is actually quite a deep dungeon hack. If you 
 don't put your party together correctly, you're simply going to get pwned by the badder monsters 
 in the deeper levels. Every time you level, your characters' overall power increases, but you also 
 get one skill point per level to assign to your characters, and these skill points are crucial. 
 There are far too many skills available to level all of them, so you really have to strategize 
 here. One or two highly leveled skills seem to be more useful than a large number of level 1 skills. 
 Of course the first go through the dungeon, you will wind up assigning points to the wrong abilities 
 and you will have to create new characters in order to fix that. That's part of the fun :)
  
  In addition to combat oriented skills, there are various economic skills you can develop, which 
 you will need to gather resources to sell at the shop. You need money, so these economic skills 
 are important. But the problem is, if you level all of a character's non combat skills, he will 
 be a sub-par performer in combat, especially against the FOEs which are the super hard monsters 
 found on each level of the dungeon. An interesting dilemma, huh? You're allowed to have up to 20 
 active characters, and there are only 5 characters allowed in the party, so apparently you are 
 supposed to have extra character to swap in for special purposes.
  
  I think this game has been unfairly criticized by a lot of professional early reviews, because 
 reviewers simply don't like the genre. Or maybe they think it's too challenging? This game is actually 
 pretty easy to learn, the challenge is in the very long journey through all of the levels, and 
 in that you WILL die from time to time going up against the FOEs. You can also die if you wander 
 too deep into the dungeon, use up all of your TP (needed for casting spells) , and you forgot to 
 bring a Warp Wire which you need to warp out. If you're not looking for a dungeon hack, then stay 
 away despite my high rating. But if you like the dungeon hack genre, then ignore any reviews that 
 pan this game.
  
  There is no graphical tour de force here, but the 3D dungeon view looks quite pretty given the 
 DS's limited hardware capabilities. And after you get past the first five levels, you are treated 
 to a completely new and even prettier looking dungeon! Presumabely every few levels you get to 
 see a new dungeon look. There really are no DS games that can come close to what can be done on 
 the Sony PSP. I rate the graphics based on the capabilities of the hardware. I'm not sure why this 
 aspect of the game was panned by a lot of professional reviewers, because I don't think there's 
 enough memory on the DS cards to have a completely different look for each one of 30 levels. And 
 the game was also dinged for not having animations. However the static pictures of the monsters 
 are quite well done and pretty to look at. I've used the word pretty alot because it describes 
 the look of the game very well.
  
  My main complaint with this game is that it's TOO addictive. You may find yourself not able to 
 put the game down until after just one more run into the dungeon, which of course turns into a 
 second run, and before you know it hours of your life have been wasted. You have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relentlessH52
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Nowadays, RPGs tend to lead you by the hand, almost as if youre being babysat or something. They 
 lead you on a set path with linear progression, and all of them try to WOW you with flashy graphics 
 and stuff like that. Back in the days of games like Wizardry, there was no such thing as that. 
 You were free to explore the world with little to no guidance and you can take on any missions 
 or quests you wanted. This is the core gameplay element of Etrian Odyssey, a new RPG from the good 
 folks at Atlus that focuses on the good old days, even going as far as making the game have a first 
 person perspective. Can an old school RPG actually be good in this day and age? Theres not much 
 of a story here in Etrian. The only thing you really have to know is that you are a group of guys 
 in a clan who set off to gain riches and recognition. Essentially, you gain recognition by going 
 through quests and missions. So, essentially, the story is really just a minority in this game, 
 which in this case, is fine. The primarily in Etrian Odyssey is obviously the gameplay. When you 
 first start up, you end up creating your own party. Thats right! There is NO set party in Etrian. 
 You chose a name for each character, and you choose the class and what is the character image. 
 There are a total of four character images per class (two male, two female) and there is up to 
 9 different character classes to choose from, which totals 36 character possibilities. The customization 
 doesnt really end there. As you gain levels, youre able to choose what skills the characters 
 will learn using the skill points you earn. Some skills are necessary to learn other skills, and 
 some of them actually let you do attributes outside of battle, like healing, mining, and the like. 
 So, the possibilities here are almost endless. During battle, its a traditional turn based system, 
 of which you select whether to attack, defend, use an item or skill, boost up your stats, or run 
 away from battle altogether. Be forewarned, though, as the enemies in this game are relentless. 
 If you want to have any chance in this game, you have to constantly level up by gaining experience 
 from defeating enemies, learning the right skills, manage your money by selling the items that 
 the enemies drop, and equipping good weapons and armor, this game will give you a good whipping. 
 You also must know when to advance to the next floor of the labyrinth or not. Unless you know youre 
 ready, forget it. You are aloud up to five characters to take out at a time, and you are free to 
 customize your party, but make sure its a party that is actually good. You also have to map out 
 your progress. There is no set map at all, and you use the bottom screen to map your progress in 
 the labyrinth. You use it to mark the path, dead ends, treasure, events, and the like. No enemies 
 appear if youre not moving, so you can just stop and map out your progress without worrying about 
 encounters. You can also move and map at the same time, but you run a risk of running into enemies 
 as you map. You can also map during battles as well, since the battles are controlled with the 
 D-pad and buttons. Mapping out your progress helps you out a lot. Plus, since theres no real linear 
 progression, feel free to explore to your hearts content. Finally, there are the missions and 
 quests you take on. Unlike most RPGs these days, there is no set quest or mission. You actually 
 choose which ones you like to take on when youre in the town. This freedom of choice gives it 
 more legs, and you can actually tackle more than one quest at a time. When you start playing this, 
 you start to wonder why more RPGs these days dont offer this kind of freedom. Presentation-wise, 
 its not really that much. The labyrinth itself is done in 3D, and it actually looks pretty lively 
 for a DS game. If you look closely, you can actually see some background effects, like flowers 
 swaying and such. The rest of the graphics are done using 2D artwork with little animation. You 
 view the labyrinth through a first person perspective which actually helps you seeing through the 
 game with your own eyes. In the audio front, the music has a very good charm and also has a bit 
 of a retro flavor, which actually helps it to give off its old school style. There are barely any 
 sound effects, however. There is also no voice over, whatsoever. Whats there is appropriate, though, 
 so it does get the job done. To be honest, its not really trying to get you in with its presentation.
 
  Etrian Odyssey, which must be said, is really not for everyone. RPG gamers who remember the days 
 of Wizardry and other games like it are more likely to get the most out of it. Its also appealing 
 for those who like to be more part of the experience instead of being just a guided character in 
 a story. Everyone else should probably try it first to see if its your cup of tea. To be honest, 
 I really loved this one, and I suggest you give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 9
Date: May 22, 2007 2:06 am PT
Review:  Atlus is a company that has brang over countless sleeper RPG's. like Disgea ,Shin Megami and ofcourse 
 Tactics Ogre. there games never get high reviews mostly cause there dripping with Japanese culture 
 our Western Reviewers seem to think there not that good. But i can testify that those games are 
 still great and offer massive ammounts of depth
  
  Etrian Odyssey is another one of those Games from Atlus that hardcores will scream how great it 
 is and the Mass market will scream it's stupid. If your a fan of Atlus this game will not disapoint 
 you at all.
  
  The start of the game you asked to make a guild and choose what kind of group you want. you can 
 then make 5 or more players for your group out of various classes. The way the game is set up it's 
 gonna take alot to get your party to own , but in the end is worth the time put it.
  
  The story in this game is very non existant it's not bad but it's not that important. You are asked 
 to delve into a dungeon and map out what you see. I don't know how anyone can say this makes no 
 sense seeing how if you really were exploring a dungeon, you would have to make a map so you know 
 how to get out. the stylist makes this chore really easy and fun.
  
  The graphics are not horrible there 3d and work great and it looks like it's a high frame rate 
 also. the battle system is really nice because unlike other games that slow down alot to show fancy 
 special effects , etrian does combat really fast so battles tend to go by fast.
  
  The music is well made , but there very small amount of tracks , so you might be listening to the 
 same songs over and over, but good thing is there good songs
  
  This game is a great addition to any DS libary. Reviews seems to be Mixed but overall they all 
 say the same thing , if your a RPG fan your love this game. If your new or never played an RPG 
 then this game can be your gateway to RPG's it' truly is one of original and best RPG's on the 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonb619
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Good: Nice gameplay, Challenging, Pretty good graphics and pictures, lots of fun and strategy.
 
  
  Bad: Limited animations in battle, possible to get yourself stuck to the point where you need to 
 start over (But this can also add to the fun since only bad playing causes this) and the dialogue 
 isnt that great.
  
  I had my doubts about this game at first but as soon as I started playing the game it had me hooked. 
 Without getting into too much detail you can create a party of 5 and customize them how you like, 
 then you go through a little tutorial to get familiar with the game, get a few quests and you are 
 off.
  
  The best part about the game is that it makes you want to think and plan how to advance in the 
 game. There is a big variety of ways you can tackle the dungeons and you can switch your party 
 and strategy around at any time. The fights are somewhat challenging right off the bat, and my 
 only gripe would be that I wish there were a few more monsters in each level for variety. The battles 
 themselves are classic turn based, simple but fun with the different skills you can earn.
  
  The levels are fun to explore because you can find stuff or events out of nowhere.. just be 
 careful when it asks you something like Do you want to rest on the flowers? It will be very hard 
 to just run through a level and beat it without going back to heal and rest. There isn't too much 
 to the game, but if you like RPG's and especially Dungeon crawling RPG's you should really like 
 this game. There is enough to keep it simple but very interesting at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 18, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Relatively in-depth character development with a variety of interesting new job classes to try 
 out. Ability to design your entire party from scratch. Quest and mission-based dungeon crawling 
 from a first-person perspective. Random battles not too frequent to be annoying.
  
  The bad:
  Outdated sound and graphics. Very slow buildup of character. No saving in the dungeon. 
 Forced to draw your own maps.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Lately, there appears to be an influx of games for the DS that harken back to good/bad old days, 
 when you couldn't save anywhere but in a town, you had to draw your own maps of dungeons on this 
 thing called paper using this other thing called a pencil, and it took forever to build up your 
 character into something resembling a fighting force to be reckoned with. Izuna, for example, set 
 a new standard of difficulty for many young players by severely punishing you for dying (taking 
 away all your stuff, and not letting you reload it) . While Etrian Oddysey isn't as evil as that, 
 it does make questing difficult in different ways that might not appeal to some, but might be the 
 reason others fall in love with it.
  
  The basic plot is that there is this dungeon that just opened up in the forest, and bands of intrepid 
 questing troops have disappeared into the bowels of this place. The king wants something done, 
 and puts a call out for help.
  You are in command of one such group that answers the call. You begin the game by creating your 
 group, one by one, by assigning names and job classes. For the most part, the job classes are fairly 
 typical, with your fighter, mage, healer, and so on, but there are a few interesting alternative 
 classes also available (and more unlock over time) , such as the 'dancer', and survivalist.
  
  Once you've created a party of five, you can put them together into a group, and take it out 
 into the dungeon to start questing. Quests come in three basic types:
  
  1) no-quest scrounges, in which you simply wander around the dungeon, killing any random monsters 
 that arise, for the purpose of building up experience and collecting stuff to sell later
  
  2) 'missions', where you are asked to do some particular task to advance the story, and
  
  
 3) side-quests, where you must accomplish some task in the dungeon (collect a certain number of 
 a certain item, kill a certain monster, etc.) in exchange for cash or items.
  
  The existence of these various tasks help give some sense of purpose to what otherwise would be 
 a pretty purposeless dungeon-crawl, and in fact might be mistaken for Deep Labyrinth.
  
  While in town, you can visit different places (apothecary, Inn, guild, etc.) through a simple menu 
 choice. While in the dungeon, however, you are in a 1st person perspective when walking around, 
 very similar to the old Eye of the Beholder series of long ago. You move one square at a time, 
 forward, backward, left or right. The graphics are not the worst I've seen, but certainly not of 
 Metroid Prime quality either. The basic engine seems to have a static image for very far away scenery, 
 and paper cutout-like moving objects as you walk past. Check the video to see what I mean. It looks 
 very much like the same graphics engine as was used for Deep Labyrinth was used here.
  
  When a fight breaks out, you stay in the same perspective, facing the enemies (your folks are listed 
 along with their HP/mana values at the bottom of the screen) , making for a somewhat disconnected 
 experience. I would have preferred an over-the-shoulder perspective such as can be found in Golden 
 Sun.
  
  Each battle earns you experience points, which eventually allow you to level up. Levelling up confers 
 one single status point which may be placed into one of many categories, depending on your character's 
 job class (HP, mana, attack, defense, spells, etc.) . This results in character development being 
 verrrrrry slow and tedious, since skills are often organized hierarchically (e. g.: for a mage to 
 get a fireball spell, they first need to learn about basic fire, then learn to cast a 'flame', 
 and only then, will they be allowed to learn fireballs) . In some cases, the skill you may want 
 to learn requires you have a certain number of skill points allotted to several different lower-level 
 skills. The end result, given you only get one lousy skill point per level, is that this game quickly 
 becomes a matter of running around the same floor over and over, killing enemies and collecting 
 cash a lot longer than you might want spend doing it. Of course, some of us love that style of 
 gameplay, buffing up the character into a lean mean fighting machine. Others, who are looking for 
 quick story advancement and character development, will be disappointed here.
  
  Battles themselves can be somewhat challenging at first, since each character is initially provided 
 with the barest of equipment. An interesting twist, however, is that the store will only sell armor 
 and weapons that it has built from stuff (rabbit tails, skins, crabshells) you have harvested from 
 dead enemies in the dungeon and sold to them. So, for example, initially there are no shields available 
 for sale, but if you kill several crab-like enemies and sell their shells to the store, suddenly 
 you might find that they offer a shell-shield of sorts. In other words, the store's inventory depends 
 on what you bring in from the dungeon to sell them.
  
  The one other innovation this game offers is that automapping does not really occur. Instead, while 
 in the dungeon, the lower screen becomes a grid, and you have to draw your own maps of what's around 
 you. I found this to be an incredibly dumb idea, and a grand waste of time. However, it really 
 isn't that difficult to do, so I wouldn't call it a deal breaker for this game.
  
  In summary, this game is sort of a cross between Izuna and Pokemon Mystery Dungeon, in that you 
 have a harder-than-usual dungeon crawl, with side-quests and missions. If you like the sort of 
 game where you slowly build up your character in battle, collecting coin for better weapons, and 
 occasionally getting a new snippet of story, you will probably like this one.
  For many folks, however, this might be an overly-difficult dungeon slog without enough story advancement, 
 graphics bells and whistles, or payoffs to keep their interest. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
