-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Exit DS
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/action/hijouguchiexitds/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Appropriately challenging puzzles.
 Great visual style.
 More than 100 stages.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Control faults.
 Game confuses commands.
 AI companions require constant supervision.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.8, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 33 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: Taito Corporation
Genre: Action
Date: Nov 5, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Poor controls plague Mr. Esc's first action puzzler romp on the Nintendo DS. 

  Exit DS is a refreshingly different action-puzzler that should interest puzzle fans bored with 
 positioning awkwardly shaped falling objects onto color-coded grids. The series has met with success 
 on other platforms, thanks to simple but challenging gameplay couched in an aesthetically pleasing 
 comic-book style. Unfortunately, poor controls, a few AI hiccups, and the game's tendency to misinterpret 
 commands mar Exit's DS debut.  

  The game casts you as Mr. Esc, a professional escapologist called upon whenever civilians are trapped 
 inside burning buildings, sinking ships, or any number of life-threatening, collapsible structures. 
 There's very little in the way of a plot, given that Mr. Esc's sole objective is to rescue civilians 
 from impending disaster, although the game does provide some variety by using "situations." These 
 are simple stage settings that range from frozen shopping centers to a UFO, with each containing 
 10 stages.  

           Manipulate the environment to clear a path for survivors.      

  Gameplay is straightforward and revolves around you guiding Mr. Esc through obstacles on a simplistic 
 2D side-scrolling field with the help of a handy top-screen map. This usually involves manipulating 
 the environment by activating switches, pushing barrels, stacking boxes, or removing any hazards 
 that might harm you or any civilian companions, whom you can spot by scrolling across the field 
 with the D pad. The stage ends when you've successfully transported all characters to the exit, 
 and a single injury to anyone means a restart. You're given more than enough time to escort everyone 
 to safety, and though the time limit does apply some urgency in the later areas, the lack of pressure 
 throughout most levels may disappoint those looking for a more intense experience.  

  The game's seemingly simple objective belies its difficulty which, despite the forgiving time limit, 
 steadily increases as you progress. Most puzzles require that you use a specific item to remove 
 a threat or reach a certain area, and though juggling items poses its own hardship, the true challenge 
 comes in managing your civilian companions. The companions feature unique abilities that will help 
 you navigate through any peril as well as limitations that will undoubtedly affect your strategic 
 planning. For example, large adults, who are most useful for pushing large boxes, also cause certain 
 floor panels to break under their weight; children, meanwhile, are great at squeezing into tight 
 areas that their heftier counterparts can't reach, but can't climb up or down ledges without an 
 adult's help. Dogs, which have an easy time making long jumps and swimming, are at their best when 
 fetching hard-to-reach items but have limited vertical range. You'll also run across artificial 
 restrictions, such as the companions' inability to operate elevators, as well as injured companions 
 that you'll have to carry to the exit. Furthermore, item usage and level mechanics are slightly 
 adjusted for each situation to increase variety by adding new limitations, such as aliens that 
 can't carry items but can walk through flames. These restrictions significantly impact gameplay, 
 making companions valuable assets as opposed to mere key snatchers.  

  Although the puzzles are challenging, you'll probably experience more difficulty in maneuvering 
 Mr. Esc due to finicky controls that require precise movement and character positioning. For example, 
 to attach a ladder to a hook so you can descend a floor, you'll first have to position Mr. Esc 
 immediately next to a hook, precisely select the hook, and then carefully select the ladder; if 
 you target air instead of the hook, select the incorrect portion of the ladder, or happen to be 
 standing just an inch too far away, Mr. Esc may very well walk right off the edge to his doom. 
 The D-pad controls are slightly better because you don't have to worry so much about precise targeting, 
 but they're also much slower and make for cumbersome character shuffling and instruction, extending 
 the game's already slow pace to the point that it's just easier to stick with the stylus controls. 

  It's possible to issue a string of commands to speed up progression instead of guiding characters 
 through a puzzle element by element, but the game so often misinterprets instructions that you're 
 better off issuing orders individually. Even if you position Mr. Esc at the bottom of a set of 
 stairs and specifically target the top, he'll occasionally stand there stupefied or read the command 
 horizontally instead of vertically, wandering off into a nearby fire. Likewise, he might waste 
 time crawling around on all fours because he misinterprets a simple hang-and-drop command, or break 
 his leg by "forgetting" to jump a gap you've ordered him to cross, which makes for especially frustrating 
 stage restarts that aren't your fault. Though companions are usually intelligent enough not to 
 attempt jumps they're destined to fail, they'll still blindly follow you into fires or other hazards 
 if you forget to cancel the "follow me" command before navigating through a danger zone. You may 
 also spy them wandering into trouble while carrying out your orders, so it's best to keep a sharp 
 eye on their activities, even if it means tedious babysitting.  

           Manage your companions to form a route to the exit before time is up.      

  The 2D 
 stages consist of simple black silhouettes that achieve a slightly cartoonish look, but you'll 
 find a few bright bursts of color in fires, flooded areas, and other threats. Character models 
 appear rather primitively as anonymous, blocky shadow people, though they do feature small details 
 such as hats or bows, and even Mr. Esc looks dashing in his bold red tie. Characters also move 
 fluidly and add to the game's unique comic-book influence, which keeps the game visually appealing 
 even if it's graphically sparse. You'll find the frequent calls for help from companions waiting 
 to be saved very annoying, but its jazzy background music more than makes up for it.  

  It should take roughly 10 hours to rescue every companion and clear all of the stages, of which 
 there are more than 100. You might enjoy replaying stages to increase your score, which is determined 
 by how quickly you finish a stage, but one play-through is probably more than enough unless you're 
 submitting scores to the game's global ranking via the Nintendo Wi-Fi Connection.  

  Exit DS is challenging and unique, with a great comic-book flair that should please those seeking 
 an unconventional puzzler, but some may be highly disappointed by its finicky controls and frequent 
 command misinterpretation.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lockerdown
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 8:36 am PT
Review:  Exit DS, a puzzle game of the highest quality (to me) . It has a good mixture of difficulty (I would 
 know, working on situation 4) and great controls (3 different ways of moving about and doing things) . 
 The graphics could have been a little better, but they were still good. There isn't much of a storyline 
 (I enjoy games with a plot) , but the thinking this game involves kept me too busy from complaining. 
 As I practically said in the title, this game is not for the weak of heart, the first couple of 
 situations might be laid back, but soon you'll be scrambling just to find a solution to get to 
 a certain part of the level you're on. I don't recommend starting over if it gets too hard (common 
 sense, plus the same puzzles get old) . Another thing, if you really care about the people that 
 you save in the game, there's a side menu that can let you know a little bit about them. Overall, 
 I believe that this game is just about perfect, and that other puzzle games should be like this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadSomeone
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2009 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Admit it - you've daydreamed about being a hero. About being the one who saves a small child and 
 their puppy from a burning building before legging it just before the roof is blown into space.
 
  
  Which is why Exit has such a likeable premise. Playing as Mr ESC you charge into one building after 
 another, locating and rescuing trapped victims and clearing a path for them to the exit. 
  
  Its concept is high adrenaline and each of the game's 100 levels - set in ten different scenarios, 
 each with unique hazards such as fire, ice and water - comes with a time limit as well as head-scratching 
 obstacles. 
  
  But, surprisingly, Exit isn't a mad dash from A to B. Instead it's a slow-paced game that demands 
 precision and consideration. 
  
  It's an approach that doesn't seem to fit at first until you realise Exit is a puzzler, not an 
 action or platform game. 
  
  Its grid-based levels are a bit like sudoku puzzles - you try moving things about then suddenly 
 everything slots into place. 
  
  Every block you push has implications and be prepared for a lot of re-starting, because there's 
 no going back once you've gone wrong.
  
  This is part of Exit's charm - and it has plenty of it. The cel-shaded visuals are stylish too, 
 and lots of touches make you smile - like the chubby victims who fall on their faces when you get 
 them to climb something.
  
  Something that could divide opinion are Exit's controls, as while the stylus-based system suits 
 the game, Mr ESC often mis-reads instructions.
  
  The game's laidback pace stops this being an issue, however, because these mistakes are rarely 
 irreversible. 
  
  Besides, everything else is well crafted and the bite-size puzzles are perfect for DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatcho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game, I thought it was just a rip-off of N+. However, after spending a few 
 hours with it, I can say that this game has a much deeper gameplay that is not only fun but quite 
 addicting as well.
  
  The game starts with a couple of tutorial levels with Mr. Esc (the main character's name) , a professional 
 rescuer. At first you'll be forgiven by thinking that this is nothing but a click-here, go-there, 
 switch-that, kind of game. But spend time with it and you'll discover that it's a very challenging 
 title. 
  
  You pretty much live up to Mr. Esc's job description of rescuing people like mature, kids, fat, 
 and injured ones. Animals like dogs are part of the cast as well. A mature person can do most of 
 Mr. Esc's moves, but a kid couldn't climb or drop as much. A kid however can crawl and reach tight 
 places like dogs can. A fat person can push objects that a regular person couldn't but will need 
 assistance climbing high places. All of the characters mentioned have pros and cons and can be 
 used/controlled to help our hero find a way to reach the "exit" door. There are items/elements 
 like fire extinguishers, smoke exhaust fans, keys, ladders and ropes, boxes, barrels, water, ice, 
 etc.
  
  The excellent and imaginative layout of levels made all the difference in this game wherein it 
 forces the player to think smart and quick at the same time. The AI however is a bit hit and miss 
 and sometimes couldn't find the correct route when asked to follow Mr. Esc unless you manually 
 point out the directions. 
  
  The game doesn't have the best looking graphics, but looks great in an artistic way. The animation 
 is also pretty convincing and smooth. The sounds however is a bit flat which is obviously the result 
 of compression. Given that the game's graphics isn't top-notch, it could have made it up by providing 
 us with better quality audio. Voice acting are often times acceptable but some female characters 
 sounds like they were done by a male person. And it's kinda irritating to hear when she repeatedly 
 yells "help me, help me" as you try and rescue her.
  
  The controls are defaulted to the touchscreen but can be switched to buttons inside the options 
 menu. None of the two in my opinion is better as long as you have mastered how to use them. And 
 you can always go back to the tutorial levels to learn how to use the currently set control scheme.
 
  
  I would have given this game a higher score if the graphics and VO's were a bit better/convincing. 
 The gameplay on the other hand is still good enough reason to give this title a "Great" rating 
 of 8. I recommend this to anyone who enjoyed playing N+. This game offers a much deeper strategic 
 gameplay that is excellent in short bursts. 
  
  .: My reviews are only as good as everyone else's. Take every single one of them with a grain of 
 salt:. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
