-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: F24: Stealth Fighter
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sim/f24stealthfighter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Reminiscent of classic air combat games.
 missile camera is fun to watch.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Not much variety in mission goals or enemy vehicles.
 guns are worthless thanks to jumpy controls.
 planes are tiny and 2D backgrounds are weak.
 bland graphics make it tough to stay oriented.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 3.6, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 3.2, 42 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Majesco Games
Genre: Jet Sim
Date: Feb 20, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Weak graphics and dodgy controls hamstring an already mediocre air combat game. 

  F24 Stealth Fighter was clearly inspired by such classic air combat games as F-15 Strike Eagle 
 and Turn and Burn: No Fly Zone. In the game, you climb into the cockpit of the fictional F24 fighter 
 jet and fly missions from a first-person viewpoint in the skies over Iran. Unfortunately, the main 
 thing F24 Stealth Fighter has in common with the air combat games of days gone by is that it looks 
 and sounds like it was developed decades ago. Along with that, the dogfighting in the game is boring 
 and is further stymied by the touchy controls and the disorienting visuals.  

          F24 Stealth Fighter is a first-person air combat game similar to those produced for the 
 Super Nintendo Entertainment System and the Sega Genesis.     

  From the controls to what happens in the sky, F24 Stealth Fighter takes a laid-back approach to 
 air combat. The D pad is used to steer the aircraft, while the buttons control throttle and weapons. 
 You'll remain in the air just as long as you don't intentionally smash into the ground, run out 
 of fuel, or get shot down. Your flight view is presented from a first-person perspective, but instead 
 of employing 3D graphics, the game juxtaposes scaling cloud and aircraft sprites on top of 2D backdrops 
 to fake a 3D look. All of the missions in the game follow the same format. Your first task is to 
 get rid of any enemy MiGs patrolling the skies over the target area. Once you've taken out the 
 planes, your next task is to fly to the designated waypoints and attack the enemy's ground targets, 
 which can involve launching Tomahawk missiles at them or attacking them directly during a strafing 
 run. There's really nothing to dogfighting or destroying ground targets. If an enemy MiG or surface-to-air 
 missile gets behind you, all you need to do is turn around or drop some chaff to deal with the 
 threat. Otherwise, shooting down a target simply involves sighting it and pressing the missile 
 button when you hear the lock-on tone. To take out tanks, carriers, and structures on land, you'll 
 occasionally have to use your guns to hit flashing target markers. Your own aircraft can absorb 
 five hits before exploding, but you can return to the carrier's waypoint once per mission to automatically 
 land for repairs and reloading. The developers clearly made a conscious effort to make blowing 
 stuff up simple and easy.  

  Destroying the same enemy planes and tanks in the same repetitive fashion does get old pretty fast, 
 but what really sucks the fun out of the game are the jumpy steering controls and disorienting 
 visuals. When you tap the D pad, the targeting reticle goes flying. This makes it difficult to 
 keep targets in view and makes it impossible to use the F24's machine guns in normal dogfight situations. 
 Missiles lock on automatically and can turn on a dime to follow targets, so there's no compelling 
 reason to ever use the guns, except when they're required for a strafing run. Disorientation is 
 another common problem because the flat 2D backdrops don't provide anything in the way of terrain 
 details or landmarks. All you ever see are generic clouds flying past. To locate targets and see 
 which way you're going, you'll find yourself switching to the radar view (and interrupting the 
 flow of combat) every few seconds.  

  The overall presentation is bland and lacks punch. The cockpit instrument panel occupies half of 
 the screen in the Game Boy Advance version and one-third of the upper screen in the DS version. 
 Enemy planes and vehicles are tiny unless you're right on top of them, and when you are on top 
 of them, they turn into giant pixelated blobs. The sky and ground are merely two contrasting shades 
 of color. If not for the plane's tendency to right itself and the fact that clouds are in the sky, 
 you'd have no way of knowing which end is up. The only noteworthy graphical touches are the goofy 
 cutscenes that show takeoffs and landings, as well as the missile-cam video clips that play on 
 a small display in the cockpit when you destroy an enemy target. Also, there's not much to say 
 about the audio. All of the requisite gun and missile sounds are present, while a guitar riff that's 
 eerily similar to Kenny Loggins' music from  Top Gun  loops constantly. On the whole, F24 Stealth 
 Fighter looks and feels similar to the air combat games that were produced for the Sega Genesis 
 and SNES in the early 1990s. Now that it's 2007, both the GBA and Nintendo DS are capable of better. 

          Why is the game called F24 Stealth Fighter when enemy planes and missile systems have no 
 trouble locking on to your airplane?     

  For the most part, the GBA and DS versions of the game are identical. In both games, the main draw 
 is the campaign mode, which spans 20 missions and takes approximately three hours to finish. The 
 DS version includes a few minor enhancements that don't do anything to improve the overall experience. 
 Some of the cockpit instrumentation was moved to the lower screen, and you can use the touch screen 
 to perform a number of commands. However, you'll rarely find yourself doing so because it's easier 
 and faster to press a button when you want to switch weapons or adjust speed. There's also a multiplayer 
 mode in the DS version that lets as many as four players compete in deathmatch scenarios, but it 
 suffers from the same problems as the main campaign mode, and every player must have his or her 
 own cartridge to participate. Ultimately, the only worthwhile enhancement that the developers made 
 to the DS version was replacing the GBA's password-based save system with an on-cartridge save 
 function.  

  Even if you're totally desperate to acquire an air combat game for your GBA or DS, you're better 
 off staying away from F24 Stealth Fighter. It's boring, it's ugly, and it's somewhat broken.   
   
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: vincent3810
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 9, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  I had the unfortunate experience of buying the piece of **** also known as F24 Stealth Fighter 
 for the Nintendo DS.
  Little did i know that the game was created by Majesco "Entertainment", since the logo on the box 
 is about 3x1 millinmeters big.
  They probably did that because if it would've been bigger, NOBODY would have buyed it, nor would 
 the stores have wanted to sell it.
  BTW, Majesco also created the horrible game "Operation Armored Liberty", in which you control some 
 useless tank, somewhere in Iraq.
  
  Majesco Entertainment? How about Majesco Dissapointment!
  
  Now about the gameplay.
  Well, 
 when you begin, your F24 'Stealth' Fighter takes off from an aircraft carrier.
  The pilot looks back and he flies away VERY FAST. (Or maybe his plane grows when it takes off and 
 shrinks when it lands. Who knows?)
  The controls are **** , you can use the touch screen, but even if you touch the flying stick as 
 slightly as possible, the plane flies in the oppisite direction.
  And remember, you're flying a stealth fighter, right?
  Well, i don't know what the word 'stealth' 
 means to Majesco, because everything in the game hits you, or at least tries to hit you.
  (Frank Provo from Gamespot also mentioned this in his review)
  
  This f*****g game should be 
 banned from the entire universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fred360
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  Best game ever best game ever better that halo half life a GTA BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST 
 GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BETTER THAT HALO HALF LIFE GTA BEST GAME 
 EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER Best game ever best game ever better that halo 
 half life a GTA BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST 
 GAME EVER BETTER THAT HALO HALF LIFE GTA BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME 
 EVER Best game ever best game ever better that halo half life a GTA BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER 
 BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BETTER THAT HALO HALF LIFE GTA BEST 
 GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER Best game ever best game ever better that 
 halo half life a GTA BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER 
 BEST GAME EVER BETTER THAT HALO HALF LIFE GTA BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST GAME EVER BEST 
 GAME EVER Yea....... just kid i have the game i buy it at wal mart for 5$ game sucks worst 5$ i 
 ever spend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Forensic
Rating: 1.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Imagine that you're a game developer and you want to do what all game developers do: you want to 
 make a game. Not only do you want to make a game, you want to make a flight sim game. You want 
 to make a flight sim game worthy of Maverick &amp; Iceman and you want to make it for the Nintendo 
 DS.
  
  Now imagine failing miserably.
  
  This is what it must feel like for Majesco Games, makers of the amazingly abysmal game F-24 Stealth 
 Fighter.
  
  There isn't a lot you can say that's good about this game, to be honest.
  I'm going to try my best... here goes...
  
  ...
  
  Nup. I can't do it. It's just that bad.
 
  
  From the moment the title screen pops up, you just know this game is going to be bad. The title 
 screen looks like it came off of an old Super NES game that might've kicked ass... but here on 
 the DS, it feels wildly misplaced and just looks silly.
  
  It proceeds to get worse as you start a new game and are given instructions on how to play with 
 a cheesy 4 screen instruction manual on what you're supposed to do. This isn't a game, no... it's 
 a blender and you're just going to dice, slice and chop all those feelings of enjoyment you might 
 have had if only you had bought another game.
  
  But to be sure, let's give it a chance.
  
  Start the game and you're given a really cheesy Super NES style animation of your stealth fighter 
 taking off. He looks back and... yeah... you're flying against a Super NES graphic of water. Yeah. 
 Original.
  
  Oh wait! There's another stealth fighter to shoot down. Now if only your controls weren't poorly 
 implemented.
  
  You see, you get a selection of using either the on-console controls (D-pad, buttons, etc) or using 
 the touchscreen and treating that touchscreen cockpit like a real control interface. I bet that 
 sounds like it might be cool.
  
  Guess what? It's not.
  
  In your touchscreen cockpit, almost every single instrument and panel doesn't work, and half the 
 time you won't be able to grab the joystick with your stylus because you'll be too busy trying 
 to work out why those instruments even exist if they're not letting you press them.
  I mean sure Majesco, it looks nice (well... no) , but with the DS having such a small screen real 
 estate, you really shouldn't be wasting it with niceties on a game that isn't all that nice to 
 begin with.
  
  Your D-pad controls are pretty regular. Up to dive, down to pull up, and you can change them around. 
 You can fire with your buttons... it's all relatively basic... but then you get screwed over by 
 the games' mechanics.
  
  You see, the people who programmed this game must have been either drunk, drugged, or just severely 
 stupid and greedy when they were making this game. The whole point of the game is to fly around 
 and blow crap up. Sure, that sounds nice and easy enough, except for that with a combination of 
 control issues, you also lack a real element of speed and sound. You'll catch up to your opponent 
 for a few seconds, fire a few shots, and all of a sudden they'll disappear again and it'll just 
 become one severely irritating game of a cat chasing a mouse with a few sidewinder missiles attached 
 to it.
  
  Ugly sidewinder missiles. I cannot stress how ugly this game looks too, mind you. It might have 
 been fine 10-15 years ago, but today it's just plain ugly. Flashback for the Genesis / Megadrive 
 looks better than this piece of crap.
  
  If you managed to survive the boredom of chasing an enemy that's always the same, graphics that 
 looked ugly with cheesy animations, and a mostly useless touchscreen functionality... if you've 
 managed to survive all of that, then I'm sure the old-MIDI-styled music will make you want to hurl.
 
  
  This game is bad. I stress the word bad because I actually think it's bad enough to be considered 
 worse than Top Gun and that really was bad.
  
  It's as if the developers sat around and decided they wanted to make a flight sim game. Then they 
 got a coffee and said Bugger it, we don't care anymore. We've got some code... it'll work. Let's 
 send it off for gold status. I don't actually know how anyone could consider this game finished 
 , to be honest.
  
  Hell, the title seems to be either a misnomer or false-advertising in and of its own right. For 
 its own merit, the only thing stealth that his game seems to have is the way you'll potentially 
 have hours and hours of what-could-be possible fun ripped away from you playing another game because 
 you decided to pick up this pathetic waste of time.
  I'd love to say that it stealthily takes money out of your wallet, but you have to make that first 
 effort.
  
  This game is a prime example of why Nintendo should release demo cartridges of games. Make them 
 $1 or $2 to offset the cost of the cartridge, fine, but allow gamers the chance to see what massive 
 wastes of time they shouldn't spend money on.
  
  For games like F-24, gamers shouldn't have to rely on marketing savvy like Use the Touch Screen 
 to execute launch procedures from within the cockpit and assess enemy targets during briefing or 
 Engage in intense aerial dogfights against hostiles because damn, that almost makes it sound fun.
 
  
  Don't be misled... it's not. Tetris is a better flight sim than this.
  
  Yes, I know what I said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoffgod
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 23, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Back in the early days of the SNES my family would rent a game from the local video store each 
 weekend for my brother and I to enjoy. One of my favorite games to rent was a game called Turn 
 and Burn: No Fly Zone, an arcadey flight sim that put you in the cockpit of a F-14 Tomcat as you 
 ripped through the skies tearing up enemies inside the No Fly Zone . The makers of the game, Absolute 
 Enterainment did a good job with the game, and it was fun.
  
  Well, I don't know if Absolute Entertainment still exists, but if it does I think it needs to sue 
 Majesco. F-24 Stealth Fighter is a complete and total ripoff of Turn and Burn. The gameplay, the 
 scenario, it's all the exact same. The only difference? Turn and Burn is a much better game than 
 F-24 could ever hope to be.
  
  So why is it such a massive ripoff? Well, lets start you off with the gameplay. You start off launching 
 from your aircraft carrier by powering up the engine and launching from your aircraft carrier. 
 You then go into the air and engage enemies. You can choose which enemy you want to engage specifically 
 by pressing select, taking you to the AWACS screen which lets you choose your target. This is also 
 how you deal with mission specific objectives. For example, in one mission you need to destroy 
 an enemy destroyer. You choose the destroyer from the AWACS screen, fly to where it is, and then 
 you cut to a new area where you're flying towards the destroyer. You need to destroy it then by 
 firing at it's weak-points, which can be determined by either it glowing (such as an engine) or 
 it shooting at you. You then fly back to the carrier and land. For Novice difficulty the takeoffs 
 and landings are automated, for Ace difficulty, they're all manual.
  
  Ready for it? Everything I just mentioned in that last paragraph is a direct ripoff of Turn and 
 Burn.
  
  The takeoff process, how you engage your enemies, your weapons selection process, the AWACS screen, 
 how you engage mission specific targets, landing process, all of it is taken directly from Turn 
 and Burn. Except, this time it's done poorly.
  
  For example, the controls. The A button is fire. The X button is to select your weapon. The Start 
 button is pause and the Select is to go to the AWACS screen. The d-pad controls pitch and banking. 
 Got it? Well here's where it gets wonky. The B button controls your speed. Press B and the up arrow 
 to increase speed, B and down to decrease. It kinda makes sense, but it renders you completely 
 immobile when changing speed, leaving you wide open for taking a missile in the tailpipe. Both 
 L and R are to look behind you, L over your left shoulder, R over your right. This is simply ridiculous. 
 Why couldn't these buttons be used for something more productive, such as the ability to yaw left 
 and right? Or, if you insist upon not allowing the player to yaw, how about making L and R control 
 the speed and have B look behind me? That way I could maneuver and change speed at the same time. 
 Think it can't get any worse? How about this wonder: the Y button arms and disarms your weapons. 
 Think about that. Try as hard as you can to think of any situation in an arcadey flight sim where 
 you would want to not be able to fire your weapons. Can't think of any? Neither can I. Majesco, 
 you've got some explaining to do.
  
  And the gameplay itself is terrible. Want to engage enemies? After all, dogfights are the core 
 element of the gameplay. Well, good luck. Without the ability to yaw you'll be banking left and 
 right like a maniac trying to pull off a good shot. Or you could just use a missile. These things 
 go beyond heat-seeking. Every time I fired a missile at an enemy the missile would miss the MiG, 
 do a complete circle, and hit the enemy on the second pass. At this point a little animation of 
 a plane getting hit by a missile and exploding appears where your radar is. Just like in Turn and 
 Burn. I also need to ask the question why on earth on Ace difficulty that this super advanced F-24 
 Stealth Fighter (which by the way looks exactly like the F-14 Tomcat) can only carry one of each 
 type of missile? And with two missile types this leaves this ultra-high tech aircraft with exactly 
 two missiles. And these aren't super modern missiles. No, it's the AIM-9 Sidewinder and the AIM-7 
 Sparrow which have been in use since the 1950's. That's a real crack team of engineers you've got 
 there, eh, Pentagon? So after you use your two godly missiles have fun banking your way to a clean 
 shot.
  The same sticky missile effect goes for you too. If an enemy fires a missile at you, you'll have 
 a heck of a time trying to shake it. Your only real option is just bank hard in one direction and 
 keep doing that for around 15 seconds. That usually shakes it, sometimes it takes longer though. 
 You'll know if a missile is on you due to a little screen that pops up under your radar showing 
 behind your airplane and if the missile is tailing within a tracking cone behind your tailpipes. 
 Just like in Turn and Burn. And then there's changing weapons. You can tell which weapon you're 
 using by a small bit of red text on the top screen. However, it's hard to read, making determining 
 what weapon you're using a complete pain. And the mission specific enemies are horrible. The weak-points 
 are hard to see due to the small screen of the DS (who would've thought targeting a small target 
 on a small screen would be a problem?) and even harder to target due to the games yaw-less controls.
 
  
  And then there's landing. If you're playing on Ace difficulty, good luck. You can follow all the 
 directions to land ( Too fast! Left! Up! ) and still plow into the rear of your aircraft carrier. 
 And then guess what. That's right, you have to do the whole mission over again!
  
  That's all I'm going to say about this game. I won't even get started on the interface (Sparse 
 menus and cluttered, useless layout) , the presentation (good luck figuring out what your mission 
 really wants you to do) , and the graphics (another thing taken straight out of Turn and Burn) .
 
  Actually, I take that last bit back. The takeoff and landing sequences have 3D animations that 
 go along with them. However to say they're bad would be an understatement. The pilot, for example, 
 looks like a lightbulb with a screw poking out of it trying to look like a facemask.
  
  Simply put, this game is not only terrible in every regard, but it is a blatant ripoff of a game 
 that simultaneously 15 years older and infinitely better. It's bad. Really bad. So bad I gave it 
 a lower score than The Great Waldo Search.
  Do not buy this game, do not contemplate buying this game, do not even buy it for $2 as a gag gift 
 for a friend. The only interaction I would recommend with this game involves fire.
  
  To summarize: this game is ****ing terrible. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
