-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Feel the Magic: XY/XX
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/puzzle/kiminotamenarashineru/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 19, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.7
Critic Score: 7.7, 68 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 1,832 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sonic Team
Genre: Puzzle
Date: Nov 16, 2004
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ultimately, Feel the Magic winds up being more than the sum of its modest parts thanks to a winning 
 combination of style and gameplay. 

  Over the years, Sega has managed to offer players some pretty unique experiences that have ranged 
 from fighting aliens through dance to introducing the concept of the maraca as a game peripheral. 
 If there's one thing Sega's development teams like, it's doing things a little differently. The 
 latest case for such an argument is Feel the Magic: XY/XX, Sonic Team's launch title for the Nintendo 
 DS that marries Sega's quirky innovation with the DS's unique dual display and touch-screen functionality. 
 Essentially a collection of minigames tied together by the age-old story of unrequited love, Feel 
 the Magic: XY/XX ends up providing an engaging experience that is more than the sum of its parts. 

          Feel the Magic is a collection of minigames with a really crazy story attached.     

 
  The most striking aspect of the game is its unique visual presentation, which uses a brightly 
 colored art deco style with a '60s flair. The graphics are by no means cutting edge, but their 
 flat-shaded look and smooth animation work well together. The story will play out through a mix 
 of animated sequences and sequential still imagery that is well done but can be, on occasion, downright 
 surreal. The clear audio complements the presentation with catchy go-go style music and clear voice 
 samples that have a heavy Japanese influence. There isn't a whole lot to the game's audio, though. 

  The other appealing aspect is the unique gameplay, which uses just about everything the DS has 
 to offer, with the exception of its wireless functionality. The story sequences will play out from 
 the top to the bottom screen, primarily using still images but occasionally throwing in some moving 
 bodies as well, just to keep things interesting. The gameplay makes exclusive use of the touch 
 screen and the DS's stylus, since all the minigames require you to tap or rub the screen regularly. 
 In addition, the game even makes use of the DS's built-in microphone both for gameplay and for 
 fun, because some of the minigames require you to blow or speak into it. Furthermore, you can record 
 a second and a half of your own voice to loop into its music, which is an interesting throwaway 
 feature. Finally, the game even uses the DS's Game Boy Advance compatibility by reading GBA carts 
 in the unit to then unlock some bonus content. Simply boot the game up with specific Sega GBA carts 
 in it, and the game will automatically unlock something for you to use to customize one of the 
 female characters in Feel the Magic.  

  So how does all the above gel into a proper game? Well, the simple story casts you in the role 
 of a shy, ordinary boy who happens to see a comely lass on the streets. And faster than you can 
 say "stalker," he instantly becomes smitten with her. From that point forward, your focus, and 
 the focus of your adventure in the game, revolves around winning your special lady's affections 
 in the face of all odds. Thankfully, you're inducted into the superperformance group The Rub Rabbits, 
 whose shenanigans will surely win your lady's attentions. As everyone knows, the best way to win 
 a woman's heart is to perform bizarre feats while wearing rabbit ears. A dramatic twist is thrown 
 into the story when you find that you have a portly rival who is also eager for the object of your 
 affections. However, rather than take your bizarre approach by dressing up like a rabbit and performing 
 odd feats while stalking her, this guy just decides to express himself by kidnapping her. While 
 this is admittedly not the best way to get a girl's attention, it certainly doesn't leave much 
 room for misinterpretation.  

  Your time will then be spent working with The Rub Rabbits and doing all sorts of bizarre things 
 to impress your lady while you also try to rescue her from your rival. Both actions require you 
 to engage in fast-paced minigames that wouldn't be too out of place in a WarioWare offering. Your 
 adventures will play out over 19 scenes in the story mode. These scenes let you play the various 
 minigames that form the core of Feel the Magic's experience. In some cases, you'll be able to choose 
 one from several minigames, including ones that let you engage in various "performances" with The 
 Rub Rabbits. (However, in the case of boss fights, you'll actually be locked into specific minigames.) 
 As you clear these performances, you'll earn "love points." And once you earn 100 of them, you'll 
 advance to the next scene.  

  The minigames in Feel the Magic are an amusing -- and, at times, goofy and even creepy -- collection 
 of tasks that make the most of the DS's dual screens. You'll be ushering goldfish out of a man's 
 stomach, tapping rampaging bulls, guiding people away from a voracious ant lion, opening up skydivers' 
 parachutes, holding hands with the object of your affection, spray painting a wall, helping your 
 lady out of her clothes, and even administering some love CPR (which consists of poking her breast 
 with the stylus and then blowing into the system's microphone) , to name just a few tasks. Some 
 of the games forgo the use of the touch screen input and require you to blow or speak into the 
 DS's built-in microphone.  

          If you have any of Sega's GBA games, you can unlock some Feel the Magic extras right off 
 the bat.     

  Yes, it's a wacky collection of activities, and ultimately, it's over far too soon. But thankfully, 
 there's a bit more to the game than its single-player offering. So when you finish it the first 
 time, you'll unlock hard mode, which lets you replay the story mode at a much more challenging 
 level. The game also features another mode called memories, which collects the minigames you've 
 cleared and lets you replay them. The twist is that the games become progressively harder. However, 
 you're rewarded for your efforts in the form of stars that count toward unlocking content in the 
 maniac mode. The maniac mode isn't really a gameplay mode per se, but rather, it's a place to dress 
 up a female character who appears during the "break times" in the story mode, which offers a respite 
 from the onscreen activity. You'll be able to toggle between different hairstyles, torsos, and 
 legs on the character -- once you unlock them -- by playing through the memories mode. While most of 
 the items are pretty standard, there are some special items you'll open up through more-unorthodox 
 methods. The first item is discovered by locating hidden rabbits in the story portion. The happy 
 bunnies are hidden at specific places on the touch screen, and they can be found by tapping on 
 the right spot during the story sequences. The second method makes slick use of the DS's GBA compatibility 
 by unlocking items in maniac mode based on the GBA cartridge you've inserted. It appears that eight 
 GBA games unlock items. They include: Chu Chu Rocket, Sonic Advance 1-3, Sonic Pinball Party, Sonic 
 Battle, Astro Boy: Omega Factor, and Space Channel 5: Ulala's Cosmic Attack.  

  Now, despite the rosy picture we've just painted, there are some issues with Feel the Magic: XY/XX 
 that hold it back a bit. We've mentioned its length already (or lack thereof) . While there is a 
 fair chunk of extra content to unlock by replaying the various games, you'll likely blow through 
 the story mode in a day. Additionally, some of the minigames are marred by technical issues that 
 make them frustrating, such as questionable collision detection and twitchy stylus input. The repetitive 
 nature of Feel the Magic may also be a turnoff for some as well. The audio consists of a modest 
 collection of sound samples and tunes that can be loved or hated depending on how you're doing 
 while playing. However, that said, it's testament to Feel the Magic: XY/XX's overall charm that 
 it winds up offering an engaging experience that ends up being more than the sum of its parts. 
 There is plenty of fun to be had in the game, and it's arguably one of the best showcases for the 
 DS's unique capabilities.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (108 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: chacarron11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  I really didn't know what to expect out of this game at first. A girl standing there in a swimsuit 
 doesn't really seem like a good game, but don't judge a game by its cover.
  There are a bunch of pretty fun mini-games in Feel the Magic, that connect to the storyline that 
 you are trying to impress the girl of your dreams, but then, when everything goes wrong, you save 
 her from trouble. The mini-games are things like holding her hand and shouting that you love her, 
 but also shooting scorpions, fending off bulls, and helping random people escape from ant lions. 
 Its pretty weird, yes, but it is also very fun.
  Each mini game is unique and makes you do different things, allowing for good replay value and 
 the fact that you can play any game at any time is quite nice.
  You can dress up the girl of your dreams, and do SOMETHING that probably is why The Rub Rabbits! 
 was brought into existence.
  All in all, I say you should get it. Its fun, has replay value, and the ending is all lovey-dovey, 
 so you can let your fantasy roam free and feel like a hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJWildduck
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Feel the Magic XY/XX is quite a great arcade puzzle game. It has a great look and presentation, 
 and it's one of those games that uses the touchpad-only controls. Can't say that the game uses 
 the touchpad to its fullest, but still the variety of different levels is large enough to keep 
 you busy for a couple of hours even after the completion of the main story.
  
  Yeah, this game has a story, which is mainly about some random guy wanting to be noticed by some 
 random girl. By saying 'random' I mean literally random - Feel the Magic's visual style presents 
 humans as black faceless humanoid silhouttes. And in order to being noticed by the girl he joins 
 a group called 'Rub Rabbits' that performs different rescue activities. These activities are the 
 levels of the game, and some of them are crazy enough to be rivals with WarioWare. For example, 
 'click on upcoming bulls to get rid of them, but avoid clicking on people on ski!'. Um, yeah, okay. 
 But it's fun!
  
  This game is created by Sonic Team. Instead of working hard enough on Next-gen Sonic game, they 
 created this innovative arcade puzzle, which is, in general, better than the latest Sonic game. 
 Well, I'm kidding here, but still, Sonic Team can create games without having the word 'sonic' 
 in the title, and these games are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  The Good : Distinctive visual design. A surprisingly varied collection of minigames. Good use of 
 the microphone.
  
  The Bad : Too short. Some plot elements are incomprehensible. Only two very brief cutscenes. Extra 
 gameplay modes do little to extend the experience. The end boss battle is infuriating.
  
  --
  
  There's not a lot to Project Rub in terms of gameplay. It's basically a bizarre romantic 
 comedy about an anonymous mohawk donning silhouette who falls in love with a beautiful girl whom 
 he randomly crossed paths with whilst taking a walk. In order to attract her attention, he joins 
 a stunt group called the Rub Rabbits. However, trouble arises when a miserable fat dude tries to 
 kidnap her.
  
  The (at times) incomprehensible storyline is told through silhouette comics and disappointly enough, 
 only two animated cut scenes. The game itself is comprised of 19 "scenes", all of which contain 
 anywhere between 1-3 minigames. In order to advance to the following scene, you'll need to complete 
 the minigame (s) successfully. Should the scene contain more than 1 minigame, then you'll need to 
 complete at least 2-3 games (of your choice, and minigames may be repeated if you desire) until 
 you score 100 points.
  
  The minigames are all varied and distinct. Games will require you to blow out candles, dance, perform 
 CPR, hold hands as well as one particularly naughty game where you'll be required to take off your 
 sweetie's dress. It's fun while it lasts, however the experience is far too short for it's own 
 good, and shouldn't take you more than a few hours to complete. In order to prolong the experience, 
 "Hard" and "Hell" modes are unlocked as the game is completed, however these will provide players 
 will very little if they hadn't really enjoyed the experience the first time around.
  
  With the exception of the infuriatingly straining end boss battle, Project Rub is for the most 
 part, an enjoyable and relaxing game with very little to make you come back for another helping 
 of "rub love". The game isn't by any means bad, however a greater selection of minigames, and a 
 better told storyline would have provided for a far richer and more rewarding experience.
  
  Gameplay - 7
  Graphics - 7
  Sound - 6
  Value - 5
  Tilt - 9
  Actual Score - 6.8 (if 
 GameSpot hadn't dumbed down their scoring system) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zeldasboy_12
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Never has a portable game made me laugh out loud. Mind you I was in school so I looked plain idiotic, 
 bu you get my point. The story is as simple as it gets : your a shy boy who has been struck with 
 love by this beautiful women. The whole game your trying to get the girl. 
  
  Let me tell you this is by no means an easy task. Who knew you'd have to fight a 20 foot plant 
 that shoots fire and whips at you just for love? There are over 50 mini-games, give or take, and 
 some are funner than others. I especially liked the mini-game where you had to write the number 
 of the falling men so that you could save them. It was just pretty fun.
  
  I'd say this game will take you about 6 to 7 hours. Worry not because there is some replay value. 
 You can try and set scores and play on a harder difficulty. Other than that theres no multiplayer 
 or Wi-Fi leader boards. 
  
  All and all this game will not be a Wario Ware, but the beauty of it is that it does'nt have to 
 be. It is on its own level of wierdness. If you like mini-games and are looking for one to cram 
 through over the weekend, pick it up, but if your looking for a deep game, look elsewhere buddy.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: themixta43
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Project Rub is one of the first games to come out on the Nintendo DS and is essentially a collection 
 of different mini-games integrated into a story. The game arguably shows off the DS' touch screen 
 capabilities like no other game did at launch and makes for a fun filled touching experience.
 
  
  The games story mode is pretty much just a broad collection of exciting mini-games that always 
 test you in different ways. The story mode is actually set out in a story though, which is a nice 
 touch to a Mini-game collection like this. Throughout the story, your character tries to impress 
 the girl that he has fallen in love with in many different, eccentric ways if you will. The mini-games 
 themselves are great. There are too many to name but take the likes of tapping bulls into oblivion, 
 bowling your character over a busy street into other people, blowing out huge candles threatening 
 to tumble over your character, monocycling over a thin road over the sea with sharks threatening 
 to take a you down with them and clearing a path of spiky balls for your character so he can, of 
 course, ride down the big hill on a trolley. Yes these are very quirky, crazy mini-games that will 
 be sure to please you (or make you feel sick) depending on how you like it. After you've finished 
 the story mode, you can unlock the hard difficulty, which is aptly named. On hard, you have to 
 complete more levels on less lives in each mini-game. If you can overcome hard mode somehow, hell 
 mode sure is for you. Hell mode is just like hard mode except you only get one life. Harsh. I myself 
 am up to Hell mode and still stuck on the second set of mini-games.
  
  Once you finish any particular mini-game once in story mode it becomes available in Memories, a 
 mode where you can go in and replay any mini-game you've completed.
  The good thing is there is an extra challenge to this mode; you only get one life to try and complete 
 ten different challenges in each mini-game. You get the amount of stars corresponding to the amount 
 of levels you complete in each mini-game. This provides an extra challenge for anyone crazy enough 
 to think it's not hard enough as it is.
  There are 182 stars to collect in total, with most mini-games having ten stars to get and others 
 having only one star, as they are more like boss battles of sorts. The stars are used in the next 
 mode I must mention, Maniac mode. In Maniac mode you can dress up your lover in any attire you 
 wish, whether it be a Santa outfit, an Angel outfit or just plain old naked (just pitch black skin 
 all over) ! You'll have to work hard for that last one though, trust me. The way you can unlock 
 the various outfits are many. You can collect the stars I'd mentioned earlier to get a few new 
 parts to the costumes (divided into Head, Body, Legs and Feet) . Also, you can collect Rabbits in 
 the cut scenes to each mini-game. Here you have to tap a certain part of the screen and a rabbit 
 will appear whether it is you tapping the hero's fish on his shirt or the raging bull coming at 
 you. There are 60 rabbits in total. There is also one other way to get extra costumes, inserting 
 certain GBA games in the GBA slot. Games made by Sega such as the Range of Sonic games and a few 
 others unlock parts like a Sonic wig, Ulala Wig and many more. Don't worry; you don't have to pay 
 more money just to get these games to unlock everything but you will have to complete the Hell 
 difficulty. You can choose which will cost more money. A few GBA games or a new Nintendo DS console 
 after you smash your one in anger.
  
  The graphics and sound in project rub are strange just like the game play. Saying this doesn't 
 mean it's bad, it just means that it will greatly appeal to some and make others feel sick to their 
 stomach. In the right conditions, it's a great combination of Graphics, Game play and Sound but 
 after the 9th or so hour you spend trying to complete just one more mini-game on Hell mode, it 
 can grate on you and make you even angrier.
  The graphics are very quirky, it's kind of set out in a 2/3D environment which looks pretty nifty. 
 The characters all have completely black skin with no feature other than the clothes they are wearing. 
 Weird yes, but cool? I think so anyway. Pretty much everything in the game has to be weird; it 
 can't just be normal like most other games. This is a good thing and a bad thing. The graphics 
 do start to make you angry after a while which is never a good thing. This can also be said about 
 the sound. The sound is probably weirder than the graphics and the game play put together! Sounds 
 consist of people screaming at you and the music that plays usually people humming weird tunes. 
 As with the graphics and to an extent, the game play, the sound is extremely cool at first but 
 plays on your mind after a while and sends you into an inhuman rage.
  
  Overall, Project Rub is a fantastic showcase for the DS. It shows that not all games have to make 
 sense to be fun. It also shows that hard games make people angry. This is indeed a hard game and 
 sure, you may finish normal mode in less than a day. Who knows, you might finish Hard the next. 
 One thing is for sure though, you have to be some kind of super human to be able to complete this 
 100%, there is a lot of replay value as most of the mini-games are fun when your not getting angry 
 with them after your 20th try. Project Rub is a great game at first but the more you play it the 
 more it becomes a chore to complete everything and I don't think anyone is motivated enough to 
 go through essentially the same mode three times through just to say they've completed Hell mode. 
 It is a great game with a lot of flaws, the biggest ones being the more you play the more you want 
 to stop playing. If your new to the whole Nintendo DS thing this game is a great introduction to 
 its revolutionary touch screen controls but if you're a seasoned DS vet, think twice about getting 
 this devilishly hard game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkedByAshes
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:43 pm PT
Review:  What's there to say? It's a handfull of touchscreen games designed to win a gal's attention. There 
 aren't that many different tasks, but some of them get quite difficult. All I can say is that it 
 was a clever title, but it wasn't worth the original $30+ price tag that it came with. In fact, 
 being that there are only 18 levels, I would say that it's only worth a rental just to say you've 
 played it, but considering I found it at GameStop for $5, it was worth the purchase. The only replayability 
 comes from trying to unlock all the exttra parts for your dream girl in 'maniac' mode... and to 
 do that you must play through the story in 'hard' and 'hell' modes. Thiis is only for the people 
 who REALLY want a challenge. Otherwise it's just a fun way to kill some time and brain cells. Bottom 
 line: grab it cheap or rent it for a weekend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanevans
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really a huge fan of the DS or hand-held gaming for that matter, I buy my fare share of 
 portable games though. This was the second game I purchased for my DS which cost me pretty much 
 nothing. I was amused at the packaging itself because it doesn't really explain what the game is 
 about. Or how it plays for that matter. The game itself is basically mini-games strung together 
 to create a very basic story. The first mini-game utilizes the DS's stylus incredibly well, even 
 though the game itself is a short. The mini-games continue, often changes the gameplay rapidly, 
 which constantly keeps a fresh appeal to the player itself. The level structure is usually set 
 around three min-games per chapter, requiring the player to fill the heart gauge to 100 to proceed 
 to the next chapter. Graphics are very much so cell shaded, which does put a lot of players off. 
 But ultimately adds to the experience and quirkiness of the game itself. Graphics of the games 
 themselves often let down. An example of this is the racing level, which doesn't really capture 
 the essence of the game overall. Sound is utilized well within Project Rub as the music adds again 
 to the bizarre concept of the game. Music also becomes important because there is no set script 
 which demands that it convey a certain event.
  
  Overall project rub is a fun game which delivers on its quirky premise. And rarely lets down, even 
 though it clearly has it's flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cerza
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  XY/XX Feel the Magic is a quirky Japanese puzzle game and SEGA's first release on the Nintendo 
 DS platform that anyone who can remember feeling awkward, and/or doing something stupid around 
 that significant other, will immediately feel at home in. The entire game is animated in a 1960's 
 Deco art style and is a random series of mini games with a love story that could only come from 
 Japan tacked on. The easiest way to describe XY/XX Feel the Magic, not to promote drug use, but 
 its like a good acid trip. Simply put, in XY/XX: Feel the Magic you are a random boy walking down 
 the street who is star stuck by a girl that walks by. You then make it your lifes mission to get 
 together with her and feel the magic. This is just what any normal boy would do, right? To accomplish 
 your goal you travel through a very strange series of mini games that can unlock even stranger 
 mini games, which will leave you scratching your head wondering just what substances the developers 
 were abusing when they created this thing. XY/XX Feel the Magic makes full use of all the features 
 the DS has to offer. You will be blowing on the microphone in an attempt to snuff out a candle. 
 You will punch random numbers into a calculator on the touch screen in order to save people who 
 are jumping out of a plane over shark infested water's. You will do other more normal things 
 too, such as take off your girls dress, pick scorpions off of her, move giant spikes out the path 
 of people riding in shopping carts, and fight raging bull's in order to win your lovers heart among 
 other things. When each mini game is over, and you have won, you are treated to a scene of the 
 games rub rabbits lounging around, as well as your girl relaxing in a nice warm bubble bath. 
 Ah, what I was talking about mentioning strange things? This is all perfectly normal. I mean 
 everyone does this stuff to win the heart of their dream person, right? Control wise, it's obvious 
 from the start that this game was designed to work with the stylus, and its recommend that players 
 stick with that because things tend to get a little infuriating if you use the thumb pad. Most 
 of the mini games treat the two screens as one with the stuff you are supposed to pluck, calculate, 
 or move around at the bottom. This is great because it gives the dual screen more meaning, as opposed 
 to having the bottom screen for 3D control and schematics like it is in every other DS title. Most 
 tasks are accomplished by rubbing the touch screen either with the stylus or touchpad; however, 
 several games make use of the microphone and some other features. To say the least, its all pretty 
 amusing, and the setup is very different, which works out perfectly with the Nintendo DS. Also, 
 please keep in mind that as previously stated, the visuals for the game are all done in a very 
 vibrant Deco art style so they are completely harmless to younger eyes. You will never see anything 
 beyond basic shapes and outlines, which keeps the game well within the traditional Nintendo G-PG 
 rating.
  
  XY/XX Feel the Magic has a multiplayer mode as well, and it is frantic fun. You play with your 
 friends wirelessly in the mini games that you have unlocked. Most of the competition here is to 
 the finish line, for the high score, or both. However, as simple and shallow as this sounds, those 
 who venture into this realm of the game will find that things get pretty complicated and heated 
 very fast, especially with four players.
  
  One of XY/XX Feel the Magics main problems is that its simply a bit too weird. Most people will 
 probably pass it up because of this, or understand it, which is a shame because it is a very fun 
 game. Another problem, and what is probably the games biggest problem, is its disgustingly short. 
 You can easily beat it in a sitting or two since the game is really no longer than 5 hours at most. 
 This is a game that if you were to pick up for going on an average flight would occupy you, probably, 
 the entire way one way for a longer flight. You would probably beat it, and once you have done 
 that there is really zero draw, reason, or need to go back to it. While that four, five or maybe 
 six hours that youre feeling the magic is great mindless fun, it's not as much fun to replay. 
 Sure, you can unlock new games, but they don't do much to remove that stale, old, replay feel. 
 Similarly, if you can find someone to play the multiplayer with its great fun, but its so shallow 
 that it suffers from the same things the single player does, so after you have dragged your friends 
 in to the feel the magic once they arent liable to return, despite how good it was. Also, as anyone 
 who plays XY/XX Feel the Magic will find out, its not one of those games you get and keep in your 
 library after beating it, because it's so good , or to play again at a later date. XY/XX Feel the 
 Magic is one of those games you get, play, beat, trade in, and move on. Don't think this is a bad 
 game though, because it's not. XY/XX is probably the funniest fling of a game for the DS available, 
 and its wackiness alone makes it one of the most hilarious games in years. For this reason it's 
 definitely something that everyone should at least invest a look into. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 20, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game I found very cheap online and it sounded interesting so I got it.. So far Ive only completed 
 the original 15 levels without doing any of the extra stuff but I found the game to be very fun 
 and at some points very challenging but mostly not too difficult. The story of the game is you 
 are a guy with a goldfish on your shirt and you are trying to impress the girl of your dreams by 
 doing stunts and rescueing her from a fat guy with a mowhawk and a purple shirt. lol The games 
 graphics are very stylized and work well for the way the game is set up. The game is pretty much 
 like warioware twisted which is it is a collection of minigames, there might be a more similar 
 game but thats the only other game of its kind ive played. Some of the minigames have you blowing 
 on the screen to put out candles n such and one has u actually have to yell into the microphone 
 for the girl to hear you.. fortunatley all you need to do is make as much noise as you can.. One 
 game you have to clear out spiked balls before carts from the top of the screen reach them by rubbing 
 them out of the way before the cart reaches the point, another you have to swim through a giant 
 snake and reach its head while avoiding acidic balls i believe they are, rescuing people from an 
 antlion by using the stylus to drag them forward before they sink into the sand.. they are pretty 
 strange but they are different and creative. The music for this game i found to be pretty catchy 
 and better then some of the other ds games ive been playing.. If you like minigames u should like 
 this game.. i would think.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MDDichard07
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:01 am PT
Review:  Good:
  
  XY/XX has what seems like an almost endless list of mini-games to play
  The story to this game is not only hysterical with the slapstick humor put into comic book style 
 cut scenes, but it can even be interesting at points. You start of as this no-name guy who randomly 
 gets invited to join the band rub-rabbits . You see a girl you must be with and try to impress 
 her by putting on amazing performances (completing mini-games) with the band.
  Graphics are comical and actually work.
  This game is out right addicting and the mini games 
 are great!
  For $5.99 you cant go wrong buying this game.
  The songs in the game are great!
  
  Bad:
  No actual gameplay and mini games don't last as 
 long as you would hope them too.
  Sound can be lacking and other than one or two songs, the game can nothing else going for it in 
 the sound department.
  Just too little to do in this game to make it good.
  You should really only get this game if its under $10.00 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gareth91
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Project Rub (Feel th magic) was one of the first games I got for my DS and I enjoyed every second 
 of it. The story is starts of like this Boy sses girl boy falls in love with girl but with a twist, 
 to impress her you join a stunt group called the rub rabbits and the rest of the story will have 
 you playing the games for hours, uses all of the ds'es features.
  Good: Mini-Games can be really addictive, plenty things to do, Manic mode, the story is really 
 addictive
  Bad: Music is annoying, some mini games are boring, Scence 5 on hard mode ARG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_XX
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Pretty good storyline and lots of use of the touch screen and even microphone on the ds. A descent 
 amount of mini games to have fun with like monocycle where you got to guide the guy on the monocycle 
 with your stylus across the thin platfroms in a given amount of time, or you got to make your character 
 throwup goldfish and turtles because if he digests them you lose. Some games are pretty hard though 
 so its challanging but very fun. Music is kind of catchy in a weird way. Gameplay overall is amazing 
 so you must go now to best buy or gamespot and buy it buy it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameguru43
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 26, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Feel the magic is a simple game that was one of the first games on the DS. and even one of the 
 first games to test the touch screen all the way. Its quirky gameplay will have you coming for 
 more at first but then back off with some of the stupid minigames.
  
  The main story is about this guy trying to win the affection of this flirtatious girl. and does 
 a series of minigames to get her heart.
  
  The minigames are pretty simple and aren't very hard. most of them are creative and funny, for 
 example: fighting off bulls. killing plants racing carts and whole mess of strange games. The people 
 are all black and it is pretty creepy to watch the comic strips that lead into minigames. The extras 
 are lame. while the cut scenes are in play you have to touch randomly on the touch screen to get 
 blue rabbit medals which are used to dress your girlfriend up in just about everything. skirts, 
 pants hats shoes. etc. You can also unlock additional medals by having a saved games to sonic advance2. 
 whats up with that.
  
  If you liked any wario game you'll prolly like this game.
  it has a creative storyline
  quirky games and stylish clothes. lol
  
  Brandon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eggo21
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 5, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Feel the Magic: XY/XX is a great start in owing a DS. This game is great when using the DS features 
 using thestylus for the touch screen, the mic, both screen are used fully. Inovation is what this 
 game is about. The graphics are not all that. The sound is great. The control response is awesome. 
 The mini-games are fun as hell you'll never stop playing. I doubt you'll get bored with this game.
 
  I purchased this game in Gamstop for under $10 bucks used. This was the second game I got for 
 the DS. You can't go wrong with this game. My entire family played this game with no problem. You 
 should see my grandmother play she's an expert in this game already.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandlynx9
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:27 am PT
Review:  I had been looking for a New DS game to play after I got tired of Kirby: Canvas Curse and was browsing 
 the local Gamestop. I see a $10 copy of Feel the Magic: XX/XY and I was very intrigued by the art 
 style and the premise of the game. The title sounded odd, and I was sure the gameplay would definitely 
 match it. I then threw my 10 dollar bill at the cash register and went off to play the game. I 
 really had no expectations for such a title. But what I found was a charming game that I've enjoyed 
 since I started playing it. The game is not long at all, in fact its quite short. Outside of the 
 main story mode (if you can call it that) there is only a few modes and most of the mini-games 
 you engage in get worn out shortly after you play them once or twice. So the replay value on Feel 
 the Magic is low. Keep in mind though, I only paid 10 dollars for the game and I felt like I got 
 my moneys worth after I had completed it.
  
  The premise of the game is that you join this sort of Super Group to impress this girl. Bada-Bing. 
 Bada-Boom. Thats it. The rest of the game is spent with random twists in the plot of you pursuing 
 this girl, saving her, flirting with her, or accomplishing various other tasks to impress her with 
 feats of skill. The storyline is actually quite humorous, and the mini-games follow suite. The 
 random variety and objectives of the mini-games that you play are just ridiculous. In one game 
 you may be trying to get fish out of a person's belly while in another you are actually blowing 
 onto the DS (using the mic) to blow a sailing ship across the ocean to save your love interest. 
 All very epic I suppose :) . The charm of these mini-games goes a long way in making up for the 
 substance lacking in the game. The graphics and sound of Feel the Magic stick out in the game because 
 of its very unique style. From Break Time! to dancing on the beach with your lover in front of 
 a bonfire, the graphics in the game are certainly not top-notch or even very advanced. However, 
 the graphics compliment the gameplay and the style of Feel the Magic very well. Contributing to 
 the entire experience. It looks very cartoony and almost unfinished it seems, one could say. But 
 as previously stated the artwork lends itself very well to the game. Basically. Feel the Magic 
 isn't going to win any GOTY awards or take you dozens of hours to complete. But if you are looking 
 for an amusing game that you can just pick up and get into for short periods of time, its definitely 
 the game you're looking for. Also, used for 10 bones? You can't go wrong! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sodafountan
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 23, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  ok in feel the magic your basicly a guy whos trying to win a girl's heart so these people could 
 the rub rabbits come in and try and help you but theres compititon buy a rival bully. Its basiclly 
 just a collection of unique mini games using the ds hardware. the game has good graphics but poor 
 sound the songs tend to get annoying. you can find this game for like 10 bucks so its definatly 
 worth the buy. theres only about 25 mini games when you beat them all you unlock a harder dificulty 
 and a couple bonus features.
  
  if you like unique and fun mini games this is the game for you, if you like long games. DONT BUY 
 THIS!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Splitterguy
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 12, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty much the DS's Wario Ware. Except for the fact that it's no where near as addicting 
 or fun. The style is awesome and wacky, though!
  
  The gameplay itself is good, it consists of mini-games that are all controlled with the touch screen, 
 and are either puzzles or some kind of game where you control your character. There are 4 items 
 available at the menu. Story, the main mode of the game, is really short. Some games are actually 
 really hard, and once you beat it, a hard mode is unlocked, making it nearly impossible. It can 
 be frustrating to lose at most of these games, because you have to either play the same game over 
 and over, or play all of the games to advance. Some of these games are boring, specifically the 
 games using the mic.
  
  Another mode is Memory, in which you play the mini-games over again and try not to die once, if 
 you do, pffft... Game Over! This is also really frustrating, cuz' I hate playing the same level 
 over, especially when the level wasn't all that fun to begin with.
  
  Yet another mode is option. Not optionS, but option. It's only a language change, so... well, there 
 is a secret, if you press a certain combination of buttons, you can record or listen to your voice.
 
  
  The graphics are really good! The style is great, and it looks great.
  
  Maniac is where you change your girlfriends outifit. You unlock clothing by beating the story in 
 a certain amount of time, putting in a gameboy advance game to unlock an outfit, stuff like that. 
 But, you know, I really have no intention of even playing it again, there's no reason to beat it 
 again, but I'll keep an open mind for the sequal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 29, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  This collection of 24 mini-games is ok to try if you find it cheap and have really nothing else 
 to play. I wouldn't call it bad, I just wouldn't say it's very good. It's more like a demo program 
 built to show off the DS and it's microphone and touchpad.
  
  You play the game in a story mode, unlocking the different mini-games that can then be played on 
 their own from a menu, but believe me you never will, once is enough for these games. Some of the 
 games were super easy, and others were way too frustratingly hard. In fact I admit to giving up 
 on the story mode about 2/3rds of the way due to a too frustrating boss battle. If you find it 
 for $10 like I did, give it a try, otherwise you are not missing much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon_king64
Rating: 7.9
Date: Aug 9, 2006 12:30 am PT
Review:  Story: This game perhaps has one of the weirdest storylines ever. The story is the protagonist 
 of the game is this weird guy who sees this hot girl who he must meet and of course for him it's 
 love at first sight. So, he wants her to notice him so this group or gang called the Rub Rabbits 
 somehow over hears his dilemma and so they help you out and to do that they make you do these insane 
 stunts so that the girl may notice you. So, the main thing is that the weird guy is trying to impress 
 the girl of his dreams so that he may win her heart. What a weird story, huh? I thought so.
  
  Gameplay: The whole premise of the gameplay is just playing a bunch of fun mini-games. Gee, 
 I wonder what other game comes to mind, maybe Warioware? For most of the mini-games you have to 
 use a stylus and for others you get to use the microphone which is pretty neat. Well anyways, these 
 minigames are the insane stunts that you perform to impress the girl of your dreams. Like for example, 
 the first mini-game you play involves helping out a pedestrian regurgitate some goldfish he just 
 swallowed. Pretty odd, eh? Well, the mini-games just keep getting more weirder and weirder from 
 there but there really fun. Once you complete each mini-game, a heart meter displays how much your 
 stunt pleased your girl. Each time it reaches 100%, you move on to the next scene, complete with 
 more mini-games from which to choose. Once this is done, there is usually a boss fight. The boss 
 fights deal as a damsel in distress scenario like where the boss takes your dream girl and you 
 have to rescue her and you have to be her knight in shining armor. There are also some mini-games 
 where you help out your lady friend like there's this one where you clean her off by rubbing off 
 the dirt with your stylus. Which is a nice gesture and will also fill your heart meter up quite 
 nicely. All the mini-games you play in story mode are unlocked in another mode called memories 
 and you can replay the mini-games there. Did I mention that you can customize your dream girl? 
 That's right. There's a customizing option called Maniac where you can change your dream girl's 
 hairstyle, clothes, and shoes. Sort of a weird science sort of thing. You can unlock costumes, 
 hairstyles, and shoes in story mode.
  
  Graphics: The graphics can be sumed up in this one saying "Some old hippy caught a high tripping 
 on acid". This games graphics have like a crazy psychedelic look to it which makes the game look 
 pretty trippy. There are some mini-game levels that are in 3D but most of them are in 2D but they 
 all look pretty decent. Character models in this game are a bit odd because all of them are dark 
 figures. It's a cool but weird style for them though.
  
  Sound: The music in the game can be described as catchy Go-Go style music to most and as for the 
 voice samples in this game there seems to be a lot of odd quirky sounding japanese people saying 
 weird stuff like "Rabbit!". It gets old quick once you've heard it for the hundredth time.
  
  Replay Value: With the nice variety of mini-games, you'll definetly come back to this game 
 whether you have beaten it or not. It's a shame it didn't have a multiplayer mode though. But, 
 all and all it's still a fun and addictive game that shouldn't be neglected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HappyInvader101
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  If you are really looking for a gamethat really uses the touch screen on your DS, Feel The Magic 
 is one of the best "Touching" games out there on the DS today. The story is quite simple, Boy meets 
 girl, Boy falls in love with girl, Boy trys to impress girl (SPOILERS START HERE) Girl gets kidnapped, 
 Boy saves girl (SPOILERS END HERE even thought that wasnt all the nesecary) . While it may not be 
 that complex of a plot the game still packs quite a punch. If you played wario ware you'll know 
 what your in for, many many micro games except Feel the magic is like many many mini games that 
 are longer than most Wario ware micro games. Now onto gameplay, you play many mini games to help 
 impress/save the girl, (Note: you join a team of stunt people to impress her) such games include 
 bowling people over from across the street, spray painting hearts on building while avoiding falling 
 people and fending of a heard of crazed bulls, all of the those games which use the touch screen. 
 However touch screen games arent that amazing, you just end up tapping and dragging objects till 
 you get to a boss which uses the touch screen in unquer (is that a word?) ways, such as using the 
 touch scrren to steer a car and catapalt people at another car. The graphics are also pretty good, 
 its 3d but its not breath taking, its good enough 3d that it doesnt look like sprites still. The 
 music gets pretty repetitive, there basicly a level music and a boss music track and thats really 
 it, the sound effects also arent that good. The game is pretty short, you could easily beat it 
 in a day, but its one of those games that you will probably play again and a couple of months, 
 there is also a unlockable hard mode and many ways to customize the girl of you dreams in maniac 
 mode. Overall Feel the Magic offers a fune expriance however it cant be compared to some of the 
 other games of its type out there.
  
  If you have read most of my reviews you will learn that i am to lazy to spell check them so just 
 guess what the typos are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kornissues111
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 18, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  I would just like to say that i enjoyed this game very much
  
  Gameplay- Well its just a bunch of mini games and its really fun. The only problem is that The 
 games get repetitive. Though the challenge on these mini games are very high so you should be kept 
 busy for a while
  
  Graphics- Well there mostly sillouhettes of ppl so i guess there ok but they are kinda blocky
 
  
  Sound- This game sounds like a japeanese pop song its great and sets the mood perfect
  
  Value-With this game about 14 dollars no adays you cant go wrong. once the games over theres 
 a lot of challenge modes and pleny to unlock for your girl to wear. 
  
  Final i just want to say if you want some fun and pick up and play on the DS this is the game and 
 not to mention its cheap 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambo_Potter
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 10, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  The game is an absolute blast to play. The problem is it ends all too soon, about 2 to 3 1/2 hours 
 is what it takes to finish the main game. It is very quirky and addicting. Many games on the DS 
 use the second screen as something like a map while keeping all the gameplay on one screen, but 
 this game plays the two screens together for all of the levels. You use all the DS features including 
 the mic. The stylus is in different was such as a tracer along a line of track and a light gun 
 for shooter style game play as sorts. I would call this game one of the best examples of what the 
 DS is capable of as a revolutionary gaming device. The arm-exausting "Final Battle" level is one 
 of the greatest interactive game experiences I've had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x_Chezzy_x
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 6, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  When the Nintendo DS launched in November of 2005, it introduced a completely new and fun way of 
 playing games on a handheld system. The touch screen opened up limitless possibilities for games 
 and numerous ways to entertain gamers around the world. Super Mario 64 DS was able to captivate 
 people with it's minigames and keep them hooked with the simplistic and yet, completely addictive 
 gameplay. Sega was after almost the exact same thing with Feel the Magic XY/XX, a game that puts 
 the touch screen to the test with a flurry of quick and unique minigames. 
  
  The story in Feel the Magic is basically a comedic love story that reeks of Japanese influence 
 if you've watched any other Japanese cartoons. You participate in a series of minigames that involve 
 the ultimate goal of reaching the woman that you've fallen in love with at the start of the game. 
 It's a wacky concept and it's presented in an equally wacky way, but it's what Sega has been able 
 to accomplish in the past so it's not too surprising. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Longshot
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  This game is not only fun but funny.
  
  Basically its just a set of mini games you perform to impress a chick. O if only it were that easy. 
 The story is ultra basic, your a dude who joins a "super group" stunt team to impress a girl you 
 apparently have the hots for. A neat aspect about the girl is as you play through the game and 
 find "hidden" rabbits you can customize the way the girl looks. Its nothing huge but a nice add 
 on for mini game madness. 
  
  Its a perfect on the go game. The one dilemma i have with this game is that there is no real scoring 
 system. At least not one that is saved. After you complete a game you get a percentage of how much 
 of the girls heart you have won. But it isnt saved and its fairly easy to get 100% everytime. So 
 after playing through all the games a few times it kinda loses its replay a little bit just cuz 
 there isnt really much more to be achieved. However there is a very good number of games to be 
 played so its not like youll run through them all in one sitting especially if you are in fact 
 on the go.
  
  The use of the touch screen in a little more then basic but nothing too complicated. I like how 
 well it incorporates use of the stylus without making it overly impossible. Thats mainly what i 
 look for in a ds game is how much emphasis is on the actual use of the dual screens. This title 
 gets an A for that.
  
  Overall its totally worth the price. It provides perfect on the go fun that is tuff to find in 
 good form. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMD81591
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2006 10:32 am PT
Review:  Wow, some people might disagree, but I think this is the best game on DS so far. Great graphics, 
 and love the sound. Wonderful storyline, and characters. It's a pretty long game, with small minigames 
 (some are extremely hard) you have to play to win a girls attention and affection. In this game 
 you are a guy, who joins the Rub Rabbits to win a girls attention. You have to perform crazy stunts, 
 and tricks for her. You also have to rescue her a few times, and there are a few love games. Great 
 Game. Also, you can collect hidden rabbits in the comic parts of the game, to change the look of 
 the girl in the game (hair, clothing, etc.) . Can't wait to buy the sequel, The Rub Rabbits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther95
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  A nice little mix of mini-games are inside Sega's Feel The Magic game. While the oringal is better 
 than the oringal. The mini-games are fun! The story isp retty good too!
  
  Gameplay: Nice story. The mini-games are really fun. This is one of the best lanuch date games 
 for the DS. They make use of all the DS' capabilties. Using the microphone and touch screen. The 
 mini-games are really fun some are eas ysome are hard.
  
  Graphics: Nice style the shadow people are awesome. The style is great a nice art style good job 
 Sonic Team.
  
  Sound: Nice sound the music is awesome! The music is great while the tiny voiceovers are good too.
 
  
  8.0 great
  
  Try this game out if you have a DS! it is now $20 bucks! WOOOOOOO!111111 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yerdua2093
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I think that this game is very interesting and uniqe. Basically, its just a collection of minigames 
 that you have to unlock. The games are very fun and can be addictive, but thats good. the only 
 downside would be that they use the same two songs for everything and the graphics can get alitte 
 choppy, but overall, a great game if you like minigames. the minigames are set around a story, 
 and once you unlock them, you can play them as much as you want in the Memories option. This game 
 is worth the money, and you can find it used for 10 bucks. Thats what i call a deal! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MicahChua
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 24, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  Feel the Magic or Project Rub as its known in Australia is certainly a stylish way to present 
 a briefly amusing mini game compilation. But when it comes down to the crux, it will not give you 
 much of a reason to pick it up after your initial play through, and even then, things get stale 
 fast.
  
  Focusing first on what this game is, it is a decent showcase of art. No faces, just silhouettes 
 of figures in colourful clothing. For the most part, the game does a good job of telling the story 
 via the art displayed before each mini game in four panels. Its the sort of thing you look at 
 and think hey thats kinda cool.
  
  Another thing this game is is a decent demonstration of what your DS can do. It uses all functions 
 in some meaningful way. Depending on which mini game youre playing you will have to touch, drag, 
 rub, blow and even yell into the microphone. 
  
  Unfortunately, these mini games, while amusing at first, are not really that hot. You might even 
 find some of them annoying (I did) . The story mode doesnt present these mini games in a particularly 
 inspired way although they do follow some bleak plot about a guy that loves a girl (yawn) . In particular, 
 towards the end of the story is a shameful lapse in creativity when the villain sort of gases you 
 and you have to play through the three previous boss fights you just completed in-a-freaking-row.
 
  
  The addendums to the story are really quite redundant. The mini games youve completed in Story 
 mode get unlocked in Memories mode so that you can play them again. If you didnt see that one 
 coming you deserve a punch in the mouth. Problem is, they werent that much fun in Story and 
 they aint that much fun in Memories.
  
  Another mode is Maniac. Why they decided to call it this I do not know. Maybe it has something 
 to do with the links drawn between your stylus and a half-naked silhouette girl. You heard me. 
 Your rewards are unlocked here. What rewards you ask? Clothes, so that you can dress your digital 
 little Barbie, and thats as far as Ill get into it suffice to say this is one truly crap way 
 of rewarding players for sifting through total bogus mini games (unless youre a prepubescent girl) .
 
  
  The game might be dirt beneath the style, but you might find it worthwhile to give it a look at 
 least for that layer of amusement in the first few moments of play. Just dont buy it. Borrow it 
 off someone who was stupid enough to pay good money for itlike me.
  
  But if you want a good mini game complitation, I'm pointing you in Warioware's direction.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SMOKEMNHALO2001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  i don't know what sega was on when they thourght of this game, but i'm glad they was doing it. 
 this game is very addictive. it's something new and inovative. this game should be the first thing 
 that you get for your ds. it uses all the ds hardware. the mic is used for yelling and blowing 
 air, the screen is the most used, and the top is for show. did i forget to warn you this game is... well... it'll 
 make you look crazy. some games will have rubing the touch screen in different ways, like really 
 fast, and sometimes you'll yell into the mic to get a girls attention, or to guide a ship across 
 the sea to safety. the story is simple also. you play a nameless kid who just laid eyes on a cute 
 girl. or at least i think she's cute, you can't see their faces. anyway these guys called the "RUB 
 RABBITS" shows up to help our hero get the girl... by doing stupid and sometimes dangerous stuff 
 to impress her. are there actually guys out there that desperate? but soon things get out of hands, 
 soon you're fighting bulls giant scorpians, and robots. yeah i know, all this for a faceless girl. 
 but you'll no less love the childness this game has. though i could do without the unicycle level. 
 the boss battles are cool and there's no voice over. but that's ok, the comic book look in the 
 cutscenes explains itself. i guess a picture does spak a thousand words. this game is most defently 
 a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Project Rub is a very unique release game for the Nintendo DS, along with WarioWare 
 Touched, Project Rub is one of the games that can show off what features the DS can do. The game 
 is pretty much a collection of mini games for you to complete, while following a wacky story of 
 one mans quest of getting the girl he loves. 
  
  One day the guy is just walking along and he notices a very cute girl (Well I guess she's cute, 
 the game only shows you shadow outlines with minor details) and instantly wants to get hold of 
 her. Suddenly out of the blue, the rub rabbits come and give the hero a bowl of goldfish and on 
 his wacky love adventure he goes, doing things from saving goldfish from a mans stomach to dancing 
 around a camp fire, fighting off a killer plant. The game is just full of weird comical moments.
 
  
  GamePlay: The gameplay is unique because of the use of nearly all of the DS's features. The whole 
 game is done through touch screen or the use of the DS's microphone. The mini games are longer 
 than something taken out of WarioWare, you? ll find yourself spending a couple of minutes on most 
 of them. The idea is that you are put into a scene and have to beat the mini game, for doing that 
 you are given some points to add up in the heart, once the heart has reached 100, you can advance 
 to the next lot of mini games, but if you lose a mini game, you'll lose points and have to retry 
 the game again.
  
  Control: The games themselves range from touching the screen with the stylus to pressing something, 
 rubbing things, dragging things along and also using the microphone to shout to your sweetie pie 
 to gain her attention, or even to go sailing in the vast ocean.
  
  As with most DS games, the touch screen is responsive and works well with Project Rub's games, 
 this is also the same with the microphone, although since the game is not voice recognition, you 
 don't have to say words, you could just scream at the poor girl, or if you are angry, even give 
 her a little insult now and then.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are also different and varied. The characters in the game are all shadowed 
 out apart from little details like hair and clothes. It's kind of a cell-shaded look to the game. 
 The game tells you the story through cut scenes that the characters are involved in which is mostly 
 static. The animated scenes are fluid and don't seem badly animated.
  
  The mini games themselves range from 2D to 3D graphics. There really isn't anything in the game 
 that pushes the DS graphically, but the game is really colourful and bright, it gives you that 
 warm welcome feeling.
  
  Sound & Music: There really isn't much music in the game. You've got your title screen music, which 
 is really funky and no doubt will get you humming along to it. Apart from that you've got two different 
 boss tunes and then the normal mini game music. Sega usually makes wonderful soundtracks, but you 
 wouldn't really know from this game, it's so short on music and most of it doesn't stand out. The 
 sound effects are fine, the speaking is clear, plus there is also a bonus of the female sounding 
 somewhat erotic when you rub her with your sponge. 
  
  Dual Screen Use: The dual screens are used pretty much like all the other DS games at the moment. 
 The top screen is used to extend the display image. Mini games will have you watching the top screen 
 for falling objects and obstacles, etc.
  
  Final Comments: Project Rub is a strange and unique if a somewhat short experience. The game will 
 last you a mere 2-3 hours. It does have things to make you come back, like a harder difficulty 
 setting, clothes for you to unlock for your girlie and secret rub rabbits to find in the cut scenes.
 
  
  If you wanting a fun game for your DS and aren't worried about the longevity of a game, by all 
 means give Project Rub a check, you'll surely find a game that is funny, twisted and enjoyable. 
 It is a game and not some mere dating sim, if only getting girls in real life was just as fun as 
 this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeNixon
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 22, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Feel the Magic is a quirky game developed by Sonic Team. And like its title could indicate to those 
 who work things out well, you might need a little bit of open-mindedness to enjoy Feel the Magic 
 fully.
  If you've seen all the soppy soap operas and cash in chick flicks, you'll get the story of Feel 
 the Magic immediatly. You play as some anonymous dude with a blue beard, and you've fallen in a 
 love with a girl, simple. But in a strange twist, you've joined up with the "Rabbit Crew" to perform 
 crazy stunts to win your lady friend over. 
  But things go wrong, and your rival sends you through several life threatening challenges.
  
 
  The mini-games in Feel the Magic vary from forcing goldfish up from a man's stomach (?) swimming 
 your way through a massive 50 foot snake with various dangerous acids blocking your path (??) and 
 even shooting people from a vehicle at another you're persuing (???) .
  Yes, Feel the Magic has some very unconventional ideas, and it executes them pretty well, from 
 the funky solid color graphics, to the funky store and events. There's even a really cool comic 
 panel style of cutscenes.
  To top it all off, you get some fun little extras when you manage to find hidden rabbits in these 
 comic panels, giving you a few accessories and pieces of clothing to dress the game's lead lady 
 up with.
  
  Feel the Magic is also very unique in the sound department, featuring some bizarre music that blends 
 vocal noises and funky beats to create a rather strange techno-style background jazz. Sounds are 
 very upbeat, and the game definitely has that party style as each succesfull completion of a minigame 
 comes with a congragulatory "WHEEE!" with rabbits flying across the screen. 
  But while Feel the Magic is quality entertainment, it's incredibly short. A dedicated gamer could 
 beat this in about 5 hours, and even unlocking everything with a good idea and intuitive imagination 
 will be able to get all the extras in about 3 hours time excluding the overall game time. 
  
  There's too little substance to really bring out the full potential of Feel the Magic. While 
 the minigames are fun, there are very few of them, and some are noticably lesser in quality compared 
 to others and in the fun department. While Feel the Magic does have some replay value by giving 
 a harder difficulty mode, and a Memories mode where you can replay all your favorite minigames 
 for higher scores, that really isn't enough to give it lasting appeal.
  
  But it will be a memorable experience, and since it's not going for a cheap twenty bucks, it could 
 be an good idea to buy Feel the Magic for your DS, especially if you're waiting for that new WarioWare.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: priest17
Rating: 7
Date: May 20, 2006 3:46 am PT
Review:  The game has you trying to impress a girl and helping you are the rub rabbits. You have three different 
 types of minigames: 
  The ones where youre trying to impress the girl,
  Boss battles where you save the girl and
  The ones that you heal/go out/warm the girl
  The 
 main game is a little short but you can always get a few good ours out of it when you try to get 
 new outfits for the girl. You also can finish the game again in Hard or the Hell mode. But all-n-all 
 the game does have a small lifespan. Some of the minigames can get a little frustrating on harder 
 difficulties but thats okay. Sound is pretty good to specially when you hear some one yell if he 
 falls.
  So the game really doesnt have much flaws except the lifespan so its worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_13est_
Rating: 7
Date: May 19, 2006 8:20 am PT
Review:  Project Rub/ Feel The Magic.. Depending on where you come from of course, has a feel of fresh air.
 
  
  Not only is it completely different from all other DS titles, it's got humour, fun, passion and 
 style all in one game.
  The basics of the game are to try and attract a young girl, or what seems to just be a black womanly 
 figure.
  
  With games like dragging gold fish through peoples bronchus and out through their mouths, pulling 
 people from raging bulls and giant ants, dancing and making sure a fire dosn't burn out, it; s none 
 stop fun all the way.
  The music and modern day jingles don't get too tiresome and it's fairly simple to get through and 
 happily complete. Although the game can feel a little short and abrupt.
  The minigames are by far the highlight of the game, progressing through the game the minigames 
 get more difficult. But by winning these minigames you can dress the "appealing" girl in all sorts 
 of accessories.
  
  If your looking for a game to put a smile on your face, this is the game for you. If you want a 
 game you can dwell in for a long period of time, maybe you should look elsewhere. None the less, 
 still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrissi-chan
Rating: 7.9
Date: May 18, 2006 10:06 am PT
Review:  I originally picked this up because... well, it had a girl with a bikini on the front and I am one 
 of the world's few female perverts... Of course, other than two incidents in the game, it really 
 wasn't perverted, at least not at a degree anyone would really notice anything. Most of the games 
 are a cinch, at least until you start playing in the Hard and Hell modes. I personally can't get 
 passed scene 5 in Hell Mode. It was just too short and the Final Battle level was... slightly freaky. 
 Probably my favorite parts were the Dance and Magic Touch games. The two games with the monocycle-Monocycle 
 and Chaser-were a major pain in the ass though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YamataDragon
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Finally. A game where you can save a woman you love and if you are successful, you can make her 
 yours. I was really shocked when i heard about this game. You have to save her, impress her, and 
 more. This game is amazing. If you are a guy, then this game is for you. It is like you are really 
 in the game. Imagine if you could do that for the girl of your dreams. If i could impress her with 
 stunts like those featured on this game, i would be the man. I seriously recommend buying this 
 game. So to all the guys that do not have a copy of this game, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokuofheaven
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 24, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This is a game where you will either love it or hate it. I didn't like the fact how so many people 
 kept down-playing this game because it wasn't long or it didn't have "enough." I asked around and 
 majority of the people said that Feel the Magic and The Rub Rabbits both "sucked." Me being really 
 curious, i wanted to prove that wrong, so i decided to go out and buy both of them. I found them 
 both used, $11.99 for Feel the Magic and $14.99 for The Rub Rabbits. I honestly have to say that 
 after i started playing it, this was well worth the purchase. I'm really into those weird japanese 
 games that have some sort of different feel to it. Even though the mini games are simple, playing 
 them on a harder difficulty will have you waving your pen all over the DS. I personally found the 
 game to be more exciting on a harder difficulty. For $11.99, this game is worth it. The Rub Rabbits 
 just gets better even though gamespot rated it lower. 
  
  It all matters on your taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charlie345
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  so you play a guy who wants to immperss this girl not a good story but the mini games are fun and 
 good now the gameplay is like fun and creative in this game but sometimes i did not always understand 
 what to do but you get it eventually but the whole time is fun the mini games are so wierd but 
 not much replay value in this game though the grphics are weird and look like a stoners acid trip 
 but i guess it is okay and everything the sound well there really isnt much osund to klisten to 
 but still is pretty good and thats charlies word 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXDenieru
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 8, 2006 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Sega's Feel The Magic XX/XY is a game that uses in a great mode the NDS characteristics.
  
  The crazy minigames are not so mini- each one has 5 levels of difficulty-, but they are fun to 
 play it in advanced dfficulties.
  The story is based in a first-sight-love, and then you join a group called "The Rub Rabbits", that 
 help you to conquer the girl's heart.
  
  The intro's music is nice and makes you to turn on and off your DS only to hear it.
  
  Now 
 with a sequel, I hope that the series grow in the NDS or another consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amkalfus
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I got Feel the Magic: XX/XY because I heard it was a pretty fun and addicting game from the great 
 people over at Sega. By looking at it, with its crazy artstyle and very original graphics, I was 
 a little sceptic at first. But, after getting it and playing through it, I just wish it wouldn't 
 end so quickly! This game has a lot of good parts that end up making a great product.
  
  Basically, you see a girl, and you MUST have her! That's the whole game... stupid things that we 
 as men do to get a girl, blown up into a crazy proportion (if you really think about it, I bet 
 any guy would do the same for some girls as well...) .
  
  The gameplay consists of going through many minigames to get the girl. The minigames are how the 
 story progresses, using the touch screen and microphone and basically getting your charcters to 
 the goal as quickly as you can. The way the touch screen is ultilized is really cool and fun! You 
 can also look for rabbits to unlock different outfits for your dream girl and have her look the 
 way you would like her to appear. The minigames range from really easy early on, to really hard 
 later on, especially when you have to be very precise with your movements as the slightest knudge 
 can send your little guy careening off of a HUGE building! It all mixes well though, for as you 
 progress, it gets harder at a good and acceptable pace. It's also a lot of fun making your dream 
 girl into how you want her to look by finding all of the rabbits thrown about the game (some are 
 really hard to spot!) .
  
  This game is definately geared towards guys, but I think that girls can enjoy the overall game 
 with the plethora of minigames and such, and don't have to get into the specific guy wants girl 
 thing.
  
  The graphics are really cool. This game a very artsy and distinctive style of all of its own. It 
 just looks really cool when you site down and play through it. The sound is good too, but nothing 
 really special in that department that I can pick out. This game just comes together beautifully!
 
  
  If you own a DS, go out and find this game! It is a great way to spend a couple of hours, and who 
 knows, maybe some dream girl will come your way while playing this game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The mini games in this game were completely frustrating and not at all fun to play. It was a chore 
 to finish through the end. If you want to play fun mini games, I would suggest you try out Wario 
 Ware: Touched. I knew this game was to be weird, but the whole story was just stupid and I didn't 
 like the style of the game at all.
  
  Graphics:
  I didn't like Sega's style of graphics at all although the game's graphic colors and the fact that 
 the people don't have faces is actually pretty unique.
  
  Sound:
  Music is really annoying. It matches the weird style of the game, but I didn't like it and just 
 turned of the music. Like the graphics, the music is a little unique.
  
  Value:
  The game took me a night to beat and I never played it since. After you complete it once, they 
 give you a hard option. But since the mini games are frustrating, playing on hard wasn't fun at 
 all. Unlike Wario Ware: Touched, you won't be coming back to play the mini games. Once you beat 
 Feel the Magic once, you won't be playing it anymore.
  
  Tilt:
  Even if the game is completely overrated, the game was unique and that is all that it has going 
 for it. I do not reccomending purchasing this game, for it is short and quirky. If you want to 
 play a game with fun mini games buy Wario Ware Touched.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avail447
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  first off this game is about a guy who is trying to get some girl at least thats what i think its 
 about?
  anyway the difficulty is extremely hard some of the minigames in it are very arduous and frustrating 
 you shouldnt have to much trouble as long as your not playing story mode!
  its very easy to learn the minigames and there surprisingly fun well some of them that is.
  the 
 game has about 25 minigames and you can dress up his girlfriend to your liking. like bunny ears 
 hats heels dresses skirts and alot of other stuff.
  the graphics are not bad they did exactly what they intended to do with the graphics.
  the sound 
 isnt bad but can get annoying 
  the replay value is moderately high 
  and overall this game is great!
  and to top it off its only 10 buks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth617
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 25, 2006 3:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It is among my all time favorite DS games. Unfortunatly, it is also among my 
 all time most aggraviting games I have ever played. The game is not your run-of-the-mill love story 
 game. It uses the touch screen and microphone in amazing ways. There are game where one must blow 
 into the microphone to blow out a candle, or one must steer our hero out of the intestines of a 
 snake. The graphics are simply suberb. Many comic book style frames tel the story, and occasionally, 
 there is a fully 3D and mobile cut scene. For such a small chip, the cut scenes look surpisingly 
 good. The sound is great, with excellent noises and music that suits the game. The only thing i 
 found wrong with the game (besides the shortness, but the extras and unlockables make up for that) 
 was the fact that for some of the minigames, you need pin-point accuracy and timeing to beat them. 
 (Such as the dance game, which i still have problems with) . Overall, the game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bettsy1987
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is great! Firstly there is the brilliant style the game has. The graphics are great and 
 i was pleasently suprised especially by the 'nightmare' chapter. The gameplay is simple and pretty 
 addictive and really uses the DS's features well, i was particualry impressed by the 'blow the 
 sand' minigame. The music is bearable and i actuallt played this game with the sound on, a first 
 for me, DS music normally gets on my nerves and as such i normally play with a game on mute. The 
 length of the game is debateable personally i am always coming back for another go on my favourite 
 chapters or to beat an old score. The ability to change the appearance of your dream girl is also 
 a good feature that should be noted. I am definetely looking forward to the sequel.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 10, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games in a long time. Many different styles of play, a few useful innovations, 
 and a tried and true story. Bascially, the game says that you're a dude, and you fall in love with 
 a girl. To get her to notice you, you do crazy things (from fighting off giant plants to sneaking 
 around a factory) to get her attention; to do so, you have help from bunny eared men who give you 
 tasks and advice. As always, you're not the only one after her, and you have to deal with him. 
 
  The art style is one of the most impressive things I've seen, and the many different game styles 
 that are here incorporate all of the D. S.'s unique items. All said, this is one of the best games 
 available for the D. S. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angultra
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  I got this game today and played it for an hour or so. The minigames so far are loads of fun. Each 
 has a purpose (too fill up your "love" meter to make the next move on your girl) , so it doesn't 
 feel like your doing them in vain. Because when you do fill up the meter, your man gets the courage 
 to approach the girl and, to be frank, make a move on her. 
  
  After doing half a dozen minigames or so, I got to my first "sexual" encounter. I had just tapped 
 away a hundred raging bulls, and she was covered with dirt. So with a full love meter and two large 
 white cloths, I got to work. You need to rub all over her body to get off areas of dirt, while 
 she moans lightly and responds gently to your touch. This may seem rather risque for a nintendo 
 game, but the noises and motions she makes are quite sexual in nature. Nothing over the top, though.
 
  
  A few minigames later (including a fun one where you have to gently blow a sailboat near your capsided 
 girlfriend while avoiding sharks) and I had to undress her out of her wet clothing. No, there's 
 no nudity.... all you have to do is unbutton her blouse from the backside (she also makes plesurable 
 noises for each correct tap) . But there's also a fire that needs air, so in between each of her 
 buttons you toggle to the fire and waft the air left and right until the fire is raging again. 
 Otherwise she gets cold and won't let you unbuttton her. These are the "rewarding" minigames that 
 you can expect after doing other interesting and fun (non-sexual) minigames designed to impress 
 her. 
  
  In one I had to spraypaint different things on the wall (while dodging falling debris) , in another 
 I had to ride a unicycle with the stylus through very narrow passages (top-down perspective) , which 
 was probably the most tedious because it required a steady hand and was timed. Still, it was fun 
 and not THAT hard. Another required you to tap raging bulls away while avoiding tapping the people 
 that were escaping. That was fun because there were also boss bulls that required many taps. There 
 was also a driving minigame that was fun but you had to steer with the onscreen wheel, I would 
 have prefered the option of using the D-pad as well.
  
  Overall, the graphics are great and the games are fun and innovative, I think it was geared more 
 towards guys, but perhaps girls would find it funny and entertaining too if they played it. The 
 sound is good but not spectacular, perhaps if you like the japanese style of sound and music it 
 would be more appealing. Definitly makes a lot more sense than WarioWare, because all the games 
 tie into a story, and give you tangible rewards (i. e. cutscenes, love scene minigames) . I'm going 
 to continue playing it until I complete it, as I know there's quite a few unlockables to get. It's 
 a great value on its own right now, but If you can find it used like I did (try eBay) it's an even 
 better buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GAMECAMILLER
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  Sega's one weird company, from the young monkey boy Alex Kidd, to fast blue hedgehogs named Sonic, 
 to dancing monkeys with maracas, they have produced some of three craziest titles in history. So 
 for the launch of the Nintendo DS, Sega, and the Sonic Team have decided to reach into their crazy 
 bag of goodies, to create a title that's original. Feel the Magic: XY/XX is a collection of minigames 
 that show off the DSs capabilities, with a wacky love story involved.
  
  Right off the bat, you notice it's cool 60's inspired style. all characters are in black silhouettes, 
 and the smooth flat-shaded cell style and smooth animation work well together. The game's story 
 is played out with short animations, and comic style screen images that depicts the crazy story. 
 The sound is heavily Japanese based, with little sounds, quirks, and humming filling the background 
 music that fit the style and presentation.
  
  The gameplay uses just about everything the DS has to offer. From the many ways you can use the 
 touch screen, and the built-in microphone, every mini game feels new. The gameplay relies heavily 
 on the touch screen, since all the minigames and menus require you to tap or rub the screen regularly. 
 Some of the minigames require you to blow or speak into it, to complete a goal in the game. For 
 example, at the main screen, you can record a short clip of your voice to be played when you are 
 at the menu.. Simple, but it helps add a personal touch. Even the game allows you to read certain 
 GBA carts to unlock exclusive content. What didn't Sega think of?
  
  The story is as follows: you play the role of a shy boy, who has fallen in love with a girl that 
 passes him by. Luckily, the Rub Rabbits see this, and meet up with him in his quest to get the 
 girl to notice him. They suggest by joining the super performance group, their crazy acts will 
 surly get the girl's attention. Unluckily, a rival (who isnt pretty) , also has his sites 
 set on her. During the course of the story, he'll try to take you out, and kidnap the girl to express 
 his love for her. Somehow, these people don't know the meaning of the phrase "just ask the girl." 
 Oh well, more fun for us.
  
  Your quest will have you doing all sorts of insane things to impress the woman. It'll require you 
 to engage in minigames that seem like more thought out" Wariorware style games. Your adventures 
 will play out over 19 scenes in the story mode. In some scenes, you'll be able to choose which 
 games you'll want to play, and in some you won't have that option. As you clear these games, you'll 
 earn "love points" and unlock them for play in memories mode. Once you earn 100 of love points, 
 you'll advance to the next scene. 
  
  The games in Feel the Magic: XY/XX are just wacky, crazy, and just plan funny. from he start, you'll 
 be trying to push goldfish and turtles (no typo there) out of a man's stomach. You'll move on to 
 tapping rabid bulls, pushing mines out of the way of people riding in shopping carts, to human 
 bowling on a bust street, opening up skydivers' parachutes by trying to unlock the combination, 
 to even helping your woman out of her (wet) clothes.
  
  The bad part is, the game's story is over too soon. Luckily memories, and harder modes aid to the 
 value. memories mode, allows you to replay the minigames you have beaten in the story mode. You 
 only get one chance to go as far as you can (max is ten rounds.) For each round you beat, you get 
 a star, and as the stars add up you'll unlock stuff to dress your character in with the maniac 
 mode option. there are also other ways to unlock stuff like, from having specific Sega titles in 
 the GBA slot when you boot up, to finding the hidden Rub Rabbit signs. Hard, and the insane Hell 
 modes, allow you to play the game in harder variations. And trust me, they don't call it "hell 
 mode" just for kicks.
  
  Now Feel the Magic: XY/XX is a good game for DSs launch it's not a fantastic game. it has 
 some flaws. such as length in it's story, no multiplayer, and some of the controls for the minigames 
 aren't tight. Some games are just plan mean on normal mode like chaser, which will cause you to 
 throw a fit. Feel the Magic: XY/XX has some technical and collision problems, but for a launch 
 title for the DS, it truly stands out in the end, as original, creative and fun. It's truly one 
 of the titles that showcases what the DS has to offer to the gamer community.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CodingGenius
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  There seems to be a lot of misinformation about this game, so I wanted to write a review to clear 
 it up. Feel the Magic: XY/XX (FTM) is a cute game whose storyline is that you are a boy smitten 
 with a girl. To win her affections you must do silly things to try to impress her (like swallow 
 and then regurgitate goldfish) .
  
  Once you've got her attention, you must then protect her from a kidnapping punk, a snake, a killer 
 plant, and various other threats. In so doing, you win her love and gratitude.
  
  The game is rated T for 'Crude Humor, Mild Violence, and Suggestive Themes'. Yes, the woman is 
 in a bikini, and yes, you are flirting with her, but there is more crude behavior on prime time 
 television than can be found in this game.
  
  Its only shortcoming is its length; it is only about 10 hours long, and only a bit longer if you 
 want to find all of its secrets.
  
  All in all, this game is very fun and its lighthearted flirting makes me nostalgic. It really makes 
 good use of the touch screen, as all of the gameplay involves touching, breathing, or talking at 
 the lower screen. A great launch title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunarmanx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I wasn't really all to interested in this game when i first saw it, to be honest it looked kinds... weird. 
 But then one day i was bored, so i went to some game stores to see if i could find some kind of 
 deal on a game. Well, i found this game on sale for 5 bucks, so i decided to try it out. Here's 
 what good ol' Lunar thought of it...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  This game uses pretty much only the touch screen, mic, and the start button i guess counts as a 
 button. This game is about a boy who has a crush on a girl, but he can't seem to get her to notice 
 him. Then one day he stumbles upon this weird gang of people, wearing bunny hears, they introduce 
 themselves as "The Rub Rabbits". They're a group of daredevils who do various stunts in public, 
 the Hero finds this as a good opportunity to get the girl to notice him. The minigames are really 
 fun and consist of 5 levels. After doing various stunts the Hero is able to get the girl to notice 
 him, the stunts after that often include rescuing her from danger, or doing certain tasks on a 
 date with her.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics on this game are really good. Ever minigame is in 3-D and it all just looks really 
 nice. The weird thing is, the people don't have faces, and well, basically are just shadows with 
 clothes.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in this game is also very good. It has a very catchy theme song that also plays throughpit 
 most of the minigames, unless it's a special "date" minigame or "boss" minigame.
  
  Replay:
  
  This game is awesome in replay value, the minigames really never get old, and you 
 can backtrack in story mode and re-do some things, and then just go right back to wherever you 
 were.
  
  Overall, this game is very weird but i guess that is what makes it as awesome as it is. Lunar out.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mech_Master
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  Feel the Magic is a very unique game. There really isn't another game quite like it. Wario Ware 
 is about as close as it gets, but there really aren't that many similarities. Anyways, Feel the 
 Magic is one of the best games out on DS and anybody, especially people with low attention spans, 
 should check this out. 
  
  Sega and Sonic team did a wonderful job with the graphics. Although quite simple, they get the 
 job done very well. Character models are very sharp and the 3D environments never showed any pixelation 
 (or none that I was aware of) and no aliasing. This really surprised me. But hey, I like surprises. 
 But the thing I like most is the art style the game has. It's very quirky and unique. So overall, 
 the graphics are some of the best so far on DS in my opinion. 
  
  The sound, yet again, is great. And yet again this is a surprise. In most sonic team/sega games 
 you get some really crappy sound. Feel the Magic is much different. The music sounds like something 
 from Katamari Damacy and it's really upbeat and gives the game a great feel. Sound effects are 
 also well done. But it doesn't make great use of the DS's stereo sound like Mario 64 DS does. It 
 takes pretty good use of it, but it won't blow you away. 
  
  Wario Ware + mushrooms = Feel the Magic. The game plays similar to Wario Ware but the mini games 
 have more depth to them and the game's style and music make it seem like you're on an acid trip 
 at times. That's a good thing. :P No actually, it just helps set itself apart from Wario Ware and 
 makes it more unique. The mini games themselves are VERY well done. Some border on genius. Feel 
 the Magic uses just about every feature of the DS even the microphone. One mini game requires you 
 to blow into the microphone to blow out a candle. That's very innovative and very cool. The whole 
 game itself is just done very well and it's easy to just pick up and play. Very good job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiccanPoet
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 2, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Team, argubly the second best devolpment team in the industry, fathers of Sonic, Phantasy 
 Star, Panzer Dragoon, Chu Chu Rocket and.... a dating sim/mini game game? Yes thats right, this 
 game is all about the mini games, and my god are they amazingly addictive. This game is remarkable, 
 the mini games are varied, ingenously use the DS's features and clocks in as one of the best games 
 at launch.
  
  The art style is an amazing retro-70's-siliought style, very nice indeed, and works remarkably 
 well in 3D form, which most of the game takes place in. The whole game looks amazing because of 
 it and works very well. The music is also very uppity and addicting. Only thing wrong with this 
 game are the 'love scene' mini games, ridicously easy and throwaway.
  
  The game is chockfull of replay value despite this flaw however. Not only is there a hard mode 
 unlocked after beating the game once, but then a Hell mode, which indeed does hail from those regins, 
 is unlockable. Not to mention the ability to play any of the minigame apart from the story mode, 
 and the ability to gain new outfits to customize your dream girl. Also masks of famous Sonic Team 
 characters like the Chu Chu's, Sonic, Nights and even Ula are unlockable.
  
  Simply put an amazing game that should have been picked up by much more of the community then did. 
 I'm putting difficulty at hard because of that Damn Hell mode, still stuck in the 7th level because 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndyWilliams24
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 30, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  There is a lot of history behind this contraversial game sure i know what your thinking how could 
 the sonic team bring out a contraversial game, well face it its true. Feel the magic: XY/XX changed 
 its name over in England to an even more contraversial name Project Rub and on the back of the 
 game case it say's Rub Feel Touch and Blow your way into your girls heart. And no its not XXX it 
 means Rub the screen Touch the screen Blow the screen on verious levels so dont be discouraged 
 by the game title or the game blyrb. 
  
  This game has a twisted and unrealistic story yet some how you just want more. The game centers 
 around a man who is not noticed who happens to stumble across a girl who is atractible in his eyes 
 but to everyone else shes just casual. And arter making a fool out of yourself a group of people 
 who dress like rabbits try to help out, thus calling there mission Project Rub. 
  
  The graphics on this game are acceptible but come on Nintendo what went wrong. If your used to graphics 
 such as Forza Motorsport or the likes of Halo 2, you might be a bit offended. For instance you cant 
 see the womans face, who could ever love a girl with no face. But with all the aditional clothing 
 hair styles and shoes its not to bad. 
  
  The sound on this game is great, every single part of this game has sound from the gameplay to the 
 loading screens. From the moment you turn it on you will have a nice bit of music to cheer you up. And 
 when your half way through a task it will go on to a little thing called Break Time. Its a little 
 short amount of time where you can rest your fingers and take a breather, and hear the girl of your 
 dreams say Break Time. 
  The sound effects are good to for instance at the start of the game you swallow a fish and you 
 have to get it out and when your touch the screen the fish will make a realistic cry for help. 
 
  
  The gamelay differs some of it is extremely easy some it is easy and some of it is rock solid. But 
 dont get me wrong its a great game and plenty to do there are about 16 hard hitting levels each 
 with its own little twist. And dont forget to revisit the previous missions you have completed and 
 perfect you score in the Memory section. 
  And a little secret to this game is the Voice recorder its located on the main menu. But it doesnt 
 appear with the rest of the options you have to press certain buttons and it will start to record 
 and press another sequence of buttons for it to play back. The sequence of buttons can be located 
 on the chats & hints part of IGN. 
  
  The lasting appeal is pretty decent it will keep you going for a couple of weeks but after that 
 it gets a bit shallow. But you can always spare a visit to the Mamory's Section of the game and 
 top all your friends scores, but if you have no friends that doesnt apply to you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 30, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  This is a very similar title to the Warioware series, especially the Warioware touched game. The 
 mini-games can be quite bizarre, but the charming story is different and despite the stale graphics 
 and generic music, this is one innovative, fun title for the DS.
  
  In Feel the magic xy xx, you play as a guy who wants to meet a woment. You basically go through 
 countless mini-games to meet her, date her, and help her when she gets captured.
  
  The mini-games can be quite wacky, and you need to get 100 points to advance to the next level. 
 Some levels have multiple mini-games you can do, while others are just one. If you fail, you lose 
 points and have to re-gain them by playing and winning the mini-games over again.
  
  The graphics are Ok, where the two screeen look identical, graphically, there are absolutely no 
 facial expressions/detail and the graphics leavea lot to be desired. The sound is no better, with 
 looping techno beats and no real voice acting. Feel the magic xy xx can be a fun title, but overall, 
 it just isn't worth the purchase, especially with it's low replay value and rather simplistic gameplay 
 that is way to easy for it's own good. Feel the magic xy xx is still a rather innovative title 
 though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowprince92
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  The game has all what a DS lover needs: fresh style different from what you are used to play, control 
 mechanics that force you to use the microphone and the touch screen as well as paying close attention 
 to what happens on both screens. The game is just pure fun. Once you succeed in a mini-game you 
 can play it back as many times as you want to unlock new secrets such as different clothings for 
 your beloved girl. Doing stupid things to impress a girl has never been so fun before. Although 
 it is a stupid topic in nature, how it was designed and the background music I really love to listen 
 to again and again, makes this game at least worth-trying. If you like it, you will probably be 
 waiting for its second part next year!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljmjag
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect from this game - and after playing it for several hours, I'm still 
 not sure what to expect. Tons of mini-games whose sole purpose is to help you score points so that 
 the girl you are chasing will notice you, ostensibly so that you can score with her. Get it? You 
 need to score to score . In other words it's the story of most guys lives... wow - maybe that hits 
 a little too close to home.
  
  Anyway, back to the games. They are weird. Think Wario Ware but with a more highly charged goal 
 in mind. Stop bulls from attacking your girl. Then, gently rub and stroke her body and face to 
 get the mud off of her. Then perform a bunch more other stunts for her.
  
  The game makes great "use" of the touch screen. I haven't finished it yet and have no idea what 
 the game will have be rubbing me next - but, it certainly has me curious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_ferret123
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  this little game is a fun little thing. its like a wario ware with only 12 games, and all of those 
 games get boring after you play them 1 million times. if you could rent ds games, go ahead, rent 
 away, but if you are looking for a good mini game thing, look no further than warioware baby, thats 
 the **** the story in this game is so asian. its like OMG I SEE A BEAUTIFUL GIRL IN THE PARK, IM 
 GONNA DO EVERYTHING I CAN TO HAVE SEX WITH HER. yeah, and its basicly that. although it does make 
 use of all of the tounch screen things. and plus this game is very very hard. it took a long time 
 before i could beat it on easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supercanti
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 7, 2006 12:17 am PT
Review:  this game is strange very very strange but that doesnt change all the fun, the plot is basicly 
 get the girl to fall in love with you and you get help from this club he joined called the rub 
 rabbits, this game opens up so many uses for ways to play the DS its crazy youll find yourself 
 blowing in it, yelling in it, and just about anything you can imagine with the styles
  it is a very short game which sadly doesnt have much replay value the reason is because the game 
 dosnt give you a eny real reward for beating it all it gives you is different outfits for the chick 
 and different modes to play the game, its a great innovated game that anyone with a DS should try 
 out i personally loved the game and cant wait for the sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rio-Raul
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 5, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  pretty crap good ending ive herd ;) LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonyreallysucks
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 4:24 am PT
Review:  It is not funny as Wario Ware Touched, or Twisted, but this game shows all the capabilities of 
 the Nintendo DS. This is a really funny game. Graphics are so strange that look beautiful in front 
 of my eyes. Sound is "so so", the gameplay is excellent. The only mistake in this game is that 
 it is too short. You could finish it in six or seven hours, but if you want to unlock all the dresses 
 and the accessories for the lady you have to find all the rubbits, and for find them you have to 
 play it two or three times, so this is not a really problem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emerging-XIII
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 6:45 pm PT
Review:  This game wuz great but it wuz sorta... lacking. The story wuz ok but it kinda sucked, although 
 it reminds me of myself right now. The graphix were kinda crappy. The gameplay wuz fun but got 
 boring after a while. If u want a game that will keep u interested for a few weeks get this game. 
 If yur lookin for a wonderful experience dont get it but its really fun so i suggest it. 
  
  LLLLLLLLLLLLL LLLLL LLL LLL
  LL LL L L L L L L
  LL LL L L L L L L
  LL LL LLLLLLL L LLLL 
 L
  LLLLLLLLLLLLL L L L L
  LL LL L L L L
  LL LL L L L L
  LL LL L L L L
  LLLLLLLLLLLLL L L L L 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VirtualBoyZ
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Feel the Magic XY/XX is an odd game. The objective of the game is to rescue a girl you barely know 
 from a very plump kidnapper. The outcome of this odd story line is a series of fun, but generally 
 too easy mini-games. This game, however, makes very good use of the touch screen. From making a 
 man throw up goldfish, to slashing the core of an evil robot, the stylus is the games best friend. 
 The sounds in this game are very, very annoying. The few sound effects are irritating, but playing 
 the game on mute makes for a better experiance. The grapics are nice, and the touch screen is surprisingly 
 responsive to your movements. Overall, the game is fun, but proves to be just too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight42092
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Take this scenario: a guy accidentally drops a fish bowl and the fish leap up and end up being 
 swallowed by the guy. Now, the fish obviously have nowhere to go besides his stomach. So your job 
 is to take the stylus and tap the fish and move it an upward fashion so that they go out through 
 his mouth. Pretty sick, eh? What about blowing into the microphone so a candle will go out? In 
 Feel The Magic XY/XX you can do all that and more.
  
  The game originates from Japan and is developed by Sonic Team. Sonic Team recently worked on Puyo 
 Pop Fever, Sonic Heroes, Sonic N, and Phantasy Star Online. The story behind the title places you 
 in the shoes of a desperate guy who wants get in good with this hot girl that has been the most 
 sought after girl throughout his high-school life. Shes beautiful, smart, and supposedly makes 
 all the guys heart melt. Sounds like an episode from Saved by the Bell. Anyways, your job is to 
 impress this attractive young lady while your rival tries to do the same, but by kidnapping her. 
 So now, you have to impress and save her at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jotapedos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:37 pm PT
Review:  The game has all what a DS lover needs: fresh style different from what you are used to play, control 
 mechanics that force you to use the microphone and the touch screen as well as paying close attention 
 to what happens on both screens. The game is just pure fun. Once you succeed in a mini-game you 
 can play it back as many times as you want to unlock new secrets such as different clothings for 
 your beloved girl. Doing stupid things to impress a girl has never been so fun before. Although 
 it is a stupid topic in nature, how it was designed and the background music I really love to listen 
 to again and again, makes this game at least worth-trying. If you like it, you will probably be 
 waiting for its second part next year!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamillebidan92
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2005 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Feel the Magic was a fun experience that is just plain fun and sholud not be avoided becasue some 
 people say its boring or perverted (which its not)
  Feel the Magic is a different kind of game that allows you to win the virtual girl of your dreams 
 by doing alot of wacky adventures, and etc. Personally when i thought about getting this game i 
 thought i was going nuts. but after you play the first level and listen to the music and look at 
 the nice graphics you wont want to stop playing. Don't miss out on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackcrimson004
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Feel the magic is an insanely adidictive warioware style minigame based game. This game combines 
 addictive minigames with a funny storyline and interesting boss battles to creat a game thats just 
 as pick up and playable as warioware. This game uses sillouette style character designs to make 
 up an interesting mix of fun and funny. If you want a fun game with a lot of play value then this 
 is your game. It's multiple levels of gameplay allow this game to be easy enough for beginners 
 and challenging enough for the more experenced. All in all this is my favorite ds game to date. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimD73
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Recently, the DS has exploded. Games like Castlevania, Nintendogs, Canvas Curve and Advance Wars 
 have been getting rave reviews, but there is still a gap for some DS owners, and that is cheap 
 games. There arent many games out there that cost less than $20, and when there are, it is likely 
 games like Retro Atari Classics or (god forbid) Ping Pals. Even a port like Super Mario 64 DS, 
 which, as hard as it may be to believe, has been out for almost a year is selling for $30 used. 
 So what do the DS bargain hunters get? Very few games is pretty much right. So we are always open 
 to getting a new one at a low cost. Low and behold, Feel the Magic XY/XX, Segas incredibly odd 
 DS launch title, is now at $20 at EB. With only three other DS titles to my name, it was too tempting 
 to pass up, especially considering that, during the original slump, Feel the Magic was recognized 
 as the second best DS game on the market. I automatically knew that I probably wouldnt regret 
 buying this just as space filler, but is it up to par with the other titles?
  
  It should be mentioned right off the bat that if you looking for deep gameplay, look elsewhere. 
 Feel the Magic is not an adventure game or even a game that tries to have a storyline. Its a series 
 of minigames strung together loosely by a story that must have been thrown together in the span 
 of twenty minutes. The basic storyline is that you are a guy who wears a helmet who becomes extremely 
 infatuated with a girl who passes him on the street. In an attempt to woo her into his arms, he 
 joins a group called the Rub Rabbits, which are a bunch of guys who wear fake bunny ears and perform 
 such stunts as blowing out candles, to impress her. She also draws the attention of a much bigger, 
 meaner man with a Mohawk who kidnaps her on multiple occasions.
  
  As anyone who has previously played this game can testify, I did not make a single word of that 
 paragraph up. This may be the most incredibly dumb plot in any video game, movie, television show 
 or childrens novel in the past twenty years. For starters, the word stalker pops up many times 
 in your mind while playing this game. Also, any man dumb enough to think that removing goldfish 
 from a mans stomach is impressive might to rethink his strategy. Finally, a group called the Rub 
 Rabbits is confusing enough without saying any more.
  
  The zaniness of the plot carries over to the minigames it contains. The key difference there is 
 that this is where that level of insanity is much more appreciated. These minigames will see you 
 slingshotting pedestrians into a truck, crawling from a snakes belly, clearing rubble from the 
 path of oncoming shopping carts, bowling through traffic and fending off a stampede of bulls. It 
 keeps the minigames fresh, so rarely will you ever feel as if you are doing the same thing over 
 and over during the game.
  
  The game itself is divided into scenes, each of which holds up to three minigames. For each scene, 
 you must get the girls heart meter up to 100%. Scenes with multiple minigames will have one worth 
 30%, another worth 40, etc. You will also lose percentage points if you fail at a minigame. Boss 
 scenes, of course, do not use the percentage system. It is a decent way of progressing, but it 
 can make harder difficulties much more annoying, since it doesnt save your points and one mistake 
 on those levels can set the counter back to zero.
  
  The biggest problem with Feel the Magic is that there are only a little more than 25 minigames, 
 which doesnt add up when you consider that Super Mario 64 DS had 32 that were separate from the 
 main game. Blazing through them all is no problem whatsoever, especially since you may end up not 
 playing every one of them due to scenes. If you actually try, you can probably beat the normal 
 mode for this game in one evening or a couple hours.
  
  The game does try to maximize the DSs capabilities, an automatic plus for minigames. The touch 
 screen is obviously used for almost everything, as there is not a single moment where you will 
 use the D-pad or buttons. The microphone is also occasionally used, but it will always give the 
 option of using the touch screen in its place. Playing in anywhere noisy can be a problem, as while 
 you can use an alternate method for playing the game, there is no way to turn off the microphone. 
 It is only seldom used, so this is no major problem.
  
  A Memories mode is also available for added replay. It basically shows all of the minigames youve 
 beaten in story mode and allows you to play through longer versions of them. Well, youd think 
 that they are longer, but in reality, the developers simply added the stages from Hard mode to 
 the end of Normal mode. Since you can level select in Story mode, there is no real reason to this 
 option.
  
  At least Memories ties into the game on some level. The Maniac mode in the front menu is probably 
 the most pointless addition to the game. The point of this is to unlock different costumes in Story 
 and Memories, and then dress the girl up in Maniac. The clothes you dress her in will appear in 
 the Story mode. Not even those familiar with Barbies from their youth will really be overly interested, 
 as it works on a three block system. In other words, you can change only the head, torso and shoes 
 separately. This is neither a needed nor a wanted mode in this game.
  
  If this game does have anything that is anywhere near interesting, its style, also reflecting 
 the story and minigames. All characters are solid black silhouettes, which unfortunately takes 
 away any emotion but adds a great deal of mystery. Backgrounds are a perfect contrast of bright 
 oranges, yellows and reds. The few moving scenes we get in the game are entertaining solely for 
 this reason.
  
  These sequences are few in numbers, unfortunately. Before minigames, instead of cinema scenes, 
 we are shown four pictures describing the set up and occasionally giving hints. They still maintain 
 that style, so they are not a lost cause, and also make sure that the setups are never overly long. 
 While some more motion in the scenes might have been appreciated, this way works just fine as well.
 
  
  As for the actual graphics in the minigames, there is definitely a range. Some, such as the goldfish 
 level, look pretty sharp on the DS. Others, like the driving level, are extremely bland in presentation. 
 Most backgrounds are also fairly common-looking, though some, such as the Nightmare levels late 
 in the game, look extraordinary. Due to the black silhouette approach, detail in the characters 
 is unnecessary, but your character sometimes appears blocky when he is small. From a technical 
 standpoint, most of the minigames are rather dull, but there is a good style to many of them to 
 counteract this.
  
  Sound is one the strong points of this game, perfectly reflecting the always insane nature of the 
 game. Every stage starts with a cheer of Rub it, which while hilarious at first, eventually becomes 
 an excellent pump-up before a stage. The sound effects are all pretty cartoony and humorous, such 
 as in the stampede level where the sound of judo kicks can be heard as you knock out bulls. All 
 of this sets a mood that keeps your mind right in the action.
  
  The music is pretty nice as well. All of it is best described as Japanese techno-pop, which is 
 normally abhorred but works well for this game. It is impossible not to bob your head occasionally 
 to the opening theme or the menu screen, and the unlockable sound test area proves to be more enjoyable 
 than expected. Much like the sound effects, the music is a perfect mood setter.
  
  For a game that is all about minigames, there is surprisingly little replay value. There are select 
 minigames (such as Bull or Snake) that are fun to play over and over, but most end up being filler 
 that really are only necessary to play once. Once the game is done, it is pretty much done for 
 good. Hard mode is no big deal as it was previously accessible through Memories mode, and it isnt 
 worth the trouble to unlock the costumes for Maniac.
  
  While Feel the Magic certainly does have its charms, this is a game that really cannot be recommended 
 unless you are extremely desperate for a low-budget DS game. The minigames are lots of fun the 
 first time through, but they dont last long. If a friend already has this, try to borrow it and 
 take advantage of what good there is in Feel the Magic. Just dont waste the money on a game that 
 will be tossed aside after two days.
  
  Overall Rating  51%
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefallen12
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:11 pm PT
Review:  What's a greater way to learn how to play a DS better? Huh whats that you say, cause if i heard 
 you right..... than it's nothing better but Feel The Magic: XY/XX. The game is really a great way 
 to start off for the DS.
  
  Well, first off the graphics are really cool like cellshaded like and are very artistic and cartoony 
 like, which is great for a game like itself. The music is very cool (but i don't know really cause 
 i only played the demo version) and fits the game just right. The gameplay is interesting and stylish 
 and i think some of you out there might enjoy it for awhile.
  
  The story is based on you being a guy who is in loves (or likes) this girl. So as the demo progresses 
 or game (if you haven't got the demo) you start to get closer to the girl and stuff. And so you 
 save the city from different types of events, like a bunch of bulls, or people (not really sure 
 this was in it) getting burned by these huge candles ect. And i guess the game goes on with different 
 events.
  
  The game doens't take long to learn how to play, i'd say from 2-5mins. The game is really easy, 
 unless your not very good at touch screens. The game is ( i don't know how much it is so im not 
 going to list) worth it's money since it teaches you to play while your having fun.
  
  In conclusion: I Give the game a 8.3, because the play is worths it's buy. It is suitable for everyone 
 since it's rated "E". And because people should give new things a try even if it is a bummer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Henatrice
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Feel the Magic is a bunch of minigames (much more detailed then Mario Party, mind you) But for 
 a collection of minigames, its got alot of style, substance, and more fun then it sounds.
  
  The graphics are not great, but they're good. The main thing about the graphics is the style. 
 Everyone is an ipod style sillohuette, but the clothes are not. Sound wierd? Looks better then 
 it is.
  
  The sound in this game is surprisingly fitting, and wierd, but it's going to bug the people sitting 
 around you. 
  
  Now the gameplay is odd. Using a bunch of stylus driven minigames bunched together is wierd. But, 
 it's fun in the end, and the minigames are ridiculous enough to keep you going.
  
  The replay value is the problem. Sure its got its wierd Maniac Mode, where you choose what the 
 girl wears, but with 2 more difficulties, and memory mode, plus a short story mode itself, the 
 game doesnt have much substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoardingKid07
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 4, 2005 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Feel the Magic: XY/XX is a good game with the potential to be greater. Taking advantage of the 
 both the touch screen and microphone in an innovative way as this game does, I hope many future 
 DS title makers look to this as a model. Though it uses the features of the DS in a unique way, 
 not to mention its excellent art style, I found that this game was not in the league of Metroid 
 Prime and Ocarina of Time. As the game play was only above average, the shortness of the game left 
 me wanting more. With talk of a sequel hitting the western hemisphere, I cross my fingers for a 
 longer more fleshed out adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killermonkey97
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Feel the Magic XX/XY was one of the DS's launch titles made by Sega. You play as this guy who sees 
 love in first, sight, and from there, embarks on an extremely bizarre journey in order to win this 
 woman's love, with help from this RUB group ( you'll have to play it to find out) . This was a great 
 game Sega has made in a while since the Super Monkey Ball series, but still isn't anything like 
 the best DS game ever. Here's why:
  
  Gameplay: Innovation at one of its finest. Great, addicting minigames, that also uses great uses 
 of the DS's technology, such as the microphone and the touch screen, some that even truly test 
 your DS skills. All but with one major problem: the game is about 2 hours short, plus only around 
 20 minigames. though there are some little Easter Eggs that unlocks new costumes for the girl and 
 some challenges, but is basically the same minigames over and over.
  
  Graphics: All I can say is that it has graphics that brings the whole 70's, groovy feel to it.
 
  
  Sound: Really strange, but fits the whole feel and look of the game.
  
  Value: Though with unlockable woman costumes and difficulties, it still is just way too short and 
 just not much minigames to have it forever.
  
  Tilt: I thought this was a good enough game to check out, overall. With great innovation and with 
 some "fun while it lasted" minigames, it a DS experience that you might want to check out. Now 
 only if they lengthend it and put more minigames in... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kittyangel2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Well people who said they think it's boring probably played TOO much video games and have developed 
 the skills to beat these minigames with short amount of time and thus think it's not challenging/fun. 
 for the rest of us, who don't play video games everyday or even every week, it's not as easy as 
 those hardcore gamers say. It's not boring, because there are many scenes and many minigames. it 
 is definitely better looking than wario touched! Yes people have no faces, but it's ok, doesn't 
 affect the game at all. I think it is a weird theme, and weird minigames, but that's what's unique 
 about it. also it does use the DS touch screens too its fullest, which is good. afterall isn't 
 that why you bought a DS in the first place? for the cool touch screen system? Well anyway, it 
 is a great game which contains nice little minigames. for people who are not hardcore v-gamers, 
 I highly recommand it. also it is cool to show your friends how weird this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rb7_brady
Rating: 1.6
Date: Oct 13, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the most overrated game in history. first of all the game is way to short. 
 second the storyline couldn't be worse. third the mini-games are horrible. there is not one good 
 point about it. seriosly who want's to play mini-games where you have to throw up fish or brush 
 dirt of people's arms? don't buy this game you will seriosly regret it. it's just a waste of time 
 and money. The sequel has released in Japan and is called-Where Do Babies Come From. Seriosly does 
 that sound fun to you? This just dissapointing work and i hope the sequel isn't near this bad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games1216
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 28, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  gameplay
  its great the way it takes full advantage over the features the ds offers like the touch screen 
 , the microphone but it does give quite a hand sore in fact it could very well give someone carpal 
 tunnel syndrome it seems like but besides that it is alright.
  
  graphics
  well it is kind of hard to speak about the graphics in this game because it seems sort of cartoonish 
 in a sense and the cutscenes seem like a comic strip inspired idea. in certain levels it seems to 
 produce a certain sense of a 3d environment.
  
  sound
  i cannot really say much for the sound because the music is catchy but you never hear any dialogue 
 except for when you start a mission you will hear people say things like "RUB IT!" , "TOUCH IT!" 
 and if you listen carefully you can hear your girlfriend screaming for help and whatnot.
  
  overall
  i would recommend this game to someone who doesnt mind the difficulty of it , doesnt 
 get sore easily like a younger audience , overall this game is good but certainly not a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn_Watson
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 16, 2005 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Not only do I hate the animation style and the fact that it's nothing but a bunch of mini-games 
 put together but when you fail at whatever task and have to start again it takes too long.
  
  Yes, the animation looks good from a technical point of view but all people appear in silhouette. 
 I don't feel any connection to the so-called 'story' because I am basically playing with what appears 
 to be shop window mannequins. And the music is annoying as hell too.
  
  The focus of this game seems to concentrate far too much on how to incorporate the features of 
 the Nintendo DS into the gameplay rather than making the gameplay any good, or bearable. Sega and 
 Sonic Team should be ashamed for making a game this bland and bad. They should have spent the time 
 and money on something much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustopants
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jun 18, 2005 1:57 am PT
Review:  I was defidently exspeciting more from this title when I purchaced it... I was exspecting somethign 
 that was like warioware... but unfortunately, I got something far less entertaining.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay, in itself, sounds cool, but when you actually pick it up and play it, 
 it gets old fast... one of my main concerns about this game is this - the game is too short, and 
 it has little replay value... I don't mind short games, as long as theres still stuff to do afterwards... 
 the only thing to do after you beat the game once is to beat the various minigames in harder difficulties, 
 just like in warioware... except this game has too few minigames, and the only unlockables you 
 recive asre new outfits and a sound test mode... both unlockables get old quick... if this game 
 had some more thought put into it, and was jam packed with loads more content, then it might have 
 gotten a higher gameplay score from me...
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are cool and original... the looks of the game feels fresh and new, everything looks 
 3d, but at the same time it doesn't, because it looks like the chracters are also 2d... it's hard 
 to exsplain... but trust me, the game looks cool... the only thing I don't like about the graphics 
 is that I don't think It shows off as much as the DS can handle, understandably, too, since this 
 is a "close to launch" title.
  
  Sound:
  The music can get annoying after a while, but I have heard myself humming the theme song every 
 now and then... the rest of the sound in the game is comprised of comical sound effects, the narrator 
 who has a japaneese accent, and short voice clips of grunts or short phrases for the rest of the 
 chracters. overall, the sound is solid.
  
  Value:
  The game is FAR too short... and theres little to no replay value... seriously... this is the game's 
 one major fault...
  
  Overall:
  cool concept, but excecuted badly, because of the short length of the game, and because of the 
 lack of extras... if you really want to play this game, rent it, i'm sure you'll have had enough 
 when you return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessLeia
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 4, 2005 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Hey... I'm going to write a short little review on XX/YY.... Feel the Magic.
  
  First off, this game is ALL ABOUT game variety... and it does it very well. 
  
  Graphics are 
 decent considering it is a DS launch title.
  
  Etc. Etc. it's too short and far-fetched, and some games are rehashed.
  
  Sound is clear but 
 the songs are looped at less than 45 seconds usually... though the minigames don't last too long.
 
  
  There are a ton of easter-eggs.... new hairstyles/clothing/extra modes/new re-mix sound maker (not 
 that great..) to leave you with about an hour or so of fun after you beat story mode... which only 
 lasts a couple hours. It works on a handheld, though, as it is very pick-up-n-go... but WWare is 
 better... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooselover99
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 3, 2005 3:57 am PT
Review:  I received this game with a purchase, of yet another, DS system. ( A Gift) I started playing it 
 and really enjoyed it Very different kind of game playing especially when you have to blow and/or 
 yell at the screen to make things happen. Blowing on the screen got me kind of dizzy, considering 
 I can't even blow up a balloon without feeling light-headed, and light-headed. Thank God the game 
 has a "Break-Time."
  
  The graphics really are crappy but it is forgiven considering the game is different than anything 
 out there. I only got to the DANCE level and have ran into trouble getting passed that. That is 
 very touchy and have to do everything to the exact beat and sequence.
  
  While playing the game, it also tells the player what need to be done to play the next "mini-game." 
 For that i am thankful.
  
  
  I like this game and it is challenging. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ngamer8
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 31, 2005 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Feel the Magic XY/XX is easily one of the best DS games so far. But that's not necessarily saying 
 much. Anyways, the core gameplay basically consists of different difficulties of rubbing, touching, 
 drawing, and blowing on the touch screen and microphone to complete certain tasks. There's also 
 a quirky little story tied in between in which your charcter tries to win a girl's heart that carries 
 the game along nicely. The art style is unique and it is made up of comic book type slides for 
 the cutscenes and silhouettes with hair and clothes for the characters. Sond-wise the game is passable, 
 but not exceptionable.
  About now you may be thinking, "7.8! But you've basically said the game is a masterpiece!" This 
 is not true. Although good, the game has several shortcomings that really bring down the experience. 
 First of all the game is short. Very short. We're talking like 3 to 4 hours. Now there are two 
 harder difficulties to be unlocked after the game's completion but for the most part it's not worth 
 it. You can also unlock outfits for the lead girl but, once again, its not worth it. It basically 
 a shorter Warioware: Touched with less replay value. If you think Warioware is short it will look 
 like Final Fantasy X when compared to Feel the Magic.
  It may be short but it is rather hard and it is very unforgiving, which also brings the experience 
 down.
  So all in all, the game is still good but could have been so much better. Wow, Sega sure has gone 
 down the drain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BanY
Rating: 7.4
Date: Apr 14, 2005 2:51 am PT
Review:  It can be said that from the start of the game, the title screen dazzles and amazes you with a 
 hypnotic theme, and dancing figure-ground females that quickly remind you of that last cool advertisement 
 you saw on MTV. From there the title is made know and the short lived cool intro scene makes you 
 want to press a button to see it again, unfortunately the button you have to press is the off button 
 because once the intro is viewed it does not come back. So upon pressing start and going into the 
 only pliable mode you can find at this point, you are then thrown into a series of events in where 
 you try to feverishly win over the girl of your dreams, of which you just met while crossing the 
 street one day. Is not love at first site bliss? Thus presented with the meat and potatoes of the 
 game, you find that some of the quest will be easy while other will rack your nerves. Get ready 
 for a game that can be played through in one day, or stretched out through short spats of utter 
 enjoyment; for you will feel the magic.
  
  Control can be sum up in one word; touch, which is primarily what you are going to be doing most 
 of this game. This is not the only type of input you will be making in the game, as there are a 
 few games that use the mic., but they come few and far between and do not give adequate enough 
 support to really get the use out of this new way of control. Tough they make some fun uses of 
 it like screaming to the top of your lungs to be noticed, it could have been used more than as 
 sparingly as it was, which shows that the developers were either holding back or could not think 
 of ways to use the device. Either way it would have been good to over use it that under use it 
 in this case.
  
  The look of the game is divided up between 2-d and 3-d games (well mostly the boss fights are 
 in the 3-d range) each mini-game offering adequate knowledge of the goals that must be accomplished 
 to win over your sweetheart. Many of the 2d scenes are colorful, but the lack substantial detail 
 which is ok for the overall presentation of the game. The scene are broken up with a 2-d storyboard 
 which is in most part a comic of what happens after you clear a game of group of games. Being that 
 there are no faces on any of the character, this artistic approach is made to help you feel more 
 like the characters.
  
  The sound of the game is good with the adequate bells and whistles and a loose variety of musical 
 scores that are nothing more than a variation on the same theme. I would not call the score memorable 
 but I would call it hypnotic, and something you may not hum in the shower or on your way to school 
 or work, but you will remember after you have played the game for more than ten minutes or so. 
 There is a bonus unlockable concerning the music once you beat the game which could have proven 
 to be a treasure in and of itself, but the idea went much unutilized kind of like the mic. support 
 was in the control area of the game. 
  
  It is really hard not to have fun with some of the games built in to the title because they are 
 at best zany, absurd, and down right goofy. The only problem arises when you have to pass a bunch 
 of hard games in order to progress through to the next game or set of games. Though these hard 
 patches are few and far between, youll know when youve met them because you mood will have changed 
 form what could that throw at me next to what! how in the hell they expect me to do that when. 
 Its really a shift in gameplay that could have been balanced by more types of games, or better 
 use of under supported controls. Even a difficulty mode would have been worth its weight, letting 
 you know in advance what games were easy and what games desired a curb in learning. Despite this 
 though, the average puzzle gamer will not be as bent out of shape about it and some may not even 
 find it to be as difficulty as others.
  
  My personal bend is that as a first generation game for the DS, SEGA did its part in showing some 
 of the future potential of the touch screen (with somewhat fun mic. occasions) and what it could 
 offer in games down the road that copy the formula or design. It may not be the most popular game, 
 but it can resonate with others that may be put off by conventional game. Although I think Feel 
 the Magic falls short in some areas, I will say I think it was worth the fun and frustration and 
 offered me that breather between periods. I Recommend Feel the Magic and look forward to many more 
 games styled like it, with new features added of course ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belgiumwarior
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 13, 2005 12:06 pm PT
Review:  STORY/CHARACTERS
  
  You are a boy who is in love with a girl, and you have to do a lot of minigames to make her love 
 you. There is alsow a punkboy who is trying to steal the girl away from you.
  That is the story.
  
  
  MINIGAMES
  
  there are quiet some minigames but don't expect 
 things like warioware orso, however the games are fun and a bit silly. when you played the game 
 you unlocked a hard version, when u played the hard version you get .....
  And so on. Every time you played a version you get new clothes to give the girl, and when you finished 
 the whole game you get to see the girl naked.
  Not that you see mutch because it is kinda a shadow-like person.
  
  JAPANESE
  
  My opinion 
 is that this is a typical Japanes, manga game.
  It is fun for a while but it repeats itself very fast and you get bored after a while.
  My opinion: 
 Don't buy it but play it in a store or so.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: C0deZer0
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 2, 2005 11:00 pm PT
Review:  The Nintendo DS is out and has a pretty weak launch. With the handful of games that are out, there 
 is only a limited number of them that are actually fun to play. Feel the Magic is one of those 
 fun games. In this game you play as a normal guy who falls head over heels in love with a girl, 
 and does pretty much everything in his power to get her attention and affection. At the beginning 
 you join a group called the "Rub Rabbits," this is a group of guys who wear bunny ears and do a 
 bunch of twisted things. The game relies heavily on the touch screen for the gameplay, and even 
 uses the microphone a little in a couple of the mini games.
  
  As I said before this is a fun game, and does support some interesting themes and graphics. The 
 graphics are stylish, but a little odd. The characters are black silhouettes with different colored 
 hair. In the case of your character, he's a black silhouette with blue hair and a strip beard. 
 All of the other characters look like this, but to be quite honest it's somewhat pleasing to the 
 eye. The sound is also the same way. Some very interesting music, even though there isn't much 
 to this game. There are some pretty clear voice samples that help the game out, just a little. 
 
  
  The gameplay is the best thing about this game. I don't remember ever using the directional pad 
 at all in this game, you use the touch screen and the microphone. The storyline was a big surprise 
 for me, cause I didn't think there would be one. As it turns out, trying to get this girl to notice 
 you, and like you requires a lot and actually compelles you to continue on to see what happens 
 next. Each part of the story is played out in a bunch of mini games that each have a charm of their 
 own. An example is the first minigame, you are carrying a bunch of goldfish and are tripped, the 
 goldfish are swallowed by a guy walking by. The touch screen is then brought up looking like the 
 outline of the guy's stomach with goldfish in it. You must guide the goldfish out by "guiding" 
 them up to the throat with upward motions with your stylus. Fortunately the games vary as you play 
 and you will have to do things like tag a wall with spray paint, help parachuters open their chutes, 
 and help fellow Rub Rabbits avoid death from a huge ant lion. All of this seems goofy, but it can 
 be quite fun.
  
  The only downfall with this game is how short it is. Once you have been though it once you will 
 be able to go to a "memories" option and play any of the mini games over again. Unfortunately after 
 a couple of times playing the games, you probably won't want to play them again. If you have a 
 store around you that rents out DS games, I suggest a one time rental, but if these mini games 
 are what you like, and you could play them over again and never get bored, then by all means, buy 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insanemonkey2
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  This game could be better. It is way to short for my liking. It's a good game just not good enough 
 that you would want to play it over and over and over again. Long story short, you fall in love 
 with this girl that you see off the streets and you do whatever you can to make her love you back. 
 As the game progresses, she gets kidnapped and you have to rescue her. The game kind of relies 
 on the touch screen to much. There is a microphone mini-game here and there but mostly all of the 
 mini-games are on the touch screen. This game can become very very frustrating at times. There 
 are three difficulties. You have to unlock the Hard and Hell difficulty. Once your on the Hell 
 difficulty, the game becomes so frustartaing that you just want to jam the stylus into the touch 
 screen. I have not done that and I never will. I'm not an idiot. Some of the mini-games are fun 
 and some are not. There are also two other modes that are at your disposal. Memories and Maniac, 
 (besides Story Mode) . In Memories, you can do any mini-game that you've beat in Story Mode. You 
 can also unlock clothes for your girl. In Maniac Mode, you use the clothes that you've unlock to 
 customize your own girl. Once you beat Story Mode on the Hell difficulty, you can unlock a secret 
 outfit. I have not beat the Hell difficulty yet so I don't know what the outfit looks like. All 
 in all, I give this game a 8.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: culturejammer
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 21, 2005 10:54 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best launch title for the DS outside of Mario 64. It is the first game to take 
 seriously the touch screen's capabilities and also makes amusing use of the microphone. The mini 
 games play well and are enjoyable in and of themselves. The graphics are highly stylized (which 
 will be a good thing or a bad thing depending on your particular taste) , but the entire game is 
 colorful and well rendered. The sound in general is mediocre, the music is amusing at first but 
 quickly becomes repetitive and irritating.
  
  All in all this is a pretty fun game. I'm glad that this game was on the cheaper side of the DS 
 price range, but you still don't quite get the bag for your buck. The games are far longer and 
 more challenging than the "microgames" of WarioWare fame, but they are still mini games. It would 
 have been nice to see more games or some multiplayer functionality thrown in to provide to more 
 replayability. The mini games provided for free in Mario 64 are arguably of equal quality and are 
 nearly as plentiful.
  
  In all fairness, while I beat the games easy level in a mere day or two, it took substantially 
 longer to get through the hard and hell modes. In the end though, the difficulty comes from merely 
 limiting the number of failures you're allowed; not by providing any new challenges. For now, this 
 is still one of the better DS games as it is one of the few games that can only be done on a DS. 
 If you like mini games, I would have to suggest this game over WarioWare Touched!, but I would 
 suggest picking up a used copy or getting it on sale. I do not think it was quite worth $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsgroovygamer
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 20, 2005 7:34 am PT
Review:  Out of all the offbeat games that have been released or announced for the DS, Feel the Magic: XY/XX 
 is one of the strangest. You assume the role of an unnamed hero trying to win the affection of 
 the girl of his dreams. To do this, you join a stunt group called the "Rub Rabbits" and perform 
 a variety of tasks all geared towards getting the girl to fall in love with you. Youll also compete 
 with a rival, who has some rather unorthodox ways of winning the girl. This may sound bland, but 
 this game is definitely not a boring adventure! Feel the Magic is filled with magical mohawks, 
 raging bulls, dancing, goldfish swallowing (and regurgitating) , and lots and lots of rabbits. A 
 good dose of Sega quirkiness and the DS's features make this game unlike anything that's come before 
 it.
  
  Similar to Wario Ware, Inc.: Mega Microgame$, Feel the Magic consists entirely of mini games. It 
 is divided up into 19 scenes, with one to three games comprising each scene. In each of these scenes, 
 you must earn 100 points to win the girl's approval and move on to the next scene. Points are earned 
 by successfully completing one of the mini games. Most of these games use the touch screen, and 
 there isn't a single game that uses one of the traditional buttons. This may sound like it would 
 get repetitive, but Feel the Magic keeps things fresh by offering a diverse assortment of tasks 
 to perform. You'll be using the touch screen to navigate thin platforms, drive a car, find hidden 
 objects in the sand, wash dirt off the girl, and much more. There are also games where you will 
 need to blow on the touch screen or yell into the microphone. The touch screen games are extremely 
 sensitive, so they must be played carefully. Some of the games, such as "Magic Touch," and "Dance," 
 are very hard to win even if you think you are doing everything right, and there are also a few 
 collision problems that cause trouble in some of the other games. Having multiple mini games in 
 each scene allows you to skip games that you are having trouble with, which definitely helps in 
 problem areas. Most of the games just take a bit of practice to be good at, and the game isn't 
 very difficult over all. The games are short and perfectly suited to on-the-go play. On the whole, 
 everything comes together nicely, and the game is very entertaining.
  
  Feel the Magic looks very distinct and stylish. The graphics are all done in retro silhouettes. 
 It works very well for the game and is completely charming. It has a great use of color; the game 
 is mostly bright oranges, yellows, and blues, but there are splashes of other colors, too. However, 
 most objects lack the detail that would have given this game a little more graphical flair. The 
 unique style fits in very well with the tone of the game and looks really great.
  
  The sound, like the graphics, is simple, yet effective. There are only about ten songs that play 
 during the whole game. I really like the music; I think it's quite catchy and fun. It's one of 
 those things you will either love or hate, though. It's very strange, but it's good. There are 
 lots of sound effects, but many will get annoying quickly. Some will make you laugh when you hear 
 them, such as the man saying "Boop boop!" on the bus stop level or the hero's death scream on some 
 of the water levels. Feel the Magic also uses voice samples. Voices will call out the names of 
 each of the mini games or break stages. The sound is all very high quality for a handheld. The 
 sound is a very strong feature of this game.
  
  There are two basic modes of game play: Story mode and Memories mode. Story mode takes you through 
 the hero's quest to get the girl. All of the story scenes are told using the silhouettes, and the 
 introductions for all the mini games are done in comic book style frames. The story is interesting 
 and fun. You have to beat each game in Story mode before it can be unlocked for Memories mode. 
 Memories mode allows you to replay the games without breaks and at a harder difficulty level. The 
 third mode, which is not really a game play mode, is Maniac. Maniac is simply a dress up mode where 
 you can change the head, body, and shoes of the girl. New items for Maniac can be unlocked by finding 
 hidden rabbits during Story mode or completing levels in Memories mode. The Story mode is only 
 a few hours long depending on how good you are, but unlocking everything will take much longer. 
 If you don't spend much time playing handhelds, the length should suit you fine.
  
  Feel the Magic is a really enjoyable game. It's one of those games that it would be hard not to 
 have fun with. It's a charming game that makes great use of all the DS's features. Its wonderful 
 style and great game play make it one of the best games on the DS. Feel the Magic can easily be 
 recommended to anyone who wants a fast paced, fun game for when they are on the go.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaxBandit
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 17, 2005 4:48 am PT
Review:  Feel the Magic for the Nintendo DS, is a highly addicting game, until you play through it once 
 or twice. Then it just gets old. 
  
  The things that I did like about this game is that you actually got to use the touch screen on 
 the DS unlike many other games. What I mean by that, is that everything you did in that game required 
 the touchscreen somehow. Also, the use of the mic was an awesome addition. I had a blast playing 
 the games were you had to use the mic to play, such as the Candles game, where you had to blow 
 into the mic to blow out the candles. That game is very addictive.
  
  The Music was one of the weirdest elements in this game. I loved the music, and it went well with 
 the story line and weird gameplay in this game. The DS's speakers sounded great when you turned 
 the volume up to listen to the music. 
  
  Overall, the game was good for the first little while, and is great if you just have a couple minutes 
 of spare time, because you can just pick it up and start playing. But the lasting appeal to someone 
 who wants to play a lot of DS, I would hafta say isnt very appealing. I give it 1 thumbs up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheTrooper45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2005 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Feel the Magic XY/XX is a great example of what the Nintendo Ds can do. It uses all of the Ds capabilities 
 such as the touch screen, voice recognition, and the microphone.
  
  Feel the Magic is a game made up of many mini games. Most games like this don't have a story to 
 go along, but Feel the Magic does. It's simple. You are a guy trying to impress a girl. You are 
 introduced to and decide to join a group called theRub Rabbits". They try to help you get this 
 girl your after. In order to get her you have to do crazy things like roll down a hill in a shopping 
 cart or ride a mono cycle across a high building. There are also love scenes when your with the 
 girl helping her, making her like you even more.
  
  Although this game isn't as long as it should be, it still offers many hours of fun after the credits 
 roll. There is Hard mode which you unlock by beating normal, and then there is Hell mode, each 
 much more difficult than the previous.
  
  After you beat a level in the Story mode, it is automatically saved into your Memories, where you 
 can play it as many times as you like.
  
  Another feature this game offers is Maniac mode. In this mode you basically just pick different 
 outfits for your girl. By touching certain areas during cut scenes, and by beating the games in 
 Memories mode, you unlock new outfits for her. 
  
  With its many mini games and replay value, Feel The Magic XY/XX is a game everyone can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XtremeDSfan24
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 15, 2005 2:41 am PT
Review:  Feel the Magic is nothing as it seems. From the cover of the game it looks almost like a dating 
 game but no. This game is far more. It stars a boy simply named "the hero" and as he's walking 
 down the street he is awestruck by a beutiful girl. So now you play random minigames to impress 
 this girl, save the girl, and later fall in love with the girl. This is a quick game on Normal 
 mode but for a challenge try beating Hard or Hell Mode.
  For all of you conserned about if this game is apropreite then you have nothing to worry about. 
 The worse parts are you see a bra line, and you get a black jump suit after beating the game on 
 Hell Mode (making the girl appear to be naked) But this game's characters are all a sioleted stye 
 so no details are seen. It's made by Sonic Team, It can't be that bad.
  This is a fun and challenging game using all the DS has to offer. You blow out candles by blowing 
 into the mic, you can record a small amount of your voice with the mic, and this game uses a lot 
 of the touch screen. I'd give this game a 8.5/10. It's a good DS game for a trip or train ride. 
 Plus with Sega games in the GBA part of the DS you unlock SOnic items like chao, Nights, and Sonic 
 hair. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falconclan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2005 9:37 pm PT
Review:  for many years sega has been making great games... this is one of them. An unusual game but very 
 fun and addictive. you play as a boy out to get the girl. in order to win her over you must do 
 little "stunts", which at times can be VERY difficult. These stunts will fill up a heart keeping 
 "score" i guess you could say. once you get the heart to 100% you go onto a boss battle or onward 
 through the story. The graphics are FAR from amazing but fit the gameplay very well. the gameplay 
 is simple and it gives you step by step instructions before you play a mini game. The music is 
 kind of wacky and out there but once again it fits the game well. the game REALLY shines in the 
 value section to me because even after the game has been beaten you might have missed a game, costume, 
 or maybe you just want to go for the harder difficuly setting. to me this game is well worth the 
 $30 i payed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Light_Jak
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 9, 2005 7:08 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay for Feel the Magic has a very unique style to it which made this game very 
 fun. The Story was fun to get through and I have never played a game like this before. The last 
 parts of the game proved to be a challenge for me which was great!
  
  Graphics - The graphics are also very unique and very smooth. I absoulutely love the graphics, 
 very different then other games I have played in the past. Sega did a really great job on the graphics.
 
  
  Sound - The sound could be a bit better at some points in the game. At a lot of points in the game 
 the music got really annoying and I usually kept the music down while I played it. They fit the 
 game perfectly even though I didnt like it.
  
  Value - A great game definitely worth the money. It was really fun to play over and over again, 
 The Story took about 5 hours to beat but you will never get bored of it.
  
  Reviewers Tilt - Immediately buy this game if you have a Nintendo DS. I had a blast playing Feel 
 the Magic and I am sure you will also if you pick it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neiltc13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Feel the Magic XY/XX is the most innovative game I have played for years. Taking full advantage 
 of almost all of the new Nintendo DSs features means theres a lot of fun to be had in the strangest 
 way possible. This is a Japanese game at heart, with the most surprising aspect being that it made 
 its way to North America. 
  
  The Japanese style of the game is presented immediately. The unique visual flavour, along with 
 a very similar soundtrack create an interesting setting for all who play, which is as engrossing 
 as any handheld title could be. Vivid colours, sleek semi-3D worlds and some of the best sound 
 effects Ive ever come across on a portable title all add to the atmosphere. This game produces 
 the same wow effect as Parappa the Rapper did many years ago on PSone. The sound compliments 
 the on-screen action perfectly. Crazy Japanese music from the 1960s along with humorous voice acting 
 makes this one of the DSs best sounding launch titles. 
  
  Feel the Magics diversity doesnt stop at graphics and sound. The game features a polished story 
 mode, which while weird, is definitely engrossing. In no other game can you bowl over pedestrians, 
 hold hands with beautiful women and physically blow out candles. The story itself tells of a young 
 man smitten with love for a woman he passes in the street, and his attempts to win her affections 
 by doing crazy things. In no time, hes fighting off killer plants and dangerous bees on her behalf. 
 Its quite farfetched, and certainly quirky, with the entire game being a collection of mini-games.
 
  
  The way its made up (a collection of small mini-games) means that many people will feel that each 
 event feels disjointed from the previous. A small cut scene is all that players receive in the 
 way of storytelling, and this alone does not feel enough. The game failed to convince me just why 
 the beautiful stranger I passed on the street chose me to be her lover. Granted, it is unique, 
 but this alone does not fill the holes in the games plot. 
  
  The mini-games themselves are extremely fun, with most having a good replay value through the games 
 memories mode which adds an extra five levels to each. All seem like a technical demonstration 
 of the DSs unique features, with a good quantity making use of the touch screen. This in itself 
 may not be a bad thing  the game will continually reward players with new and innovative games 
 as they progress. 
  
  Progress, on the other hand, does not come easily in Feel the Magic XY/XX. The game can become 
 extremely frustrating with a few mini-games requiring an extremely nimble pair of hands. While 
 these difficulties can eventually be overcome, the boredom created by replaying the same mini-game 
 ten or more times can see frustration reach a level where the console is powered off. These mini-games 
 will rarely see the light of day in the replay Memories mode on anyones DS, if ever.
  
  The game does an excellent job of explaining each mini-game to players. A small classroom like 
 screen is displayed which gives a detailed description of how to play, along with a number of example 
 images. Reading the blurb at the bottom of the screen will ensure that you cannot play the game 
 in the wrong way.
  
  Much has been made of Feel the Magics $29.99 price point and I can safely say that this game warrants 
 every penny spent on it. In my opinion, the game shouldnt have a reduced price tag, and would 
 even be worth the extra $10 which is charged for most other DS titles. 
  
  Feel the Magic XY/XX is the best game available on Nintendo DS by a long way. Its innovation is 
 unsurpassed on any format, and while it may not be a game to show off to friends, the unique style 
 creates a truly memorable experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xjcubed
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2005 12:16 am PT
Review:  Feel The Magic is a very fun game that really shows off what the DS is capable of. It uses full 
 use of the touch screen (the only button used is Start to pause the game) and gives an entertaining 
 experience over and over again. 
  
  Although the graphics aren't revolutionary or anything, they do have style and a certain uniqueness. 
 Very simply done, they express whats going on in a comic book/artistic way. Because of this, the 
 fact that there isn't any spoken dialogue during the cutscenes doesn't matter. In fact, it fits 
 extremely well. 
  
  The game is basically a bunch of mini games tied together by a loose story of a guy trying to impress 
 a girl that he's into. These games start off very easy and get harder as each "chapter" of the 
 story progresses. Using the stylus, you will do things like dig through the sand for objects, guide 
 the character around obstacles, drive with a steering wheel, and fling stuff around "bowling" style. 
 You interact even further on certain games that have you blowing on the screen to sail a boat or 
 yelling into the mic to get the girl's attention. There are 5 sub-levels in each game, each getting 
 harder than the previous.
  
  Once you clear a game, it will open up in "Memory" mode which allows you to replay them again with 
 5 added sub-levels totalling 10. This really adds to the replay value of an already sufficient 
 game. 
  
  The sound is also very good although I would have liked a better variation of music. Not that it's 
 bad, but a lot of it sounds a little too similar. The sound effects are cool though. 
  
  This game is incredibly fun and easy to pick up. It's great weather you just need a quick gaming 
 fix or are in the mood for a few hours of mini game bliss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killerbudgp1
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 25, 2005 4:18 am PT
Review:  Feel the Magic for the DS may be the hardest game out there. Here are some of the reasons why you 
 should hate and love this fast-pace game-
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Quite simple. You go though each scene performing task to earn you love for this girl. You must do 
 everything perfect unless you wanna lose a life, which you only get 3 lifes.
  To make her love points for you go up better you need to do each skit without losing a life. The 
 main character wears a goldfish shirt and a helmit.
  The worst thing about the gameplay is that you get tired of doing the same thing over and over 
 again trying to beat one little level.
  The boss battles on this game lets you drive a truck, catch some things on fire, and save your girl 
 any way possible.
  There is nothing very great about the gameplay unless if you like doing the same exact thing over 
 and over again (well it seems like you are) .
  They say that Feel the Magic is like Wario Ware which i not true at all. Wario Ware is by far the 
 better gamein most cases. Most of the time the game can be fun if you just knew what you were doing. After 
 you beat one scene you may beat it a lot better the next time you play it.
  You fight a boss about every 4 scenes but sometimes you can have scenes that have 4 bosses in a 
 row. Most of the scenes are ver silly, you can even use the mic to talk.
  
  Sound:
  
  Kinda like beach music, the sound isn't that great. The only sound the characters make is grunts 
 or giggles.
  It seems that Sega only use 2 tracks in the game for music. When you first start a level you will 
 here a sound that says "rub it" or "Chaser" and it will annoy you after the 500th time.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The Graphics are pretty amazing in some cases. The opening of the game is good 
 looking but if you start a scene, the graphics will turn comic book like.
  The water is made very well in Feel the Magic when you are sailing. The bosses look cool and blend 
 in with all the levels. 
  
  Extars:
  
  The Extras incude getting new clothes for your girl friend. If you put another Sega game for the 
 GBA you could put it in your DS and unlock more stuff to please your girl.
  _
  
  If you are badly looking for a DS game to play then you should pick this one up. Otherwise, it's 
 not worth your time. Maybe you should just wait until Wario Ware DS comes out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SegaBeat
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 22, 2005 1:09 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  
  Most of Feel the Magic is just doing these mini games to impress a chick. Some of these games are 
 indeed fun, but there are also some annoying mini-games as well. After you beat story mode, you 
 go in Hard mode. After each time you beat each mini game, you unlock stuff, such as new clothes 
 for your girl, and even different hair styles and different shoes. Feel the Magic is sometimes 
 a pain, because of the difficulty of some of the mini-games. Still, if you master them, then you 
 might enjoy them. Overall, the game isn't too strong in terms of Gameplay, but good enough to own 
 in your collection.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Really impressive graphics. The game doesn't really push the Nintendo DS, it still features a nice 
 colorful flashy look. The game's animations are really good, and the colors are something you'd 
 see back in the 60's and 70's. Overall, a nice colorful well-animated game, but doesn't really 
 show the DS's ture power.
  
  Sound:
  
  Most of the music is the love-type of songs. The music fits in with the game's atmosphere fine, 
 but, in some ways, the music can be annoying. The voices are not bad, but not cool-sounding ether. 
 The music for Feel the Magic could have been more interesting, but maybe it's just me.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  The game wasn't really what I expected, but it does not mean I'm mad about it. 
 The game features some nice mini-games, and does take advantage of the Nintendo DS's features, 
 such as the already-used Touch Screen, microphone, and uses the double screens wisely. The game 
 is worth owning, but really isn't a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrymac
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 20, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Feel the magic is the latest from Sonic Team and makes better use of the DS's unique capabilities 
 than any other game currently available for the DS. The story goes that you, a nameless (and faceless!) 
 main character are attracted to a cute girl on the streets and in order to see her again you join 
 the rub rabbits.
  
  Throughout the game you will participate in a series of weird and quirky mini-games that have relevance 
 to the story all in the good name of getting the girl of your dreams to recognize you. 
  
  Perhaps one of the most attractive features of feel the magic is, as mentioned earlier, is just 
 how much good use it makes of the DSs touch screen and microphone capabilities. Some of the most 
 memorable moments include blowing on the built in microphone gently to get your yacht to sail at 
 the right speed to pick up your girl, rubbing spiky balls out of the way of falling shopping carts 
 and spray painting a wall while avoiding falling humans. Yes, it is all pretty weird but does make 
 for some very good fun and challenging game play. 
  
  Feel the magic has a hip Japanese anime artistic style to it and it suits the games quirky and 
 all out crazy nature perfect. The sound is something outstanding also, whether its the funky title 
 music or a DDR-like dance beat the audio in the game is brilliant with is J-Pop inspired themes. 
 
  
  Feel the magic XX/XY isnt without its problems though. The length of the game is fairly short 
 with only 3-4 hours of solid story-involved game play to be had but there is an appropriately titled 
 memories option which allows you to revisit previous mini-games that you have already played 
 through. The game also has a maniac option, in which you can customize the clothes and hair of 
 the games dream girl, but apart from these options there is very little replay value to be had 
 with the exception of the different difficulty levels which can be chosen.
  
  In conclusion Feel the magic is not recommended if you are looking for a long game that has plenty 
 of replay value, but if you just want to have a little fun and take full advantage of the DS's 
 unique capabilites then Feel the magic is the game for you
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MessyMurder
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 19, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Woa hold it right there. This game is insane! Feel The Magic is the latest game from Sonic Team. 
 If you have ever played Increadable Crisis your in good hands with Feel The Magic. The game has 
 you competing in a series of Mini-games like swatting flies, riding carts, blowing on the screen, 
 yelling at it and unbuttoning your Girls blouse. The game is drawn the same way as an iPod commercial, 
 that being said it looks sweet. Music is also a funky part of the game. My problems are that it 
 is to short and there is not much to do after you beat the game. On the whole Feel The Magic is 
 probably one of the quirkiest games you could play htis side of Katamari Damacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 19, 2005 12:00 am PT
Review:  Feel the Magic XY/XX is a game everyone should at least try if you have a DS. It's a great game 
 and all but it is way too short. They have a Maniac mode which is where you can get different clothes 
 for the girl by going back and playing the games again in memories mode (I'll get back to that later) . 
 I have a feeling maniac was a last minute thing that they added at the end because they realized 
 the game only takes 2 hours to beat. I mean it's fair touch and it is fun to make her look like 
 a slut that doesn't know how to dress herself but it doesn't make the game that much better. Now 
 the gameplay. The whole story is the people are in a movie and tis guy likes this one girl so the 
 RUB rabbits performance group jumps into the movie to help him out. So your mini-games are the 
 performances that you show off to get her attention. The games are very frustrating and sometimes 
 may seem impossible when played at the harder levels. But the game is a great use of the DS functions. 
 For instance at the end you have to give her mouth to mouth so you hit her heart on the touch screen 
 at the right beat and then blow on the microphone with the right beat to save her. Another use 
 of the microphone is a mini-game that you have to blow the sail boat to save her. The graphics 
 in a detail sense aren't the greatest but why I scored it high was because of the style. All of 
 the characters are completely black except for the hero and the girl whose clothes and hair are 
 colored. It's pretty neat.
  
  After spending 30$ on this I felt a little ripped off. So just borrow it from one of your friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfeinstein
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Here is a game that is OK... mildly entertaining, but nothing special. In fact, I doubt I would 
 recommend it except there is so little else out there for the DS that this game rises toward the 
 top.
  
  Essentially, this is a collection of mini-games. Not as frantic as WarioWare, but the same idea. 
 You have to complete a collection of mini games to win the heart of the woman you love.
  
  The mini-games make good use of the DS's touch screen capability although the games which require 
 you to use the stylus to follow a track are rather unforgiving. The games wildly vary in difficulty. 
 Some of the later games are actually harder than the earlier ones giving the game an unbalanced 
 feel.
  
  Graphics are fine given that the designers chose a retro style that looked good while limiting 
 the time needed for artwork. The sound effects are similar. A lot of canned sounds but used well.
 
  
  In addition to the main story line, you can win points to put new outfits on the woman you wish 
 to dream. Perhaps I miss the point of this but why you would spend five minutes doing this is beyond 
 me.
  
  The game's replayability factor is wholly dependent on how much you liked the mini-games. Once 
 you beat a game in the story line, it is available for stand alone play. As I found few of them 
 memorable, I did not use this feature all that often. And since the game's storyline mode is pretty 
 short, there is not a lot of value here.
  
  Overall the game feels like it was cut to make it out for launch. With a few more months, it could 
 have been much more, I think.
  
  Bottom line is the game is OK... but given how little there is for the DS, this game is better than 
 nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_sanchez_mcgee
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  OK, I'll start right out with the review:
  
  Gameplay: I am a fan of games with lots of minigames, ex. Warioware. This game is just full of 
 minigames, but sometimes playing them can get repetitive. You are a man who sees a girl that he 
 loves but doesn't think he can get, so he joins a group called the "Rub Rabbits" to do extreme 
 stunts to impress her. This game has you blow into the mic, yell into the mic, use the touch screen, 
 and more. There's a lot of minigames, and ulockables, including customizing your girls looks.
 
  
  Graphics: This games graphics aren't too bad, but some scenes the background graphics are 2d, so 
 I don't think it deserves a 10/10. Otherwise, the people are 3d, and so is the rest of the game.
 
  
  Sound: The sounds are kind of annoying. And usually they don't sound very good, ex. if you have 
 to hit something, the sounds don't sound like your hitting it. Also, the sounds can get very annoying 
 on a love scene, when all you hear from the girl is "Uhn... Uhn... Uhn..."
  
  Value: This game may be short, but sense it is only $29.99, I think it's worth it, because of it's 
 wide variety of minigames and girl's look customization.
  
  Tilt: The replayability can get repetitive playing in Hard and Hell mode (you unlock hard after 
 beating normal, then hell after you beat hard) . The minigames are alot harder, but it gives more 
 of a challenge, to make the game longer. But I think the replayability is pretty good.
  
  Thanks for reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Robbie_IV
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 9, 2005 6:41 pm PT
Review:  As the first DS game to be controlled exclusively by the Nintendo DS' touch screen (and at one 
 point it's microphone) , a lot of people will use Feel the Magic as a sign of just how well the 
 stylus and the screen can go together to create fun and exciting forms of gameplay. Fortunately, 
 the game does wonders with the new device's features, and is definitely a high point of the system's 
 launch. It's a very odd title, not just because of it's unusual control scheme, but also due to 
 it's bizarre presentation and slightly odd plot. 
  
  Feel the Magic stars you as an average Joe who spots the girl of his dreams one day on the street. 
 Hoping to somehow win her affections, you join an offbeat performance group known as the "Rub Rabbits." 
 You'll then find yourself performing odd stunts to win her affections, such as going bowling on 
 a busy street, or riding a unicycle over a platform that's been suspended between two skyscrapers. 
 As the plot progresses, you'll take on even more unusual challenges, such as defending her from 
 a herd of rampaging bulls, or yelling into the DS' microphone to get her attention at the park. 
 
  
  The concepts behind these games are all well and good, but there's still the issue of how well 
 they work when you're actually playing them. For the most part, the touch screen performs quite 
 admirably. However, there will be a few times when the game's hit detection seems a bit off. It 
 might come about when you're asked to trace a thin line, or paint a shape onto the side of a wall, 
 but eventually you'll probably have a problem with just how sensitive the screen can be. With practice 
 though, you'll get better at the games and these issues won't be as much of a problem. But still, 
 it would have been nice if the hit detection had been just a bit sharper. 
  
  Every single game is first presented to you in the game's Story mode. In it, you're required to 
 complete a certain number of the mini-games to progress to the next chapter. After you finish one 
 game for the first time, it's sent to the "Memories" menu, where you can play it any time you wish. 
 Even more unusually, when you complete a game in "Memories," you're often awarded with an outfit 
 which you can dress your girlfriend up with in the rather unusual "Manic" mode. Sadly, the Story 
 mode is a bit short, and you will probably be able to finish it rather quickly. "Memories" does 
 give the game a bit more replay value, but the entire game still seems to be disappointingly short. 
 Still, it's very easy to have fun with what's there, and that can easily last you quite a while.
 
  
  The game's graphics are incredibly unusual, to say the least. Everything is presented in a rather 
 odd color scheme. All of the characters are mere silhouettes, with a small amount of color thrown 
 in for their clothing and hair. The game's scenery is usually brightly colored, and has a rather 
 odd style of it's own. Moreover, the game's graphics often switch back and forth between 2-D and 
 3-D as the different mini-games require. The 3-D sections seem to lack just a bit of the flair 
 that the rest of the game's visuals have, but it's nothing devastating to the game's overall presentation. 
 All in all, it's a very nice looking game, and a very unique one at that. 
  
  The game's audio is also as surprisingly different as the visuals. The music is collection of lively 
 and often rather frantic tunes that keep the games sounding upbeat and exciting. One of the first 
 things that youll notice is how most of the games are preceded by a group of voices yelling the 
 game's title, followed by a brief instrumental intro. Many of the different mini-games are punctuated 
 by the comedic shouts and screams of the different individuals who are involved in the game's proceedings. 
 The voice samples are never anything more than brief sound clips, and they're not used as part 
 of the game's plot or anything, they're just there to add a little excitement to the games themselves. 
 Overall, the game's audio is a very strong feature, and it's well worth hearing.
  
  To conclude, Feel the Magic: XY/XX is at the top of the heap of DS launch titles. More than that, 
 it's a fun game that just about anyone can enjoy. There are some slight control issues, and the 
 parts that are controlled by the microphone are probably best left to the privacy of one's own 
 home, but other than that it's a perfect showcase of the unusual capabilities of the Nintendo DS. 
 To put it simply, if you have a DS, or are thinking of picking one up, it would be a very wise 
 idea to give strong consideration to purchasing Feel the Magic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337_g4m3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2005 10:46 pm PT
Review:  With the release of the new Nintendo DS, Feel the Magic: XY/XX was one of the few launch titles, 
 which surprisingly, is very fun. I cant explain the innovation put into this game. It puts very 
 good use of the capabilities of the DS. Even for a rushed title, SEGA did a great job. Makes you 
 wonder what the DS is capable of in the near future.
  
  To excite your expectations more, you play Feel the Magic with ONLY the touch screen. So try not 
 to lose that stylus of yours. The game consists of only mini-games, which are each very unique. 
 From tapping goldfish up someones throat, to blowing on the touch screen to make a boat sail, 
 youll definitely have fun playing. Though, some can get very tedious, as youll need to be either 
 very quick, or very steady. 
  
  There is a story included, which lets you play in the role of an average guy that runs into a girl, 
 of which he quickly falls in love with. A group called The Rub Rabbits invites the guy into their 
 club, which they will try and help him get the girl of his dreams. Thats where the crazy mini-games 
 come in, making you do many things just to impress her. Youll have a heart meter, which will go 
 up every time you complete a mini-game. Once you get the meter filled to 100, you will move on 
 to the next scene. There are also a couple of boss battles included, so be prepared. 
  
  The graphics are pretty decent. The game roughly takes place around the 60s. The game has a highly 
 colorful visual to it. The characters skin doesnt show, they are covered by a dark shadow. Though, 
 you still get to see the clothes they have, in color. 
  
  The music in the game is OK. It gets very annoying at times. Though, it does go well with the whole 
 theme of the game. Almost every mini-game you play, youll most likely hear Rub it! shouted, 
 which is pretty funny.
  
  The replay value is pretty decent. After finishing Story Mode once, youll unlock Hard Mode, then 
 Hell Mode. You can also replay your favorite mini-games in Memory. Should keep you busy for awhile. 
 Overall, this is the most innovative game of 2004. Heck, its one of the most innovative games 
 ever. Very unique in its own way, especially with use of the touch screen. Every DS owner should 
 give this game a try, its a MUST experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: siberianluck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2005 9:17 pm PT
Review:  When the DS was announced, it was hard for some to imagine what could be done with all those new 
 features. Many felt that it would not be used to its full potential, and most games would take 
 advantage of its graphical horsepower only. This has been true for many games so far, but Sega 
 stepped up and produced a truly unique game for the DS  a game that could not be realized on any 
 other platform. Feel the Magic XY/XX is a game about a guy who wants a girl to love him, and he 
 will do anything to convince her of that  including blowing out giant candles and escaping from 
 the belly of a snake. Not all the scenarios are as bizarre as that, and some are downright mundane 
 (a Simon style dance game comes to mind) , but they are all done with a coherent and unique style. 
 Sega has taken advantage of almost every feature the DS has to offer with this game. The touch 
 screen is used extensively, and is the primary method of control, but it is used in interesting 
 ways  such as blowing on it to perform certain objectives. The built in microphone is also used, 
 though only to detect sound in the most rudimentary fashion. Sadly  there is no multiplayer support, 
 which certainly could have provided some excellent fun. The dual screens are also rarely used to 
 full effect, with the top screen often just a backdrop graphic. The games could get boring at times, 
 as they are quite simplistic for the most part, but the ethereal graphics go a long way toward 
 keeping the player entertained and engrossed. Many have complained that the game is short, and 
 I wont argue that as a fact, but it is *so* short that replaying it should be a joy if the player 
 enjoyed it the first time through. It certainly doesnt fall into that awkward category where a 
 game is too long to be played over and over, but to short to provide a satisfying once through. 
 In many ways, Feel the Magic is the best of the launch window titles for the DS. It takes advantage 
 of most of the unique control methods and other features, as well as showcasing the systems graphic 
 muscle in an artistic way. If this game is an early indication of the DSs crop of games, I couldnt 
 be more excited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A7Xfan
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 5, 2005 12:38 am PT
Review:  It is a solid buy and you wont regret it i can almost assure you, its really just that kind of 
 game which appeals to everyone.
  
  Gameplay completely revolves around the touch screen and microphone, and makes good use of them 
 boss battles are fun, however it isnt always perfect, and glitches a little. Nothing big though 
 you still will have fun.
  
  Graphics are its best point, i can't see the game looking much better its style and it definitely 
 makes the DS do some work to put it up. It just looks great.
  
  Sound though ouch here's where it falls, I'll leave it at this those yelling noises and high-itched 
 stuff get really annoying.
  
  It will take a good amount of time to 100% complete this game, just beating through story though 
 only takes a couple hours though. The only game i have to compare it to is wario ware and i dont 
 think it rewards you like wario ware does, still its cool and worth beating all the way.
  
  It also is a good deal of fun, you probly haven't played a game like this, its not completely like 
 wario ware, but very similar.
  
  I prefer Wario Ware but im glad i own this game i will get quite a few hours out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChronicMike
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2005 12:56 am PT
Review:  Feel the Magic had me itchy when I first saw the announcement of it. The way all the screens looked 
 and what the storyline was got me a little on the edgy side, but after reading reviews and people 
 opinions on the game, I had only one thing in mind: I must get that game. So, I decided to get 
 it, and do I feel relieved. I got home, popped it in my DS, and was enjoying it to the extreme.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are nice. They're obviously not top-notch, but they're definately there 
 with how the game looks. However, though, I wished they would do more with the bodies and faces 
 of the people. I mean, seriously, no details, just (not being racist at all) black skin and no 
 features at all. That's my only complaint on the graphics.
  
  Sound in this game is so catchy. For you who have played Wario Ware, these tunes sound extremely 
 familiar every little bit. It's no techno or anything like that, it's just one heck of a catchy 
 tune. I'm impressed.
  
  This game is definately worth owning in my opinion. For $29.99, this game will basically fill your 
 every need. From it's quirky mini-games, to it's fun storyline, you will be impressed from beginning 
 to end. I just don't understand why GameSpot gave it a 7.7, because IMO, it deserved higher. But, 
 it is their opinion and I cannot fight them against it.
  
  Tilt in this game is incredible because you will be playing this game over and over again, even 
 3 years from now. Honestly, the game is extremely addicting, it's hard for me to write this review 
 and not be playing the game for some more hours. Temptation is at my fingertips.
  
  Overall, this game is great and will fill your every need. You won't be mad at all if you pick 
 up this game, because it definately brings out everything the DS has to offer, which I've been 
 waiting for. Thank God! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoshi_64
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2004 7:28 am PT
Review:  Feel The Magic XY/XX is a really great game. I have to say its my favorite game, next to SM64 DS 
 for the DS. This game utilizes the mic, and touch screen, in many different ways that keep the 
 gameplay fresh and entertaining.
  
  The game is about a young man, who see's a girl and falls in love. So to get her attention he joins 
 a performance group called The Rub Rabbits. The story at first may sound just bland, but it isnt 
 half bad, as if actually has a very fair story. Its not something that wows you, but its really 
 quite good for a short game. Its simple and fair enough to like thats all theire is to it.
  
  Well lets talk about the gameplay first. As I mentioned earlier, FTM uses the DS's mic, and 
 touch screen to play the games. In one game your rubbing up to push fishes out mans stomach, the 
 next your using to touch screen to guide the hero across a bridge while on a unicycle (or monocycle 
 as the game calls it) or using the touch screen to guide the hero through a boss battle with a 
 giant plant. The mic is used a few times, but its really nice to see how its used. In one game 
 you have to blow into the mic to blow out candles, or cross the sea, and the next your yelling 
 into to get the girls attention. (note: it will be embarassing I guarantee it) . Overall, its a unique 
 and fun experience and nice to see that the DS's second screen is used for more than a Map or info 
 screen.
  
  The graphics are probably not the greatest looking, but the art style is very cool I must say. 
 It may all be silhouettes, but its nice to look at, and they arent that bad. The graphics are smooth, 
 and nice but nothing breathtaking, overall they do a good job of giving the game its style.
  
  The last bit is just the technical stuff Ill mention. You have the sound, and the music which 
 arent bad. The sound consists of nothing more than probably 50 voice samples, Its not bad really, 
 but it can get annoying if your playing the same game over and over again. This will happen if 
 your either doing Memries, where you have to go through all 10 levels of the game with one life, 
 and mess up and youll have to start over, or if you die on story mode and have to replay the game 
 again. The music is in my opinion, kind of catchy. Its not bad, but not specatcular. There's probably 
 15 different types, but they arent to the point where it would make you wanna cut your ears off, 
 or break your DS's speakers. 
  
  The final overall look of the game is that FTM is a great game, and should really be given some 
 thought on. It has some unlockables, but a short story mode. There are Hard and Hell mode to unlock, 
 but they wont be that hard to beat, as you can just pick an easy game and play it over and over 
 till you move on to the next scene. Its downfalls are just really its short length. But its really 
 a great game to play, and it comes with some challenge as well, like Memories, you have only one 
 life, and some games are kind of hard so it will take a few tries to complete, but they are all 
 fun to play as well. You can rent this game and beat it, but if you buy it, you wont be dissapointed 
 either. Its a really great game and its a nice way of showing what is in store for the DS's future 
 with is many features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Za23
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2004 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Feel the Magic is great game with alots of mini games and most of the mini games are fun but some 
 of them are hard, like Dance. I will compare it to Wario Ware Touch, because I imported abd just 
 got it. Wario Ware has alot of more games, but this has about 20 something games but you can play 
 them in normal, hard or hell mode. You can win clothes for your girl. Story mod is ok, but little 
 bit cheesie. The graphics are ok for the Ds. The sound is great and value is good. The Gameplay 
 is one of the best things you will get out of this game. This a great game and go pick it up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dunti
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 10, 2004 2:40 am PT
Review:  Rub is love. Feel the Magic: XY/XX for the Nintendo DS offers an array of mini-games that enjoyably 
 show off most of the innovative features of the DS. It tells the tale of love between you the player, 
 and perhaps the hottest female presented in just three colors ever. Its variety of games and un-lockable 
 goodies can keep you playing for hours. So, if you are into quirky Japanese storylines, a plethora 
 of mini-games, or simply looking for a fun game that shows off the features of your DS, Feel the 
 Magic: XY/XX should be well worth the investment.
  
  The gameplay in Feel the Magic: XY/XX is definitely its greatest asset. With over 20 mini-games 
 that range from pushing goldfish out of your stomach to swatting away bees as you try to hold your 
 girl's hand, Feel the Magic offers plenty to keep you entertained. The games are extremely varied 
 as well, and make good use of most of the new Nintendo DS features. They will have you manically 
 rubbing, tapping, blowing, and shouting to complete your objectives. However, there is no wireless 
 multiplayer option available, which would have been a great addition to this game. Each mission 
 is closely tied into the storyline as well, as each scene leads directly to the next. I will not 
 reveal any of the juicy storyline, but it is one that will make you want to finish. Finishing the 
 game unlocks new play modes as well as some new outfits for your lady. You can also go back and 
 replay any of the mini-games you have already beat at any time, further increasing its replay value. 
 It is a very short game, as beating it your first time through should only take about 3-4 hours. 
 But the fun and addictiveness of the games should bring you back for some more. I also found it 
 very convenient to play. You can pick it up and get right back into the game immediately which 
 is a great feature for any portable hand-held game. Fun, fast, and entertaining is what this game 
 is all about.
  
  Graphically Feel the Magic is no standout, however they serve their purpose well for the type of 
 game that it is. Combined with the music, this game has its own unique style that only adds to 
 the enjoyment of the entire package. Some may find the lack of colors and somewhat pixilated graphics 
 get old after a while, but they never seem to detract from the fun of the gameplay.
  
  The music in Feel the Magic is great. Many of the songs are very catchy and you will find yourself 
 humming them as you go about your daily business. Also, with the new stereo sound of the DS, it 
 sounds extremely well for a portable system, especially with a nice pair of headphones. Some of 
 the sound effects can get very annoying after a while however, especially for a third person the 
 is having to hear them. But one again, the sounds and music only add to the original style that 
 this game has.
  
  At $29.99, at the time of this review, Feel the Magic: XY: XX is a great value. It shows off most 
 of the unique features of the Nintendo DS, and offers an enjoyable single player experience. Its 
 un-lockable features, variety of games, and many modes of play will keep you coming back well enough 
 to justify your purchase. 
  
  All in all, Feel the Magic: XY/XX is a great and quirky game that shows promise in the new Nintendo 
 DS system. Although it is not without its flaws, many out there will find plenty of enjoyment in 
 this game. So once again, if you are into quirky Japanese storylines, a plethora of mini-games, 
 or simply looking for a fun game that shows off the features of your DS, Feel the Magic: XY/XX 
 should be well worth the investment. And always remember, rub is love.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: carbogo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2004 10:57 pm PT
Review:  So first off, I just beat this game... and you know what I can't wait to play it again on "Hard". 
 I was already hyped priorr to this game, because I heard it was like Wario Ware with a touch screen. 
 That sold me on teh game, and at 29.95 the decision becomes a lot easier when comparing the other 
 games out there for the ds (excluding mario of course) .
  
  Gameplay is the key, and with the touch screen and microphone there isn't a better game taht displays 
 teh possibilities with the ds. This IS the game to show your friends what the ds was designed for. 
 The difficulty did seem a little easy I have to admit, there is a "Hard" mode to squash that last 
 comment.
  
  Graphics are stylized with a 2D retro look even though there are plenty of 3D graphics (they are 
 just stylized) . Cut scenes were similar to comic panels, it worked really well for this game. All 
 elements contrasted well, I was never confused with background vs gameplay elements.
  
  The soundtrack was super cool, very catchy bg music. After beating the game you unlock a sound 
 board to play all the BGMs and in game voice. "Rub It!!!"
  
  For the price 29.95 this is a super value compared to the other games that cost $10 for a port. 
 This game was designed for the DS from the ground up. That alone should convince you to pick this 
 up. If you are iffy on buying this, play your friend's.
  
  Sega has pleased me one more time, I am truly a happy gamer. With such innovation for a new product 
 I can't wait to see what else will come out for the DS. Thank you SEGA for making and shipping 
 this within the states. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playboy2054
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 22, 2004 1:20 am PT
Review:  Feel the magic... go on do it. This game is really a sneaky little creeper. Even I went into it 
 thinking it would be complete and total fecal matter. Still as the game goes on and the most insane, 
 strange, and at times comical games will pop up at you. You cant help but laugh a little and hope 
 that no one is watching over your shoulder as you enjoy a game that seems so goofy. If you are 
 a fan of wario ware games or if you are looking for something completely out of the blue fresh 
 and different then feel the magic is definately for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubicus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 19, 2004 4:05 am PT
Review:  I got a DS early, and I wanted a second game besides Super Mario 64 DS, so I bought FTM on a whim. 
 I was surprised at how addictive I found the game. I actually enjoyed it more than WarioWare, and 
 I know that one reason why is because the games last longer. Another thing is that it shows off 
 most of the DS' capabilities: touch screen, microphone, sound, 3D graphics... the only feature 
 it's missing is wireless multiplayer.
  
  Gameplay: whether you're riding a unicycle, driving a vehicle, sailing a boat, or clearing a road 
 of mines, you're going to find a wide variety of things to do. The entire game is played with the 
 stylus and the microphone, so it's really easy and intuitive to play. You'll never have to touch 
 the d-pad or the buttons, except to record or play back your voice. I only have three complaints 
 about the gameplay: 
  
  1) the Bull minigame gets boring quickly, because you have to knock out 100 bulls, but it's too 
 repetitive to stay fun for that many bulls.
  2) there's one minigame that's fun, but embarrassing to play: you have to scream into the microphone. 
 I was on the bus when I got to that stage, and I had to play an alternate game to avoid bugging 
 the passengers!
  3) the Nightmare section, for various reasons (I don't want to spoil it) , can get really annoying, 
 because if you fail at any of its three sections, you have to start over from the beginning.
  
  Graphics: the graphics are largely 2D, with some 3D mixed in for animations. Although some 
 people may be put off by the relatively simple 3D silhouette graphics, I rather like the style 
 because it help makes the game an unrealistic fantasy, instead of a game that could potentially 
 be, well, offensive to more conservative people in spots if the characters had faces and bodies.
 
  
  Sound: I love the music, but in certain games, such as the unicycle games, the sound effects get 
 pretty repetitive. The dance mini-game's sound, rhythm, and timing is such that you can play the 
 game purely by the audio (which is a good thing, in my opinion) .
  
  Value: I got it for $29.99, which was cheaper than most of the other launch titles at $39.99. You 
 get lots of mini-games, too, and you can play any of the games that you've previously beaten at 
 any time. 
  
  I really hope WarioWare DS is at least as good as FTM, because FTM is pretty darn good.
  
  
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
