-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA World Cup: Germany 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/fifaworldcupgermany2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Touch screen used for tactical changes.
 Choice of 127 teams to take through to the World Cup.
 Official stadia with animated crowds and referees.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Poor player animation.
 Lightweight football engine.
 Multiplayer options down since last year.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  7, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.4, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 108 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Apr 24, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
2006 FIFA World Cup captures all the excitement of the world's biggest football tournament, but 
 the flashy presentation hides a real lack of depth. 

  2006 FIFA World Cup offers the chance to take one of 127 national teams through to the finals of 
 the biggest football tournament on earth. Like all versions of EA's officially licenced game, it 
 offers an authentic experience with superb presentation, and the Nintendo DS touch screen is used 
 to good effect for adjusting tactics and controlling action replays. This makes the DS version 
 a nice accompaniment to the tournament, but the lightweight gameplay won't keep players interested 
 once the trophy has been lifted in Germany.  

  As you'd expect from a World Cup game, you can play through the tournament as any of the qualifying 
 nations with the aim of winning the final and lifting the cup. Thankfully, the tournament can be 
 heavily customised by mixing up the group stages. You can randomise the group selection, seed groups 
 to spread out the top teams, or simply swap with another team to play a different set of opponents. 
 EA hasn't alienated supporters of nonqualifying nations either, as you can play through the qualifying 
 stages as one of 127 teams. Your progress is saved to the cartridge as you progress, and you can 
 even choose to simulate games if you'd prefer not to play them.  

          The touch screen shows player position and lets you alter tactics on the fly...     

 
  2006 FIFA World Cup is reasonably fun to play, as long as you don't expect a handheld port of 
 the home-console versions. You can link passes together with ease, and there's been an effort to 
 offer depth with through balls, chipped passes, and stamina levels. However, scoring goals is still 
 far easier when using a lone player running through the opposition as opposed to a more realistic 
 team build up, and as a result, it can be incredibly easy to win games. While the game is generally 
 polished in the graphics stakes, with cloud shadows and animated crowd details, the players themselves 
 move awkwardly and never seem particularly connected to the ball. Even worse, the game slows down 
 when there's too much going on, which means that whenever the camera is around the halfway line, 
 it's noticeably more sluggish than when you're one-on-one with the goalkeeper.  

  Although winning the World Cup with your favourite team is the main draw of the game, there are 
 quite a few other modes to hold your interest. The single-player game lets you hone your skills 
 against individual teams while controlling various factors such as pitch conditions and wind. You 
 can also use this mode to reenact scenarios from real life, such as losing 5-0 at halftime, to 
 see if you could change history. You can even set the number of red cards, yellow cards, and injuries 
 your team has. Elsewhere in the main menu, the Global Challenge mode offers more longevity than 
 the main World Cup, as it presents a scenario for each country and asks you to play through 127 
 different matches. These usually involve joining a match that's already underway and meeting certain 
 conditions by the time the final whistle is blown, such as conceding no more than two goals, or 
 simply ensuring that you win the game.  

  As well as single-player modes, you can also play wirelessly with another DS owner. Unlike FIFA 
 2006, though, which was released seven months prior to this title, you cannot play a four-player 
 game or use the game-sharing mode between two DS consoles. 2006 FIFA World Cup supports a maximum 
 of two players, both of whom need a copy of the game.  

  The touch-screen interface has been particularly well implemented for the DS, and being able to 
 change tactics without pausing the game is a great feature. The bottom screen shows an overview 
 of the pitch, letting you move players back or forth as a team by touching the relevant icon. You 
 can also quickly choose to move into various positions, such as a counterattack or a zonal defence. 
 While looking at two screens and coordinating these changes requires some level of multi-tasking, 
 it's something that is unique to the DS version of the game. The touch screen is also used to control 
 replays, letting you zoom in and out and change the camera view. Unfortunately, these can't be 
 saved to the cartridge, which means that your finest moments on the pitch are only transitory. 

  2006 FIFA World Cup is a well-rounded package, with a number of bonus features and skill challenges. 
 Instead of being mere practice sessions, skill challenges are well-designed minigames that help 
 you improve your basic football skills, such as corner kicks and free kicks, as well as keeping 
 possession. The game increases the difficulty of each test by adding more players, meaning your 
 corner crosses will have to be more accurate and your strikers better positioned to score. There's 
 also a trivia mode with questions about World Cup history, which has been separated into two sections 
 based on difficulty. Succeeding in these modes will unlock World Cup posters, which are hardly 
 an incentive, but these modes are enjoyable enough on their own.  

          ... while you can also use it to control the camera during replays.     

  EA's flashy 
 presentation does a fantastic job of replicating the carnival atmosphere of the real competition. 
 The menus are splattered with official logos, and after you choose your favourite team at the beginning 
 of the game, menu screens will boast your flag and famous landmarks in the background. The menus 
 also feature rhythmic dance and R&amp; B music from artists such as the Black Eyed Peas, which while 
 not particularly high quality, definitely adds to the razzmatazz of the package. Other audio can 
 be weak, however, as the Clive Tyldesley commentary sounds tinny through the DS speakers, and the 
 noise players make running with the ball sounds like someone hitting a balloon.  

  2006 FIFA World Cup is a nice package that accurately replicates the excitement of the World Cup. 
 The presentation cannot be faulted, and EA has tried to include plenty of features to make sure 
 that there's still something to do once you've lifted the trophy. Even though the touch-screen 
 tactical interface is a nice touch, the game lacks longevity thanks to its complete lack of depth. 
 Offering little to no depth and still falling victim to run-and-shoot tactics, the game quickly 
 becomes repetitive. Without much competition on the DS, 2006 FIFA World Cup will satisfy football 
 fans' thirst for the tournament, but it won't be a lingering memory once it's over.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: b36soldier
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  This game is actually very good! First turning on the game and seeing the presentation was quite 
 impressive!
  Although the graphics are not the best (its no PSP) the game play is actually very good, as soon 
 as I bought it I played all day and completed the world cup about 3 times! The difficulty levels 
 are also very good!
  I was quite impressed by the amount of teams that you can choose from and also the different stadiums 
 that you can play in!
  After playing horrible games such as ELECKTROPLANKTON (blah) this game was a joy to pick up and 
 has restored my faith with Nintendo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sexykowski
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 17, 2006 12:15 pm PT
Review:  its an OK game but the 2007 is better graphic whise. i think that if you are intetested , rent 
 it first.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  thx thx thx thx thx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx 
 thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx 
 thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx 
 thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx 
 thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thxthx thx thx thx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JMC47
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 1, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I played a lot of soccer games. I'm the rare American who enjoys the video games, but overall could 
 care less about the sport itself. Anyway, this game is too easy, too rudimentary, but can be fun 
 in short... very short bursts.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  Nothing like a good soccer game. This is the best Soccer game play on the DS though The game is 
 a bit more difficult than the previous. I found a good stratagy in running through the middle of 
 the defense on the highest difficulty, and shooting the ball and scoring. Pretty much it. Defense 
 is a snap also, just don't hit the person while slide tackling. If you play 10 games in the game, 
 you'll see everything you possibly can about the game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The game looks great. Though animations are choppy, the crowd is animated, players are high polygon 
 for the DS. Field looks good. Bottom screen also has a nice mini map. Now how could this get a 
 bad score. The game suffers from the worst slow down since Star Fox on the SNES. The slowdown makes 
 this game nearly broken with its already weak play mechanics.
  
  SOUND
  
  Repetitive announcer, crazy music, good crowd makes for a mixed bag of sound effects.
  
  VALUE
 
  
  You play through the tournament once, and your done with the game. There are other modes, but none 
 are fun.
  
  TILT
  
  I rate tilt on a games grab, and for a sports game it has to be whatever gets me to come back. 
 Nothing does. Yep. I win the tournament, no more grab. Bye.
  
  OVERALL
  
  Pathetic. Don't buy this game. I saw Gamespots review and thought it would be better, I was wrong. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 25, 2006 8:00 pm PT
Review:  graphics- About as good as the DS can make I suppose. The crowd is a bit more involved with their 
 flag waving at the beginning of the match, but sometimes the camera jerks and they completely disappear 
 (for a split second) . Other than that, it's not too bad.
  
  gameplay- Expect constant slow-downs. The shooting is TERRIBLE!!! I mean, sometimes you can get 
 a hard shot off, but it will completely miss. Usually, since you have to click the shooting button 
 three times (to get it started, then for power, then for accuracy) the goalie has already come 
 by and robbed you. Either that or you quickly try to shoot it off and you get a little crappy shot. 
 The passing system is also HORRIBLE!!! You look down at the touch screen for an overview to see 
 who's open, pass it to them, and your guy passes it to the wrong guy (usually to someone who is 
 well covered) . Alot of times, you'll get ahead late in the game to see the AI march down the field 
 (while all your AI controlled friends watch like retards) and score under your goalies legs! The 
 harder difficulty levels usually consist of the AIs players getting 100000X better and your players 
 getting 10000000000000000000000X worse. On the bright side, you can make some pretty sweet goals, 
 and I like the fact that you get more sprinting energy.
  
  sound and music- The sound effects are decent, but they sometimes get a little glitchy (and annoying 
 sometimes) . The music is no more than you can really ask for. All-in-all, the sound and music aren't 
 that bad.
  
  teams- Kinda strange to me that teams like Italy, Portugal, and Germany rarely make it past the 
 qualifying stage (ain't no way they should lose to LUXEMBOURG, which they sometimes do) . Well, 
 you get every country team out there, so it's more interesting if you know your geography.
  
  overall- If this game wouldve just played like Fifa 06, there would've been no problems. But 
 no, they have to try to make it more flashy. Sometimes you'll have a good match and have alot of 
 fun, sometimes you'll feel downright frustrated. If you're looking for a good soccer game, then 
 I dont suggest you get this. If you're looking for a game where you can play as all the countries 
 on a handheld (or you're a big soccer fan) , then go ahead, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kiplor
Rating: 2.3
Date: Jul 23, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  This was Disappointing.
  I was misleading into thinking that this would be different to FIFA 2006 due to the previous World 
 cup games....... How wrong I was.
  
  I mean you can't really expect good Graphics for this because it's the Ds. They've done really 
 well on Super Mario 64 ds, the new super Mario bros.... Well Basically Anything with the word Mario 
 in its name.
  
  It's one of those cheap attempts to get some money, Like Pirates of the Caribbean, Spiderman or 
 need for speed. Ewwie, Bad graphics, Bad Game play and a bad waste of money. 
  
  On the Only Upside, this can be a positive waste of time, trying to perfect a gaming strategy and 
 showing up your friends. Thats about all you would want to do with this game.
  
  Peace 'n' Chicken Grease
  Kipman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigmac4392
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 11, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  I am not a "huge" soccer fan, but my Aunt got my this game for my birthday and I decided to try 
 it out anyways. It turned out to be a very good game for the DS and a great game (as I said before) 
 to just pick-up and start playing anytime! The following should sort-out my opinions on this game...
 
  
  Graphics-
  Surprisingly good graphics for the DS and it plays smoothly with no bugs or "glitches." Also, the 
 animation on the fans and the stadium is very good, especially when they hold up the home team's 
 flag.
  
  Gameplay-
  Superb. There are tons of things to do to keep yourself busy starting with the regular "Play Now" 
 mode, which consists of 127 national teams! Also, there are other modes like the obvious World 
 Cup mode in which you take your favorite team and play through the World Cup all the ways to the 
 finals (if you're good enough) . My favorite is the Global Competition mode in which you basically 
 play every team in the world by division but with a special objective. Like win by 2, don't let 
 the other team score, or simply win! There is also a "minigame" type of a mode in which you can 
 practice or try to get a higher score on various things like Free Kick, Corner Kick, even a very 
 informative and still fun trivia challenge!
  
  Sound-
  I personally have not too much "beef" against the sound in this game. The audience is great when 
 they cheer for a goal of slightly cheer when you shoot but have the ball bounce of the goalie, 
 but roar when you rebound it in! The announcer is a bit annoying sometimes like in the very beginning 
 he usually says the same thing every game. But in the big games like semifinals or World Cup finals, 
 he'll say special things exclusive to those games.
  
  Value-
  This game I got for free, but it is priced at around $29.99, which isn't that bad for the great 
 game you're purchasing. In my opinion though, if you're paying $34.99, that is the limit, pretty 
 much too high for any DS game on of after that.
  
  In conclusion-
  2006 FIFA World Cup is a great title to add to your collection of DS games and includes a lot of 
 things to keep you playing long after the World Cup. A pick-up game as good as this is hard to 
 find and should not be passed-up by pretty much any DS owner, big soccer/football fan or not you 
 will love this game. My final word is that you buy this game, you will not be let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: posher04
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 19, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  this game actually topped my expectations. I thought it was gonna be crappy were you cant do much, 
 but it isn't. the gameplay is actually kinda fun, you can pretty much do everything you could do 
 in previous games but the graphics are just not as good. Also, the modes of play and single player 
 are not so good and lack depht. the teams are mostly exactly how you would see them in the world 
 cup today. Overall this game is not bad, but it is not something to go crazy about.
  
  Hardcore soccer fans like me will probably enjoy this game, but people who are not really into 
 soccer will say it sucks. I think this game is pretty much just for fans. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
