-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Street 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/fifastreet2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Small enough to put in your pocket.
 Cool Cristiano Ronaldo artwork on the cover.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Repetitive career mode.
 It's FIFA Street not FIFA Street 2.
 Touch screen is no substitute for an analog stick.
 Looks and plays like crap.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar  9, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.6
Critic Score: 4.4, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 132 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports Big
Developer: EA Canada
Genre: Soccer
Date: Feb 28, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Putting this game into your Nintendo DS could seriously jeopardize the special relationship that 
 you enjoy with your favorite handheld. 

  When FIFA Street was released in February of 2005, the game boasted far more style than it did 
 substance and offered a gameplay experience that was as flawed as it was flashy. Nevertheless, 
 when we reviewed FIFA Street we alluded to the fact that we'd very much like to see its problems 
 addressed in a sequel at some point, and now, one year later, EA Sports Big has done just that. 
 The PlayStation 2, Xbox, and GameCube versions of FIFA Street 2 represent a significant improvement 
 over the lackluster original, but the same can't be said for the PlayStation Portable and Nintendo 
 DS games unfortunately.  

          If this game looks more like the original FIFA Street than it's much-improved sequel, it's 
 because that's what it is.     

  The fact is, the PSP and DS versions of FIFA Street 2 aren't handheld versions of EA Sports Big's 
 street soccer sequel at all but are essentially handheld versions of last year's game with a couple 
 of new features bolted on. You won't find any taunts, ball-juggling mechanics, or risk-versus-reward 
 gamebreakers on the PSP or the DS, nor will you find an end-to-end camera unless you're playing 
 the PSP version's new one-on-one striker and sharpshooter minigames -- which task you with beating 
 a goalkeeper without the use of any tricks and are fun for about two minutes.  

  Regular matches in FIFA Street 2 are played from the perspective of a sideline camera and challenge 
 your team of four players either to score more goals than the opposition within a set time or simply 
 to be the first to score a set number of goals. Regardless of which game type you're playing, you'll 
 spend the majority of your time performing tricks, not only to get past opposing players, but also 
 to increase your chances of scoring by stringing together combos and activating gamebreaker shots. 
 Unlike the home console versions of FIFA Street 2, the PSP and DS games will award you bonuses 
 for every single trick you perform, even if the opponent closest to you at the time is at the other 
 end of the pitch. The upshot of this is that one of the easiest ways to play isn't to beat opponents 
 with tricks at all, but simply to stay as far away from them as possible and mash the random trick 
 button until you're able to unleash a gamebreaker shot -- which is only good for one point but is 
 far more likely to beat the keeper than a regular shot.  

  The absence of a right analog stick for performing tricks on the PSP means that using the random 
 trick button is your only option. The random trick system works reasonably well, but beating opponents 
 with it definitely isn't as satisfying as it is when you use the "trick stick" in other versions 
 of the game. On the Nintendo DS, the touch screen is used to display a picture of an analog stick 
 that -- with practice -- you can use to exert some control over which tricks you perform. This system 
 is far from perfect -- particularly since using it means moving your right thumb away from the face 
 buttons used for passing the ball, taking shots, and defending -- and although experimenting with 
 it can be fun for a short time, it's unlikely that you'll choose to use it over the far less unwieldy 
 random trick button. Another difference in the control setups of the two games is that the PSP 
 version gives you an opportunity to counteract opponents' trick moves by hitting the correct face 
 button when it flashes up on the screen. You'll have only about a second to defend against the 
 move successfully, but it's a great system that makes FIFA Street 2's defensive duties feel less 
 like guesswork and, as a result, more gratifying.  

  In addition to quick play game-on matches against the CPU and wireless head-to-head games, FIFA 
 Street 2 boasts a rule-the-street career mode. The first thing you'll need to do when starting 
 a career game is to create a player for yourself by customizing his physical appearance, clothing, 
 and attributes. The customization options available in the PSP game are reasonably comprehensive, 
 but the DS game's editing tools are extremely limited. You'll then get to pick out seven players 
 for your squad, although given that substitutions aren't permitted at any point during the game, 
 it's unlikely that four of them will ever spend much time playing.  

          A picture of an analog stick is no substitute for the real thing.     

  Once your career 
 gets under way, you'll need to play in "kick about" games to earn skill bills that can be spent 
 on improving players, and then once your team reaches the required skill level, you'll be able 
 to enter tournaments and unlock new locations to play at all over the world. Your only other gameplay 
 option is to attempt to add new players to your squad by beating their teams in special matches 
 that you'll often have to pay for the privilege of playing. The career mode is incredibly repetitive, 
 and frankly there are any number of better ways for you to spend quality time with your handheld 
 of choice. If you have the PSP version of FIFA Street 2, for example, you might choose to listen 
 to the game's excellent 38-song soundtrack using the "pocket trax" option. If you've ended up with 
 the DS version of FIFA Street 2, though, your best bet would be to play something else instead. 

  With its poor visuals, poor ball physics, and poor artificial intelligence, the Nintendo DS version 
 of FIFA Street 2 is undoubtedly the worst game to bear the FIFA Street name thus far. The PSP game, 
 on the other hand, plays about as well as the PS2 version of FIFA Street on which it's based, so 
 if you're one of the people who (unlike us) enjoyed that game, you'd probably be able to derive 
 some kind of pleasure from it should you feel the need to add it to your collection.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: PrincesTwilight
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  This is another football game including single player, multi-player and teams aswell, it's nothing 
 new but something known enough to play.
  
  It's a good game, not the worst though. It's better off played on a PS2/3 though as the graphics 
 seem more clear than on the DS plus on the DS the touch screen is made for unnecceassary reasons. 
 It's easy to control the player and to play the game too but it's hard playing it for a long amount 
 of time as it seems olriginal and nothing new to be called 2, therefore it seems to still be the 
 same as the first fifa street.
  
  It's still a good game though, atleast you can play a bit of football on a DS, the graphics may 
 not be great as I said, but it really is playable. It really is worth the wait though, you could 
 find better games than this.
  
  The game is an acceptable game and has atleast a 30-60 minutes playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozland
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  I bought this game although the bad reviews it got and i don't regret it.
  I love football games and i wanted to get this one for a long time but didn't know if i want to 
 spend money on it because of the bad reviews it got on GS and IGN.
  
  The game play is great, you have a costume team that you can compete with, and you create your 
 own player. on each location on the map you can play either for skill or rep that you can use to 
 upgrade your player, try to get players that not on your squad or get in a location tournament. 
 you have 11 locations to unlock, and there are a lot of customizations to unlock as well. well, 
 as the reviews said, it get a little repetitive after a while, but this is football, there are 
 no magic and side quests, so it might get repetitive, but for me its not, and i think that it wont 
 be for anyone that like football. About the AI problems the reviews complained about, well, i hardly 
 felt them, the game is fluid and the AI for the opposite players is good. There is a little delay 
 in the players move after a tackle, but its not effecting the game and you hardly notice it.
  
  The graphics are good for the DS, the characters look great, their animation is good and the 
 environments are detailed. The one thing i would have liked to see is more camera options, the 
 game has only two, near and far, and i think that it would be great to have more far camera views 
 to be able to see more portions of the court.
  
  The sound could be a lot better, the sound track is ok, but the crowed and players sound is bad.
 
  
  For those that ask if they have to use the touch screen for tricks, well you don't. of course if 
 you want to control the tricks you do you can use the touch screen, but the Y button can give you 
 a random trick every time you press it, i use it instead of the touch screen and its great. I would 
 recommend this title to anyone that likes football and wants to play it street like, its great, 
 fun, pick to play, many things to unlock and looks great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccer_ninja
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 28, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  I loved the game but I havent had it long so I havent played it that much but it is pretty cool 
 I love soccer and there are a lot of cool soccer all stars i even created a team called the destroyers 
 and they rock I also created a player named coodude you can play multi player too it is cool there 
 are a lot of awsome moves and you can unlock cool stuff and play all around the world against mexico 
 italy france and more If i were you i would get it it is worth the wait and it is awsome 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samus_Arnen
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  i dont get why every1 be trashing this game. I meen the graphics arent great but its one of those 
 games where u just pic it up and play.... the controls r EZ and i played it on console, it was fun 
 but i lik that way the DS lets u do those special things 
  
  So for those about to Rock we Salute u 
  
  dum dee dum dum DAAA
  
  
  im just killin space 
 here folkies and all
  
  so how yall doin out there? did u no that every1 is brown its just diff colors if pigment. It all 
 depended on where ur ancestors lived. So i could go to the hood and b all lik "im gonna shot u 
 up foo" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: golden_ashen
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:14 am PT
Review:  One word, "urgh!" This game does DS no justice. Games like this should be stomped on as thats the 
 only sort of entertainment you will get from it.
  
  DS is a good handheld, its a shame terrible games like this even get featured on it.
  
  The 
 gameplay is repeatitive and the whole thing just seems to become one big drag after a while, leaving 
 you wondering after an hour of playing it why you bought it in the first place and if you should 
 go get a refund.
  
  This does not set a good example of EA's fifa, the DS or football in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamesz25
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  this game has ruined the ds's motives to create good games or the ds has ruined fifa's motives 
 to place good games into good consoles. if you have never in your life played a football game on 
 any console then maybe you will enjoy this game but if you have played all of the fifa games and 
 you enjoy them alot you will be so dissapointed in this game because it does not contain and attractive 
 features that are needed in a good ds game... dont get it... if you have i hope you kept the receit. 
 then again if you like ds formatt you may like this its up to you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brenday
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Fifa Street 2 was Perfect! It was great!!! I can not belive how good it was!!! It is about three 
 times best that Fifa Street one, and Fifa Street one RULED!!! All the players you can be, the customisation, 
 IT TOTALY PWND!!!!!!!! It only takes 10 minutes or one match to get used to the controls, and you 
 can choose difficulty, with kick *** graphics! This is a pretty european Game and I realy realy 
 hope it sells BIG in america, i hope this gets the americans playing football, or soccer as they 
 call it! GET IT TODAY, AND YOU DEFINATLY WON'T REGRET IT!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
