-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA Soccer 06
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/fifa2006/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More than 500 teams.
 Single-card multiplayer support.
 Good use of dual-screen setup.
 Changing tactics on the fly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Devastating through-balls.
 Lack of realistic AI.
 Overly prominent fatigue system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 17, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 6.8, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 290 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Exient
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Oct 4, 2005
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
FIFA 06 is a decent soccer game that lacks real depth, but it's still fun to play solo or with friends. 
 

  Almost a full year into its life, the Nintendo DS has finally got a soccer game. The bad news is 
 that the DS version of FIFA 06 plays quite differently from its home console and PC namesakes. 
 The good news is that the game plays an enjoyable match of soccer, makes decent use of the handheld's 
 second screen, and boasts the same high level of presentation that we've come to expect from EA 
 Sports in recent years.  

  The first thing you'll need to do when you play FIFA 06 on the Nintendo DS is tell the game which 
 of its 500-plus club and international teams is your favorite so that it can be set as your default 
 team whenever you start a new match. In addition to the "kick off" option that lets you get in 
 to a match quickly, you'll find a number of other single-player modes, including career, challenges, 
 season, and tournament. FIFA 06 also supports two players using a single cartridge, or four players 
 if each has a copy of the game.  

          Fail to fulfill your manager's team expectations and your job could be on the line.    

  The season and tournament modes let you guide your chosen squad through the real-life league or 
 cup competition of your choice without really having to worry about the pressures of team management. 
 If you relish the challenge of being a manager, however, then you'll want to check out FIFA 06's 
 career mode, in which you'll take control of your chosen team for up to five seasons to fulfill 
 certain objectives... if you want to keep your job (as well as gain manager prestige points) . The 
 objectives that you're tasked with at the start of each season will depend largely on your choice 
 of team and previous performances, but they typically involve achieving certain positions in the 
 league and progressing to the latter stages of cup competitions.  

  FIFA 06's career mode is pretty light in terms of the responsibilities you'll have on your shoulders, 
 so although you'll be tasked with picking your team and tactics ahead of every game, you won't 
 have to concern yourself with player salaries, media attention, or the transfer market. In fact, 
 one of the biggest decisions you'll have to make before each match is whether you want to play 
 it yourself, watch a text-based commentary of the match in "visual sim" mode (though you do have 
 the option to intervene at any time) , or simply use the "quick sim" option to generate an instant 
 result. Given that there's not a whole lot to do as a manager, it's unlikely you'll want to simulate 
 the majority of your matches in FIFA 06. However, the option can be useful if you're looking to 
 progress quickly. At the end of each match (including simulated ones) , you'll have the option to 
 view highlights from every match played that day. The highlights are often quite spectacular, which 
 can make you wonder why most of  your  goals never look as good.  

  One of the reasons your goals aren't as spectacular as those scored by the CPU is that even if 
 you're playing on the hardest "world class" difficulty level, your goals simply don't need to be 
 spectacular. As you move up through FIFA 06's four difficulty levels, you'll certainly notice your 
 opponent's offence becoming more of a threat, but you'll still be able to beat the defenders with 
 the majority of your through-balls, and the keepers you face will still be prone to deflecting 
 shots rather than holding on to them. FIFA 06 on the DS doesn't afford you quite as much control 
 over your individual players as other versions of the game, incidentally, and it also features 
 a fatigue system that sees most players tiring if they hang on to or chase the ball for more than 
 a few seconds at a time. The effects of fatigue on your players are so exaggerated that you'll 
 feel compelled to pass the ball around when you're in possession of it, which isn't a bad thing, 
 though it does feel a little artificial.  

          FIFA 06 makes intelligent use of the DS's dual screens.     

  One of the best things 
 about FIFA 06 is its use of the second screen during gameplay. While you're playing a match on 
 the top screen, the touch screen will display a map of the field -- complete with player positions -- and 
 a few buttons within easy reach of your right thumb that can be used to alter offensive and defensive 
 tactics on the fly. There are only a handful of different tactical options available to you, but 
 their effects are definitely noticeable, so they're worth experimenting with. The lower screen 
 is also used to choose which of your players you want the ball to go to when taking a corner or 
 a throw-in, in addition to being used to apply spin to the ball when you take a penalty or free 
 kick at goal. All these are very different from the systems used in other iterations of FIFA 06. 
 However, they work well.  

  FIFA 06's presentation rarely fails to impress. The menus are well designed and intuitive, the 
 soundtrack and commentary are decent, and the in-game visuals and animations are about as good 
 as can be expected. The manually controlled replays of goals are also worthy of mention, not only 
 because you're able to position the camera just about anywhere you want to watch the action played 
 back at different speeds, but also because the touch-screen interface you'll be using to do so 
 is nigh perfect.  

  Even as the only Nintendo DS soccer game on the market, FIFA 06 can't be recommended unreservedly. 
 This is  not  a handheld version of the FIFA 06 game you might have already played on the PC, PlayStation 
 2, or Xbox. Rather, it's a decent soccer game that lacks real depth but is fun to play solo or 
 with friends all the same.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (28 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: marcosmm93
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  FIFA 06 for the Nintendo DS is one of the best games in my collection. Since I've bought it 2 years 
 ago I've never stopped playing it. With many tournaments and career mode, along with a few challenges, 
 this game is packed with fun. The graphics are very decent although I get bothered when I see my 
 pass go through the defender's body like nothing. The commentary during game play is great, too. 
 The systems of shooting, taking free kicks, and penalties are just fantastic and fit in right into 
 how you would take a shot in real life. Overall, a superb-game I didn't expect could come out as 
 good as it is for the DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinx6
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 19, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Fifa 06 for the Nintendo DS is the best sport game i played on the DS. i play it evry time i get 
 the chance to. it is a game that doesn't get boring, i have this game for over six months now and 
 play it almost every day.
  
  GAMEPLAY- Fifa 06 is the the best sports game i play so far on a handheld. fifa 06 manage to use 
 the touch screen very well. the game have ton of contents, modes in the game are career, play now, 
 season, create your own team, season and etc. career mode is my favorite mode because it gives 
 you total control of a team. you can be the manger of any famous club team from around the world. 
 in create a team mode you get the chance to custom make your team chrest. the team you make also 
 can use in most of the mode.
  
  GRAPHIC- Fifa 06 for the Ds really good on Ds, i was stunned by how smooth it looks on the DS. 
 it is the best looking sports game i play on the DS so far. fifa 06 for the DS looks like fifa 
 06 2001 for the PC, some people may like how this game look and some might hate how it looks.
 
  
  SOUND- The sound in fifa 06 isn't great, its kind OK. it have about five license songs. my favorite 
 one is Well come to JamRoc by Damian Junior Gang Marley. The commentary is also go, the are a few 
 chants in the game, the crowds make noise and cheer.
  
  LASTING- As i said before i have this game for over six months now and i play almost everyday. 
 if you love soccer or like to play soccer games, this game have enough content to keep you hook 
 for a month or more.
  
  BY far fifa 06 is the best sports game i play for the DS. well done EA, you finall did something 
 right. if you like playing sports games or a soccer fan and you own a DS. then i suggest go out 
 there an get Fifa 06, even if your not a soccer fan or you never play a soccer game before; go 
 out there an get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christoff14
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 14, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  So lets get this started. I fancied a decent football game on the ds, so what is there? Fifa 06? 
 YES!
  
  Ok... so i waited for the price to go down and yes I went for it, and haha this is alot better 
 than to be expected. The graphics are decent, or is that just me? but it shines, there are so many 
 teams, but it's not just a football game... no... wait... it is, but it's got loads of diffent 
 cool things. You can create your own team, have your own profile. Have a season, a career and a 
 tournament saved all at the same time.
  
  I'm just going on about crap now... so yeah... BUY IT!
  
  Cheeeeeeers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaMc34
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 10, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because I got all into the World Cup and it was on sale for $15. I never thought 
 it would be as good as it is. I expected a simple soccer game with real FIFA players and teams. 
 I got so much more!
  
  1st off, the graphics are as good as can be on the DS. The camera angles allow you to see good 
 detail in the players and field, or you can pull farther away and get a decent look at all the 
 action. 
  
  The AI is various from game to game, even on the toughest difficulty. I have been shut out by the 
 computer on the amateur level but that is not common. On the hardest level, sometimes the computer 
 is unstoppable. Other times it is a worthy opponent. The big problem with the AI is the defenders 
 and goalies. I have yet to play a soccer game, on any system, where the goalie is as good as I 
 hope for.
  
  The sound is great. The announcer can be repetitive but I have yet to be annoyed by him. 
  
 
  Seasons and Tournaments are great options for long term playing of the game. It is a challenge 
 to win each Cup and place 1st in all the different leagues. 
  
  You can play wireless with a single card. That is where I had the most fun. 
  
  I own the GameCube 
 version of this game as well and although the DS lacks some of the cool aspects of the GC version, 
 I seriously could not expect more from the portable version of FIFA.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwalla32
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 2, 2006 2:49 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 6/10
  
  the gameplay on fifa 06 is good, its fun addictive and it there when you're bored, although there 
 is a downfall, it wear out after a few weeks and becomes one of thoe sgames.. you dont really play, 
 collecting dust.
  
  Graphics 5/10
  
  I think for the simplicity of the game they could of atleast tried with the graphics, they're nothing 
 special yet there not bad.. if you into good graphics i dont think you'd be interested
  
  sound 8/10
  
  really, this is the best part, i love the the music its so addictive and its 
 very high quality sound for the ds.
  
  value 6/10
  
  like i said, it last a few weeks and then becomes a dust collector.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamerForca
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 6, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are bad, but about what you should expect from the ds. its not like it hurts the gameplay 
 any. the bottom screen helps passing a ton, and alot of the time i use the bottom screen only, 
 until im taking a shot. the game usually passes where you want it, and the shots are on par as 
 well. there are no difficult moves, anything special just requires you to hold down L and press 
 the normal button. the games difficulties are good, even thought the harder difficulties tend to 
 just make your players worse and theirs better (i. e. at the hardest difficulty the cpu goalkeeper 
 get his hand on literally every shot while yours always knocks the ball in the middle) , you start 
 off with beginner, which gives you a decent challenge until you get better, and the hardest difficulty 
 always seems to be tough, which is good once you get better. the ai isnt perfectly realistic with 
 the game as they tend to punt the ball more than a real team does. the career mode is fun, but 
 gets old. its funner to play with a weak team and make them champions imo, but i also like playing 
 with all the stars on teams like manchester united, fc porto, inter milan, arsenal, and chelsea. 
 the multi-player is fun, i love taking on my friends every once in a while (i wish this game was 
 wifi compatible) . decent sound, good for ds i suppose. overall, this is a great game, like i said 
 nothing flashy, but if you want to have some soccer (football) to play while away from home, i 
 strongly suggest getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedi_Master_Sam
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 5, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw that there was a Fifa game coming out for DS, i didn't have very high expectations. 
 This i mainly because of all the other bad games for the DS. But when i got this game, i was amazed.
 
  
  Gameplay: For a DS game this is excellent. I'm not saying that most DS games are bad, but there 
 are a few that could have been better. I gave this a nine because, even though every game is probably 
 different, after a while most games start to feel the same. Also the change between attacking a 
 defencive controls are horrendous. I mean like pressing B to tackle a opponent only to have your 
 player kick the ball down the field to the goals, because his got the ball just before you hit 
 B isn't too good. But you can get used to that.
  
  Graphics: Because this is a DS game, and because of all the other games that have come out with 
 bad graphics, i wasn't expecting much. But i was surprised when i saw the graphics. They are very 
 clear and are good for the DS. When the game zooms in, the graphics get a little worse, but they 
 are still pretty good.
  
  Sound: This is where the game really shines. On field the crowd cheering, the ball bouncing, and 
 the umpires whistle are all excellent. The commentating is excellent but some times it gets a bit 
 repetitive, at least it has commentating. During the menus the music being played comes out of 
 the speakers excellently. The sound in this game is awesome.
  
  Value: As i said in this title, if you like football and have a DS, then get his game, and even 
 if you don't like football, still get this game, it's the best sports game on the DS.
  
  Buy or Rent: Definitely Buy. The first reason is that this game is awesome, and will take quite 
 along time to finish. The second reason is that i don't know anywhere that you can rent DS games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGjossy
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 15, 2006 11:46 pm PT
Review:  
  If u feel like a football game for the ds buy this one the graphics are ok and so is the actual 
 fun u get out of it, you can create your own club, which means, making the banner, making the motto, 
 making the badge and when u first create a team there are any old players but you can change thier 
 names and stats which is good.
  
  There are challenges, comeback challenges where you are like 1-0 down and u only have 45mins to 
 win the game, there are 30 of the challenges all together and are slightly hard but not solid.
 
  
  There is also career mode tournament mode and season mode 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lebanese_boy
Rating: 8
Date: May 21, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  All the Soccer fans who have a Nintendo DS have been waiting for that kind of game on that kind 
 of system. EA has always brought good sports games to our video game consoles and let's see if 
 this one is any different.
  
  -Gameplay-
  
  The gameplay is ok and pretty simple. All the controls are simple but there is a bit of a lack 
 of combos in that game. Other then that you can do head butts, scissor kicks and many other moves. 
 This game plays actually well.
  
  -Graphics-
  
  The graphics aren't too bad for a DS game, the characters have a scary look but it's still alright. 
 The environment is well made. The graphics aren't crappy like games such as Splinter: Cell Chaos 
 Theory for the DS.
  
  -Sound-
  
  The Sound of the crowd in this game is well made. And like any EA sports game, there's music when 
 you're on the menu ( Well chosen too ) . There's also a pretty good voice commentary too.
  
  -Value-
  
  You woudn't want to play this game much after a week or two do the fun doesn't last 
 long because there's not much to do in that game rather then play a random match.
  
  -Reviewer's Tilt-
  
  This game isn't bad, it's still fun to play anytime, anywhere. This game 
 is worth a purchase because it is pretty cheap and I would recommend this to any soccer fan.
  
  Thank You for reading my review ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Fly
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 19, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Single Player
  
  Slightly shallow. You can basically play as a team or make your own team. You can play in wealth 
 of leagues or take part in cups. The problem is the gameplay never changes, and it is pretty basic 
 to start with. There are little to no tricks or stuff like that so the single player experience 
 gets boring a little too quickly.
  There is a feature that lets you play a "real" match where you are losing and must win the game 
 the saem way you won in real life. This is more than challenging.
  
  Multiplayer
  
  MUCh more fun. You can play in single cart which only lets you play as countries or multi-card. 
 Multi-card lets you play as both club teams and as your own team. The best thing to do is play 
 your own team and make then the best they can possibly be (*****) . Then pit them against another 
 ***** team for a real test of skill.
  
  Gameplay
  A bit shallow but it is still a blast in multiplayer
  
  Graphics
  A bit plain but some decent 
 3D. Can get a little Lag on Multiplayer.
  
  Sound
  Commentary gets a little repetitive
  
  Value
  With mates it can last a while but on your own it becomes a snooze fest
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bettsy1987
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  WOW what a suprise! I bought this game with the intention of owning at least one sports game for 
 the DS and must admit i am stunned! While i was expecting a poor game of football with a terrible 
 frame rate and choopy movement what i got was a suprisingly smooth rendition of the beautiful game. 
 
  
  Firstly the graphics are good and show that the DS can do so 3d sports games well. The players 
 look good unless you zoon RIGHT in but the stadiums all look the same. The menus are extremely 
 well done and smooth. 
  
  The audio is excellent. The cheering crowd sounds great and the musi is also well done and excellent. 
 This is normally one of EA's strong points and this game is no different.
  
  The gameplay itself is very smooth and flowing however even on hard the game is pretty easy and 
 does not offer much of a challenge. The game is fun though and you will find yourself coming back 
 for a few quick games while on the train to work. The AI could have been better and the fact that 
 through balls normally result in a clear chance does annoy. The keep up game from the PSP version 
 would hve also been much appreciated.
  
  This game is going to last you a long time. There are many game options like challenge, quick game, 
 tournament and career as well as 500 teams. FIFA 2006 is perfect for short burst of gaming and 
 will undoubtly keep you playing for the next few months
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supadan
Rating: 3.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  I own the game on playstation 2 and my brother owns it on the nintendo ds which i also own myself, 
 this is why i have not spent time playing it a lot - because its my brothers. But I didn't buy 
 this game because i wasn't tooo impresssed by it, i suppose that the garaphics are ok for the game 
 on ds but they aren't as good as the graphics like mariokart ds or super mario 64 ds.... They gameplay 
 is also ok and it can be quite challenging sometimes, but i much prefer the ps2 version... You 
 can do all the samt things that you do on the ps2 version but is is a bit more limited, like there 
 are less teams and less players on the ds game overall.... But i woud still say that the game is 
 still probably worth getting if you are a football / soccer fan, but in my eyes i woudl definately 
 rent it first because it is not all good like most people say....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS1001
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  This game is simply awesome. When i was buying it from EB Games... i thought that it would be average. 
 but when i made a season with Juventus, i realized my money was well wasted. But.. the weird part 
 about this game is the fact that you cant transfer anyone to anywhere. But if you can. send me 
 an email! (azar_george731@hotmail. com) And also , when you win a cup, it just says You have won 
 etc. it doeznt show a player lifting the cup. But the graphics are awesome, and the fact that you 
 can make your own team is SUPERB. So this game is good. I recomend for people that are into soccer 
 or want to learn about soccer. SO anyways like it says in my title
  
 A must have game for all soccer Fans" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_tom_2k6
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  i am a huge football fan myself and i loved this game i can my favourite team glasgow rangers and 
 be manager of it and bring it to european glory and i can also take my home country scotland and 
 lead to them to the world cup finals and i can create my own team with its own name its own strip 
 its own logo and its own players and its up to me what there names are what position they play 
 there apperance is all on my control.
  
  if your into american foot ball, baseball, basket ball hokey whatever sport i can prove that fifa06 
 is a game for everyone.
  
  the multiplayer mode is great i play with my friends all the time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTC2967
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2006 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I own fifa for the pc and this is a great way to bring it on the go. It doesn't offer the full 
 experiance but it does offer some decent gameplay and marginally decent graphics. The carrer mode 
 is fun (just started) and the create a team has a lot of cool options to custimize your team. I 
 just hate how there is a guy called "prince" on my team. The sound, lets just say its there. the 
 commentary only shows up when its extremely neccessary but it works. If you want soccer on the 
 go and have a ds, grab fifa (its the only thing there) and have a little fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zzzxx
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This is all in all a solid game. The problem is that it is so damn easy on every difficulty. Even 
 on world class, you can still beat the cpu 10-0. There's something wrong with that. The gameplay 
 is like any other soccer game. You can pass, lob, shoot, and all the other good stuff. You can 
 switch offensive and defensive strategies with the touch-screen, but the buttons are so small and 
 in the corner that it is nearly impossible to use them effectively. The graphics are very dissapointing. 
 You won't be able to tell the difference between players except the skin color. There is season, 
 dynasty, and tournament modes. Season and tournaments are self explanotory. Dynasty mode is a manager 
 mode. It is basically the same as season, because you can't really do anything except play matches. 
 You get prestige points after every game, and they get your manager rank up. Dynasty is 5 seasons 
 long. You can easily get 5 stars of prestige by the end of the 3rd season. What do you get at the 
 end? A message saying you were a good manager. That sucked. If you can, wait until fifa07 comes 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monaug5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Fifa 2006 is good it need a ds wifi connection placed to add more depth and intrigue to the game. 
 I hope they add this in fifa 2007 in late 2006 to help others 
  Get more involved in the game of football and also more so fifa and there aims at their video football 
 game franchises.
  
  Secondly this game is so far the best football game for the popular ds and certainly wont be the 
 last to date despite key factors missing this game has the potential to be a instant classic with 
 all that love football and the ds. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nibs
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 6, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  The Graphics in this game is what suprised me First, it's better then X Box 
  and has real detail. The music is a good and inspiring to play some FootBall! In the game you listen 
 to the annocers and not like any other EA sport game the annoucsers say something differnt! It 
 takes a while to get the hang of the contols but once you do it's great fun. The Gameplay is wicked 
 in this game because there is a sorts of contests and cups to win. 
  I first did not like Socer Till this game. If you dont have it GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonyreallysucks
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 31, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  Finally the Nintendo Ds fans have a soccer game but.... what a soccer game! Fifa 06 is a beautiful 
 soccer game! We have a lot of team (but there isn' t Messi... argghh!) , an excellent gameplay, good 
 graphics and a great sound. If you have a Nintendo DS and if you love soccer now you have something 
 to do! Fifa 06 is the best sport game for the Nintendo DS better than Madden NFL 06, or Tiger Woods 
 PGA Tour and also better than Nintendo Touch Golf: Birdie Challenge ( that is a pretty game ) . 
 My opinion is this: Buy this game NOW !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuiitsu
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2005 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Looking back at the the Gameboy you would laugh and think why bother but seriously check it out 
 you will be outstanded i wouldnt even think they would be able to get a human figure to the screen 
 but they didn't do all so bad im impressed, the whole fifa 06 thing is going good for every format 
 it just about does justice (doesn't it) , when it comes to sound you will also be very impressed 
 as theres commentrey i couldnt believe my eyes!!! theres commentrey and he just doesn't talk nonsense 
 other from the commentry the menu music is really good not as bad as you would think it is anyway.
 
  Gameplay has all its standard thing, in where you can go into the league and so on you know what 
 im on about, so what im going to say is the game is really good if you like football and have a 
 nintendo ds go out and have a bash youll end up havving agood time!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falcons320
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2005 9:58 am PT
Review:  practically everything i just said is what this game is, its a handheld, think about it, its great 
 and fun. all im saying is that you need to buy this game, for $20!!!! thats pretty dang cheap. 
 yea so if ur looking for good handheld sports game, get this. i bought it about a week ago, and 
 i have been hooked on it for hours.. so its not a mediocre game or a medium quality game, its a 
 GREAT game. thats about all i can think of. and besides the title menu song, its a really long 
 song. i play my ds alot compared to most of my friends who have one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozland
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 16, 2005 2:02 am PT
Review:  Finally, EA released a good sports game for the Nintendo portable consoles. I waited for this one 
 to come out and till then i cannot stop playing it.
  
  The game play is great, a lot of modes to start with, a lot of clubs and players. You can choose 
 to play a quick one, play in a selected tournament or take your changes as a club manager, there 
 you will gain or loose points as you go along. There are some nice things in manager mode like 
 getting ranks according to your games or increasing your team performance when given bonus stars 
 to your record. EA even managed to arrange a good AI to the opponent teams you play against.
  
  The graphics are great, players look great, their animations are great, the stadiums, and even 
 the weather conditions look great (you can even see the clouds shadows on the field) .
  
  The sound is pretty good, you have commentary (not a lot of variety there...) , and the crowd sound 
 is ok.
  
  The one thing i enjoy the most is the saving ability, you can actually save your progress while 
 the game is in play and return to the same game spot later on, this comes in handy a lot of time 
 when you have to quit your game but don't want to loose your current game result.
  
  I think this is a must have game for the DS, especially if you are a sports fan.
  
  Go and 
 get it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethschroeder07
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:34 am PT
Review:  I have had the DS since its release and to no avail there has not been many games released on this 
 little machince. Well its been about time that this fall more games start to hit and one of the 
 first great ones is fifa 06. Now maybe if your a big time fifa guy you might not like this but 
 its simplicity and great game play left me wanting more.
  
  Each time I start it up a nice little tune comes on getting me ready for a match. Although your 
 not going to have all the options in the carear mode that you would on the PC your not going to 
 want to turn away from this game because of that. 
  
  The graphics in comparison to the PSP is not a reason to stray either as it will give you good 
 reliable graphics to play with and you will most likely for get about them after a little while.
 
  
  The gameplay could not be more solid with a nice layout while not using the touch screen is not 
 that big effect they do use it to show the layout of the field and where everyone is. I tend to 
 find myself using this screen more than the top screen showing the acutal players.
  
  In the end if your looking for a game for your little buddy or something to tide you over for another 
 title coming out in a little bit, like maybe animal crossing this will do the number. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 771992
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 3, 2005 11:23 am PT
Review:  When you first play this your mind tells you it's not pushing the ds at all. One 'song' playing 
 all the time throughout the menus, blocky graphics that try to be good, and terrible gameplay. 
 Ok, it may be good for A FEW multi-player games but it soon wears off. Unless you HAVE to have 
 this game then I advise you to either get another football game on another console or wait until 
 a better one comes out on the ds. Try out advance wars instead, it's much better and you will keep 
 going back to play it, not this though I'm afraid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akash23
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 1, 2005 2:15 am PT
Review:  When i got Fifa06 i thight it would be a good soccer game with decent graphics and good gameplay. 
 i was wrong. It was a REALLY great game, with awesome graphics (for a ds) , and has really nice game 
 modes. it kept me playing for ages, and i still play it all the time. The dificulty of the game 
 varies, as you can shoose whether u want beginner, amateur, pro, or world class difficulties. Lots 
 of options, and should keep u playing for ages. if u hav friends who own a ds, TELL THEM TO FIFA 
 06. it is even more fun with other people. u only need one game cartridge for 2 people, so even 
 if one of your friends get Fifa, you can both play. I rate this game 8.8 out of 10, and i hope 
 u will like the game as much as i do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DDABIEN
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 27, 2005 10:36 am PT
Review:  I THINK THAT THIS GAME IS A VERY GOOD SOCCER GAME
  
  THE GRAPHICS ARE GOOD AND FRIENDLY
  
  THE SOUND IS OK
  
  THE INTERFACE IS OK
  
  WHAT ELSE??
  
  I HAVE A PSP AND THE ISO 
 OF WINNING ELEVEN , IS BETTER, BUT IT ISN THE BEST SOCCER GAME
  
  I LIKE MY NDS I ENJOY MORE PLAY IN IT THAN IN MY PSP
  
  SO I LIKE FIFA SOCCER
  
  YOU CAN 
 BUY IT, ITS A VERY GOOD GAME
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anakin153
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 25, 2005 10:27 am PT
Review:  This fifa game is the first soccer game for the Nintendo DS, i've been waiting a lot for a soccer 
 game and Fifa 06 happends to be the first of all, the thing is, is just a fifa game, same arcade, 
 less realisim, it is not a version of the pc game at all, is another game, if you like the simulation 
 of real football wait for Winning Eleven on March, but i think this game is better 'cause WE on 
 DS cant be edited, and that is the best of a WE game.
  
  The game has a huge number of players and teams.... i was hoping i can play with Venezuela but they 
 screw me again... I hope i can play with my bara with Messi on the titular team, but there is no 
 MESSI, they screw me one more time.
  
  The best of the game, the sound... incredible. The looks of the menus are as good as always. Grafics 
 are fine, game play improved... Thats all i have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTABadBoy
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:45 am PT
Review:  Its what you would expect from the first of its kind on a new console. The graphics dont suck, 
 actually there pretty good. The sound is good and the gameplay at most times is good. 1 of the 
 best features is the 1 kart multiplayer, which allows you to plat anyone one even if they dont 
 have the game. A few problems with the game is that your players just get tired o so quickly after 
 1 or 2 runs your guy struggles to run. Also for some reason theres a great tendency to hit the 
 post, 4/10 shots will wack the post and the goalie will just pick it up, on the subject of goalies 
 they seem to have invisble helpers which magicly pass the ball to them.
  Overall the game does well for the DS, but i think you should wait for winning 11. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
