-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: FIFA 07 Soccer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/sports/fifasoccer07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Twenty-seven leagues and more than 500 teams on offer.
 improved player and stadium detail.
 plays a good game of football, especially in multiplayer.
 good commentary and audio options.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No multiplayer game-sharing mode that came with last year's game.
 poor opposition AI.
 slightly out-of-date team data that can't be edited.
 lightweight 'manager' mode.
 no Wi-Fi online multiplayer mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 13, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.1
Critic Score: 6.3, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 128 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Genre: Soccer Sim
Date: Oct 3, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
EA's FIFA 07 plays a good game of football on Nintendo's handheld, although it adds few new features 
 to last year's game. 

  While the home console and PC versions of the FIFA series have been going from strength to strength 
 in recent years, the DS versions have only seen incremental improvements in recent years. While 
 FIFA 07 certainly looks better than last year's game, it hasn't expanded on the hardware potential 
 of the Nintendo DS or offered a long-term challenge in addition to the great quickplay modes. The 
 lack of management features and online play mean that it still feels like a watered-down version 
 of the feature-rich home console versions, especially to those who have been playing FIFA for years -- though 
 it still offers an enjoyable game of football overall.  

          Though the game hasn't changed much since last year, FIFA 07 on the DS is still an enjoyable 
 football game.     

  At the beginning of FIFA 07, you can choose your favourite team from a wide selection of 510 teams 
 across 27 leagues. Once you've made your selection, that team's badge will adorn the game's menu 
 screen and it will be your default choice for all the different play modes in the game. As you'd 
 expect from an officially licensed title, all the team and kit data is correct as of the beginning 
 of the 2006/2007 season, but as this was before the end of the transfer window, there are discrepancies. 
 For example, Ashley Cole is still playing for Arsenal when he's actually now at Chelsea. This isnt 
 uncommon in sports games, of course, but its irritating on this occasion because theres no way 
 to edit player data. The limitation of the DS hardware also means that individual team stadiums 
 haven't been included, although there are still eight generic variations to choose from. You can 
 also mix up the wind conditions, pitch type, and time of day when playing exhibition matches.  
 

  The main thrust of FIFA 07 is the career mode, in which you can take control of a team for five 
 years. You will have to meet certain criteria as you play domestic and international fixtures across 
 both leagues and tournaments. Higher-quality teams have bigger demands, so Arsenal expects to finish 
 in the top three of the FA Premier League and take part in the cup final. All teams are evaluated 
 on the number of 'prestige points' that they accrue at the end of the season. These points are 
 awarded or deducted depending on whether you fulfill certain objectives, and as long as you make 
 it through each season with a specified number of points, you will be able to continue your career. 
 Unfortunately, while this mode does put you in the place of a real team manager, the only options 
 available to you are within your existing squad and formation. Player transfers are completely 
 off limit, and while you can alter your training regimen every five weeks, it all feels incredibly 
 limited.  

  Aside from a management career, the tournament mode lets you choose from 20 cups and tournaments 
 from around the world. There's also a single match mode for quickplay, and once you've won five 
 matches, you can play through a series of challenges. Challenges are a mix of scenarios that pit 
 you against teams with handicaps, such as the opposing team having a two-goal lead, or in situations 
 that require you to win the game by a certain number of goals. There are also a number of rewards 
 that can be unlocked simply by playing through the game, including dribbling and goalkeeper minigames, 
 as well as upgrades to your home stadium. There's even an option to create your own custom team, 
 complete with a modified kit and a logo designed via the touch screen.  

  As FIFA 07 delivers a similar experience to the other versions of the game, it plays a very enjoyable 
 game of football. The style of play is certainly faster than last year's iteration, with more end-to-end 
 exchanges and goal-mouth scrambles. The only disappointment is that the game still doesn't pose 
 a significant challenge, even when set to world-class difficulty. Without ever needing to use the 
 skill button or the touch-screen tactics, you can usually run through defenders without any trouble, 
 and scoring is just as easy. At least FIFA 07 feels tighter than last year's game, with passes 
 needing to be directed at the receiving player and a generally higher level of accuracy than ever 
 before.  

  Just as with previous version of the game, action is presented on the top screen while the touch 
 screen is used to present a radar view with tactical options down the side. While you need to be 
 good at multitasking, you can quickly use this to take a more defensive or offensive approach midgame. 
 You can also access defensive and offensive submenus for more specific commands. In the offensive 
 mode, you can choose to play counter, wing, release, or overload tactics, while in defense you 
 can play flat, trap, press, or zonal systems. New for FIFA 07 is a 'touch run' control, and you 
 can now draw lines to tell individual players where to run to. This is quite useful when you're 
 taking a corner, as you can tell a player to make a very precise run to get on the end of your 
 crossed ball.  

  If you have friends that you can rope into buying FIFA 07, then you'll find that the multiplayer 
 is a real high point of the game. Up to four players can play locally over wireless, with a maximum 
 of two players per team. However, it's disappointing to see that the wireless game-sharing mode 
 from FIFA 06 hasn't been carried over, so every player must own a copy of the game. It's also a 
 disappointment that EA still hasn't implemented Wi-Fi play for online matches, as this is one of 
 the more compelling reasons to buy the console versions of the game.  

          Player detail has improved a good bit.     

  Audio in the game is accomplished, especially 
 for a DS title. The commentary from Clive Tyldesley is natural and even context sensitive, although 
 he does tend to repeat himself a little too often. There are four music tracks that play in the 
 main menu for just more than a minute each, and while the crowd reacts to what's happening on the 
 pitch with applause for the home team when they win the ball from the opposition, there are no 
 team-specific chants or anthems. New to FIFA 07 is the ability to record your own custom chant 
 that you can play in game using the touch screen. You can record a five-second clip through the 
 DS microphone and then mix in as many hand claps, drum beats, horns, and whistles as you like. 
 It sounds tinny when played back, but we never tired hearing our vocal taunts played through the 
 DS as we nailed the opposition.  

  FIFA 07 on the Nintendo DS is a straightforward but enjoyable take on the football genre. The game 
 is suited to the platform especially in short bursts of play, and even though the majority of the 
 touch-screen controls have limited effect, they play to the strengths of the system. The main issue 
 with the game is the lack of improvements, with few new offerings for owners of the previous game. 
 The game has certainly improved visually, and if EA Sports had expanded the game with a proper 
 management mode and online multiplayer, then it would have been a must-buy for sports fans. As 
 it stands, FIFA 07 is still a pretty good game for what it is, especially for those new to the 
 series, but don't expect it to occupy your DS by the end of the season, especially if you own the 
 previous game or are a meticulous football fan.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Spinach_Puffs
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 21, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game as part of a package with the DS console, but I found it a major disappointment. 
 The gameplay is either far too easy (collect the ball, run.... run.... run.... score!) or far too 
 difficult (collect the... what the?! Where'd the ball go?!) . The sound, particularly the commentary, 
 is excruciatingly repetitive. The matches themselves become too monotonous, even if the option 
 to save mid-match is a bonus.
  
  The graphics suffer under comparison with the more-powerful platforms (even my PSOne-version Fifa 
 2001 looked - and played - better than this) .
  
  In the end, I traded this in for Pokemon Diamond, which I felt was a much better investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Soccer games on the DS? Hum, as we all know, portable consoles aren't the prime best for playing 
 sports games - nothing substitutes a PS2 or XBOX360 in this category. However, FIFA 2007 might 
 push the portable soccer phenomenon further. Question is - just how much?
  
  Graphics: Well, the graphics are quite neat, and the stadiums are quite well designed. The only 
 problem lies in the camera angle. The players are too small, in my opinion. You can barely see 
 the players, let alone the ball! A little improvement would be good here.
  
  Sound: Nice commentary, albeit being repetitive after a while. The sound effects - crowd, music 
 - is very well elaborated. I don't know what EA Sports has, but they always put some fun songs 
 in their games. We like them!
  
  Gameplay: I think the game has quite a weak AI. Even playing in World Class mode, I find scoring 
 goals really easy. You just have to wiggle through the defense lines, get inside the area, shoot 
 and goal (providing you did it with a good angle) ! World Class is supposed to be challenging (at 
 least I think so!) , but it really isn't. And, reverse side, it's quite easy for the AI to score 
 in your net. Oh well.
  
  Replay Value: No Wi-Fi, and if it were to be implemented, I'd expect it to be like Winning Eleven 
 DS - really laggy. However, the game offers over a ton of leagues to play - licensed players and 
 everything, unlike W11. Training modes, career, tournament and many more for hours of soccer mania.
 
  
  All in all, FIFA 2007 is a good game for a portable console like the DS, featuring a lot of great 
 options and many modes of play. Despite this, it's graphics aren't that prime and it lacks a bit 
 in game play which affects the overall enjoyment of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozland
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 5:41 am PT
Review:  obviously this year dev team wanted to show that fifa 07 for the ds is not just a plain soccer 
 game and it has depth to it.
  The are some new features in this title that are new to the ds series, like the training mode that 
 you can take every 5 weeks in the career mode.
  
  Basically the game stays the same as last year in its main concept, but some little things were 
 improved. Now the main game screen in the career mode is better, you can see the 10 first standings, 
 the next match you have and a nice cool ticker that show the league statistics.
  
  The biggest improvement from last year title, is that finally, the physics are better, now when 
 a player has the ball, it is much harder to ensure that you wont loose it while dribbling, something 
 like pro evo. Although the game claims that the graphics were improved from last year, you barely 
 see it, the players graphics are the same, but the stadiums were improved and the players animations 
 as well.
  
  One thing they did better is the commentary that is great in this title.
  Over all, fifa is a great grab and play kinda game, that will last you for a long time. If you 
 have fifa 06, i still recommend to get this title as well and maybe trade the last year title to 
 something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic_speed06
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2006 2:15 pm PT
Review:  FIFA 07 Is a good football game on its own or with friends. This game has really nice career mode 
 in which you can choose your own team or a real official licensed team. The a. i could be MUCH better 
 though but still gives the game a pick-up and play feel. The soundtrack is also very good but can 
 get repetitive at times. I liked this game because i am not a big fan of any fifa games but this 
 is a very vast improvement. Where it goes wrong is NO WI-FI at all. So pes will score in that area. Overall 
 it is a good game but i would wait for pes 6. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
