-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Echoes of Time
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/finalfantasycrystalchroniclesechoesoftime/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Compelling dungeon-crawling action is constantly rewarding.
 Local multiplayer is lots of fun.
 Accessible enough for newcomers, rich enough for veterans.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Way too many simple, boring puzzles.
 Online multiplayer can suffer from lag.
 Small number of dungeons.
 AI companions aren't very bright.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  8, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 133 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Mar 24, 2009
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hiding amid an onslaught of tedious puzzles is some compelling dungeon-crawling action. 

  When it's done right, few things in games are as potent as the lure to earn that little bit of 
 additional experience needed to hit the next level and make your character better and stronger. 
 Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Echoes of Time definitely gets this right, delivering a compulsively 
 playable dungeon crawler that is simple and charming enough to appeal to genre newcomers and addictive 
 enough to keep old hands coming back for more. Unfortunately, the charms of Echoes of Time's fundamentally 
 sound spellcasting, monster-hacking gameplay are obscured by a near-constant stream of dull puzzles 
 that succeed only at pulling you away from the fun.  

  Echoes of Time kicks off on your character's 16th birthday. After choosing a gender and selecting 
 from one of four tribes, you're sent off into the forest that borders your village on a rite of 
 passage that signifies you've reached adulthood. But no sooner have you slaughtered some fluffy 
 woodland creatures and been granted a small crystal after proving your worth in battle, than disaster 
 strikes your peaceful, secluded village. Sent into the wider world to find a cure for the crystal 
 sickness that has befallen a fellow villager, you soon embark on a quest that reveals the truth 
 about the world's crystals and your own mysterious past. Don't come to Echoes of Time expecting 
 the sort of rich fantasy world and epic tale that often accompany the Final Fantasy name, though, 
 as it pauses only rarely for storytelling. This game is all about walking through dungeons and 
 killing things, then taking the materials and loot you've gained back to town to acquire more-powerful 
 equipment, and then beginning the process over again.  

  The action is simple and fun. As you work your way through each dungeon, you'll dispatch the monsters 
 who try to hinder your progress with some quick swings of your weapon or an appropriate spell or 
 two. When you begin the casting process, your character stands still and you take control of a 
 target ring, which you try to maneuver underneath your foe to hit him with your spell. There isn't 
 any depth to the combat, and there's no strategy to the action; this is classic dungeon-crawling, 
 pure and simple. But it's made rewarding by the frequent leveling up of your characters, which 
 makes you more powerful and grants you new abilities, like a charged-up melee attack and the ability 
 to stack multiple spell rings. You have six standard magic types at your disposal -- fire, blizzard, 
 thunder, cure, raise, and clear -- and once you can stack two or more rings together, you can combine 
 different types of magic to discover new and powerful spells.  

  But sadly, your greatest battle will not be with the massive horned toad, the fanged bookcase, 
 or any of the other monstrosities you must face on your quest. No, your strongest opponent is tedium, 
 which attacks you constantly in the form of dull puzzles that bring the action to a screeching 
 halt. The block-pushing, switch-triggering puzzles here are easy and wearisome, and they come up 
 with such frequency that you'll feel like you spend half of your time in each dungeon dealing with 
 them. Making matters worse, there are only a handful of dungeons in the game, and you'll pass through 
 most of them twice, requiring you to go through the motions for some of the puzzles a second time. 

           The party that slays together, stays together.      

  Your adventuring is a lot more enjoyable if you have friends to join you on your quest. Even the 
 tedium of the game's puzzles is lessened if you have people to share it with. Up to four players 
 can link up over either local wireless or Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connection, and while the story can 
 be advanced only on the host console, each player will retain any experience and currency earned 
 during the session. When cooperating with friends, though, it helps if you can communicate effectively, 
 and the in-game interface for communication, with its trees of preestablished phrases and an onscreen 
 keyboard, is clumsy and limited, making local multiplayer far superior. We also experienced bouts 
 of lag on Wi-Fi, and while the option to invite or join strangers sounds like a good idea, we were 
 typically matched with characters who were well below or well above our own level, making effective 
 adventuring difficult and leading to many abruptly ended sessions.  

  You can also create AI adventurers to join you, but they're no substitute for flesh-and-blood companions. 
 As in multiplayer, you can travel four-deep through the dungeons, and while your AI companions 
 are generally pretty good at attacking things, they're also pretty good at getting themselves killed, 
 so the larger your AI party, the more healing, raising, and babysitting you'll be doing.  

  The game is essentially identical on the DS and the Wii, and in the Wii's case, that's not a good 
 thing. Clearly designed with the DS in mind, Echoes of Time is awkwardly tossed onto the Wii, complete 
 with two separate "screens" on your screen at all times. The colorful visuals look crisp and inviting 
 on the DS, but blown up on your TV screen, their simplicity becomes a detriment. And once you've 
 experienced the DS version's touch-screen interface, which lets you use your thumb to instantly 
 switch from one character or type of magic to another, the remote-and-nunchuk controls on the Wii 
 feel unwieldy by comparison. All this, combined with the fact that the action is a great fit for 
 gaming on the go, makes the DS version the better choice. In either case, the tunes you hear throughout 
 your adventure are lighthearted and catchy, providing an upbeat accompaniment to the action.  

 
           You'd never guess, but the mean-looking guy with the bad German accent is not your friend. 

  The boring puzzles that constantly interrupt the game's momentum are a shame, and a greater variety 
 of dungeons would have made the experience richer, but these aren't enough to defeat the game's 
 better elements altogether. The initial quest may take you about 15 hours on your first go, but 
 you can keep developing your characters and advancing into higher difficulty levels after that. 
 Despite Echoes of Time's flaws, fans of dungeon-crawling, hack-and-slash action may be compelled 
 to keep coming back to this adventure for a long time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: supergt1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:12 pm PT
Review:  This is my review of the game: Final Fantasy CC: Echoes of Time.
  
  Read the information below to see what I think about different kind of ratings.
  
  Graphic (8 
 out of 10) The graphic is almost the same as FFCC Rings of Fate
  except that as you read this review you'll want to buy this game. I don't understand the reviewers 
 why they think this is 6.5.
  
  Price (7.5 out of 10) Pretty good for this kind of game except that they should
  at least lower 
 the price $5 lower. I always think good games should be a little
  cheaper than the normal price.
  
  Now for the real part of the review: The Fun of the Game (9 
 out of 10)
  Exciting storyline with the same system as FFCC Rings of Fate like
  getting scrolls and ordering weapons. I especially like that part. Also,
  you can recruit allies.
 
  
  Anyway, I don't hate the reviewers. I bet they had a reason why they gave this game a 6.5. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
