-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy Tactics A2: Grimoire of the Rift
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/strategy/finalfantasytacticsa2fuuketsunogrimoire/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great presentation.
 Good musical score.
 Plenty of depth.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Excessively long battles with little payoff.
 Weak stylus controls.
 Restrictive battle rules.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.1, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,096 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Genre: Fantasy Turn-Based...
Date: Jun 24, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Grimoire of the Rift returns you to Ivalice for a gratifying but tired tactical strategy romp.

  Final Fantasy Tactics A2: Grimoire of the Rift is the Nintendo DS sequel to the Game Boy Advance's 
 Final Fantasy Tactics Advance. Grimoire is a strategy role-playing game that has inherited many 
 of the franchise's characteristics, including the classic grid-based movement system and a bevy 
 of new jobs, but it also boasts full stylus controls and a dual-screen presentation. However, some 
 may feel bogged down by its frustrating law system and steep learning curve.  

  Grimoire weaves the tale of Luso Clemens, a young boy who opens an ancient text that magically 
 transports him to the world of Ivalice, where he immediately joins a clan that is determined to 
 help him find a way home. The generic plot is advanced by completing quests, of which there are 
 a formidable 400, ranging from simple fetch quests to missions that unlock classes or advance the 
 story. All quests are picked up at the local pub for a small finder's fee and most culminate in 
 a battle, and there are no random battles to beef up your team's experience coffer, although there 
 is the occasional mugging or treasure opportunity presented on the world map.  

           A2's gameplay is strongly reminiscent of its forbearer's, with the added bonus of new 
 skills and jobs.      

  Battles in Grimoire use a colorful 2D map with varied terrain that affects your unit's grid-based 
 movement area. The game retains the franchise's turn-based battle system and displays the turn 
 order and character-status effects on the top screen while target information is aligned at the 
 bottom. You win the battle by completing the quest's objective, which is usually to eliminate a 
 target. Although the 2D map understandably limits you from spinning the battlefield for closer 
 inspection, this restriction gets frustrating because characters who are bunched up together often 
 block other tiles from view, which makes it likelier that you'll select the wrong tile if you're 
 using the cumbersome stylus controls. It's just easier to navigate through menus or traverse the 
 battlefield via standard directional buttons. The lack of a zoom option is another irritation. 

  To put a spin on the standard battling, Square Enix once again included judges, those imposing 
 figures from Tactics Advance who pulled you from battle and threw you in jail each time you broke 
 a law, or battle rule. Grimoire's judges are less harsh and now reward you for following the law 
 with a clan privilege, like a slight stat increase, that lasts the rest of the battle. Many of 
 these rules are simple and ban the use of a specific ability, but some, like rules against distance 
 attacks, can cost you a quest when you absolutely must follow the law to complete it. For example, 
 accidentally knocking back an opponent while operating under a "no distance attacking" rule qualifies 
 as breaking the law because somehow this maneuver counts as a distance attack, yet you have no 
 control over this action. However, in most cases breaking the law results in imprisonment for your 
 fallen allies, preventing you from raising them, and also costs you any bonus goods you might receive 
 for completing the quest while following the law.  

  Team members who participate in battles are awarded experience points, but even benched members 
 gain ability points needed to master abilities that are imbued in equipment. This feature keeps 
 the game playable because you're no longer forced to constantly cycle through team members to teach 
 everyone basic skills for starting-level classes -- a tedious process. Grimoire features an impressive 
 56 jobs with numerous abilities available for each, although jobs are still restricted by race. 
 For example, only humes can become soldiers, and only viera can assume the elementalist class. 
 Regrettably, there is some job redundancy despite the race limitation.  

  Teaching your units skills, which is ordinarily a slow but rewarding process, hinges upon your 
 ability to exchange miscellaneous loot collected from battles for better gear at a bazaar. Mastering 
 new skills therefore depends on you scoring the appropriate gear for the classes that you want 
 to play, and considering that the quality of your gear depends on the quality of your randomly 
 distributed loot, just obtaining the right equipment is an arduous process. The system forces you 
 to play classes that you have the equipment for rather than the classes that you want to play, 
 which can make Grimoire a laborious adventure if you catch yourself drudging through trivial, time-costly 
 quests for nothing but cheap loot and ability points.  

  Another carryover from Tactics Advance is the clan system, which has you managing your clan mates, 
 their classes/abilities, and the acquisition of new clan members. The system is supported by real-time 
 auction houses that let you control areas of the world map; seizing and holding areas awards you 
 certain boons such as items and quest-price reductions, as does raising your clan's skills (negotiation, 
 teamwork, and so on) via clan trials to access new quests.  

           Claim the world map section by section to increase your clan's fame and score prizes. 

  One of Grimoire's setbacks is the amount of time that it takes to accomplish even the simplest 
 of tasks, with most quests lasting 45 minutes to an hour, although there is a handy quicksave feature. 
 Grimoire also sports a steep learning curve for both its combat and micromanagement elements, and 
 is a bit slow to pick up because you spend the first 10 to 20 hours mastering basic abilities, 
 unlocking classes, and gathering equipment to play the jobs that you want. This constant push for 
 quests significantly cheapens plot progression because you're focused on satisfying various objectives 
 instead of shipping Luso home.  

  Presentation is similar to that in previous games, down to the detailed 2D sprites and Middle English 
 dialogue as seen in War of the Lions. The musical score perfectly captures the feel of the Ivalice 
 Alliance universe, which isn't surprising considering that composer Hitoshi Sakimoto also worked 
 on other games in the series and recycled several themes from previous Ivalice games.  

  Square Enix included a few pleasant surprises to round out the Ivalice Alliance experience. These 
 include three unlockable characters from Final Fantasy XII, a bonus clan privilege that you're 
 awarded for loading Grimoire with Tactics Advance inserted, the ability to trade items with other 
 players, and even a hard difficulty setting for the really daring -- though you can easily spend 
 more than 75 hours completing all 400 quests in normal mode.  

  Final Fantasy Tactics A2: Grimoire of the Rift offers a surprising amount of depth, as highlighted 
 by its impressive number of quests and skills, real-time area auctions, clan management, and unlockables, 
 but many a Tactics fan might be put off by its cheapened quest-based plot progression and battle 
 rules. Nevertheless, those enamored with Tactics Advance will likely enjoy it.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (68 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FF_fan2004
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  The game design has taken a different direction from the first FFTA. Quests take a day of the calendar, 
 instead of travelling from one point to another. Also the map system allows player to be able to 
 see where the quests are rather than having to find out yourself.
  The interface has improved significantly in letting players know characters' mastered abilities.
 
  Shops now have new options of bazaar for creating new items for sale, fitting rooms for characters 
 to equip and selling your spoils. Clans now have sidequests to improve its levels and worth. FFTA2 
 also brings out newer races, abilities and jobs for more immersion into the gameplay.
  
  While it may well be better in comparison, but it's not an easy game to play. More annoyingly are 
 the laws which takes a completely different turn from FFTA. 
  Abiding by laws until the end of battles will reap rewards but failure to do so can take away the 
 privileges. No longer can characters be sent to jail, however breaking laws in FFTA2 meant that 
 you can no longer revive KOs. 
  
  Even more frustrating, the laws are already preset for each quest which takes away the whole essence 
 of strategy of FFTA. What ever happened to being able to strategically applying beserk on enemies 
 equipped with forbidden weapons?
  
  The laws in FFTA2 are beyond ridiculous, which is an understatement! Simple things like actually 
 missing your target when you try to attack them will bring out severe punishment.
  FFTA may be annoying but at least the gameplay mechanics made sense in battles and probabilities 
 balances out much nicely in accordance to character jobs. But FFTA2, the action probabilites are 
 too much in favour of every singles allies being baeten down into a pulp.
  Without the JPs and combos to turn the tide of battles to your favour, the players can actually 
 be essentially screwed in this game when put into a situations without hopes of winning.
  
  At leat FFTA worked. It couldn't compare with FFT but it was definitely a game of its own and the 
 sequel was by far more disappointing than expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amazement
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  Our story starts with Luso Clemens -- It's finally summer vacation, but his teacher disallows him 
 to leave quite yet because of all the trouble he's caused throughout the year. Luso is sent to 
 the library to help the librarian with chores before he leaves for vacation, however when he gets 
 to the library, nobody is there.
  
  As Luso is waiting for the librarian to arrive, he notices a book on the table. He looks through 
 it, and notices how ancient it looks! He gets part way through the book, only to notice the rest 
 of the pages are blank. He turns to the last page with writing on it, and reads: "One is fated 
 to fill these barren pages. Know you his name?" Luso, who'd never pass up the chance to write in 
 a library book, writes his name on the page. Seconds later, he finds himself smack dab in the middle 
 of a fantasy world, and also, right in the middle of a battle.
  
  
  
  This game definitely added more to the previous game -- 100 more quests than the first FFTA, 2 new 
 races, a handfull of new jobs for each race, auctions ( (Similar to clan turf in the previous game) ) , 
 clan trials and more. Which means, more to do than just follow your story line.
  
  Laws in this game have changed a bit -- They're harder to avoid, but they're a lot less punishing. 
 When a battle begins, you can select a privilege to help your clan out during the battle. A few 
 of these are added damage, added evasion, added accuracy, etc. If you break a law, you lose your 
 clan privilage for this battle, along with losing the ability to revive one of your clan mates 
 in the middle of a battle ( (They'll still be revived after the battle, though) ) . This is a lot 
 less strict than having your clan mate thrown into jail, but is actually a lot more annoying at 
 the same time. ( (Because, like I said earlier, the laws are harder to avoid.) )
  
  
  
  The battles are, like commonly stated, fairly long and repetitive, and the payoff for them is really 
 not worth the effort. FFT A2 is also quite a bit more difficult than FFTA, which is actually quite 
 nice, since after somebody finnishes the original game, it's probably more exciting for the second 
 to be a challenge. With that said, the learning curve will probably be annoyingly long for somebody 
 that hasn't played the first FFTA, since there's all the mechanics of the first game, plus tons 
 of extras.
  
  
  
  The graphics of this game are smoother than that of the first, but overall there is not alot of 
 change graphic-wise. All the sprites look basically the same as they did in the other FFTA, and 
 the battle fields look about the same, too. I wouldn't say I like the new character portraits, 
 either. ( (Though, that's very opinionated. x_x) ) In the end, graphics really don't make a game 
 a good game or a bad game, so I won't spend much time dwelling on the small stuff.
  
  
  
  Dispite all the criticism I've handed this game, it's pretty good, there's tons of stuff to 
 do, which will keep you playing long after you're done the main story. Although I don't like it 
 as much as the first FFTA, that's mainly because the story line seems pretty blah and unthought 
 out. In the long run, the story doesn't hinder the gameplay much, so don't worry about that.
  I recommend this game, but only if you played Final Fantasy Tactics Advanced first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trickedoutps3
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:11 am PT
Review:  After playing the first one on the game boy advanced and seeing my friend play the original Tactics 
 on the PS1 a long time ago, I was really waiting to pick this one up.
  
  The gameplay. If you like turn-based RPGs, this is the game for you. Heck, even if you are unsure 
 of your thoughts on turn-based RPGs, this one will change your mind. With plenty of races to choose 
 from and dozens of jobs, this game will keep you busy for many hours. So far I am at about 70 hours 
 with still plenty of quests and weapons to unlock. Why I think this game is better than FFA is 
 because it still has laws, but they arn't nearly as annoying and hard to uphold as the last ones. 
 In addition to that, there is only 1 law to keep per battle and if you do break it there are no 
 serious consequences like going to jail in the last one. 
  
  The graphics are obviously better than the first, but really they dont go much past it. This game 
 really doesnt need good graphics to be a good game because the strong point of this game is its 
 gameplay.
  
  Overall, I would definately pick this game up if you are a fan of Final Fantasy or turn-based RPGs. 
 If you are looking for a different style of gameplay, you have found keeper right here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximort
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Tactics Advance 2 is the sequel of the original game Final Fantasy Tactics Advance. 
 This game starts with Luso Clemens (you can name your character) being a student at a school. When 
 he is given detention of cleaning up the library. He finds this book and is introduced to the world 
 of Ivalice. This is where he meets Cid, and he joins his clan. 
  
  This game has flaws. One of the main flaws is that there will be a law that you break on accident 
 and it is not your fault. What is also a flaw is that during battle you are unable to level up 
 like you can in the previous game. Instead your characters level up at the end of the battle.
 
  
  This game also has strengths however. For example, there are no more annoying prisons. So if your 
 main character breaks a law twice, the game won't be over, instead the judge leaves your clan to 
 fight on their own and once one of your clan members get K. O'd you can't bring them back. 
  
  There are extra characters that you can get which makes the game more enjoyable. One is Frimelda 
 Lotice, the zombie paladin. But I shall say no more about the available characters.
  
  There are some points in the game which seems impossible to complete. I should know as I fought 
 a group of malboro's lvl.99 whilst my poor party are basically lvl.50. But the game is enjoyable 
 nonetheless. 
  
  There are also story lines in the game other than the main storyline. For example a rivalry between 
 a nu mou clan and a bangaa clan etc. 
  
  This game has many flaws and strengths but in my opinion I think it is a great addition to the 
 Final Fantasy Tactics series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StayAlive262
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  The Final Fantasy Tactics series is, so far, not very big with only two titles under it's belt. 
 The first game, for me, was one of the best games on the Gameboy Advance. With solid gameplay, 
 hours of quests to complete and decent graphics, it's only flaw was it's weak storyline.
  
  Final Fantasy Tactics A2: Grimoire of the Rift only improves on it's predessescor's winning formula.
 
  
  FFTA2 offers some great new innovatons to the previous game, with the "bazaar", sort of a weapons 
 and armor factory in every shop you visit where you can make new and better weapons and armor if 
 you have the right "loot" that you pick up after you complete a quest or kill an enemy, two new 
 classes, the Gria, human looking monsters with wings and horns, and the Seeq, fat, lumbering alligator 
 looking monsters. Along with these two improvements were also some new jobs, such as the Flintlock, 
 Geomancer, Ranger and Trickster, to name a few.
  
  The story is, and probably will be with every sequel, the weakest point of the game. The main character 
 is a young boy named Luso Clemens who finds a book that sends him to a different dimension where 
 he needs to stop an evil association from summoning a demon to lay waste to the land. The main 
 quests seem to stall for time in a sense. Instead of just getting to the point and killing your 
 way through countless enemies all the way to the final boss, bad luck just seems to spring up everywhere 
 you go. At one point, your friend gets shot and you have to find some sort of medicine to heal 
 him, but then he needs more bed rest to "completely heal".
  
  The fantastic gameplay seems to make up for this thought. A few of the battles you have to do the 
 main quests are long and at times, very frustrating, but with the right weapons, races and jobs, 
 you can blaze through most of them. The game offers hundreds of side quest to complete. In a few 
 of them, you must complete the specifications of the quest to unlock a new job for one of the races 
 in the land of Ivalice, and in some cases, you can also get new, one of a kind party members. The 
 obvious flaw to any battle you enter is the law system. most of the laws are very specific and 
 frustrating. If ice is forbidden in a battle, even using a weapon with ice attributes will lose 
 you your privileges of your judge. The penalties aren't as severe as they were in the first game, 
 but they are still a drag.
  
  All the races you remember from the first game are back in this one with new jobs and abilities 
 that you, again, learn from equiping various weapons and armor. Their are a few over-powered classes, 
 such as the Assassin-class for the Vieras and the new Parivir-class for the Humes. It is fun to 
 mix up your party with a few wild-cards, but you will find yourself favouring one class over another, 
 especially in the last quarter of the game.
  
  Overall, this game is worth checking out if you are a fan of the series, or are just looking for 
 a new game to play. A word for the wise for all the beginners of the game, either read the instruction 
 manual THOROUGHLY or ask a friend that has it to explain the basic game mechanics to you, or you 
 will probably find yourself wanting to throw the game out of a second-floor window in your house 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hombre_de_Smash
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  For those of you who haven't played the first FF Tactics game, which came out on the Gameboy Advance, 
 you probably wouldn't get it at first. For you remaining FF Tactics players, let me just say this; 
 it was at least as good as the first, if not better.
  
  This RPG style game is packed with literally hundreds of missions to complete, a compelling storyline 
 that draws your attention, a large cast of creatures and humans for you to control, and an even 
 larger job class for you to choose from for your team. Two new races are introduced in this sequel; 
 the seeq, which are portly blue ogre-esque creatures that originated in Final Fantasy XII, and 
 Gria, which are human-esque creatures with wings on their back and horns on their heads.
  
  As you go through the storyline, you enounter more and more jobs and clan members to strengthen 
 your team. Before most battles, you get to choose who will join the battlefield and complete the 
 mission you are assigned. This game is entirely based on strategy, in leveling up your clan members, 
 choosing what jobs you want them to have, what equipment you want them to use before battle, choosing 
 who you want to fight on the missions, etc.
  
  There are two difficulties; normal and hard. However, I recommend Hard for those who want to enjoy 
 FF Tactics for what it is; a purely strategic game. I fell in love with the series after the first 
 Tactics Advance installment; it makes me wish I played the Playstation versions.
  
  Luminous Arc and Fire Emblem lovers will absolutely love this game, for sure. Even if you have 
 no idea what any of those games are, I still recommend you at least consider buying this game; 
 you'll get hooked on it for sure, and soon you'll find yourself buying FF Tactics-related games 
 like the formerly mentioned earlier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lolyness
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Here you have a game that's potentially perfect but loses a lot of charm by the lack of love and 
 inspiration you see in it.
  
  The Battle system is wonderful, the graphics are so right, the ivalice alliance is also great by 
 itself, and the amount of jobs is just perfect. But having so many characters that are unbalanced 
 and some others that are simply useless it just can't deserve a better score.
  
  But anyway, everyone who likes turn-based fighting should play this game and enjoy it while you 
 discover the exciting strategies you can make with your 6-man party and the nice combos to completelly 
 destroy the poor AI computer and then cry because your perfect, beloved party, can't fight against 
 decent enemies because it also doesn't have multiplayer.
  
  I've spent a lot of hours playing this (around 150) and I still think i'll play for some more hours, 
 but that only makes me angrier at the mediocre developers that didn't make a better game having 
 the minds and technology to make every job useable, everything balanced, a hard storyline and multiplayer 
 support.
  
  That would have been a 10-insta classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vexov
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Music from different FF games, decent enough not to make you need to shut it off even in a long 
 battle.
  
  Game play is decent, but seems like some stuff is just overpowering that you could just roll your 
 face on the game boy and still dominate.
  Just to much target every bad guy type moves.
  
  No online vs mode.... very sad to hear it when PSP FFT has it.
  
  Squaresoft left out a 
 few to many things and screwed up some things to the point of wanting to not even play the game 
 cause it messes up the challenge and rewards.
  
  I don't think the game deserves higher then a 7.5
  
  Well you can get a lot of fun out of it 
 still, its not a total fail. Story mode and the OVERWHELMING amont of side quests you can do.
 
  
  I havn't check online mode, only thing i read was trade items online Bazzar items which are like 
 items for crafting and thats all... so that would be why i didn't care for online. So no trading 
 characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsgba
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Ok so i played disega ds. I thought that game was awesome. There are different types of jobs so 
 i guess it makes it better than disega ds. I reccomend anyone getting this game for anyone that 
 likes fantasy game. The game depends how long it takes. There are other quest for you to take. 
 There are about more than 20 quest you have to take. Then you have like 300 quest that is optional. 
 
  in my opinion you should buy this game. But the quest take you very very very very long. Like 15 
 minute. I did almost all the quest that are optional. Like 100. But I had 300 quests to go. Im 
 not joking. I was doing all the quest i could do than at the 10th you have to do quest i decided 
 i was alrady strong enough for the last boss. So i killed it. The game will be too hard if you 
 do all the have to do quests. I was like lvl 56 when i beat the last boss. If i did all the quest 
 i would have been lvl 99. This game was just right because i was just the right lvl. If i did all 
 the quest this game would be the easiest. O yeah if you want this game to be hard dont use a seeq. 
 If you use it you will deal 400 damage every time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arpitjaipal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  This game is a rewarding experience for those with the patience to play the game poperly and is 
 almost perfect except for the speed of battle, so slow it just annoys the hell out of me. Visuals 
 are both good and bad, with amazing sprite design but okay gameplay visuals, and gameplay can be 
 repetitive if you are one of those people who just cant stand to wait to learn all the abilities 
 ect. This is howeer the best strategy game I have ever played unbelievable. 10/10 for gameplay. 
 Just perfect. Overall I would give it 8.5/10 just taking into consideration the fact the world 
 map is kind of small and of course the slow battle speed. Recommend this game though, well worth 
 the money especially as it lasts so long (unlike some games!!) Gameplay is absoulutely awesome 
 if you lovbe strategy games but simple enough for most people to grasp, even my ten year old brother 
 gives this game a go and manages to get most of it done well. Best things is you could replay the 
 game 100 times with different character combinations and stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoyousOblivion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I have played this game a lot now, and I am immersed, but then again I can be a junkie for 
 FF games, so I'll try and be objective here.
  
  The game is fun, and is one of the better Turn based strategy/rpg games out there. That said they 
 didn't change they game for good or bad enough from the first one to warrant great reviews from 
 me. 
  
  The graphics are a bit more shiny, but the game is identical in most parts. Even the largest complaint 
 about the first game, the judges and laws, are back, albeit this time not so damn annoying and 
 useless.
  
  You now get rewarded for following the laws, often times making it very worth following the laws, 
 which general are not that restrictive.
  
  So I imagine they listened to some of the complaints from the first game.
  
  
  My main beef 
 or problem with this game is the weak story. Where the original Final Fantasy Tactics (PS, PSP) 
 had an amazing storyline, the Nintendo versions have had abysmal stories, as far as depth goes. 
 It seems they were written for 10 years olds, which is likely true.
  
  If you liked Final Fantasy Tactics Advance, you will like FFTA2 and undoubtedly get a lot of playtime 
 out of it. If you are looking for a sequel to the recently released (last year) Final Fantasy Tactics 
 (PSP) you will be disappointed with this kiddie version, but give it a shot, it may just hook you 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluej33
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 5, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Square-Enix is a pretty deceptive company, and one of the most heinous things they've done revolves 
 around Final Fantasy Tactics. It's not the series itself that gets me; it's the naming. "Tactics" 
 is more a direction that the game takes rather than an actual mechanic, and the games feel traditionally 
 role-playing through and through. The GBA iteration of the series had its share of flaws, but the 
 DS sequel has thankfully fixed many of them. Sadly, for every hole that's been plugged, another 
 leak is found. 
  
  As a game, Grimoire of the Rift is not particularly impressive; on many levels, it feels little 
 more than an expansion pack for the first Tactics Advance. The story is nearly the same, a handful 
 of classes and a couple of new races have been added, and there are a few new gameplay mechanics. 
 Grimoire never really figures out exactly what it is: a progression of the Tactics series or a 
 crippled old SRPG leaning on its predecessors for support. Sadly, this lack of identity is one 
 of its biggest problems. 
  
  While it isn't great as a game, Grimoire still managed to keep me engaged -- I had fun playing, 
 for the most part. This counts for something, surely, as having fun has to be one of the more important 
 criteria for judging a game. But while it's true that all told, my experience with Grimoire was 
 probably a positive one, it wasn't an easy game to enjoy. Every time I found something to like 
 about the game, Square Enix spoked me in the eye and I stumbled upon sometimes-infuriating flaws 
 that discourage you from even playing. 
  
  Tactics A2 has so many problems that I don't even know where to begin. Perhaps the first issue 
 is one that the original Tactics Advance had as well: an unfairly and deceptively deep learning 
 curve. When you've got a story about a little kid who got stuck in a library from hell and ended 
 up in a fantasy world that's all about completing monotonous quests for your entire life, having 
 a gameplay mechanic that takes a brain surgeon to figure out just feels downright wrong. Alternatively, 
 if you happen not to be a brain surgeon, you'll probably do just fine if you've suffered through 
 one of the two previous Tactics games. 
  
  The game advertises even more classes and even more skills than the first tactics -- whoop-dee-crap! 
 The game is so freaking confusing that if you're new to the series you probably won't even realize 
 you can unlock new classes until you beat the game for the first time. And while we're on the subject 
 of lies printed on the back of the box: the boasted hundreds of hours of gameplay spread out over 
 more than 300 quests is in many ways a pile of crap. While there are indeed a ridiculous number 
 of quests, many of them are dispatch ones where you don't actually have to do anything; just select 
 your six strongest party members and ditz around for a while and wait for them to come back. 
 
  
  But when you get to the actual combat missions, things get even worse. The mechanic itself isn't 
 terrible; it's pretty solid and while it doesn't do anything new for the SRPG genre it manages 
 to be confusing enough to satisfy hardcore fans of this niche genre. Where the fights become seriously 
 annoying is when you realize that they last FOREVER. A little skirmish worth two hundred gil and 
 a rat's ass could easily take half an hour, because the pacing within battles is just so bad. Characters 
 will move, attack, use lengthy and ultimately useless skills, then chose the direction they faceit's 
 so monotonous and every move takes too long. At the end of five minutes, you can look back and 
 think how fun it was to watch that cat-hybrid-woman-mix move two squares and shoot an arrow at 
 a fat white dog standing upright. What?! You don't think that sounds fun?
  
  And then there's the problem of the skills; it's not actually the skills themselves, but rather 
 how you go about obtaining them. As with the two Tactics games before it, you earn skills in Grimoire 
 by equipping certain items. But rather than giving you a bunch of items and periodically updating 
 the laundry list every four plot points or so, Grimoire wants you to actually earn your weapons. 
 Rather than receiving gil and weapons/items for completing a quest, you'll now gain gil and loot/items. 
 Loot is then cashed in at the bazaar to make new items available. Sounds good, right? 
  
  Wrong. This system may very well be single-handedly responsible for sucking out most of the fun 
 from Tactics A2. The problem is that it's just far too constricting, and for most of the game your 
 different jobs will be based less on personal preference and strategy decisions and more on which 
 gear is currently available. Admittedly, for a few hours in the middle it opens up and works out 
 quite nicely. But for the rest of the game, it fails to impress. At the beginning, you don't have 
 enough loot to unlock many weapons. And at the end, you'll have unlocked a lot but you'll be missing 
 one random little loot item and as a result won't be able to get a new item. It's particularly 
 annoying when you're missing a loot item that would unlock a new weapon that would teach a new 
 skill that would allow you to upgrade to a new class. Plus, it's in no way gratifying to receive 
 a bottle of green liquid in return for beating the crap out of a horde of monsters. 
  
  As a result, you'll end up accepting a lot of boring, time-consuming side quests solely in an attempt 
 to obtain loot. And because you play so many six-on-six battles, it's hard not to notice the weird 
 dips the difficulty takes. The AI is not particularly strong; for example, there are some quests 
 when you're racing a rival clan to take down a target. After bragging how they'll destroy the enemy 
 and mop up its remains with your polka-dot hat, they promptly go about attacking every enemy except 
 the target. Way to go, idiots. But on the other hand, despite the fact that the hit rates have 
 been ramped up a lot in this game, you'll be missing constantly. Some jackass programmer over at 
 Square Enix is messing with my head by placing far too many 100s in the random number sequence. 
 When my hit chance is 99%, I shouldn't miss more than once in a blue moon, much less three times 
 in a row. 
  
  If you're a fan of the series, however, take what I say with a grain of salt. After all, any fanboy 
 will happily look past the faults of his new favorite game and proudly deign it "the best EVAR!". 
 In all seriousness, however, if you like Tactics games you'll probably enjoy Grimoire more than 
 I did. It offers the same "strategic" action of its predecessors and the Ability Points system 
 has received a dramatic overhaul that makes it a lot easier for characters to learn new skills. 
 Thenew quests, new races, new classes, and new skills will also appeal to fans of the series, and 
 from a technical standpoint Grimoire is pretty impressive with good-looking graphics and great-sounding 
 if ridiculously-repetitive music. 
  
  But at the end of the day, I disapprove of Final Fantasy Tactics A2. It's not by any stretch of 
 the imagination a "bad" game; it just happens not to be a particularly good one either. While its 
 invidual parts are better than the parts of its predecessors, there are also just too many problems 
 with the game to really provide an enjoyable experience. And ultimately, despite not really liking 
 the first Tactics Advance, I still like it more than Grimoire. Why? Because Square Enix should 
 have learned from their mistakes and patched up the adventure of Marche & Co. to provide a better 
 experience for players. That's generally the idea behind sequels. But instead, for every little 
 problem that the dev team has fixed, another one pops up in its place, much like whack-a-mole. 
 
  
  And no, that's not a particularly flattering comparison. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: God_of_duty117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 1:03 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this game is LONG! (as long as you do and get everything)
  In Final Fantasy Tactics A2, you play as a boy named Luso, who is a prankster by heart. On the 
 last day of school he gets detention and is told to clean up the library, and while cleaning he 
 finds a mysterious book. He decides to write his name in it (details left out for minor spoiler 
 purposes) and when he does, he gets sucked into a whole new world named Ivalice. He meats up with 
 a few people along his adventures and tries to find a way to get back to his own world.
  Okay, now for the game specs....
  This game has a lot of stuff to get and do to make up for the 
 short story, such as, over 300 side missions, 50 privileges to obtain (they are used to obtain 
 special bonuses and powers in battles) many clan titles to earn, a MASSIVE amount of weapons, armor, 
 and items to collect, and all the jobs and skills for each race. In FFTA2 there are a few different 
 races to battle with like the attack specialized class called the Seeq or the magic race of the 
 Nu Mou. Each race has a different amount of job to obtain, with each being unique and having there 
 own skills (about 10 skills per class) and with the many classes and races, there are lots of skills 
 to get. Skills are gained by equipping certain weapons to a certain class and battling with it 
 equipped to earn AP (ability points) and after you earn enough, you can use that skill even when 
 the weapon that teaches it isn't attached. As I said before this game is long, which it took me 
 about 200+ hours to complete everything in it. For the battle system, before a battle begins a 
 judge appears and passes out a law (such as not being able to use a certail element or certain 
 action) and you get to choose a privilege to give your characters a certain boost (such as increased 
 attack damage or immunity to certain status ailments) and if you break the battles law, you lose 
 the privilege and the ability to revive KO'd characters (there's no perma death, they come back 
 after the battle is over) which isn't that big of a deal most of the time. The game is like most 
 other turn-based strategy games in it's overall battle system, you move by squares over the map 
 and you move up to enemies to attack them or stand away and hit them with magic and projectiles. 
 My only real complaint is the main story, for a Final Fantasy game, it lacked pretty bad and had 
 a really bland ending. The graphics and sound are nothing to speak of really, they are average 
 all a round. But this game makes up for it with lots to do, great gameplay, and overall fun. If 
 you like these types of games, this is one you definitely have to get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juliuscher
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  This installment of the FF tactics includes new Jobs and features like the Bazaar and Auction House. The 
 bazaar allows the player to trade the lot obtained for items. The auction house lets the player 
 vie for areas using coins to bid. find this feature particularly interesting. Being in-charge of 
 an area gives the player benefits which i'll not mention here. New Jobs includes the Chocobo knight 
 for Moogles (guess the ability) , Master Monk (a better variant of the White Monk) and Scholar for 
 Nu Mous. There are many more which i'll leave it to you to find out. The seemingly never-ending stream 
 of quest may be a little tedious and boring but the Captivating Storyline and new features certainly 
 covers up for this. This game left me playing for hours straight and is highly addictive. The Sound 
 is somewhat there and the graphics is almost similar to the previous Final Fantasy Tactics. Overall, this 
 game is one to die for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaptainFelix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the Final Fantasy Tactics games, I have to say that this one is best A series title. 
 This is a great game that you'll enjoy for countless hours. The graphics are greatly improved on 
 from FFTA, and looks very clean. The visuals are crisp and well defined. The sound may not be the 
 best aspect, but the gameplay definitely is. A2 runs very smoothly and being a turn based game, 
 you don't feel rushed. The spells and melee attacks all provide a satisfying animation. The new 
 jobs for the previous existing races are all great, but not immediately accessible. The two new 
 races have unique jobs, but only four are available to them. The shops' new bazaar system will 
 give you items to look forward to, while the new auction house is even better as it allows access 
 to rare items.
  
  Pros- excellent gameplay, improved graphics, and more jobs.
  Cons- law system is annoying, story is horrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CA_04
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I really like final fantasy games especially final fantasy tactics, i was addicted to final fantasy 
 tactics advance but when i played this game i can't believe it is more fun than final fantasy advance, with 
 new jobs, not anymore too punishing laws (WHY DID THEY MADE LAWS FOR THESE GAMES?!?!) ,and a new 
 cast of characters, it really needs to be higher than 7.0, even if some say it's too boring but hey, I'm 
 13 and i like these games a lot........
  
  The story is not great but good, because it's a pretty messed up story, but never mind the story, it's 
 all about the game play, well, just like what i said and anybody said, it is a tactics game, it can 
 test your strategy for winning the game, whether you use  
 Mage, White Mage, Etc.) , or Agility (Such as Thieves, Etc.) , As Long That Your Clan Will Be Balanced, It 
 Is Definitely a good buy for anyone who likes both final fantasy and final fantasy tactics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shindark
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:40 am PT
Review:  I'm a lover of turn based strategy game; a long time love born just with the original Final Fantasy 
 Tactics on Psone. After that wonderful game I've played in the years tons of similar games (Front 
 Mission, Hoshigami, Eternal Eyes, Tactics Ogre, Disgaea only to quote some) , included Final Fantasy 
 Tactics Advance: a good game though hardly comparable with the atmoshpere and the plot of the original.
 
  At summer's beginning I've took my dirty hands of long waited direct sequel of Final Fantasy Tactics 
 Advance
  Final Fantasy Tactics Advance 2  Grimoire of the Rift, the first installement for Nintendo DS. 
 Do this new game shall improve the experience of the first game?
  
  Surely, Grimoire of the Rift is a HUGE game; you'll need a minimum of 75 hours for complete it 
 (much probably 100) . Unfortunely the game lacks the capacity of keep the player interested until 
 the last hours of play.
  
  But let's analize the game in every parts
  
  Graphics: 7
  Colorful, but the spites are on the level of the prequel on GBA. Improved the attacks and abilities 
 special effects and pretty good the brief movies dedicated to the summoning of the Scions.
  
  Sound: 8
  Really good and full of atmosphere the musics, perfectly fit to the typical setting 
 of the titles of Ivalice Alliance. Same about the sound effect.
  
  Gameplay: 7
  Once catapultated in Ivalice and joined to a clan, you'll be soon in the core of the game. The 
 game develop itself taking quests in the pubs presents in every towns of Ivalice. The main core 
 of the game is there: you have a main quest to follow, to allow the main character to came back 
 to home. At the same time you can take a monstrous numbers of sub quests. Some will be one-shot 
 mission, some allow you to unlock the numerous player jobs classes; other will be composed from 
 more quests that tell you sub stories APPAIATE to the main plot. Casual encounters was no more, 
 though sometimes you can run into map based quests you can't take in the pubs.
  Just like brand expects you can play in battle a great number of jobs, each with their equipment, 
 abilities and feature. That time you'll have at your disposal a greater number of class then in 
 the past for a total of 56 classes. The jobs, however, are kind specific. The game presents the 
 usual kinds already saw in Ivalice: Hume, Mowgly, Viera, and the new additions, Gria and Seeq. 
 In other words only selected kinds can achieve some jobs (example: only Grias can be Ravagers and 
 only Seeqs can be Berserkers or Lanistas) .
  The ability learning system is directly from Final Fantasy Tactics Advance. Abilities are related 
 to the equipments you wear. At end of each battle you gain ability points that it will go to fatten 
 the abilities you're equipping at the moment. When you'll mastered an ability you can use it without 
 the item from you learned it, and equip another to enlarge your abilities roster.
  Equipment can be obtained in battle after some quests, but the principal mode is to buy them from 
 shops. For make available a specific equipment in the shops you'll need to send in the bazar the 
 exact loots for the creations. Loots can be obtained after every quest or stole from enemies (stealing 
 armours, helmets and weapons it's no more possible) .
  This type of gameplay results engaging at the beginning, but far in the game become boring when 
 battle after battle you only obtain loot almost useless.
  
  Battle System: 8
  Solid and run-in. The chessboard fighting model is practically perfect, earning of a ten-years 
 experience. Two minor problems afflict the game: battles are too simples (at least at normal level) . 
 The high possibility of customization soon will make your team a reaper's deathly squad unmatch 
 for your poor enemies.
  In the second: touch screen controls are really poor implemented. Personally in those games I like 
 better the old fashioned directional cross, but someone can be disappointed seeing the NDS features 
 poorly utilized. Same can be said for the second screen, used only for a brief statistics of the 
 units.
  Come back even the judges and the restrictions on the battlefield. Laws rules was heavily modified 
 from the prequel. In Final Fantasy Tactics Advance breaking a rule resulted in the removal from 
 the battlefield of the guilty unit and a later detention time far from the clan. Now the judge 
 grants you protections and a bonus you choose at the begin of the battle. If you break the rule 
 your bonus will be vanished and your fallen unit will be chained making impossible a resurrection 
 in the current battle (with Raise or Phoenix down) .
  
  Story: 4
  Real weak point of the game. A normal boy read a blank diary and catapulted in a new and astonishing 
 fantasy world. For came back in the real world he'll must write his story on the diary (in reality 
 a magic Grimoire) completing the blanks pages seeing the magic world of Ivalice and completing 
 quests.
  The plot is pretty poor, even compared with the plot of Final Fantasy Tactics Advance and result 
 shameful against the original game for Psone. moreover the sub quests based gameplay cast in the 
 shadow the struggle (?) of the main character for complete the Grimoire making all pretty boring 
 already after 30-40 hours of game.
  
  Final comment:
  Solid fighting system, involving atmoshpere, and run-in game routines make this game a good strategic 
 and surely a game whorty o playing, but the weak storyline and the eccesive lenghteness of the 
 game took some point from a title certainly valid.
  
  Final votation: 7,5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: king-kill33
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Tactics has always appealed to those gamers who were looking for a FF game with a 
 little extra kick, and let me tell you... this game has it in spades!
  
  It begins with the same typical story, ripped straight from it's predecessor. Luso, a young boy, 
 gets sucked into a magical book called a grimoire, and finds himself in the peculiar land of Ivalice. 
 I'll spare you the torture of the the subsequent happenings, but it's all textbook fantasy from 
 there on.
  
  Luckily for me, and most other players, the story is not where this games strengths lie and is 
 most definitely not the reason I bought it. Unlike other FF games, tactics relies heavily on what 
 it's title would suggest and requires the player to do much more than simply hack n' blast through 
 the enemies. You are given the choice to play as a selection of races (7 in total) with each having 
 a variety of jobs available to them. You can spend hours upon hours just tweaking your party to 
 your liking, or to the current tasks requirement. Each job, as you would have guessed, excels in 
 a different area and it's finding the right balance that is the key to winning. Players can also 
 choose a sub job too, which adds another layer of depth.
  
  To some extent, the races also have their own strategical value too. Gria for instance can fly, 
 and therefore bypass having to climb or being surrounded, while Moogles and Nu Mou cannot enter 
 water so you have to keep all of this in mind. While it is true that a few of the jobs are somewhat 
 pointless or a little silly, for the most part TA2 does a very good job at giving the player as 
 much choice as they could possibly want, and it's this that makes the true strategy RPG fans feel 
 right at home. You choose your race, your jobs, your weapons, your abilities, which quests you 
 do and don't want to do... there are a lot of options and chances to micromanage and it's all offered 
 to you in a very crisp and functional way.
  
  Now, it obviously isn't all as simple as it sounds. During battle you will have to keep many factors 
 in mind. Each unit can move a certain amount of spaces per turn and this is determined part by 
 job and part by equipment. You also have weaknesses and resistances to take into consideration, 
 as well as many other details such as counter abilities, positioning and most importantly the rules. 
 Players of the first GBA title will be no stranger to the judge, except that in this game if you 
 break the law you simply loose your clan privilege and the ability to revive deceased members or 
 obtaining the special item after the match.
  
  Along the way you can pick up new recruits, including some familiar faces as well as compete in 
 auction houses for control of the land. This and many other pace breakers help do exactly that 
 and keep the game interesting and running smoothly. 
  This and the main story missions which are usually accompanied with mini cut scenes and dialogue. 
 It's nothing majorly interesting but it's enough to hold your attention and give your battles minor 
 purpose. 
  
  The game lasts 50 hours plus depending on how many of the quests you wish to accomplish. Completists 
 will find 100 hours plus easily and even more if you want to try your hand at all the available 
 jobs etc... I'm under no illusions that this games is perfect, it's far from it but it builds upon 
 the already brilliant formula and what it produces is a game that is fun, addictive and intricately 
 designed. For all it's flaws it has many areas in which it excels and as far as handheld games 
 go this is a winner. If your looking for something to eat away at your time and to make your mind 
 ticker away then this is your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moca92
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, i could not believe it, a sequel for one of my favorite games 
 on the GBA! At first I couldn't sleep waiting for the game to come, then when I heard it was going 
 to be postponed I almost cried, but I tried to hold on for the next months.
  Then the day finally came and I went first thing in the morning to buy it, finally the moment I 
 had waited so long for! I started to play it and discovered that it was really similar to the GBA 
 game, I didn't care, because I had played the GBA one for more than 100 hours.
  But then something horrible happened, one day I just didn't want to play it anymore, I don't know 
 why or what happened but I got sick of the game, and stopped playing it. I'm not saying its a bad 
 game (its a really great game and if you are an RPG fan you must play it!) but it gets old really 
 fast, so if you have the patience buy it! if you don't then buy another thing. seriously. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruhdezee
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin.... well this is by far the best NINTENDO DS game to date. Hands down. So many features 
 are brought over or improved from the original that i would have gladly payed 60 dollars for this 
 game its that good.
  
  THE GOOD
  
  
  * Amazing length ( lasts for upend to 100 hours )
  *Ridiculous amount of Quests ( ALMOST 400 
 )
  * Likeable cast
  *Amazing party management with easy to navigate features
  *Endless customization
  *Great roster of classes/jobs
  *Enjoyable story
  *improved law system
 
  *Best in series
  
  
  THE BAD
  *Lack of attention to certain races ( GRIA AND SEEQ )
  *Somewhat meaningless sidequests
  *Horrible computer ally AI ( Only a problem on escort missions)
 
  *Clan privileges are a lackluster effort
  *Certain plot lines are left unexplored
  
  Well that's about it. To end on this is by far the best in the series and is a great contender 
 for DS game of the year. In my opinion if you haven't already played this game you have not truly 
 experienced the greatest DS game to date and need to find this game soon!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Emblem_RD
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2008 4:14 am PT
Review:  The Turned Based Strategy genre is dominated by disappointing and shallow titles. Though Final 
 Fantasy Tactics, while having quite a few downs, is in no way disappointing or horrible, although 
 like a few other genres it can be a hit or miss game, that is suited for those whom enjoy the genre, 
 or difficulty.
  
  The thing different with this game is that its quests are enjoyable, and at most times well set 
 out and supported, unlike other TBS's that throw you into the story line, however good, but too 
 complicated, and although the plot is relatively shallow it is enough to not bore you to tears, 
 although gameplay can feel extremely slow or unfair.
  
  And the thing is it builds on the previous installment in every way, graphically, sound wise and 
 its overall elements.
  
  The game in-stead of other final fantasy games does not base its abilities and statistics solely 
 on level or class, such as the fact, you could go from the sword wielding soldier class, to the 
 black mage class, and not be as strong as you would be if you were of a lower level but had stayed 
 on that level for longer, as obviously statistics are altered by your class. But by equipping weapons 
 and equipment, you have the oppurtunity to learn abilities. For example, the basic rod for a Black 
 mage supports the spells Fire Blizzard or Thunder. This then is broken into the fact that you need 
 to complete quests, earn ability points to fill the point requirement for that ability on that 
 weapon. Its actually quite simple.
  
  There are many classes and wonderful characters that inhabit the world of Ivalice, and the game 
 is enjoyable enough that while it has some flaws it still manages to pull it off, creating a thoroughly 
 enjoyable gaming experience. Grimoire of the Rift is a great game, that shouldnt be missed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkadycole
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  As an avid Final Fantasy fan, I've whet my FF appetite with 'spin-off' games ever since I first 
 fell in love with the Squaresoft's initial venture into the the role playing genre with the original 
 Final Fantasy on the NES. Back in my college-dorm-room days, I was pleasantly surprised when I 
 bought Final Fantasy Tactics for the Playstation on the day it originally came out. Two iterations 
 later (plus a remake of the original for the PSP) , FFTA2: GotR is a nice rehash of the original 
 concept of tactical battle-oriented game play and deep character development in the FF world of 
 Ivalice. The ho-hum plot (as with other FFT games) is only there to loosely hold together battle 
 after battle (supposedly around 400 in this outing!) , but hardly compels you to want to find out 
 what happens next to the protagonists. Rather, the true meat of the game lies in the character 
 development. Once again, a staggering number of job classes, determined by character's race and 
 unlocked after completing specific quests, allows for literally hours spent customizing your character's 
 equipment so as to learn new skills and spells. This time, you can also create new weapons and 
 armor through the bazaar system that will be familiar to FFXII fans. The graphics are a notch above 
 the GBA version with some nice spell effects. The music is excellent with many familiar tracks 
 from previous FFT outings. The only main criticism I have is that the battles are exceedingly long, 
 with even the simplest of confrontations averaging an hour or more. However, you need to trudge 
 through these marathon melees to get the Ability Points to improve your characters stats. This 
 fact has given me new appreciation for the DS's standby function, as I find myself closing my DS 
 on a regular basis to break the monotony of 40hp attacks on a 250hp character. Thankfully, too, 
 the Judge's "Law" system has been changed to be slightly more forgiving. All in all, an entertaining 
 game, though and worth picking up if you want a game that will likely take you close to 100 hours 
 to completely get through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilHenry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 6:03 am PT
Review:  I felt compelled to make it clear to anyone who played the previous GBA installment that this game 
 is very, very good. Not only is this version a great improvement on the previous title, it's also 
 one of the best RPG strategy titles ever made.
  
  The infuriating permanent-death element of the GBA release (the Jagd areas) have been removed, 
 there are now 50 unique job types - some of which are very clever and encourage team combos - and 
 a ridiculous amount of unique weapons and armour. I have played this game now for just over 100 
 hours and completed 185 of the 400 available missions. I could have "finished" the game weeks ago 
 but I've deliberately taken all available side quests to avoid it. I'll genuinely miss this game 
 when it's finally complete.
  
  I can only conclude that the people who don't like this game don't have any love for turn based 
 battles. That's fine but not a very helpful source for a review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tubacw
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  This game improves on the first FFTA in almost every way. If you like Final Fantasy and tactics 
 games, this game should be on your wanted list. It will keep you busy for well over 100 hours. 
 The battle systems is simple at first and gains more depth the further you advance into the game. 
 The battles against large enemies give the battle a more epic feel that you often get when fighting 
 huge enemies in other games. The new classes and character specific classes give the game much 
 more depth. The rules with the laws change the feel somewhat, but overall it's a change for the 
 better. It lets you play the game how you want to without worrying about breaking the law. It can 
 get a bit repetitive at times but the characters and plot pull you back in. Overall, a great game 
 and one that will keep me busy for a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yuppitt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  From the second you start up this game, you're drawn into Ivalice alongside your character. The 
 story begins with Luso (You can name him yourself, this is just his default name) getting ready 
 to start summer vacation, when his teacher punishes him for being late to class, sending him to 
 help clean up the library while other students get out at regular time.
  
  Luso travels to the library and finds no one there. He looks around and spots a book that catches 
 his eye. Mysteriously, half of the book is left blank. He writes his name in the book, and is sucked 
 into the world of Ivalice.
  
  FFTA2 instantly became my favorite game. The gameplay is pretty basic and easy to understand. One 
 factor that sets this game apart is the law system. There a series of rules that vary depending 
 on the quest, that you can obey (You don't have to obey it) to gain extra prizes. This proves to 
 be frustrating at this times, but if you can work your around it, you will get rewarded.
  
  As in the previous FFTA game on the GBA, they include the same races, but FFTA2 has added two new 
 races, giving you more variety and more skills to play around with. Also giving you more variety 
 is the hundreds of side-quests to do while you advance the story.
  
  One frustrating thing is the Bazaar. Basically, when you kill monsters, you get "Loot" which is 
 an item dropped by the monster. By sending Loot to the Bazaar, you are rewarded with different 
 types of armors and weapons, depending on what you send in. Since the items dropped by monsters 
 are completely random, it proves troublesome to obtain a few of the armors and weapons.
  
  Overall this is my favorite game I've ever played. It's highly addicting, offers a lot of variety, 
 and it easy to learn the tips and tricks to excel. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Tactics A2 is the sequel to Final Fantasy Tactics on GBA back in 2003, for most fans 
 they had to wait almost 10 years for a sequel. Grimoire is a strategy role-playing game set in 
 the world of Ivalice which is also the same world set around Final Fantasy 12 and Final Fantasy 
 Tactics on PS1 and the remake on PSP. With many missions and jobs to choose from you'll be warpped 
 in for hours. But some fans may feel down by its frustrating law system and steep learning curve.
 
  
  Grimoire tells a tale around a boy named Luso, spending his last day of school before summer and 
 ends up cleaning up the Library. While he is cleaning up he finds an ancient text book with no 
 pages that magically transports him to the world of Ivalice. You are sort of thinking you've seen 
 this before in other films and games where the charcter gets sucked into anathor and finding your 
 way home. When Luso enters the world of Ivalice you'll meet a clan leader called Cid who becomes 
 your mentor and helps you out on your quest. During the game your in a team is called Gully which 
 you command and control, you'll also meet some reconizable charcters like Vaan and Penelo from 
 Final Fantasy 12 who help you out later on in the game.
  
  Gameplay= Through out the game all of your quests you apply are in pubs and pay a small fee before 
 setting out on your quest. During the game you are selecting members to join your clan and you 
 can also switch jobs that have different abilities from other jobs. There are different races like 
 Hume, Viera, Moogles or Bangaas and many more which are not part of the story but eqiuping then 
 with the right can get battles done nice and quick. You are sort of thinking of a chess-strategy 
 game where you can only move one or more steps and attacking your enemies. There is weak stylus 
 controls on the touch scren you'll be using the directional buttons more then the sytlus. Tactics 
 can be abit frustrationing with its law which you'll have to put up with through out the whole 
 game, if you break the law the upper screen will change to the screen pictured jail and if your 
 charcters get KO'd you can't bring them back. At the end of each battle you'll be rewarded with 
 new items if your charcters do not break the law or all your members are alive. You can easily 
 be on this game for hours and not caring about anything esle around. You can also buy and sell 
 items, there is one called Bazaar where can mix items togethor and make new items which could come 
 in handy for when ever.
  
  Graphics and Sound= Grimoire has clear 2D graphics on both screens that affects your unit's grid-based 
 movement area. On the top screen your seeing your charcters seeing who turn is it next to move 
 and viewing enemies strenghs and weakness. The bottom screenis your main view of the screen deciding 
 on where your charcters are going to move or to attack from the front or behind enemies. For most 
 Tactic fans the graphics are abit brighter and improved abit from the GBA version if you have played 
 it. There is not much of CGI cutscenes like you would see in other RPG games but has alot of text 
 and dialog which you'll probably read or skip the texted scenes and get the game done, but don't 
 rush it has a great story.
  Good line of music through out the game some you would reconize from Final Fantasy 12 but remixed 
 in a different way. The composer Hitoshi Sakimoto who worked on other games in the series and recycled 
 several themes from previous Ivalice games. Not much on voicing mostly hearing charcters who get 
 KO'd or attack moves from your charcters or enemies attacks.
  
  Overall= Quite simply a game really worth playing Square Enix has putten a few surprises including 
 a min game where can bid on lands like an auction selling itmes to the highest bidder by useing 
 Clan points. There is also Wireless Multi-Card play where you can trade items with other players 
 who have got a copy of Grimoire and playing this game on a higher difficulty setting. You can easily 
 play through this game more then 75 hours and completing 400 quests on normal. But the first 10 
 or 20 hours you'll master the basic abilities and unlocking new jobs and hiring more members to 
 your clan. For most fans will enjoy Grimoire alot but for other people it may not be your cup of 
 tea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denic98
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  this game sucks you in for hours, you never run out of quests or things to do. theres 2 new races 
 and many more classes and abilities. but in my opinion the best thing the improved upon was the 
 annoying jail system. now instead of hafving to send a unit to jail if they break a law, you just 
 lose your battle privileges and ability to resurect. the battles tend to drag on a little longer 
 than they should and they removed those massive attacks you make those race gods do with the judge 
 points (wich they also removed) . all in all this one seems more streamlined and straight forward 
 than the previous on without sacrificing any depth. you no longer have to fight roaming bandits 
 to take control of an area, you do so in an auction house. it can get a little repetitive sometimes 
 with restricting laws, but if you are a FF fan or just a fan of role playing or tactic games this 
 is definetly worth picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Tactics A2 was one of the games I was looking for, after completing FFXII Revenant 
 Wings, which was amazing. So I popped in the cart, switched it on, and it began chugging away at 
 the game. Tutorial starts... and lo and behold, what a disappointment after that.
  
  Graphics: Below a lot that the DS can handle. Square Enix has demonstrated that they can provide 
 full 3D graphics in a strategy game, which they accomplish in FFXII RW. However, these are plain 
 2D, with no great depth and a little dull. 4/10
  
  Sound: I didn't like this. The themes are classical, sure, but repetitive and they made me turn 
 the DS's sound off. I'm sorry, but it's a 5/10 here.
  
  Gameplay: Ok, so they could have done a lot better here. The story is soppy. I mean, you're a kid 
 that got detention and then you are sent to the library. Ok, you get there, flip open a book, get 
 teleported into Ivalice where you are in danger, join a party of characters, and fight together 
 to defeat all evil. The cut scenes are made up of a terrible and non-consistent dialogue which 
 you'll want to skip. Luso doesn't even realize he's in a different world than his until you flip 
 through like 40 seconds of text!
  
  However, all is not bad, since the game play isn't that bad. The weapons are quite nice, and classes 
 make up for it. Still a little unbalanced and quirky, though. And the percent system is a disaster, 
 because you'll miss many times even if the game says your accuracy is really high! 
  
  The AI... well, don't even get me started here. They are just so stupid that you'll feel sorry for 
 them. No challenge whatsoever. 3/10 here.
  
  Replay Value: After the monotonous story, you'll be able to do some side quests which aren't that 
 exciting at all. Sure, there is a lot of replay value, because there are many of these, and actually 
 they'll take more time than the main story. 6/10.
  
  Resuming, FFTA2 hold nearly nothing that is on the verge of exciting or new. Instead, it present 
 itself as a boring, repetitive RPG with a seemingly broken game play, average sound and bad graphics. 
 Unless you're a die hard fan of strategy games, don't get this. It's overrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_bobert
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  whether its my love of tile based games or the fact that they stuck "final fantasy" in the front 
 of the title makes this game one of my favorite games.
  
  while the touch screen controls could have been much better the music makes up for it, the tracks 
 in the game are the best i've heard from the DS in a long time.
  
  quests can be long so it makes for a good rainy day game and an ideal road trip game.
  
  though 
 the story line isn't as great as expected its still an excelent game
  
  the addition of item quests and unclear tasks can be a drag at times, back attacks make for an 
 interesting twist in tile based gameplay.
  
  easy job changes are more convenient than getting the ability to use new jobs isn't!
  
  with 
 most people saying its too much like the first tactics advance and that its not worth your money 
 i'd love to disagree. if you haven't played its GBA proceeder its worth getting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roboms
Rating: 2
Date: Jul 25, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Here we are again in the world of Ivalice. Only of course this time, like in this game's prequel, 
 we are in the dumbed down kiddy version of Ivalice. Just the fact that this game is set in the 
 same world as Final Fantasy XII and The original Final Fantasy Tactics is a disgrace to both of 
 those games and the world of Ivalice. 
  
  So where do i begin? I guess where any tactical RPG's foundation should be, the story. Only if 
 you want to call this game's story a story, you really have to be generous. You're a school boy 
 in present time i guess, or at least some time similar and far outside of Ivalice in terms of time. 
 You get reprimanded on the last day of school for being late and are forced to clean up the library 
 after school. OH NOOOO! Of course it turns out to be not just your ordinary run-of-the-mill library 
 cleanup job. Instead you get sucked into an ancient looking book that leads to the now mythical 
 world of Ivalice. That's basically the most of story you're going to see in the game. After that 
 its extremely short scenes of horrible dialogue that is rushed along to get to the next battle. 
 When I say rushed along I mean it. It takes Luso (the main character) somewhere around 30 to 40 
 seconds to completely accept the fact that he's in a new world with new races, monsters, and history, 
 depending on how fast you hit the button. A lot of the other story scenes throughout the game consist 
 of flashbacks of former story scenes without the dialogue and in black and white. really, the story 
 is a joke, and and RPG without a story is close to the same thing. 
  
  The main character is a mindless drone constantly doing whatever is necessary to complete a quest. 
 I mean WHATEVER is necessary. I can't tell you how many quests are him coming upon people or creatures 
 in their homes, doing nothing wrong and he just slaughters them because it was posted as a quest 
 in the pub. He even shows that he understands what he is doing is wrong, but it gives you no choice 
 to back away or sort things out, you just murder innocent lives for pay-off. I'm not even exaggerating. 
 All the other main characters of the game are horrible cliche's we see in every single RPG time 
 and time again, only simplified, so they become even worse than a cliche. And as for Cid, I don't 
 even know what he's supposed to be, some sort of goblin man that I think one of the creators' kids 
 must have drawn. if you've seen him you know what I'm talking about. 
  
  Now onto the gameplay. Well, the gameplay isn't all bad. In fact I'll admit that it's highly addicting. 
 Learning new skills through weapons and equipment is something that isn't overdone in RPGs today, 
 so I guess it's a little refreshing, even if it is quite a bit unrewarding. Especially since you 
 find yourself equipping older weapons and armor later in the game to learn skills you didn't have 
 the requirements for earlier. I don't even know why any of the equipment has stats actually, since 
 the stats are pointless if you want to learn abilities. For example you could have an extremely 
 strong sword, but after you learn it's ability you might as well get rid of it since keeping it 
 would only hinder your growing in the game. Also as you progress you learn new classes for your 
 characters, seems cool doesn't it? It's not. Every new class seems to be worse than the last. In 
 fact, the best classes are most of the ones you start with. I can't tell you how many of the later 
 classes I mastered and never used because every ability was just terrible. 
  
  While this game has decent gameplay qualities, there are many aspects which just make me feel like 
 they implemented them just to cover up a lazy job. The percent system is completely flawed, it's 
 a joke really. I can't tell you how many times I missed with a 99% chance of hitting, sometimes 
 2 or 3 times in a row. 99% is more like 85%, 90% is like 60% and 85% and under you might as well 
 not even try, because its a guaranteed miss. I'm not just saying this either, it was proven to 
 me time and time again. Of course the percent system seems to work the opposite for enemies. I've 
 seen them score 40% chance hits on my team time and time again without a miss. 
  
  Now the enemies are completely retarded. I mean it, it seems like they have absolutely no intelligence 
 what so ever. Even guests on your side are quite stupid. For example, they will approach someone 
 on the opposite team who has 1hp left and choose to lower their attack or magic instead of finishing 
 them off. Most of the time I feel like the AI is just trying to prolong the battle, not win in 
 any way. 
  
  This brings me to the last and worst part of all... the law system. This is what made the first 
 FFTA unplayable for me, and in this one while not initially so, ended up causing the same affect. 
 The law system is a joke to me, it takes away from the skill and fun of the game. The laws seem 
 to always negate what make a strategy game a strategy game. For example, monsters that are weak 
 against elements usually make you think and find the element they are weak against to defeat them, 
 but here the law system makes those elements prohibited. Whatever the best way to win the battle 
 is is always against the law. The worst part is that the laws only apply to you. So your enemies 
 can do whatever they want, every single battle. It basically takes away from the potential of the 
 game, and is honestly what I see as a cover up for a terrible AI. the only way to make this game 
 difficult was to implement this feature and it's still pretty easy, just unbearably aggravating, 
 even on hard mode. Now most of the time you can break the law, but once you do so you suffer side 
 affects, the most important being the fact that you can't revive your allies. So even if you don't 
 care about the 3 bonus items that are always horrible that you receive after winning a battle without 
 breaking the law, you have to deal with not being able to revive your allies. 
  
  This isn't some review I decided to write after playing a couple of battles. I logged 75+ hours 
 on this game and after, well, realizing finishing it held no benefit for me at all I decided to 
 write this. I mean, with 75+ hours into this game, i think I only did 6 or maybe 7 story battles, 
 the other 150+ were side quests that are so redundant you will end up wanting to kill yourself. 
 This game hold no skill requirement, no aesthetics in story, and well, little to what turns into 
 no fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Tactics Advance 2 is the direct sequel to Tactics Advance on the GBA, and as such 
 there are certain expectations to be met. The story in the original was a little sparse, and with 
 the increased power of the DS compared to the GBA, a graphical overhaul would be reasonable. It 
 would also seem obvious for the game to feature touch screen control and to make good use of the 
 DS's second screen. Oddly enough, many of these expectations are never met, and many others are 
 met only halfheartedly so. Instead of crafting an entirely new story Square-Enix has chosen to 
 essentially grift the story of the original FFTA, only in the process, the narrative has become 
 even worse. It's still enough to drive the gameplay forward, but barely so, and the original Tactics 
 for Playstation/PSP's story makes FFTA2 seem like an episode of Telitubbies. 
  
  While the story is the biggest letdown, there are a few other surprising omissions worth mentioning. 
 The graphics have been only slightly improved since the GBA edition. The character sprites are 
 the same, although it seems as if some of the environments and spell effects have been improved 
 a bit. The sound fares similarly. It could all be done equally as effectively on the GBA. 
  
  Touch screen controls are available as well, but they are just plain weird. It is impossible 
 to see why one would choose to play with the touch screen over the D-Pad and face buttons. The 
 only meaningful addition to the game that could not have been accomplished on the GBA is the usage 
 of the second screen. The top screen is used to show stats, objectives, laws, and the order in 
 which the characters will act. This serves to remove clutter from the bottom screen, and is extremely 
 helpful when planning an attack in mid battle.
  
  Despite the intuitive usage of the second screen, most of the additions to the FFTA formula in 
 the DS iteration have sort of fallen flat. Why, then, did the game receive such a high score? Simply 
 put, this is still FFTA, and FFTA is quite good. The gameplay is absolutely perfect when played 
 without the usage of the touch screen. The incredible wealth of side missions, addictive depth 
 of the job system, and overall level of polish not only redeem FFTA2 from its blunders, but make 
 it an extremely enjoyable strategy game. New gameplay content has been added in every conceivable 
 way. There are now 400+ missions in the game, which can take up to (or over) 80 hours to fully 
 complete. New jobs have been added out the wazoo, and crafting each character into the perfect 
 weapon has never been more addictive as a result. Finally, the world map is several times bigger 
 than it was in the original, which allows for a greater variety of levels and missions.
  
  When all is said and done, it is a little dissapointing that so little has changed on the surface 
 from FFTA to FFTA2. But look a little deeper, and it will become clear that the most addictive 
 strategy/RPG ever released has just become more addictive. 
  
  Graphics: 7/10: Not too bad, but could have been done on the GBA.
  Sound: 8/10: See: Graphics. 
 This is literally the same music as in the GBA version, but that's not necessarily a bad thing.
 
  Gameplay: 10/10: Really pulls the game together. There are so many systems at play here, it's 
 impossible to cover them all in a review. At the same time, the game introduces new concepts at 
 a managable rate so that even strategy newbies can get into the flow.
  Entertainment: 9.5/10: It's a shame that the story isn't better, but the rest of the game is as 
 entertaining as can be. 
  Overall: 9.25/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: setoru_kun
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  Over the past years, Square-Enix has built up its Ivalice Alliance - several Final Fantasy games 
 that share a common setting, with the original Final Fantasy Tactics responsible for its success. 
 In this review, I take a look at the latest entry in the series, and see how it measures up against 
 its predecessors and criticisms.
  
  I will begin by stating that Final Fantasy Tactics A2 should not be compared in any way to Final 
 Fantasy Tactics (PSX) or FFT: War of the Lions (PSP) . As the name suggests, it is the successor 
 to Final Fantasy Tactics Advance (hence the 'A2') , and is clearly a sequel designed with improvements 
 from the previous game in mind.
  
  Story: 
  Most people agree that the premise of the game is overly generic, and glaringly reminiscent of 
 the movie The Neverending Story. I must agree, as the tale of a young boy that gets whisked away 
 to a fantasy world full of monsters and magic is familiar to anyone who hasn't lived under a rock 
 for the past two decades. The story itself is a carbon-copy of its predecessor, with a few different 
 twists and turns that take a different approach but doesn't speak much in the ways of originality 
 or improvement.
  I would have been much more satisfied if Luso had been a part of the world all along, and just 
 took the Vaan approach of wanting to become the best clansman around. Pokemon-ish, sure, but it 
 works. In his defense and unlike Marche from the previous game, at least he has a personality and 
 decides to have a bit of fun during his tour of Ivalice.
  
  Graphics:
  Square-Enix has almost always delivered excellent graphics that push the limits of each system. 
 This holds true of FFTA2, and the attention to detail is apparent throughout the game. The general 
 lighthearted mood of the game is carried across by its vivid color and art direction. The user 
 interface has a nice, clean look to it; menus don't take up more than they need to and the text 
 is crisp and easy to read. Character sprites, although some do seem recycled from the previous 
 title, are rendered and animated well. Most bosses in fact are large monstrosities that can take 
 up a 3x3 area - a very nice touch, and new to the series. 
  Also new to the Advance series is the addition of weather effects; some maps contain an overlay 
 of rain, snow and even the eerie Mist that we became familiar with in Final Fantasy XII. These 
 conditions animate well and don't bog the game down, but also don't have much of an impact on the 
 gameplay itself or offer any strategic advantages.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game plays exactly like Final Fantasy Tactics Advance, with some great new additions. Gameplay 
 is the core element of any strategy game, and as such will be the most reviewed section.
  The first thing to note is that characters no longer gain experience when attacking or using items. 
 This is to keep the focus on the mission at hand, rather than grouping your forces and whacking 
 each other in a sloppy effort to powerlevel. All characters participating in the battle earn experience, 
 tallied at the end of the fight. However, all members of your clan (in and out of battle) earn 
 a preset level of AP needed to master jobs. Another new addition is the MVP system - characters 
 who outperform will earn additional experience at the end of the battle. This is actually tracked 
 by a growing trophy icon in each character's status screen.
  Landscapes vary accordingly in elevation, giving the player multiple options to consider when moving 
 their characters around the field to close in on the enemy. The lack of any prevalent line-of-sight 
 system dulls the strategic element of positioning your character, though, and there doesn't seem 
 to be any environmental method of boosting your attacks, evasion or hit chance other than simply 
 where you're facing in relation to your enemy. Aquatic terrain seems to be mostly creeks and rivers, 
 never reaching deep enough levels to permit characters from acting. This is where the gameplay 
 fails to deliver an enjoyable strategic approach in my opinion, and could have been looked at a 
 little more closely.
  Occasionally your characters will reach an emotional height, akin to a Limit Break from recent 
 mainline Final Fantasy games. This ability adds itself to the character's available options for 
 one turn only and varies based on where they are positioned; put them next to an enemy and it becomes 
 a guaranteed attack, or group them with allies and you'll be able to barrier or hasten the group. 
 All in all, another nice touch that gives you more options in the heat of battle.
  And yes, the Judge system returns, but with a new facelift. As your clan grows in power, you can 
 participate in repeatable clan trials that will earn you a new title and the benefits that come 
 with it. These trials range in difficulty as do the greatness of the rewards that come with them. 
 While you can change your title with each trial, you keep the benefits associated, extending your 
 list of "privileges" you can elect to use before a battle. Breaking the law (and there is only 
 one law per battle this time around) will result in losing the protection of your judge: which 
 means your chosen benefit, and you will be unable to revive any KOed party members for the duration 
 of the battle. That's all. There's no jail, there's no fines or stat removals. The system is much 
 less harsh than its predecessor. It's not as bad as party members going away for good, like in 
 Fire Emblem.
  
  (Personal Editorial: My rant is that so many reviewers complain about the judging system. I disagree 
 with most, I believe the laws keep players on their toes, and keep the game from getting too bland. 
 It is an element of strategy that isn't seen in other SRPGs, and I appreciate the bold move the 
 developers took to add something new into the mix. At the beginning of every mission, players are 
 given the opportunity when placing their forces to change their classes and redistribute any weapons/skills 
 to fit the need of the laws, level and opponents. If use of Items is banned, drop in a healer or 
 just break the law and live with it. It's not Square-Enix's fault if you don't have a decent healer 
 built, just in case.)
  
  The game world itself is much more expansive, and the player can compete in "yearly" auctions with 
 other clans for control over each province. With control comes added bonuses such as free items, 
 cheaper quest fees, and much more. For the completionist, it is possible to win an auction for 
 every province in a set area - doing so will earn you permanent control over the region. You also 
 earn fun rewards for doing certain achievements in auctions, like how many times you place 2nd, 
 how many times you passed, etc. To sum up the gameplay in a word: Immersive.
  
  Sound:
  The developers hit a high note (no pun intended) with the sound as well. Several familiar tunes 
 return from FFTA and even FFXII, with a good balance of original music, well-performed and pleasant 
 to listen to. The soundtrack this time around is definitely more upbeat, exciting and even epic 
 at points despite a weakened storyline, making battles that much more fun.
  The sound effects are average in comparison; everything sounds the way you would expect. Fire sounds 
 like fire, swords clash on impact and menu confirmations give off a little 'tic' that doesn't get 
 too annoying or repetitive.
  
  Final words:
  -Surprising lack of depth-driven story for a Final Fantasy title.
  -Excellent visuals, but lack 
 of zoom or rotation may upset stylus players.
  -Multiple objectives keep things interesting.
  -Wealth of options and special moves to use in 
 battle, but lack of LOS or environmental elements could limit more hardcore strategy-oriented players.
 
  -Lots of things to do and see: auctions, wealth of quests, and a ton of unlockables for the completionist. 
 
  -Long-lasting value and loads of improvements for fans of the series.
  -Immersive, immersive, immersive. Highly addicting and a must-have for any DS RPG fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendofreak_2
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  FFTA2 is a sequel to the GBA title, Final Fantasy Tactics Advanced. As far as sequels go, they 
 usually aren't much better than the original, if they are at all. FFTA2, however, addresses virtually 
 every problem the original had. The end result? One behemoth of a a game with more play time than 
 the playmate of the year has had with all of her mates. 
  
  
  
  FFTA2's story overall is similar to that of the original's. Luso (the main character) finds a book 
 in a library and is thrown into the world of Ivalice. Luso joins up with a clan withing moments, 
 and his adventure begins. The book does play some significance, though. Luso and Cid (the former 
 clan leader before Luso shows up) believe that filling the pages of the book will end Luso's 'story' 
 in Ivalice and send him back home. Filling in the pages of the mysterious journal requires completing 
 certain missions. 
  
  
  
  It should be mentioned that the story does have some interesting plot twists and overall a darker 
 feel than the original. I can not go into great detail however, as I do not want to spoil anything 
 for anyone. Side quests also branch off into their own game within themselves. Some quests end 
 up chaining into several quests which could serve as their very own game.
  
  
  
  As far as characters go, there's quite a cast. Luso is rather naive and tends to do things without 
 thinking. Cid is a simple man with a deep, troubled past. Adelle, a gifted thief with a knack for... 
 thieving. Finally Hurdy, a bard who more interested in new instruments than one should be. In addition 
 to the standard cast, there are some familiar faces from other Final Fantasy titles such as Vaan 
 and Penelo from FF12 and FF12 Revenant Wings, and Montblanc from the original FFTA. There are, 
 of course, several others that hold some significance, but most supporting characters will not 
 even make an appearance until the end of the game after you have beaten the main game.
  
  
  
  Missions there are a plenty... but what about variety? As far as mission objectives go, 
 most involve simply defeating all enemies or just one foe. Others try to be different, but end 
 up having the player defeating everything just to get rid of the annoying AI and then completing 
 the objective (s) . At the end of a battle, the clan members will acquire their experience and the 
 clan will get their reward. Sometimes a clan member will get an MVP award, making them more likely 
 to succeed in dispatch missions with every additional MVP award. Missions also vary in difficult 
 (obviously) but for different reasons. Some of the laws are just ridiculous in some missions. Some 
 laws forbid things you can't control such as the 'Missing' law or 'No Knockback' (critical hits 
 count as knockbacks) . The main quests are significantly more difficult (although generally have 
 less restrictive laws) , and the last quests are such as step ahead that I usually took a few minutes 
 for most battles until the final quest which took me well over three hours (the final quests is 
 divided into two parts) .
  
  
  
  So the big question is, "Are there still judges in FFTA2?" The answer is, "Yes," but they are nowhere 
 near as annoying. The new law system is much more lax. At the beginning of every battle, you can 
 select a certain bonus, called privileges in the game, that affects the clan such as increased 
 speed or power. This bonus remains as long as the law is not broken. Obeying the law gives you 
 bonus loot (usually nothing helpful though) that can be used to make items (more on that later) . If 
 the law is broken, the clan loses their privilege, bonus items (anything gained during battle from 
 defeated enemies or chests is still kept) , and any fallen allies remain dead until the end of combat. 
 
  
  
  Aside from some unfair laws, the game does have some other issues. Because of the camera view and 
 the terrain, mostly the elevation, players may think that a target is just one or two spaces away 
 but they are actually 4 or 5. Other times where there are no panels present between two pieces 
 of land may have a similar problem because the game automatically brings your cursor to the next 
 piece of land instead of the next block. Some missions can be based entirely on luck as well. Sometimes 
 you will have to kill a certain amount of a specific kind of enemy. The problem is that you can 
 only kill that type of enemy, and there is an enemy cap so the respawn doesn't fill the map with 
 enemies. Sometimes the monster the player needs to kill doesn't respawn, making them either restart 
 their game from the last save or failing the mission and retrying it later.
  
  
  Character classes are much more balanced for the most part. No class is incredibly superior to 
 the other, and several of the best classes from the original have been nerfed. Mixing classes is 
 no much more important than before. Magick based classes have been affected the most. MP now starts 
 at 0, but characters regain 10 MP instead of 5, making the player think twice before using that 
 Ultima attack or healing an injured clan mate and making support characters much more useful. Some 
 classes, however, like the Parvir which can deal out damage like nothing. The most broken class 
 of all is the Ranger. Using Item Lore as a Passive Ability and using a Mirrored X-Potion results 
 in a high accuracy 400 damage attack. So while some classes have been balanced out, others like 
 the aforementioned are just overpowered.
  
  
  
  Moving around on the map has been changed as well, and for the better. The world map now has regions, 
 each region containing smaller areas where quests take place. Moving between regions takes 1 day 
 while moving across an area takes up no time at all. The region with the next main quest will have 
 a blue exclamation mark on the world map to help the player locate the quest (even though the region 
 is displayed in the quest info) . Speaking of quests, there are now what is known as clan trials, 
 which after being completed give or improve certain privileges.
  
  
  
  Even the item shops have been revamped as well. In FFTA, new items were added by simply completing 
 certain quests. In FFTA2, there is a bazaar. The bazaar uses loot obtained from battle that would 
 otherwise be useless and can transform it into a piece of equipment or items which can then be 
 used to learn new abilities provided the equipment has any. Most equipment made in the bazaar is 
 infinite supply, but some more powerful weapons can only be bought once per loot synthesis. Eventually 
 the player will gain the ability to buy chips using CP, which is earned after battle.
  
  
  
  Another way to gain items is through Auction houses. Auctions are held yearly in FFTA2 
 and always hold some rare items that would be difficult to create through the bazaar. Auctions 
 themselves are mini-games where the player uses chips of a different value (and limited supply) 
 to try to end the round with the most chips on the board but still have enough to continue to win 
 in the other rounds, so there is some strategy to auctions. However, to be able to compete for 
 items, the player must first be the master of the region, which means they must win the auction 
 for all of the areas for that specific auction house. 
  
  
  
  The problem with all of these additions is that by the time the player might have began to understand 
 one thing, another thing comes up. Players who have not played FFTA will more than likely be completely 
 lost. There is just so much depth to the game, that the game almost suffers from it. Players of 
 the original will not have many, if any, problems figuring everything out the first time.
  
  
  
  Graphically, FFTA2 is one of the best looking 2D games ever created. Attack and magick 
 animations are amazing and crisp. Landscapes look as though they were painted with a pastel brush. 
 The sprites are not as great looking, but making a good looking 2D sprite is just about impossible 
 with the character sizes FFTA2 has. 
  
  
  
  The sound quality is equally fantastic. Musical scores, while small in number, are some of the 
 best on the DS. Sound effects have been greatly improved as well. The only hindrance to the sound 
 is the quality, or lack there of, of the DS speakers. 
  
  
  
  Final Fantasy Tactics Advanced 2 is one of the longest games ever created. Completing all 400 missions 
 will run the average player around a whopping 150 hours of gameplay. Completing the main quests 
 will only take about 20-30 hours, leaving the length open to the player. While the ride may long, 
 it is certainly enjoyable. With great production values and improving on virtually all the flaws 
 of FFTA, FFTA2 is not only a worthy successor to the original, but it surpasses it in almost every 
 way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TissueShoe
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  Positive: - you'll never run out of things to do - story is nice - very addictive - lots of new 
 jobs and abilities - both screens are used for maximum convenience - new law system is great, but... 
 -
  
  Negative: - actual laws range from rediculous to mind-numbingly stupid - other little annoyances 
 here and there that hurt the experience a bit - the graphics look ok but they're not completely 
 upgraded from the GBA - no multiplayer - 
  
  Final Fantasy Tactics Advance (FFTA) was the defining game for the GBA. Whether you liked it or 
 not, it showed us just how much could fit onto one of those little game cartridges. We've waited 
 four and a half years to get our hands on a sequel, and we FFTA lovers had every right to have 
 sky high expectations for this game. It's not all it could have been considering how great its 
 predecessor was, but it's still a great, addicting game nonetheless.
  
  Grimoire of the Rift's story is fine but not as great as in FFTA. The new main character, Luso 
 Clemens, is really likable and his personality and dialogue make him a memorable and worthy main 
 character. The supporting cast isn't half bad either, with other fun characters like Cid, Adelle, 
 and Vaan that make the story better. The story is similar to FFTA: Luso gets transported into the 
 world of Ivalice by accident through a magic book and he sets out on an adventure to figure out 
 how to get back home. Thankfully he meets some good friends to help him on the way and he gets 
 used to the new world pretty well right off the bat. As he goes along his adventure, he discovers 
 that his journal, magically filling in its own pages telling of what he's done, is his ticket home. 
 When it's filled, he'll return. But near the end of the game, a deeper plot to destroy Ivalice 
 is discovered and this ends up being linked with Luso's way home. It turns out to be pretty good 
 in the long run, but you don't even know what the 'Grimoire of the Rift' (you know, the thing the 
 game is named after) is until about 5 missions before the story's ending. 
  
  FFTA's premise is simple: you pay a fee to take on a mission, you move around on the big map to 
 get to where you need to go, you fight, you clear the mission. Repeat 400 times (for you completion 
 obessessors) . The battles are where a lot of your time will be spent (for obvious reasons) and 
 is where the gameplay occurs (for other obvious reasons) . The grid is viewed from a kind of slanted 
 bird's eye angle, which is neat until you can't see behind a couple units blocking the space behind 
 them, then it's kind of annoying sometimes. You move your guys around in turn-based strategy fashion, 
 beat up the other guys until you defeat your mark or all enemies on screen, and that's it. The 
 battles are hugely enhanced by the vastness of the jobs your characters can take on and the abilities 
 they can learn to be more efficient in battle.
  
  The main thing about FFTA2 is also what makes it live up to its $40 pricetag: it's absolutely huge. 
 With 400 missions to clear and tons of jobs and abilities for your characters to master along with 
 a load of stuff on the side, the game is bigger than what most developers bother to put into one 
 DS game card. If you play until you beat everything, you will have spent well over 100 hours of 
 your life, congrats.
  
  However, not all of your time will be spent in battle. In fact, a large amount of your time with 
 the game will be spent on outside strategies such as figuring out what job to have your character 
 work with, which abilities they'll be learning, and going to the shop. The shop is greatly enhanced 
 by adding a 'bazaar' in which you can exchange three pieces of loot for new weapons, suits of armor, 
 shields, and all that good stuff. You'll definitely be going to the bazaar freqnently to see if 
 your new loot can make you a new item, and it's a nice addition to the game.
  
  The main reason FFTA2 is annoying is because of the laws. In every battle, your nifty little judge 
 will protect your characters from actually dying so long as you obey one single law. This law can 
 restrict you from using a certain type of weapon or magick (it's spelled with a 'k' at the end 
 in the game, kind of strange...) , but it can also restrict you from getting stolen from, dealing 
 more than a set amount of damage, performing actions with a certain type of unit, moving more or 
 less than an exact number of spaces... the list of stupid laws like these just goes on and on, 
 and you'll find that about 50% or more of your battles will be riddled with frustration because 
 of these kinds of laws that either make you feel like you shouldn't be playing to your best abilities 
 or that you should just throw the DS into the wall across the room. I can guarantee you will turn 
 your DS off on impulse and come back to it later several times before you're through with this 
 game, it gets that annoying sometimes.
  
  Thankfully, breaking a law doesn't get you a stat reduction or a ticket to the local jail. Instead, 
 you can't revive KO'd units, you lose your law bonuses at the end of the battle (items and loot 
 given you for keeping the law) , and you also lose your clan priveledge. At the beginning of each 
 battle, you select a Clan Priveledge that allows you to move farther, attack with increased power, 
 regenerate HP every turn, or other nifty little things like that. It's a really cool feature, but 
 it's really damaged by the fact that you'll be breaking the law in about half of your battles because 
 you either don't care or can't do anything about it. This is the main thing that will make people 
 not want to continue playing the game, but if you can look past this you'll have a great time.
 
  
  FFTA2's graphics are both updated and not updated at the same time. The maps look no different 
 than they did back in the GBA days, and neither do the character sprites. However, the attack animations 
 have recieved a true DS upgrade, and there are a few that look pretty stunning but otherwise they 
 look just fine. Overall, the visuals aren't up to par with the DS's standards but they don't look 
 bad.
  
  The sound here is nothing too great. The music is pretty good and fits the game pretty well, and 
 tunes from the GBA game make a return occasionally which makes it cool for people who played that 
 game. The sound effects are ok, not annoying but not particularly cool. But whenever a mission 
 is finished, you hear some random kids screaming "Yay!" or "Aww!". This is annoying sometimes and 
 definitely could have been done without.
  
  Working with the DS's unique layout has done much good for the game. Both screens are used for 
 your maximum convenience, and things that bugged you in the GBA game can't bug you any more, because 
 rather than going back to your characters' abilities to see if they've mastered something, it'll 
 tell you if you've mastered it on the top screen as you're scrolling through weapons, making equipping 
 much more convenient. In battle, the bottom screen shows the grid and the action while you can 
 look to the top screen any time to check the law, clan priveledge, and who will get the next moves. 
 Both these uses of the top screen are great and make you feel like the whole thing is much better. 
 There are also touch controls to use at any time, on the map, menus, or in battle. However, you'll 
 likely stick to the regular controls because the touch control isn't worth the hassle.
  
  The big hit against FFTA2 is the lack of multiplayer. I was thoroughly disappointed at this. Come 
 on, this game is BUILT for multiplayer and online! Trading items and characters and helping your 
 friends do better in the game and battling and all that stuff would have been awesome! They had 
 it in the GBA game when you needed a stupid link cable, and now that it's on the DS with wireless 
 and online they cut it!?! Why? It's perfect for the game and the system and takes away a lot from 
 us, and it would have pushed it above and beyond into being a much better game, but nope. And I 
 don't count getting a raffle ticket after connecting to another DS and exchanging it for an item 
 I already have multiplayer, by the way.
  
  Overall, FFTA2 is a sequel that isn't as good as its predecessor, but it's still a great game. 
 You'll be addicted from start to whenever you feel like getting on with your life, and you'll most 
 likely never finish it. Being such a huge game, it's well worth your $40, but you do need patience. 
 If you can take time to look past the annoyances it brings and stop lamenting the lack of multiplayer, 
 Grimoire of the Rift will be a rewarding game that you'll undoubtedly enjoy and play for a very, 
 very long time.
  
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 7
  Sound: 7
  Value: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thugnuts07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Tatics has always been a fun game ever since the first one. There latest installment, 
 Final Fantasy Tactics A2, adds new jobs along with 2 new races. The Seeq, which was a race in Final 
 Fantasy 12, and a never before seen race the Gira. The story line of the game isn't very strong 
 but it is still an intresting one. The jobs are intresting and follow the formula of Final Fantasy 
 Tactics Advanced which involves using a weapon to gain a skill for your job. Also you only start 
 out with a samll amount of jobs. You must gain a certain amount of skills in a job inorder to unlock 
 another job. and you may need multiple skills in multiple jobs inorder to unloack a job. I like 
 this aspect but other might not. The oinly thing i did not like was doing quest to unlock jobs. 
 Other than that it is a very solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LrdofArmageddon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  POINT OF GAME: Basically a RPG/Strategy game here, folks. Customize your clan as the new FF Tactics 
 protagonist (default name: Luso) and waste no time entering the fray of combat. Use new weapons, 
 jobs, races and abilities to gain your way to victory as you quest for a way to leave Ivalice and 
 return to your home.
  
  GRAPHICS (10/10) : Excellent art detail. Graphics for this strategy game are wisely kept to the 
 graphical standpoint of the first Final Fantasy Tactics Advance, while making some slight changes 
 in detail. The character animations are the same, but with a few additions that make the units 
 look more nice and animated. The environments are artful and very creative. Attack animations look 
 really good.
  
  SOUND (10/10) : The musical soundtrack is very nice, I love it. For those of you who have played 
 the first FFT Advance, you'll notice it's familiar tunes are remixed in this game, as well as the 
 addition of a few new tunes for the game. The sound effects are nice, sharp and sound really cool. 
 No spoken dialogue, all restricted to text... but it works well. The most common time you'll hear 
 voices is when a unit is KO'd.
  
  CONTROLLING AND PLAYABILITY (8.75/10) : The regular controls are pretty good, however, don't even 
 bother with the stylus controls. Just stick to regular button controls. The lack of camera rotation 
 is kind of offsetting. Some of the menus in the game have confusing controls that require some 
 time to work with, but you'll get used to it. But overall, the rest of the game's playability is 
 good.
  
  ENTERTAINMENT (9.25/10) : I have to agree with many professional reviews on the story. It does kind 
 of suck, but it's far from unbearable and does have numerous moments of glory. The real-charm of 
 this game is the combat, customization of units, lengthy main quest, numerous side quest and many 
 secret characters to unlock. The addition of two new races and more jobs adds to the entertainment 
 as well. However, I have to criticize that some of the laws are really restricting and just unfair 
 (for example: "no dealing over 50 damage" or "no missing." WTF?!) , but at least breaking the laws 
 won't be as much a pain in the ass as it was in the first FFT Advance. Instead of going to jail, 
 you just loose your clan privilege and you don't get law-obeying reward items.
  
  REPLAYABILITY: 3.5 out of 5
  You'll spend so much time trying to beat it 100% that you won't 
 care that much for a replay. But that's what makes the game's entertainment more fun and seemingly 
 endless.
  
  THE GOOD: The graphics are impressive and the majority of the game's playability is good. The real 
 charm of this game is the seemingly endless amounts of missions and battles that test your skill 
 in making the best combat units. You can customize your units in your clan in whatever way you 
 want and there are numerous way to do it. This game is entertainment for hours on end.
  
  THE BAD: The story is kind of lame and some of the laws are frustratingly restrictive. The stylus 
 controls are just plain lame, but thankfully not necessary. The lack of camera rotation is a big 
 error and some of the menu controls take a while to get used to.
  
  THE BOTTOM-LINE: This is a great game, fit for any strategy game fan and any RPG fan. There are 
 rare occasions where a Final Fantasy game comes out that sucks... however, this game isn't one of 
 them! With the endless ways to battle and customize your clan, the numerous missions and side quests, 
 this game will keep you occupied for a long time. However, the story is a little bad and there 
 are a few things amiss with the controlling and playability. However, I cannot deny that this is 
 one of the best DS games out there and it was well worth the $40 I spent for it.
  
  FINAL SCORE (PERSONAL) : 9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HavQ-san
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  Some say it's too much like FFTA. But then again, it's like the second bag of candy isn't as good 
 as the first one.
  It has more jobs and races than the first one, giving you more options and combinations. The battle 
 system is the same, however some actions and their capabilities have been changes, which makes 
 it harder to get used to, even for vets.
  There are also many side quests, which you can obtain more items, even jobs and characters with.
 
  Another factor is the law. In FFTA, you have 3 laws (special rules) that you have to obey. They're 
 usually something like 'No Items' or so on.
  But in FFTA2, you only have one law, and if you uphold it, you gain certain advantages in and after 
 the battle, like more Attack power as long as you don't break the law, and bonus items after the 
 fight. These laws, however, are insane. For example, one law says 'Missing with an action is forbidden' 
 or 'Getting hit by status problem is forbidden'. There's no way you can uphold those laws until 
 end of battle.
  The storyline is quite lame. The main character must simply experience things to get back home 
 from the world he got into through a magic book. Plain and simple. Yet stupid.
  Your characters learn abilities from equipped items, with the Ability Points earned from battle. 
 Although you can only put out a maximum of 6 characters in a fight, all the characters in your 
 clan gain AP.
  However, EXP is only awarded to those who participated in the battle, which leaves many characters 
 low-leveled.
  Anyhoo, if you like strategy RPG's, you simply have to get this. Especially if you liked FFTA.
 
  
  The Good:
  + Many races and classes to choose from
  + Soundtrack
  + A massive selection of 400 quests
  + Many elements of gameplay and character growth
  
  
 The Bad:
  - Hard to get the hang of
  - Progresses slowly
  - Annoying laws
  
  The Decription:
  Still a must have strategy RPG for any of the genre's or series' fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demontium
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Although the original GBA version took place in a fantasy world called Ivalice it wasn't the 'real' 
 Ivalice from Final Fantasy XII at all, but a dream world based upon it. Like its GBA predecessor 
 this starts in the non-Final Fantasy world location of St Ivalice but has you magically transported 
 to the actual fantasy Ivalice, where you get to meet characters from previous games like Vaan, 
 Penelo and Seeq. If you can imagine anything more confusing than that as the background set-up 
 you're probably not safe to be around open flames.
  
  The preposterously convoluted plot and ancestry of Final Fantasy Tactics A2: Grimoire of the Rift 
 is all the more ridiculous because the actual gameplay is clearly aimed at being a simplified introduction 
 to the world of strategy role-players. And in this capacity it works excellently well, being far 
 easier to grasp than Disgaea and the other Nippon Ichi games or even the 'proper' Final Fantasy 
 Tactics.
  
  The basics are largely the same, though, as you order around a squad of half a dozen or so different 
 characters on small isometric, grid-based, levels. Combat is turn-based but instead of the usual 
 chorus line routines of traditional role-playing games you have to manoeuvre your troops around 
 the map taking advantage of terrain, the direction enemies are facing and the fact that you can 
 only move a few grid spaces per turn.
  
  The only real complication is the Judge system, where each battle is restricted by an apparently 
 random set of rules such as not using fire or distant attacks. If you keep to the rules you'll 
 earn some bonus items at the end and get to use a stat boosting clan privilege. If you don't, you 
 won't be able to resurrect characters during the current fight. It's meant to add variety but it 
 just comes across as arbitrary and a bit silly.
  
  For the first few hours or so that really is all you need to know, as you slowly level up your 
 characters, kitting them out in an easy to use shop that goes out of its way to make it clear what 
 advantages and disadvantages each new item or weapon has. Each new battle is selected from a list 
 of quests in a pub, much like Final Fantasy XII. There is a world map but apart from shops and 
 pubs you can't visit anywhere there isn't a battle going on at.
  
  With a total of 57 different jobs for your characters to specialise in this is almost as complex 
 as the other FF Tactics games at times, although learning new skills depends as much on having 
 the right equipment as anything else. Anything specialised has to be swapped for loot at a bazaar, 
 but said loot is doled out randomly by Grimoire of the Rift when you defeat bad guys. Since there 
 are no random battles this means you have far less choice than it first appears, as you impatiently 
 wait for the right loot to appear.
  
  The business of managing your clan is less frustrating, as you try to increase your area of influence 
 in order to attract new members via a sort of eBay-style bidding mini-game. You get certain stat 
 improvements for particular areas you hold, while improving your clan's negotiation or teamwork 
 skills can help either in combat or in money off when taking on a quest.
  
  Although the bazaar is a pain everything elese generally works just as you'd hope, although battles 
 do always seem slightly more long-winded than they need to be. The 2D graphics are generally excellent 
 but it's often difficult to make out a particular grid space when characters are bunched up. Since 
 the graphics are all two-dimensional you can't rotate the screen as you can on  whisper it  the 
 PSP.
  
  In terms of using the DS, the stylus control system is far too fiddly and you'll instantly default 
 to using the D-pad and buttons instead. There doesn't seem to be much use for the top screen either, 
 with the few bits of information it shows never proving especially vital. The music though, is 
 uniformly excellent.
  
  None of these problems are ruinous to the overall experience but it does ensure this never becomes 
 more than an introduction to the genre, rather than a definitive title within it. The inconsequential 
 story and bland characters are a million miles away from the consistently amusing Disgaea, which 
 also has the advantage of deeper combat. In fact, the only thing the Nippon Ichi game doesn't have 
 over Final Fantasy Tactics A2: Grimoire of the Rift is accessibility, so enjoy it as a starter 
 and look forward to the main course that is Disgaea DS later in the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decreebass
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Great game, but almost exactly like it's predecessor. I am only at the beginning of this one, and 
 I never got too far in the original for advance, but this one is equally addicting when I allow 
 myself the reckless abandon necessary for an Army nursing student to play. I also bought the guide; 
 i hate missing stuff; this is probably why I don't get too far because I'm reading then playing, 
 reading then playing... Anyway, good music so far, similar graphics, similar gameplay, but with 
 two screens, it makes shopping for equipment a pleasure, not a comparing and stat checking nightmare. 
 Also, it has a hard difficulty level setting, which most would agree that the Advance version was 
 WAAAAAyyyyyyyy too easy compared to the original on PS. Definitely worth the price to be in a fan's 
 game library :)
  
  Jason 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zehydra
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  While the storyline may not be as good as the first game, there are many changes, and add-ons that 
 have created a very addictive sequel to what I considered, the best game for Game Boy Advance.
 
  
  Add-ons - 2 new races plus new classes for each race
  - much bigger map
  - clan benefit at start at battle
  - some new songs, but excellent sound quality
  
  Positive 
 Changes - The Bazaar (You now need to collect items to construct weapons at the Bazaar) I consider 
 that a good change, since it will randomize the timing of when certain weapons become available.
 
  - Everything (or so it appears so far) is more expensive. Buying things was way to easy, as in 
 the original, I always had a stock of 99 phoenix downs and 37 dash boots.
  - Dispatch missions are optional!
  - Breaking the law gets rid of your ability to revive any 
 downed teammates. This is a very good one I thought, as it provides the battle with a reason not 
 to break the law.
  - Laws are much better.
  - Fairly awesome effect graphics
  
  Negative Changes - Laws no longer affect everybody, only you, because the way the game works, the 
 judge is there for you instead of making sure you obey the law. You now have to consider the judge 
 as a safeguard from death.
  - No jagds (At least so far, I could be wrong)
  - It is more difficult to find new clanmates
  - It takes awhile before you see really any new 
 classes or races
  - Practically no update to the sprites of characters in battle.
  - Storyline was much better in FFTA1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyCowM
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit from the outset, this is a team tactics game, nothing more. The story is pretty thin, 
 the characters aren't well fleshed out, and there isn't really much more to the game than developing 
 your team of characters and fighting a variety of enemies in the classic tactics 3-D cubic territory.
 
  
  If you expect more, you'll be disappointed, because that's literally all there is to it. If you 
 love tactic combat though, it's a fun, very entertaining game, with some hidden humor, clever character 
 and monster design, vibrant colors, and easy to use combat system. 
  
  Some of the battles are simple smash-fests as you wade through enemies, with dual swords and spells 
 that target every monster on the screen. Other combats are surprisingly challenging, with enemies 
 working together to heal each other and teaming up on your weaker members. 
  
  The Judge system adds an extra layer of challenge, as you will have rules to follow on each board 
 such as never ending a move next to another unit, or avoiding use of any elemental spell or weapon. 
 Completing the battle without violating the map's law will earn you a bonus prize, and will keep 
 an in-combat advantage active as long as you obey the rule.
  
  It's rather simple, and there's not much to the game except the class development and outfitting 
 of your units, and the turn-based tactical combat, but those elements are very enjoyable and offer 
 a surprising amount of depth. If you loved Final Fantasy Tactics for the Playstation, this game 
 is more of the same. 
  
  One particularly awesome element of this game is the play time. I have over 50 hours played, and 
 I'm just over half way through the main quest. Doing all the side missions and taking time to plan 
 your character's development make this game well worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  For those that played FFT Advanced, this game is very similar. You are a boy doing his normal thing 
 in the world, and he somehow stumbles upon a book, seeing that half the pages are blank he wonders 
 what is going on and suddenly finds himself in another world. You are thrust right into battle 
 with a clan, and the story proceeds from there in the traditional Tactics style.
  
  Gameplay 9- Battles are well done, laws are finally not as annoying or punishing as before. And 
 there is an interesting system for making items with the Bazaar, along with many other improvements 
 over the first game. However the two glaring issues is that you cannot rotate the battlefield, 
 which makes things hard to see from time to time. The other issue is that the very system which 
 is fun for item making, will also leave some classes high and dry in he amount of skills they can 
 learn, due to the fact that you dont have the right components for making that type of item. Classes 
 are good and there are more than ever before.
  
  Graphics 9- Gorgeous 2D brought to life with the help of the DS.
  
  Sound 9- Sound effects 
 hail from the older days of gaming, but the music really shines.
  
  Replay Value 8- This game is easily playable for weeks. However it is really sad Square more or 
 less completely removed the multiplayer that the original had. All that is left is some 'voucher' 
 trading thing between players, and you can use those to trade in for items.
  
  Fun Factor 8
  
  My Final Score 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snaggleoooo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 2:56 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Tactics Advance 2 picks up where the original Tactics Advance left off. Not a huge 
 amount has changed, but if you, like me, were a fan of the original, that's not a bad thing at 
 all.
  
  The storyline is similar to the original. A young kid, Luso, finds a magic book that sucks him 
 into the Final Fantasy world of Ivalice. The aim of this story is to find his way home. Supporting 
 Luso are Cid, the leader of the Clan Luso joins, Adelle, a young thief with more power than she 
 knows and Hurdy, a moogle minstrel and brother to Montblanc, Marche's companion from the original 
 Tactics Advance. Just to make sure we know we're in the real Ivalice, Vaan, Penelo and Al-Cid, 
 all from the Ivalice of FFXII, drop by to lend a hand.
  
  The main differences from the first Tactics Advance are the Judge system and the job choices. The 
 law system of the original was one that every player had a love-hate relationship with. It made 
 sense, but boy it was a pain if you forgot the law. Characters got sent to jail, which hammered 
 your party, especially in the early game. In this game, the law system rewards rather than punishes. 
 If you break a law during battle, all you lose is a few items at the end and your clan privledge, 
 which aren't huge losses at all. I dislike the dumbing down of the law system, but it's a minor 
 thing. FFTA2 has been bettered by the huge addition of jobs for your characters. With over 50 jobs 
 for the 7 races, customisation gives you the ability to do what you like. Ever wanted a team of 
 quarterstave weilding Bangaa, you've got it. What about a Seeq who can set traps around the battlefield, 
 again, it can be done. It's great! Although some of the jobs are to be avoided, you can customise 
 a character and team any way you like.
  
  The gameplay is very similar to the original, with characters placed on a grid where they have 
 turns depending on their speed, move around and attack with various weapons and abilities. Just 
 think of it as chess, but with far more violence and magic. The graphics and sound have improved 
 from the original, with magic spells both looking and sounding impressive and melee attacks given 
 audio that actually makes the hits sound painful. Battlefield tracks are both new and reused from 
 both the original Tactics Advance and FFXII. They all do very well to get the scene of such an 
 entertaining game.
  
  If you enjoyed the original Tactics Advance, you're in for more of the same. Not that I'm complaining 
 at all. If you've never played one before, give yourself a chance and play it, you won't regret 
 it. Final Fantasy Tactics Advance 2 is the best strategy RPG you can buy and is a worthwile addition 
 to the great Final Fantasy label. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:06 am PT
Review:  It took me just one week to rack up over fifty hours on this amazing game.
  
  We've all played the original Final Fantasy Tactics Advanced for the GBA, right? We've all fallen 
 in love with the job systems, graphics, races and lovable characters.
  
  Well, lets add two new races and a crap-load of new jobs to the mix.
  
  Sounds like fun, huh?
 
  
  Your name is Luso Clemens, a "problem child'. Summer vacation is just beginning and you're eager 
 to leave, but your teacher, Mr. Blair, commands you to clean the library for arriving late to class 
 for the umpteenth time. You're suppose to meet the librarian, Mr. Randell (sounds familiar?) , but 
 he isn't there. An old book on the table catches your eye and you open it. All of the pages are 
 blank save one that reads: "One is fated to fill these barren pages. Know you his name?". Not being 
 one to pass up the chance to write on school property, you scribble "Luso"
  
  And the adventure begins.
  
  Final Fantasy Tactics Advance: Having the game cartridge in when 
 you start a new game on A2 earns you the clan privilege Libra which... casts 
  libra (duh) at the beginning of a battle.
  
  Adjudged: Clans swear an oath to a Judge and thus, 
 they cannot truly die in battle.
  
  Auction Houses: Remember the turf wars? Well, they've calmed down quite a bit, turning into something 
 a bit tamer. In auction houses, you bid tokens , and whoever has the most tokens at the end of 
 a session, claims owner ship to that area. Three or four areas can be won at each auction house. 
 Of course, once you've gained possessing of all of the areas in a single auction house, items become 
 available.
  
  Bazaar: Trading in materials that you've acquired in battle results in new weapons and armor added 
 to the inventory of stores. Some items stay up for grabs forever whilst others require that you 
 turn in the materials every time you want to buy the piece of equipment.
  
  Clan points: CP weren't really used much in FFTA, but in A2, they're used to buy tokens for bidding 
 in options and for accepting clan trials.
  
  Clan Trials/Titles: There are four skills that a clan possesses, rather than the original eight: 
 Adaptability, Negotiation, Teamwork and Aptitude. Completing clan trials earns you new titles and 
 clan privileges. The former gains points towards the four aforementioned skills and the latter 
 are used in battle. 
  
  Clan Privileges: From extra oomph in your attacks to faster movements, clan privileges can only 
 be used by the adjudged.
  
  Laws: Rather than be stuffed into a cramped cell when you break a law, your Judge abandons you 
 and you lose your clan privilege for the remainder of the battle. Unfortunately, the law can be 
 tough and unforgiving. In example, 'Receiving Debuffs' (slow, poison, ect) you can't exactly control 
 the NPC characters... 
  
  Scions: I suppose these manifestations of power replace the Totemas. You need an item of power 
 to summon them and said items must be equipped to a unit. Since there are no JP, you can summon 
 a Scion once your Smash Gauge is full.
  
  Smash Gauge: You see that bar on the side of the box that shows your unit's picture, HP, MP, level 
 and such? It tends to fill up with blue-yellow-green energy when you hit people. If the energy 
 is yellow-red, you're ready to summon.
  
  All of your clan info including amount of units in your clan, level of skills, accepted/finished 
 quests, turf and clan title are displayed on the top screen whenever you're on the main map. Unfortunately, 
 there isn't any wifi  _  which seems to be a trend with Square Enix's games as of late. Also, one 
 would expect a great cutscene at the beginning of the game, but it just skips to the main menu 
 O. o
  
  Overlooking those minor flaws, this game is AWESOME and totally worth the $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilledcactus
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  I waited for a longtime for this game hoping it would be amazing. When I saw gamespots review for 
 the game I was amazed. A 7.0. I got the game anyways to see if it really deserved a 7.0. It doesn't. 
 FFTA2 is better then I had expected in every way. 
  I hear lots of coplaints about the battle system. It takes too long, its restrictive, its not fast 
 paced enough. NEWS FLASH: YOU ARE PLAYING THE WRONG GAME. This is a strategy game. Battles dont 
 involve running around killing mindlessly. Instead, you actually have to use that rock in your 
 skull called a brain. Have you ever played chess? That game takes forever to play, but people who 
 play chess dont complain about that "battle" taking to long. Once again, this is a strategy game. 
 During strtategy game battles, you have to think about your move. You dont run around killing people 
 while holding the attack button down. Thats what halo is for. The thought that battles are restrictive 
 is BULLcrud. LAWS ARE OPTIONAL. THANK GOD. If you dont like the law, then dont follow it. Theres 
 no longer a time with 3 laws in afffect at the same time either. If you do decide to follow the 
 law, you get rewarded with a few items.
  As far as items go, if you put the strategy part of the game into items, you would never complain 
 about the item system. If you dont have any mages, dont buy a staff or rod. AMAZING. Now you can 
 use those items to get excalibur for your palidan. If people didn't just buy everything on the 
 bazaar they could, they could have more of what they want sooner. In FFTA, there were 3 times when 
 a store upgrade occured to allow you to get more weapons. You didn't need most f the weapons those 
 store upgrades offered. Now, you control when you get the weapons you want so you dont have 50 
 million rapiers when you dont have any class that uses them. This is part of the strategy game, 
 using your brain to your advantage. If you use your brain, you can have a ninja with double wield 
 before 3/4 of the game is over now. 
  Quests are no longer month based. The available quests dont trade with other quests at the end 
 of each month anymore. Now thay are day based. Each quest is available for so long then dissapears 
 for so long. No more waiting for a year to get the quest you wanted to appear again. Also, there 
 is no longer a limit to the number of available quests. The new system for clan turf is much better 
 and somewhat entertaining. Its also an easy way to get good items soon once you become region champion. 
 
  The game now tells you how to become a certain class. No more learning random skills to try and 
 unlock a class. It tells you how many skills with which classes you need to unlock a certain class. 
 Some classes aren't available until certain quests are beaten which is nice. The game makes you 
 earn the right to be some of the strongest classes. Assassins and summoners are no longer the only 
 classes requiring you to go through basic and advanced classes to unlock. The only thing class-wise 
 I disaprove of is needing to become a bishop before you can be a templar. However, since defenders 
 are better then templars now, I stick with being a defender. 
  In short, this game lets you control the flow of the game, the strength of your clan, the turnout 
 of missions, and just about everything. But like all the good strategy games, its being dissed 
 because it requires an IQ greater then the one needed for holding the attack button while running 
 around aimlessly. This game is a success on all levels and is by far the greatest game I have ever 
 played. Just use your brain and this game will be the best game you have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soilworkcob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 10:36 am PT
Review:  I've only played for an hour or 2, however, in that space of time I've experienced fun, immersive 
 battles, and a taste of the depth of the character customization! Over 50 jobs, people! Can you 
 believe that!? This is a great time-sink if you're really looking to play a great tactical RPG 
 that will immerse you!
  
  Here I'll break it down to you:
  
  Graphics: Wonderful 2 dimensional graphics that is the best I've ever seen in a 2 dimensional game.
 
  
  Music: The music is good, I haven't heard any really great songs that I'd be humming to myself, 
 but then again it's still good.
  
  Gameplay: The game has over 50 jobs, man! I cannot wait to start unlocking them and learning their 
 skills.
  
  Story: The story thus far has been kept simple. You're trying to find a way home.
  
  Anyways, 
 I would recommend this game, I still have a lot more to play, but so far it's a fun game that you 
 can really get into if you're a fan of tactical RPGs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Man this game is waaaaay to complicated to do in-depth review about so im gonna go with a the good, 
 the bad, and the ugly version.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  -Great graphics
  -Good sound
  -Awesome improvement to XP/AP system that lets you train your entire clan super easy
  -Great 
 Stories/Dialogue/Back History. All the missions have really cool stories behind them. I really 
 love it when games use in-game filler to explain why stuff has changed from the past game.
  -New races and new jobs
  -Awesome User Interface. All the information you want to see is layed 
 out super well and if you dont see something you want to see your only one button press away from 
 that info. Soooo much better than A1.
  -The Auctions or atleast the reason for them.
  -The Bazaar. The weapon crafting system from FF12. I love making weapons and armor from the stuff 
 i kill!!!
  -Laws! Now you only have to follow 1 at a time but they are set for each mission. Breaking them 
 has no serious consequences only inconveniences and thats only by choice. Like I choose to restart 
 battles in which i break laws because I want extra AP to master skills faster but you could just 
 as easily take a small amount and move on to the next.
  -Length and Replay value. This game can be long or short depending on how you play but with the 
 ability to redo free missions over and over again the game doesnt ever end really. It   you. 
 
  
  THE BAD:
  
  -The Bazaar!! lol. Whoever came up with what monsters would carry what loot and at what point in 
 the game was a retard because you some of the races and jobs that you have EARLY ON are impossable 
 to make weapons and armor for until you get crap LATER in the game. So you dont get abilies or 
 jobs that you want when you want them or need them. But its not super bad all you have to do is 
 advance the game and do more missions.
  -Alot of animations in the game were changed and some are cool but others suck, Some of the animations 
 get shared between 2-3 attacks and it looks like a cheap sloppy way to save time.
  -Atleast 1 attack is broken and doesnt match its description.
  -Some of the Laws get triggered 
 by situations in which they shouldn't. Like "No Distance attacks" can be trigger by just critically 
 hitting the guy next to you which pushes him back. Or worse when you are hit by a status ailment 
 and totally lose control of your guy and they violate the law and you still get blamed for it. 
 
  
  THE UGLY:
  
  What irks me off the most about this game is that the FF Victory song is completely missing. If 
 your an old schooler then that song is practically burned into your head from all the FF games 
 it has been in. Nothing makes me have the warm fuzzies more than hearing that song. It would have 
 been so awesome to hear it after every freaking mission or story mission. *crys on the inside*
 
  
  I would easily recommend you buy this game. It can get pretty boring. You battle, change gear cuz 
 you mastered something, check bazaar to get new gear, fight again... rinse and repeat. I am dieing 
 to finish this game so I can chuck it in the corner and never touch it again or atleast for many 
 many years but I am playing each and every mission I can in the game because I like all the little 
 stories and stuff. I only advance the main story when i run out of free missions to do.
  
  Anyways good luck and have fun and remember.... What happens in Ivalice, Stays in Ivalice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marshal157
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  A lot of reviewers have stated that this game has barely changed since the excellent FFTA. I'm 
 not going to argue that fact, because it definitely hasn't. I've never really been into FF, but 
 I enjoyed FFTA immensely, and I've always been looking for a similar game to fill the void after 
 I was done. Needless to say, Grimoire does so perfectly. The gameplay is pretty much the same, 
 but that's the best part to me. The job system remains a big strength, and uncovering new jobs 
 and abilities is pretty exciting. One thing I don't like is the main character, but there's nothing 
 we can do about that. In all, if you enjoyed FFTA, be sure to pick this up.
  
  Pros:
  -Highly addictive turn-based strategy
  -Cool jobs and plenty of moves to master
  -A lot of 
 stuff to do
  -Overall feeling of accomplishment and fun
  
  Cons:
  -No big changes, if that's what you're looking for
  -Story and characters are pretty weak
  
 -The main character... his appearance says it all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qualbert
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 9, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  Absolutely fantastic, i loved the first one but i completely adore this one, i know i'll spend 
 another 100 hrs playing..
  
  No idea whatsoever of why gamespot would give an average rating to this game, it's possibly the 
 most fun ds game i have!
  Such wonderful graphics all colourful and bright.
  The music score was amazing, actually sounded like it was being played by an orchestra. I could 
 just sit there during a battle and listen to the music, i also can't believe there's an official 
 soundtrack!
  The difficulty was just right
  The battle type was unique
  The story was deep
  
  However: The stylus controls were horrible (but as if it matters)
  
 Some battles were really long (but that just means more gameplay)
  But the worst of all the thing in the whole game was whenever you verse an opponent with a weakness 
 the judge usually bans that type of move.
  
  Overall it was a great game and was well worth my 40$ hahaha i got it for 40 intead of 70 hooray! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJBlaney0
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  This is an amazing game. You can spend days of play time putting together an infinite amount of 
 possible team makeups. The battles never get boring because your characters abilities as well as 
 the abilities of the enemies are always changing.
  
  This game has everything that a good final fantasy game should have. A good plot, great battle 
 dynamics, ever changing environments, days of playtime, hundreds of side quests and almost limitless 
 possibilities for upgrades and team composition.
  
  I hope that Gamespot will maybe review it's negative review of this game. A '7' just does not do 
 this game justice by any means. I find the stylus annoying for some games, and think that it shouldn't 
 have to be used for every game, but it should be there as an option. A great game shouldn't be 
 docked points because it doesn't use the stylus. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YukiSan
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  If you played Tactics Advanced and loved it and wish you had more, A2 is a great place to jump 
 back in. It is bigger and better than the last with plenty to offer and tons of game play. I don't 
 see anything to complain about. A worthy Square-Enix tactical game.
  
  More Jobs = Good
  More Races = Good
  
  The game has fun ways of acquiring new equipment through the Bazaar and 
 Auction systems. Auctions are particularly fun. First rule the land then collect the spoils, the 
 more you play, the more clan points you earn, the more coins you can buy for auction, and then 
 you reap in the rewards. Story line is good and there is a cross plot from Final Fantasy 12 in 
 the game as well.
  
  In battle the law system is far less restrictive than it was last game. The law is displayed on 
 the top screen the entire battle so you don't have to worry about forgetting it. Instead of penalties 
 you just lose your privilege and ability to revive characters during the one match. No big deal 
 really. You also gain bonus loot and/or equips for staying within the law.
  
  Game play can be slow in the begining but be patient and you will be kicking butt through out Ivalice 
 in no time.
  
  A lot of special characters and a lot to look forward to while playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowofamn1
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Tactic A2 is a shallow game, doesn't take much skill to beat this game but surely 
 will take alot of researching and reading to master some of the tricks and combos that this game 
 offers. FFTA2 holds 300 missions, however you only need to do 16 or so storyline mission to complete 
 this game, the side mission, or quest, is to help you level your character, aquire new job, master 
 skills etc. 
  
  The graphic is good. It definately use the DS to the fullest to provide us a extremely good game 
 graphic. Animations are smooth and cutscene is fluent. Overall the display design is wonderful.
 
  
  Sound quality is mostly recycled from FFTA and even FFT. The music fits in well in battle and cutscene 
 but it is not epic. You will get use to the music because you will spend some much time either 
 in battle, the pub, the shop, or the world map. 
  
  Gameplay haven't change, the law system is still here but with more meaner laws, some are really 
 annoying and will make you pull your hair out. Antilaw is taken out so you can't disable the law 
 or put up new law, in addition the enemy doesn't have to fall the law! The reason you are following 
 the law is because the judge grants you a bonus to aid you in battle, example like power+ , exp 
 bonus, ap bonus etc. Breaking the law will elimate your bonus and the ability to revive fallen 
 members.
  
  Some good things about the game is there are new jobs available with 2 new races, the seeq and 
 gria. And the dispatch mission can not be taken as a normal quest. It is useful because you can 
 do quest with exp or ap bonus, but doing dispatch is much quicker way to earn the reward.
  
  Auction house is also an addition to this game, it is a mini game where you can bid to own 
 lands and later, bid for rare and godly items. 
  
  The game will surely take you no longer than 40 hours if you just play through the story line and 
 some quests for level, but to do all the quest you will need at least 100 hours +, and the unlockable 
 character will their unique jobs will be available at end game or in your new game+.
  
  Overall this game is a good buy and a good keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KonohaKakashi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game, I wasn't sure whether or not I would enjoy it. As it turns out, though, 
 I enjoyed it more than I ever have than FFTA and it turns out to be a worthwhile game to buy.
 
  
  Story - Ah, the story. This is, again, one of those games that you can't play for the story and 
 just entirely for the gameplay. The story is OK, on par with that of FFTA. Although the goal of 
 the main character is exactly the same, the plot itself is different from FFTA's. You'll see the 
 return of two characters from FFXII, who will play a part in the latter half of the story.
  Basically, the main character, Luso, is cleaning up a library when he comes upon an old book. By 
 writing in it, he's sent to Ivalice, where a clan rescues him from a giant chicken... thing and 
 takes him in. Throughout the game, Luso must keep filling the pages of his magical journal while 
 questing throughout Ivalice. Along his travels, he'll come across Khamja, an evil organization 
 that will continuously get in his way until the end of the game. This is just a small part of the 
 general overview of the story.
  Anyways, like I said before, don't play for the story and play for the gameplay.
  
  Gameplay 
 - Gameplay has gotten a makeover and, although it's generally the same, there are some big differences.
 
  First are the clan privileges. At the beginning of every battle, after the law is stated, you 
 get to choose a privilege for your clan, such as Regen, Speed increase, and Power increase.
  Second are the laws. Most laws from FFTA have been replaced with new laws in FFTA2. This time around, 
 when you break a law, you don't get yellow or red cards; instead, the judge leaves the battle and 
 two things happen: you lose your clan privilege and you can't revive anyone fallen in battle (But 
 they won't disappear permanently) . What sucks, though, is that your enemies are ALWAYS exempt from 
 the law this time around, so you won't be at any advantage due to laws anymore.
  Third are the auctions. In FFTA, you claimed an area by sending someone on a dispatch mission to 
 get it, simple as that. In FFTA2, though, you go to auctions for the areas of the game, which are 
 held every 200 in-game days. In these auctions, you bet tokens on each region. After each auction 
 ends, the clan with the most tokens lays claim to the region until the next auction is held.
  Those are three things that changed with the gameplay, but there are a bunch more changes.
  
 
  Battles - Battles are essentially the same: You choose your members and you complete the objective 
 to win. Aside from new laws and privileges, another difference includes maps that sometimes have 
 hidden traps. By far the biggest change, though, is that attacking from the front, side, or back 
 changes POWER, not ACCURACY. You may be surprised at first when you notice you have a 99% chance 
 of hitting someone at the front, but then you quickly realize that attacking someone from the back 
 deals far more damage. This is a weird change at first, but you get used to it pretty quickly. 
 After killing an enemy, it drops loot, which will remind you of FFXII. You can use this loot to 
 make equips at the Bazaar.
  
  Classes and Equipment - Holy crap, more classes and more abilities to learn this time around. Some 
 new classes are the Seer (Hume class) , Bard (Moogle class) , Spellblade (Viera class) , Master Monk 
 (Bangaa class) , and Arcanist (Nu Mou class) . Along with these and more new classes are a bunch 
 of new abilities to be learned, so customization options for your characters just got a whole lot 
 more options.
  As for equipment, getting new items in the shop is done through a new system called the Bazaar. 
 With this, you use your loot to create weapons, armor, and accessories that are able to be created. 
 When they're made, they become available at the shop and you can buy them.
  
  Anyways, I didn't go too much into the game, but you'll see everything that's up with it when you 
 play it. If you played FFTA, I definitely reccomend this game, since it's better. Sadly, FFTA2 
 still isn't as great as FFT, which will probably remain the best FFT game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ms-fable
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  FFTA2 Is one of the Best ds games. It has over 300 hours of play time on it and who doesn't love 
 that. It's very addictive to fans of the fire emblem series (I had 37 hours after 4 days) There 
 are so many jobs to choose from I can't see how someone wouldn't be happy with it. The races each 
 have good jobs and good feature is that you have to complete certain quests to get certain jobs 
 but most of those quests take a while to unlock ( I had to wait more then 40 hours to get a fusilier 
 moogle) The battle system doesn't go like fire emblem where one team moves they're team in any 
 order they want then the next team goes (I'm pretty sure that's how it works i played my last FE 
 game like 3 years ago) It's based on the charcters speed, Highest speed goes first ect. Overall 
 this is a great stretegy game and I hope dissgea ds is just as good (it looks better) and same 
 with Fire emblem ds but I give this game a...
  9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shabulia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  For those of you that were fond of Final Fantasy Tactics Advance, this game will please you. For 
 those looking for a deep storyline and a true successor to the original Final Fantasy Tactics for 
 the PS1 (and PSP re-release) you really don't need to read on as this game is not what you're looking 
 for.
  
  Still with me? Good! This is a marvelous game and a lot of fun if you let yourself enjoy it. The 
 things Final Fantasy Tactics A2 does right more than outweighs its few shortcomings or its lighthearted 
 nature. 
  
  Let's get the bad stuff out of the way. This game's basic story is nearly identical to that of 
 its forefather. A young kid named Luso finds a mysterious book in his school library and winds 
 up inside of it and going through a number of adventures and side adventures as he tries to find 
 his way back home and out of Ivallace. It is cutesy and barrows heavily from the original game 
 and "The Never Ending Story" in many ways. The graphical styling for this game is very reminiscent 
 of the GBA game as well, so forget the moody gloom of the PS1 title if you're going to give this 
 a whirl. Lastly, while this game does use the touch screen capabilities of the DS, it really doesn't 
 do so effectively. In combat and menu navigation you're much better off using the traditional button 
 method of play. This isn't a deal breaker by any means but it would have been nice to see the touch 
 screen used more efficiently and creatively. Other than that, this is a game to be enjoyed by many 
 who are out for an awesome strategy ride.
  
  There is a lot here to like. First is the storyline. Many have complained about it being too kiddy 
 and I know I even said it's close to the first game but it's still kind of fun in a charming way. 
 It's little more than a vehicle that carries you through the real meat of the game; strategy! FFT 
 A2 is loaded with strategy and tons of customization. There are more jobs to master along with 
 additional spells and abilities to make your characters triumph in each battle. The battles are 
 typically six of your party members pitted against a number of enemies. There are different objectives 
 set forth by judges (yes, they're back but not as bad this time) and you are to complete the objectives 
 while following the laws the judges set forth. The good news is that breaking a law is no big deal 
 this time around. If you do so, you will lose a privilege set at the beginning of the battle and 
 will not be able to revive a companion that has been KO'ed. It's a much better system than what 
 the GBA game left us with. For all the strategy involved and customization, this game is a gem 
 for Tactics fans.
  
  Graphically, this game is beautiful. It does have the bright cheerful colors of the GBA game and 
 everything is in 2D, but it shines on the DS. Everything is crystal clear on either screen and 
 it's a joy to view. It might have been nice to see the game's maps in 3D and rotatable like that 
 of the PS1 game, but it still works on the DS. Right on board with the graphics is the sound. Everything 
 sounds crystal clear in the game. There are no voices but the music is very easy on the ears. Slashes 
 sound just as you would expect in battle and the harder hits have more impact in the sound area 
 which just gives a feeling power in victory.
  
  One thing to consider about this game is that it's tough, especially for newcomers. For the seasoned 
 vets of this style of game this is challenging but nothing you haven't seen before. If this is 
 your first foray into Tactics games, be ready for a very steep learning curve. It will take a while 
 before you know what you are doing because the game is so intricate. As daunting as it may be the 
 rewards are there for those that stick it out. Once you get the hang of it you'll be playing until 
 the end and then wanting to go through it again. 
  
  This game is truly magnificent for RPG fans and Tactics fans alike. It's an addictive ride that 
 will keep you glued to your DS for hours. It's just sad to see that this game is so good and yet 
 just shy of true greatness because it's not living up to its full potential. Make no mistake, this 
 is a great game and should be played by any fan of the genre. It just could have been, and probably 
 should have been, more. Final Fantasy Tactics A2 is a true sequel to the Gameboy Advance game that 
 might fare better if it took more advantage of the DS capabilities.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathI2ow
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 1, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Law system is an embarrassment to the advance version. My favorite thing about the advance version 
 is how EVERY SINGLE BATTLE was so spontaneous. You would literally not have the same experience 
 no matter how many times you play it. Now you have to follow an extremely set pattern on how you 
 complete missions or you fail. The creators of this abomination have taken all the ingenuity out 
 of the battles so you don't dictate how they will be fought or for how long. The storyline is completely 
 uninteresting. If you ever get around to finding more about the plot, its so far in between you 
 have no idea whats going on anyway. Instead of finding weapons and stealing what you need, you 
 now have to hunt for materials which makes working certain jobs even more difficult. You can't 
 just say "i want to be a paladin" its now "What the hell can I possibly get to even make my character 
 strong enough" let alone work the jobs you want. Well my friends with this game in the toilet I 
 can now saw Square Enix has completely destroyed my faith in their ability to churn out games that 
 are of any worth to their many loyal, or in this case, former loyal fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BIGBUU
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  Being a huge fan of the first two games in the series, I'm sad to say that I'm this game is some 
 what of a disappointment. Sure it has some improvements and all the same feel as the previous games 
 but a good portion of the new additions and dry storyline makes me beckon for more. 
  
  The storyline isn't anything close to the caliber of Advance and the main character is as likeable 
 as Tidus is, maybe less. The relationships between the main character and the supporting characters 
 are as clich as any anime on TV. 
  
  The graphics on the battle screen looks great. The maps are colorful and the effects are top notch. 
 One thing that the game does on the battle screen that I think is an abomination is the fact that 
 all fallen characters/creatures, both allies and enemies, disappear after their HP is down to zero. 
 Yes you can resurrect your charactersyou just have to remember which square they where on when 
 they fell. The world map doesn't look too hot either. It's just a brown/green chunk with circles 
 and lines connecting to one another. Though you can hover over a circle to get a little snippet 
 of what the place actually is, it'd be nice if there where actually icons that shows you what it 
 is like in the original (forest, mountains, etc) . However, it's not like it really matters anyways, 
 because most of the circles/places are going to be irrelevant as you pass over them to get to the 
 next quest. 
  
  Sound for the most part is very good. However, one thing that I find annoying is that during every 
 action in battle, whether a simple sword swing or magic attack, there is's this lull in the background 
 music! It's annoying because thus far in my gaming career, a lull in the background music means 
 something important is about to happen. When I'm in the heat of battle, the music should be in 
 full swing without any interruption. 
  
  The interface works, nothing too spectacular here, though there are some improvements and downgrades. 
 The top screen is a good addition, as it shows you what laws are in place, what privilege you're 
 using, and which unit is next in line to fightyeah that's about ithowever. The unit management 
 screen takes a little getting use to as well as it has change to an awkward isometric view. 
  
  Obtaining weapons in equipments in A2 is, well, annoying at most. Instead of buying from an 
 already stocked store, you have to obtain items (loot) from battle and return to the store to "make" 
 them into weapons and armor. I mean, it's understandable if it was required for upper tier weapons 
 but seriously, the limited amount of weapons is going to equal to a lot of wasted AP and acts as 
 one in several factors that will prolong you in your quest to get that assassin. Another problem 
 with the loot system is you have no idea what item you're going to be getting until the end. There 
 are different classes of loot but it's not like your going to know (or care) until you're in the 
 store making the items. However, a welcomed addition is the fitting room where you can try on different 
 equipment before you buy and the good thing is you can buy something for everyone and ring out 
 all at once. 
  
  The jobs are all here and some. The only issue here is that most of them are locked. You can't 
 freely choose which jobs you want like in the original, instead, you have to complete quests to 
 unlock them first. 
  
  Getting clan new members is also a little tougher to come by than in the first. Instead of having 
 a green horn at the front door when you complete a mission, you have to first raise your clan rating 
 though various clan trials and you have to be in a specific region during a specific day/week/month 
 (sagemoon, etc.) This is slightly difficult if you like me and don't care too much about the seasons. 
 
  
  Quests are something of a "meh." The main quests are simple enough but there's a lack of other 
 quests that aren't dispatch missions. Speaking of dispatch missions, the ones in A2 are much more 
 complicated and I've yet to complete one. 
  
  The battles are still the same as in the previous games except there are not enough of them to 
 allow you to level up for the main quests which can become a challenge. Instead of allowing you 
 to battle other clans for turf and the ever elusive exp. They replaced it with some, IMO, boring 
 auction system. Sure you may get the region and save a little money at the store, wait you already 
 have ten of each of the three available items, never mind then. And no you don't get any experience 
 points from winning auctions either. 
  
  Lastly, are laws. Laws were such a cool, albeit sometimes ambiguous (ie weapon classes) in the 
 first game. It was great in the first game because it tie in so strongly with the storyline and 
 the ability to change laws was in my opinion why it was worth dealing with. However, in A2, well, 
 they're just there because it's Ivalice and only this time, it serves to annoy you. It wouldn't 
 be so bad if some of them aren't so broken (and stupid) . One such rule is no ranged attacks, however 
 if one of your units where to knock back an enemy unit with a melee attack, it counts as a range 
 attack. Overall, I'm disappointed in the game. 
  
  A day after I got the game, I went back and started playing Advance just because just about everything 
 is superior to A2. Buy it if you must own every Sqaure-Enix game but otherwise, rent it first.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastersmith
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy tactics advance two. Quite the mouthful to say. As a sequel, it does its job admirably. 
 There is all the old content that worked, with a few tweaks, and a bunch of new content to spice 
 things up (Plus the mandatory graphics update for cross platform sequels) . Still, there is more 
 then a bit in here that bothers me. 
  
  The new law system is more flexible then the last one, as you are able to choose your bonus instead 
 of having it fixed. However, instead of getting a card and getting tossed in jail for breaking 
 the law, instead you lose the battle bonus, and the battle becomes Jagd rules. For those not familiar 
 with the term, it means dead-zone. No laws, and you cant raise dead characters. Personally, I would 
 rather be tossed in jail and lose a character for a few battles, then risk a full party wipe.
 
  
  Many of the new jobs are interesting, yet it is not easy to recruit into your clan, relying mostly 
 on wandering and hoping you end up in the right place in the right time. I can not even find one 
 of the new races. More then that, most jobs need to be unlocked by a quest, making some of your 
 options limited.
  
  The bazaar system is a holdover from FF12, and personally I enjoy it. However, it pretty much makes 
 stealing mandatory. No surprise there, getting the best gear through stealing is usually the only 
 way. Still, with skills directly related to the gear you have, this is more then a tad irritating. 
 If you had more repeatable quests, it would not be as troublesome. 
  
  Bottom line, if you liked the first one, you will find this a mix between enjoyable and irritating, 
 depending on your temperament, but in my honest opinion, this is nothing compared to war of the 
 lions. I humbly await the sequel to that classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caiusmartius123
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I love FFT. Simple as that. FFT for PSX remains my all-time favorite game of any genre (and I play 
 a ton of games in many genres) . It's the only single-player game that I have logged more than 800 
 hours (or so) on.
  
  That being said, this DS game has some serious issues. I would list all of the positives, but that 
 would be a waste of time because everyone knows the positives and loves them, so here are the 4 
 GLARING negatives that are almost deal-breakers for me:
  
  
  1. It's been said in another review here, but I can't find enough people complaining about this. 
 THERE IS A SERIOUS FLAW IN THE PERCENTAGES. 90% hits will miss WAY more than 10% of the time. I 
 once played where a guest Dragoon tried to Jump 10 times in a single game without landing a SINGLE 
 one (they were all 60% likely to hit) . Simply, you will be VERY frustrated with the amount of "MISS" 
 you will see in this game. 
  
  Now, I don't care if I miss, that's part of the game. But the fact that my character has a ceiling 
 of 99% (which I can't improve at all) and he misses 10% of the time is a problem. It's impossible 
 to level up your characters Agility to make up for this flaw, so you just deal with it for the 
 entire game.
  
  Weak. And very unlike Square.
  
  
  2. Why must these portable games be SO DAMN KIDDY. Seriously, find me the idiot at Square who thought 
 it would be cool to take one of the most nuanced, mature, and complex game stories of all time 
 (FFT for PSX) and turn it into some hack Disney-esque kid story. 
  
  NO ONE WANTS THEIR PROTAGONIST TO BE A KID WHO GETS "STUCK" IN A BOOK. Not even kids want this. 
 Neverending Story was a good movie, but we don't need it to be the basis for all of our games. 
 Throw out the kiddy dialogue and low-stakes storyline and bring back the cutthroat, heady, story 
 of the original FFT.
  
  The original FFT had issues of wartime ethics, class discrimination, betrayal, love, family (dis) loyalty, 
 and religious zealotry vs. personal faith. It was a freaking masterpiece.
  
  The worst part is that FFTA for the GBA ALREADY DID THE SAME STORYLINE. We get it, a pre-pubescent 
 boy gets caught up in an alternate universe with cute sidekicks and they try to get out. We didn't 
 need the same story again, it was crappy enough the first time.
  
  
  3. Job system needs to revert back to the original FFT. I don't want to learn techniques and spells 
 from weapons. That's stupid. Think about it. Weapons and armor are ITEMS. They ASSIST you. They 
 should NOT BE THE FOUNDATION OF EVERYTHING. 
  
  I love the multitude of jobs, just let me learn new techniques and spells from using the class 
 for a certain amount of time and accumulate JP (job points) .
  
  
  4. The Laws/Judges system is better than the GBA FFTA, but it still has issues. For instance, if 
 you knock an opponent back (an often and random occurrence) and the law is "Do Not Target Distant 
 Enemies", the game counts the knocked-back enemy as "distant" and you break the law even though 
 you didn't TARGET him. Stupid, stupid, stupid, and unacceptable. These kind of errors wouldn't 
 exist if they tested this game properly, simple as that. Same with the percentage flaw.
  
  
  
  
  These are my biggest beefs with the game. If anyone from Square is reading this (they're 
 not) , do me a favor: Play the original FFT all the way through. Take notes. Then, take that same 
 level of story-telling and maturity and apply it to a DS FFT game. Then simply fix the GLARING 
 flaws with the DS FFTA2 gameplay (they're quite easy to fix) and then - poof! - you have the BEST 
 PORTABLE GAME EVER INVENTED. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxfalixX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Tactics A2 is a continuation of the Ivalice Alliance, which consists most notably 
 of it's brother, Final Fantasy Tactics and Final Fantasy Tactics Advance. This game is hard to 
 understand if your just coming into the series, and even some more seasoned players need to read 
 the tutorials in this game It can get that complicated.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics are good, sprites are re-used from FFT, but they are more vibrant now. Also, there's 
 the constant pain of not being able to switch views/zoom, which can get pretty annoying at times.
 
  
  Music: 10/10
  Some remixes from older IA games are in here, as well as new themes. Of course, this is attributed 
 to the composer being the same one for the other Tactics games. Still nice and pleasant, and I 
 could sit and listen to it all day.
  
  Overall gameplay: 9/10
  Extremely good, but the stylus control s a little off. I've recalibrated my screen atleast 5 times 
 and sometimes it will still click the wrong thing, forcing me to use th D-pad and buttons instead. 
 Also, there are small lag issues here and there, but nothing too major.
  
  So, overall, a 9.5 on 10 for this Awesome game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeekyDad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  There is little doubt many tactics fans have long awaited the arrival of Final Fantasy Tactics 
 A2 (A2) . I have to admit, though, I wasn't one of those folks. I knew I'd give the game a whirl 
 when it arrived, but there have been quite a few SRPGs on the DS, as of late, and I can't say I 
 was hankering for yet another one. However, A2 has really surprised me in just how much I've been 
 able to enjoy and get out of it.
  
  The story starts out like a child's fairy tale and is as unbelievable. However, everything, including 
 the witty dialogue, is delivered with such a fine polish, and the story snippets sprinkled throughout 
 battles (as well as the rest of the game) , offer a great deal in terms of keeping A2 interesting 
 and entertaining the whole way through. It's no epic adventure, but all the same, the game offers 
 a fun and endearing tale, if not a bit too jolly at times. The story's pacing, though, is probably 
 its strongest feature, and it actually takes a short while before the real adventure gets underway.
 
  
  The battle gameplay is fairly standard fare, as far as SRPGs go, though A2 offers perhaps the most 
 well-rounded example we've seen on the DS. The AI is quite good  even in the Normal difficulty 
 (there's also a Hard setting) battles are often quite a challenge. There are a number of great 
 options, offering depth to battles, but gameplay is also very accessible and fairly straight-forward. 
 One interesting addition to the otherwise traditional SRPG formula is that of random combat rules, 
 which are tacked on at the beginning of each battle; they're usually something of the "can't use 
 spells or weapons that have lightning" or "no spells or attacks that target more than one tile" 
 variety. For the most part, the battle-rules feature is a welcome addition and mixes things up 
 in a fun way.
  
  A2 also has a somewhat strong emphasis on building up your clan. When the game begins, your character 
 is thrust into a clan, and along the way, you'll be able to take on clan trials. These trials are 
 actually cleverly disguised tutorials, and by completing them, you'll earn stat bonuses for the 
 clan. Additionally, the Job system has made it back into this Final Fantasy game, and it's implemented 
 quite well. You'll really have to dabble with various jobs in order to gain both advanced skills 
 and access to greater job titles.
  
  As with most other SRPGs, you'll travel by way of a simple overworld map, jumping from region to 
 region, as more areas become available. Most of the actual story is self-driven, though, in that 
 most times you'll have to actively seek out quests, which can be attained at any local pub. Each 
 main town or city also offers a shop where you can buy and sell goods, as well as trade in "loot" 
 you've collected. In turn, offering loot to shop owners will allow them to put up new items for 
 sale.
  
  There's a lot to do in the world of Ivalice. Though the battling takes up perhaps the lion's share 
 of the experience, there are also a bunch of other, cool features that set this game apart from 
 the rest of the pack. Stuff such as area auctions, which allow your clan to take control of a given 
 region. When your clan becomes the "champ" of a region, you'll get discounts on the cost of taking 
 on quests. The savings perhaps isn't great (or necessary) , but participating in the auctions is 
 fun and adds a neat distraction when you want some respite from combat.
  
  The graphics, sound and overall production of A2 are really all quite beautiful. There's not a 
 rough edge to be seen nor heard. I'm not a huge fan of the whole cutesy 2D thing, but I'd have 
 to be pretty darn jaded not to appreciate the wonderful feel the game's combined production is 
 able to convey. The 2D sprites over 2D backgrounds are very detailed, though of course, a bit static. 
 But the 3D cloudscapes layered behind landscapes, along with some gorgeous special effects, really 
 help define A2 as a bonafide DS game. 
  
  The real cherry on top, though, is A2's soundtrack. If you've played either Final Fantasy XII (PS2) 
 or its companion game, Revenant Wings (DS) , then you'll likely recognize many of the delightful 
 variations of these now classic themes. Yeah, again, it's all pretty jolly, but it works extremely 
 well with everything else the game has to offer. Also noteworthy is the text scroll; it's not annoying! 
 Other sound effects, too, such as the crashing of the Meteorite spell, or the piercing ice shards 
 of Blizzard, sound great, and all of A2's audio comes across with surprising fidelity on the DS' 
 tiny speakers.
  
  In all honesty  and with respect to what seems to be legions of hardcore Final Fantasy Tactics 
 fans  I wouldn't call the game a masterpiece. The battles can become a tad repetitious and there's 
 no real multiplayer to speak of (though you can do a bit of trading) . However, A2 is one of those 
 great pocket companions and one of the best SRPGs currently available on DS. Though the story is 
 light and lilting with little depth, the game, undeniably, has a ton of personality. It's also 
 a very tight package with sturdy-as-nails gameplay. There's lots to do, lots to see, and A2 is 
 a bit less daunting than many other games of its kind. Most DS owners should find a fair amount 
 of enjoyment out of this wonderful, little fantasy romp.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolveFang
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I love this game its fun to play and it has a good storyline its so awesome im addicted to it man 
 i cant wait for another Square Enix game Square Enix is a fcken awesome good company man i wish 
 other games were like Luminous Arc but some r good their own way. I LOVE THIS AWESOME GAME, if 
 Square Enix can make a game like this then i wonder whats gonna be their next creation
  
  this game is GENIOUS man i LOVE IT LOVE IT LOVE IT
  
  THIS GAME IS very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very 
 very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very very
  Kewl!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madjik2k2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who loves the Final Fantasy Tactics brand of games, such as myself, will likely love this 
 game no matter what. I certainly enjoy this game, probably more then I should, and that being said, 
 I have to agree with the gamespot reviewer on this particular game.
  
  There isn't much of a storyline here, and the use of the stylus is pretty much tacked on. If your 
 going to use the stylus in this type of a game, then the game would be better served to allow some 
 sort of camera spin so that you don't accidentally tap the wrong box and end up facing backwards 
 or in a spot just 1 or 2 shy of where you wanted to be.
  
  Even so, the game is beautiful. There has been some graphical update to the game since the last 
 installment and it plays smoothly so far (though I have to admit I haven't touched the summons 
 yet so I can't say for sure if it will remain that way) . The tactics portion of the game (which 
 is where you'll spend most of your time, of course) is as fun as it ever was. Gaining ability points 
 for your class so as to learn new skills has always been addicting, and it is so here as well, 
 although you have to have a certain weapon equipped that has the ability you want attached to it 
 in order to learn. All in all if you want this game just because it's final fantasy tactics, you 
 will enjoy it for certain as the bread and butter of the game is still the same. If you are looking 
 for story line however, your best off looking somewhere else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  A lot to do and find in job quest format. Huge variety of armor, weapons, items to 'collect'. Over 
 50 distinct job classes to try out. Tried-and-true tactics format.
  
  The Bad:
  Judge rules can be annoying at times. "Random" equipment making can be tedious.
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Leave it to Square Enix to improve on an already great format. When FFT was first released, I 
 thought there was little they could do next that would be better than that tight format. While 
 not a perfect RPG for the DS, I cannot understand GS's official review being so tepid, considering 
 that this game really does have it all in a Tactics title:
  
  -tons of quests in a semi-open format, so you cherry pick what to do from a list at the 'pub'
 
  
  -55 job classes to try means you can play the game at least 10 times with completely different 
 job classes all around.
  
  -lots and lots of stats for the players/clans that have large effects on how the battles play out
 
  
  Despite the fact that there are tons of numbers and figures to pay attention to, Square has made 
 it easy to ignore these things and just jump into battles. Switching jobs is as easy as clicking 
 a menu button, provided your character has the prerequisite skills, and the brilliant mixing of 
 skills from different job classes is intact here, allowing you to have spell-casting soldiers or 
 melee-heavy magic users.
  
  Suffice it to say that this is a very very deep and long-lasting tactics game, with plenty to keep 
 you busy from the get-go. Add to that the fact that the game is very easy on the eyes (approaches 
 PSP-quality pixelization) , and the soundtrack is appropriately medievel, and you have a recipe 
 for 50-100 hours of questing tactics-style. It comes as close to Tactics Ogre for depth of customization 
 that I've seen so far.
  The .5 off a score of a perfect 10 is due to the fact that if it isn't a game named 'Tactics Ogre', 
 it just isn't quite perfect. No, OK, it's the judges rules that put me off a bit, some of which 
 are impossible to satisfy (no hits for more than a miniscule amount of points, for example) . Although 
 it doesn't appear in my version that the enemy can violate the rules for you, thankfully, it does 
 mean that at times you will not be taking home the extra goodies promised for following the rules. 
 Note that this doesn't mean you fail if you break the rules, so this one is not a deal-breaker 
 by any stretch.
  
  In summary, if you feel like you're burned out on FFT titles, you will be missing something special 
 by avoiding this title. It really actually truly is a step-up from the other turn-based rpgs out 
 there (including other final fantasy games) , and is a must-own for tactics hounds, if only for 
 the sheer volume of possibilities of party mixes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start by saying this game has lots of depth. There's so much to do, you'll be playing 
 it non-stop 'till the end. Which is a long way away. The story is not the strongest part of the 
 game (the characters are sometimes hard to believe) , but the paths and choices and options in this 
 game are endless, most likely spanning a +100 hour experience.
  
  Graphics are the best of 2-D that you may find on the DS, but it adds in some nice graphical effects 
 with spells... Whatnot. It looks fine, nothing bothersome. 
  
  It's got a great soundtrack, epic, really. Just gotta listen to it.
  
  Overall, if you know 
 how to play the game, you'll love it. 
  There's just not much battle tutorial help, so you might get thrown in clueless if you don't pay 
 attention. Once you know what the hell you're doing, you'll get addicted. Really addicted. The 
 World Ends With You-addicted.
  
  I'm giving it a 9 out of 10... Because so far, I love this game. You'll be getting more than a 
 bang for your buck. You'll be getting... A nuclear explosion. 
  
  Kaboom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BoptBopt
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game is damn fun, but only if you really know what you're doing. The game does a pretty bad 
 job of explaining how you do things, or why you should do certain things. For example, at one point 
 a guest character tells you to change your job, but theres absolutely no way you could do that 
 at that point in the game.
  
  Other than that it's a great tactics game, minus the overly chibi Japanese main character.
  
 
  Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, 
 Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, 
 Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, 
 Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, 
 Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, 
 Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, 
 Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies, Boobies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: virusak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I was waiting for this game to come out since I bought my DS. I completed FFTA and it was one of 
 my favourite games on GBA. When I got my hands on its sequel, the music just woke up many memories 
 of the times I spend playing on GBA. Well, most of the music and not only music is the same as 
 in FFTA- character graphics, most of the weapons and abilities. But it also comes with tones of 
 new ideas and systems like the weapons building (hate it) , the auctions, speed battles and many 
 more. 
  When I started the game, I was anticipating a neat and exciting story like in all FFs. I don't 
 know how you see it, but to me the story seems to be pretty shallow, without thrilling moments 
 and no main story thread. You have to travel through Ivalice and experience adventures to fill 
 the pages of a journal that mysteriously turns up to be in your belt pouch. I was really expecting 
 more.
  Now for gameplay. The basics of battling are explained right in the beginning but the jobs system 
 and abilites learning should be explained more. There are tons of people on the forums asking how 
 should I get this and that job etc. And this is not the only thing not explained properly. The 
 MVP, smash gauge and many other game schematics are not explained. I've played nearly 30 hours 
 now and I still don't know what are they for. If I hadn't played FFTA I would be pretty lost even 
 in abilites, their learning, setting them on and off and combining them properly. This game really 
 has a steep learning curve. I would also like to mention the laws. They are only applied on your 
 team, which I find pretty lame. What the hell does this mean? Your whole team is restricted to 
 use magic, while the other clan happily casts powerful spells on you. Thats really odd. Of course 
 you have the clan privilege if you uphold the law, but sometimes it is impossible to uphold it 
 if the other team doesn't have to. Both teams should be restricted by the same law while each team 
 chooses its own clan privilege. 
  Battles - they are really fun to play, but sometimes it costs lots of nerve not to throw the DS 
 away, because sometimes the battles can take even an hour to fight. On the contrary to FFTA, here 
 can come more enemies on the battlefield during the battle, which can be both challenging and frustrating. 
 
  The bodies of dead characters don't stay on the battlefield, but they vanish and can be revived 
 (if you didn't break the law) by raise or phoenix down on an adjacent square to the player. But 
 this has quite a bug. I played a mission, where 3 characters were guests, they were playing on 
 my side and were controlled by the game. But because the characters were scripted to say something 
 after the battle, they couldn't die. Their health stopped on 1HP and the enemy could strike them 
 as many times as he could but they didn't die. And while the enemy was attacking these characters 
 which were 'immortal' and not my own, i could happily fight the monsters with no casualties. 
 
  In addition, there are not many options in the game, I would like to see how many XP do the units 
 get after successful hits, now you only see how many XP on the after battle screen, which is also 
 the only place where the units level up which seem pretty weird for me. Also on the map, it would 
 be great to see in which area you have missions to accomplish. It works only for the main storyline 
 quests, but it would spare a lot of time, if there was a number on every area that would indicate 
 how many missions are located in that particular area. Or there could be info about this on the 
 upper screen, even with the list of missions in this area, you could list through the upper screens 
 with select or start, which are not utilized in the game, there could be clan info, and area info. 
 Really simple. Now you have to go to clan info, there to quest list, select every quest and remember 
 where it is located. When you have 5 quests or more, it is just frustrating to remember where do 
 you have to be in how many days.
  A very neat minigame are the auctions. You get some 'tokens' that are worth 1,2,3 coins (in the 
 auction you can win some tokens that are worth 5 coins as a bonus) and for every area on the map 
 there is an auction in which you battle with other clans. Who wins, controls the area which gives 
 him some advantages (you get some items, the fees are lowered etc.) . At first I thought I will just 
 bet as much as I can, but later you can recognize how much the other clans will bet from the way 
 their representative character on the screen behaves. If it screams the clan will bet a 5 token, 
 it it shakes the head it won't bet etc. It is really interesting to watch all the other clans, 
 how much will they bet, how much they bet so far, and according to that you bet the lowest token 
 to still be the winner. 
  Another new battle type is a speed battle. 4 units from your clan fight with 4 units from another 
 one (not against each other) , and who gives the final blow to the enemy boss, wins.
  To continue with, was someone else expecting multiplayer battles as much as I did? I would love 
 to play wifi battles with my friends, but we didn't get any kind of MP. Unfortunately, this is 
 probably the biggest disapointment for me. Why didn't they implement MP in such a great game like 
 this? I would like to hear any good reason, really....
  
  To sum it up. This is really a great game, its a lot of fun to battle, it brings a lot of new ideas 
 like the auctions. speed battles but there could be fixed so many thing with so little effort and 
 this game would be really god like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thicknick
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Basically what we have here is Final Fantasy Tactics Advance Part 2. It isn't really a sequel in 
 its presentation, but a direct imitation of the last game. The graphics are definitely a bit cleaner 
 and the top screen is used with some grace, but all-in-all, there's little new content here, save 
 for a few new classes and the Bazaar (I think) .
  
  Anyone who played FFTA will immediately recognize the music (which I believe is virtually the same 
 as the last game) , graphics, classes, fighting system, and controls and be able to jump right in. 
 Even if you're new to the series, A2 doesn't have the steepest of learning curves in comparison 
 to other Tactical RPGs.
  
  I'm going to lay it out in list form like I sometimes do because it's more organized and objective 
 that way, so forgive me if this isn't your style:
  
  The Good
  -Tons of classes to choose from
  -Pretty graphics, great music
  -Auction Houses are a nice 
 added feature (but come after a long time assuming you've been doing every quest)
  -Nice learning curve
  -The Law/Judge system is toned down to a level where it's often more helpful 
 than hindering
  -Random encounters are less of a factor in this game than the last (in fact I have played more 
 than 10 hours and have yet to see a bandit. So far just the odd monster)
  -Loads of fun with quests ranging from easy to extremely difficult, but nothing is impossible
 
  -Lots of little subplots and a great story
  -Characters are easy to like (except Adelle)
  -A solid entry into the Tactical RPG genre in every way; doesn't skimp in content
  -Completists 
 beware: TONS to do
  -Hundreds of possibilities for your dream team, among my friends no two teams will be the same
 
  -Addicting as hell. I was on a gaming binge recently and got sick of my DS so severely that I 
 couldn't play any game for more than 10 minutes. But this game came out and i logged 8 hours the 
 first night. That's a hell of a recovery.
  
  The Bad
  -Not enough new to set it aside from its predecessor
  -graphics and music are recycled
  -Battles 
 can be extremely drawn out and offer very litle in reward
  -Difficult to come across new recruits, and when you do, they're rarely the race you wanted, which 
 makes creating your ideal team extremely tedious and challenging (not in a good way)
  -Poor camera creates a need to be extremely careful where you click (you cannot rotate or zoom 
 as in Tactics for the PSX)
  -Sometimes you cannot help but break a law by accident (e. g. "Do Not Target Distanced Units" also 
 considers getting a critical hit and knocking someone backwards "Targeting A Distanced Unit")
 
  -While it doesn't quite wear out its welcome, you'll find yourself putting this one down every 
 once in a while out frustration
  -Monsters and rival Clans don't have to follow the laws, but you do
  -Statistics aren't accurate. 
 It is not unusual to miss 70% chance hits 8 times in a row. I've also seen a few 99% chances miss.
 
  
  If I had to say "Fix One Thing" it'd be the camera problems. Beyond that, most complaints are shallow 
 and don't actually demonstrate something totally wrong with the gameplay. The one exception is 
 the example given under "Sometimes you cannot help but break a law".
  
  Definitely pick this one up. It's better than the last game, even if it is more an expansion pack 
 than a real sequel. I'm sure you'll all enjoy it.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
