-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo Tales
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/fffchocobotales/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A fun collection of minigames, card battling, and adventuring.
 cute and cuddly storybook visuals.
 card battles are fun and appealing and can be played both online and off.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Some of the minigames are too frustrating for their own good.
 only microgames can be shared via download play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.6, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 667 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: h. a. n. d. Inc.
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Apr 3, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It might be squarely aimed at the younger crowd, but Chocobo Tales is highly charming and a great 
 choice for players of all ages. 

  For a kid-oriented game, it's hard not to be taken in by Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo Tales. It's 
 got a splendid sense of storybook style, with cute and colorful graphics. It also has a charming 
 story that overflows with wit and wile. The smart assortment of gameplay styles includes exploration, 
 card battling, and minigames, with each vying for your attention. For the most part, these elements 
 fit together nicely, though some of the minigames can be unnecessarily frustrating. Yet in spite 
 of the occasional unevenness, Chocobo Tales is fun for younger players and surprisingly engaging 
 for the older crowd too.  

          The famous story of the tortoise and the hare is updated with a Final Fantasy twist.   
   

  Final Fantasy fans the world over know what chocobos are: large ostrichlike critters used mostly 
 for travel in the franchise's universe. In Chocobo Tales, you play as a diminutive yellow chocobo 
 living on a farm where everyone gathers around to hear resident mother figure Shirma read stories 
 to them. One of the storybooks turns out to be more than it seems, and soon the evil Darkmaster 
 Bebuzzu has trapped all of your feathery friends in various books scattered across the land. What's 
 a young bird to do? For starters, you've got to roam about looking for books. Using the stylus 
 exclusively, you travel around the farm and other enchanting environs searching for your plucky 
 chums and other secrets. Your main objects of interest are the books, which are easily identified 
 by their glow, and tapping on one thrusts you into its story.  

  Once you're sucked into a book, you've got to play the attached minigame to advance the adventure 
 and unlock other nifty nuggets. Most of the little minigame tales should be familiar to anyone 
 who has read  Aesop's Fables , even though the story and character names were changed to better 
 fit the Final Fantasy universe. For instance, the boy who cried wolf is now the boy who cried Leviathan. 
 To further add to the fairytale atmosphere, each minigame is presented like a pop-up book, with 
 attractive 2D visuals bursting from the bottom screen and flowering toward the top. Most games 
 have a battle mode, which pits you against the artificial intelligence, as well as a trial mode, 
 where you try to beat a certain score or time. Completing the levels within these modes earns you 
 goodies. In some cases, you set free one of your avian amigos; other times, you unlock additional 
 endings to your little story, open a new area for your main adventure, or earn cards to use in 
 Chocobo Tales' card battling mode.  

  A lot of these minigames are great fun. For example, in Symphonic Survivor, you listen to a little 
 tune and then position your chocobo on the appropriate instrument's icon while simultaneously knocking 
 your opponents away. In Flaming Frenzy, you gather coins and roll into your opponents to knock 
 their coins away, which is also a riot. However, other minigames tend to be a little frustrating, 
 such as Puzzled Little Piggies. In this minigame, you pick up scattered puzzle pieces from the 
 ground and place them on house templates to rebuild the abodes of the now-famous three little pigs. 
 To pick up a piece, you fly above it and release the stylus to land, but it's tougher than it sounds 
 because you have only your shadow to gauge whether you're hovering in the right spot. Placing your 
 piece on the house template is equally laborious, particularly when you are competing against three 
 other AI characters, which magically know where all the stray pieces have been strewn. Fortunately, 
 the great minigames outnumber the frustrating ones. There are also simpler tasks called microgames 
 to be found. They don't advance the story, but they do earn you more cards. They also tend to be 
 more maddening than the minigames and can take a good amount of time to master.  

  Card battling is the third side of Chocobo Tales' gaming triumvirate, with well over 100 cards 
 to collect. Every so often, you'll be faced with a boss character that challenges you to a duel. 
 These Yu-Gi-Oh-inspired battles are familiar turn-based affairs, but the original battling system 
 is unexpectedly interesting and tactical. Cards come in four different colors and are further separated 
 by the creatures they summon. In a typical duel, the first player to play one of his or her three 
 available cards before the timer counts down to zero takes the first turn, unless there is an effect 
 like "haste" in play. Each card has attack and guard zones that determine the color of your attack, 
 as well as what colors you will guard against. If your opponent has a yellow guard zone, a yellow 
 attack will have no effect; if he or she has a yellow attack zone, the damage will be cut in half. 
 Prior to playing a card, you can see the colors of your opponent's cards, so you can take an educated 
 guess at which color you need to guard against. To make things even more interesting, you earn 
 crystals during battle that you must spend to play certain cards.  

  You can also duel against others, both online and off. Finding other players via Nintendo Wi-Fi 
 is easy, and you can either be automatically be pitted against another player, or invite someone 
 by their DS friend code. While the game's AI is a fine opponent, human players are more challenging. 
 You'll discover just how well rounded your deck needs to be by playing other players rather than 
 the AI. Because the colors of the cards you play determine the colors of the crystals you earn, 
 a good deck includes cards of all colors. This not only gives you flexibility, but also keeps your 
 opponent on his or her toes because a hand of three colors is harder to guard against than a hand 
 of a single color. You can play minigames and microgames with up to four others as well, though 
 not via Wi-Fi, which is too bad. While minigames and card battles require every player to have 
 a cartridge, microgames can be shared via download play.  

          The card battles look like a pop-up book come to life.     

  The magical make-believe 
 milieu of the minigames spills over into every aspect of the visuals. The pop-up-book style pervades 
 the card battles, which makes watching colorful cardboard cutout unicorns and cactuars duke it 
 out a lot of fun. The adventuring portions are bright and vibrant, but they're not as appealing 
 as the other aspects because they are missing some of the unique fairytale mood. The sound is even 
 better, filled with familiar Final Fantasy tunes and enchanting effects that get the tone of the 
 minigames and battles just right.  

  It might look like just another kid's game, but there is a lot of quality gaming buried under the 
 saccharine visuals. Chocobo Tales never condescends to its audience, making it an attractive choice 
 for young and old alike. It's also a special treat for Final Fantasy fans, who will be delighted 
 by the recognizable characters and monsters that make appearances. As long as you don't mind a 
 few of the less likable minigames, you'll get sucked into this easygoing fable of feathered fellows. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: riamari
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:18 pm PT
Review:  this game is really hard to classify, for it depends on one's approach to gaming. for those who 
 want a light and fast game and is not a highscore-chaser, chocobo tales is a good choice. but if 
 you're one those gamefreaks that simply HAVE to collect all the cards, unlock all the secrets, 
 and get the gold rankings in everything, then brace yourself for finger-mashing hell.
  
  chocobo tales is mainly a minigame collection. and don't let the cute graphics and music fool you... 
 these minigames are HARD. you'll need to get a certain score in order to unlock other games and 
 secrets, and in the end, even a game-completionist like me simply gave up trying.
  
  oh, and if you think the MINIgames are hard, just wait till you get to the MICROgames..... (X_X) 
 
  
  in terms of plot, the story is cute and quite forgettable, nothing along the storylines of The 
 Matrix. at times the pointless dialogues seem to go on forever, making you wonder why they even 
 bothered to make a story in the first place. 
  
  i really like the cardbattle minigames of the final fantasy series (8 and 9 had them) , and when 
 i learned that chocobo tales would have card-based battles, i expected to be in for a treat. while 
 the cardbattles were quite good and challenging, they were too few and far between. i think you 
 get to battle less than ten characters all in all. 
  
  to sum up this game, chocobo tales is more minigames than cardbattles, which is a shame, coz the 
 reason why you're doing those minigames in the first place is to get cards to use for battling.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaomoon2
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for my birthday and I still play it when I`m bored.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay was good. You go around and find items and go inside story books and play 
 the mini games. For minigames there are certain requirements for certain things like Beat Level 
 3. There are microgames that are um Mini mini games? Where you can earn cards for your battle deck. 
 The battles in the game are used by using cards. You can customize your own deck for whatever you 
 like.
  
  
  Sound and Music: The sounds were from cute to cute and there were very skilled!! When I got sound 
 test I was looking at the music and the songs were like alternate versions of songs from other 
 games like Final Fantasy 7 the mako reactor song.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were exelent. There were from 3d to 2d sprites (in some micro games and 
 the cards when you battle) 
  
  Story: The story was difrent. You start out sleeping the you wake up and Shirma, the white mage 
 starts to read a book then the black mage Croma comes and you take the lock thingy of the book 
 then Croma starts reading the book then.... well I won`t spoil the rest for you.
  
  This is an EXELENT game for kids to adults of all ages. I suggest you should by it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kawaiininja007
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  When I first started to play this game, I fell in love with the adorable characters. It's definately 
 the cutest game I've ever played, but that doesn't mean Chocobo Tales is worth buying full price 
 (I got it used, so I'm okay with that) .
  
  I'll start with the good things.
  The game is absolutely adorable and, for the most part, family friendly. I say for the most part 
 because I found hints of PG-13 material in the game, but nobody under 12 would notice most of it.
 
  Aside from great graphics, the music was clear and fit the mood of each area perfectly.
  Of course, I think the best aspect of the entire game is the card battling. Collecting cards was 
 fun and addictive. The thought of getting a rare card from a microgame kept me playing for hours, 
 and the battles were always exciting (made more so by a time limit) . Even when I couldn't find 
 anyone to battle on WiFi, I was always satisfied battling the various computer players scattered 
 around the world.
  
  Still, every game has its downfalls. 
  The worst aspect of this game was the time I had put into it. It only took me 13 hours to beat 
 the game, and would've taken less if I didn't decide to have fun with some microgames on the side 
 (you can beat the game without beating all of the minigames and microgames) . Over all, this game 
 was incredibly easy. At most it would take me 5 tries to beat any minigame. That was okay for me, 
 but anyone looking for a long-lasting game that you have to work hard to beat shouldn't buy Chocobo 
 Tales.
  
  Pros and Cons taken into consideration, I don't regret buying this game at almost half price. If 
 I would have paid $25 though, I would have been very disappointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cecil_Highwind
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo Tales is a great game worthy of a play through, 
 but it is a little bit short. Not as great of a story as Final Fantasy IV, but some certain parts 
 are very enjoyable.
  
  Story: It starts out with Shirma calling everyone together for storytime. Then, your friend, a 
 black mage, busts in with a fansy looking book. you open it, unwillingly releasing Darkmaster Bebezzu. 
 The story continues on from there, with you restoring light to the crystals and Bebezzu constantly 
 draining them with the help of Irma and her jailbirds. the story is just a little too short. Go 
 Volg!
  
  Mini-games: Some of the mini-games are just plain annoying, like the leviathan bubble one, though 
 you can beat these with enough practice. The parodies on various fairy tales, like The Boy Who 
 Cried Wolf and The Tortoise and the Hare, will make you smile. You earn different epilogues, depending 
 on the achievements that you accomplish. You can also earn pop-up battle cards, which brings me 
 to...
  
  Pop-up Battles: These are great fun and are the most fun part of the game. More strategy is involved 
 than it first looks, and it has you coming back for more in the quest to build a perfect deck. 
 This part ,from my point of view, is the part that really makes the game really worth playing through. 
 The only down side is how you earn the cards...
  
  Micro-games: These hit-or-miss games are scattered all over the place. Some are unfairly hard and 
 some are quite easy. They are the easiest way to earn new pop-up cards.
  
  Graphics: This game is definitely more kid-oriented than other installments in the Final Fantasy 
 series, but the game has good graphics, and it's kid-oriented focus does not detract from the gameplay.
 
  
  Overview: Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo Tales is a good game worth a buy, but if you're looking 
 for a great Final Fantasy Title, Final Fantasy IV is worth a first look.
  Story: 7.5/10
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  Overall: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johngebreadman
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 24, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  This is most definitely a game for children, you can tell just by looking at the box, but this 
 is a lot of fun for people of all ages, it is hard not to enjoy this cutesy, primary coloured game. 
 
  
  As the title suggests the game is about those yellow coloured birds seen so frequently throughout 
 the Final Fantasy series, the Chocobos. You play as a chocobo living on a farm, owned by a human 
 girl called Shirma. She cares for all the chocobos on the farm, and often reads them stories. However, 
 her friend Croma the Black mage finds an evil book containing the Dark Master Bebuzzu. This evil 
 creature captures all of your chocobo friends and seals them into books throughout the land. Only 
 by finding these books can you save them and defeat the Evil Entity Bebuzzu.
  It sounds like a little children's story, but it is still a very enjoyable story for adults and 
 teenagers too. The chocobo you control must restore light to four crystals to defeat the dark master. 
 
  
  The game is played entirely with the Stylus and no other buttons are needed. Travelling on the 
 world is done using the stylus to move, and inside the books it is needed to complete the puzzles. 
 Each book gives a scenario, just like the ones from fairy tales, but with Final Fantasy characters 
 and creatures taking the role of the traditional characters. The ending is missing, and only by 
 completing the mini games inside the book will you unlock the ending. To add to the cute factor, 
 when you are taking part of these mini games, the area that you are in is in the shape of one of 
 these books. Depending on how well you complete the mini games depends on the rewards you unlock. 
 Some times you save your chocobo friends, some times you can advance the story by getting rid of 
 obstacles, and sometimes you get cards. The missions are great fun, and unlocking everything in 
 each book is quite difficult despite it being a children's game. One game involves you moving a 
 chocobo through a maze without hitting the walls, because they are electrified by the summon Ramuh, 
 or riding an adamantoise through a river. They certainly look childish and cute, but they are still 
 great fun, and have good gameplay to fall back on if the cuteness doesn't get you intrigued. 
 
  Some minigames are found outside of the books and completing these gets you great cards, and once 
 again they are really fun. Some of the games are frustrating, but this is only about 1 in 4 and 
 the good outweighs the bad. 
  
  The cards are used for a Yu-gi-oh style card game, in which you put cards into a deck and battle 
 with them. The cards have four different colours, and these help change the tide of the battle. 
 The cards have attack and guard symbols for each colour, some have nothing at all and these help 
 determine whether an attack is a success, if you use a yellow attack on a yellow guard zone the 
 attack does no damage. It is a turn based affair, and it is very tactical, yet easy to pick up. 
 
  
  The cute visuals are seen in every aspect of the game, from traversing the map, to playing the 
 mini games, to playing the card game. They are very well done and some of the images look like 
 drawings, in an attempt to make them look like they are from a book, and it works. They look great, 
 they look cute, they look childish, but not sickly so, and not over the top, they got the balance 
 right. 
  
  The soundtrack is very good, most of the time you will be listening to the famous chocobo theme, 
 or variants of it, but there is also some good unique music in this game that works very well. 
 The songs are done by Nobou Uematsu and they do have a cutesy theme to them, although it isn't 
 to sickly to make you want to play it on mute. 
  
  Overall, this may be marketed as a children's game, but it is really designed for all ages, and 
 an adult will get just as much fun out of it as a child will, maybe even more, knowing how it relates 
 to the main FF series. At only 10 hours long however it might not be one for the hardcore gamer. 
 
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound and music: 9/10
  Story:9/10
  Overall 9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterzelk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 20, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Mostly, with final fantasy, you learn or buy attacks, and hit or miss by pure luck. Here, you find 
 or earn moves, and you hit or miss by swords and shields on a card. This was a good game, but while 
 playing it, I missed being able to take down foes whose hp made me look like a lv 1 player and 
 still take him out. 'Cause the only one who should be able to take you out in 1 shot should be 
 any form of Bahamut. The light boss with a knife or dark blade card could take you out if you fight 
 him after you beat the game. Bebuzu is a different type of villain, but clever none the less. Every 
 action you make seems to fall into his plan. He may not wear armor like Golbez or Exdeath or strike 
 fear and loss of bladder control at the sound of his name to those who have faced him like Sepheroth, 
 but his still amajor villain. In short, it was a good game. The only problem was that they didn' [t 
 explain the story. Anyone that tried to tell ypu got cut of midsentence after having their energy 
 drained. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 4, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Chocobo Tales; the title says it all.
  
  You play as a Chocobo (you name him) , those love able, giant, yellow birds that most FF fans have 
 become accustom to riding. It's story time and Shirma, a white mage, wakes you up to begin reading.
 
  
  Just then, Chroma, a black mage, appears. He's a book collector of sorts and comes to brag about 
 a rare picture book he had just purchased.
  
  This is where your story begins.
  
  The villain's name is Bebuzzu, a demon sealed in the form of a book. He captures all of your Chocobo 
 friends in cards, trapping those cards in Chroma's picture books. By playing various mini-games 
 and meeting certain requirements (i. e, beating level 2 without getting hit) , you can save them.
 
  
  There are two types of games: Mini and Micro
  Micro games have nothing to do with advancing the plot, but they help you get more cards to pop-up 
 duel with.
  Mini games advance the story bit-by-bit as you complete each book.
  
  I love how Square Enix has managed to pretty accurately balance the mini/micro games and even manages 
 to use the mic. You can also maneuver the entire game with your stylus, never touching the D-pad. 
 Another thing is the stories that you'll be jumping into. Each is a variation of beloved fairy 
 tales such as 'The Boy Who Cried Leviathan' (The Boy Who Cried Wolf) and 'The Adamantoise and the 
 Cactuar' (The Tortoise and the Hare)
  
  The pop-up-duel game is very cute and pretty interesting. The graphics are that of a pop-up book, 
 yet still able to draw you in.
  
  Of course, for everything good, there will always be bad.
  
  This game took me a total of 11 
 hours 55 minutes to complete, with each book at 100% complete. Not only was it short, but some 
 of the mini games left you wanting to snap your stylus in half. The micro games (played to win 
 cards to duel with) weren't much better.
  
  All in all, it would be best to rent before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lfclee
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  after playing this game i thought 'wow that was a fun experience' it was a simple yet good. this 
 game has all the makings of an instant classic as it has cool graphics and fun gameplay.
  this game includes lots of minigames so you dont get bored and there is a good storyline to it 
 which is easily grasped by younger players. i think that this game is aimed at the younger generation 
 and it is very effective. i played the game to see if it compared to other final fantasy games 
 but found out it does not. it is not even the same sort of game so cannot be put in the same catagory 
 it is a fun game full of mini games that you cant get enough of.
  also there is a trading card game set into the big game which you get rewarded with more cards 
 the more mini games you play.
  this game is good and easy for all people young and old and you will be hooked from the first to 
 the last minute, even if you didnt like other final fantasy games you should still have a go.
 
  a 9/10 as its just plain fun and an a+
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SquareEnix994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Using Caracters from the final fantasy world... and caracter design comparable to the ones from 
 Chocobo Dungeons 1&2 and Chocobo Racing (all from the Playstation 1 console)
  
  This adventure utilizes a mini game based fighting engin and a card battle system. When you first 
 start your game you the hero ( a small chocobo) withnesses every other friend and familly member 
 suddently vanished from the town... the villains uses story books to summon an old villain from 
 ancient time... the mini games consist of using the stylus by sliding tapping and scratching the 
 screen it also uses the microphone... a total of over 100 card too collect and more then 30 different 
 mini game and microgame.
  
  Graphic- I give the graphic a big 9 for a full 3D design on the nintendo DS (except for a couple 
 of microgame) . The color are bright and beautiful and the animation is well rendered.
  
  Sound- The sound and music section owns a big 8.5 for using at least one diferent song for each 
 area and each minigame. the sound uses a good stereo/mono option.
  
  Gameplay- the gameplay wins a big 10 for having to use your stylus and the DS in so many different 
 way. you can't imagine everything you can do with the stylus and the ds until you've played every 
 minigame and microgame... even the end credit is a mini game!!!
  
  On a Conclusion note i think this game is well worth its money it is a fun game to play and enjoy. 
 It fun to show your friends all your highscores and then see them trying so hard to beat them.... so 
 if you are still not certain if it is worth it you should defenitly rent it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxeewildstar
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo tales is a very a very fascinating game. I had read alot of reviews 
 where people said that Chocobo tales was alot on the short side. It is, in fact, a bit on the shprt 
 side. I received it for Christmas this year and fell in love with it! It's very cute! 
  
  You play as a little chocobo you can name and it's jam-packed with minigames and microgames!
 
  
  The stort consists of a character by the name of Croma, who brings home an unknown evil tome. Shirma, 
 one of the main characters is slightly weary about the opening of the book, but Croma convinces 
 her otherwise. Thus' oening the tome that turns out to be named Bebezzu. Once the tome was opened, 
 all of chocobo's friends were sucked into the book and turned into cards. Chocobo must now save 
 his friends from the incaging cards and save their world from the evil tome, Bebezzu and his evil 
 hench, Irma,
  
  All in all this game is an amazing adventure with very good graphics, indeed. So, I strongly suggest 
 chocobo tales to anyone in need of a good adventure.
  
  But, alas', on the bad side, this game is mainly aimed at kids. The kiddie feeling of this game 
 might indeed turn older, more advanced Final Fantasy players away.
  
  But again, one of the best games in years in my oppinion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: busak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  To tell you the truth I was a bit skeptical about this game. When I saw that cute, cuddly chocobo, 
 the graphics style... I thought that this isn't the game for me. But I was soo wrong. Even tough 
 it looks like it's for children only, this isn't the case. The card system is nice, crystal points 
 are a nice system too, there are a lot of things in the game to do. You can try collecting all 
 the cards (pokemon fans will love this) . Oh yeah, I loved the stories, especially because they 
 have Final Fantasy character mixed in the classic fables. The only thing that I didn't like is 
 that it was very short. Well, All I can say is that you should buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rocket1010
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  this game is a lot of fun. Nintendo has the great reputation of being able to cram ton's of mini 
 games into a pretty cool storyline. expect some of your favorite job classes from other final fantasy 
 games like the white and black mages as well as the bombs malboro's buhamut's and many other spirit's 
 like Ifrit, and shiva. you can also expect lots of chocobo's in this one as well as a dark chocobo. 
 there also is a very mysterious (and very hot) girl who of course is on the bad side but, her origins 
 are shrouded in mystery. this game gives you a real bang for your buck and has a very intresting 
 storyline. great non violent game to get someone for the upcoming christmas season.
  ******Only for the Nintendo DS******* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: palomaydarla
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  Chocobo tales is a game to have in your DS collection. The characters are very cute looking, great 
 graphics, the story is quite interesting and keeps you amused and your curiosity aroused... Plus, 
 you have a ton (yep... a ton) of minigames to play, each one very different and unique from each 
 other.
  The difficulty of the minigames varies from one to other and of course, it also depends of your 
 stylus skills, but what I can tell you is that if you weren't good with the stylus, you are going 
 to improve your skill. That's for sure.
  The quick save system relieves you and makes you love this game even more. The sound is amazing 
 and also it has the adorable tunes of the chobobos that we have heard on previous versions of Final 
 Fantasy (more specifically FFVII) . 
  
  The only downside of this game is that is a bit short to my taste.... I know that the game has 
 a lot of replay value due to the minigames, but still I haven't found the time or the craving to 
 play it again.
  
  Something I like about DS games is that they keep them kinda cheap and if you want them even cheaper, 
 you can always take a look around on Ebay.... this game is no exception about that.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squall6Cloud
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for about $12. The game's graphics are nice for walking around the world. The 
 minigames, and microgames look cute also, but not as detailed as the world map. What this game 
 is basically is a story driven compilation of micro/mini games. I wouldn't stress the story part 
 that much though, as it seems that the story is just there for comic relief and to make the game 
 more than a compilation of minigames and microgames. The characters are very cute and mostly lovable. 
 I have to admit I really enjoyed playing MOST (95%) of the mini/microgames in this game. They are 
 all pretty fun and addictive for what they are. One of the games I have a problem with is the magic 
 pot game. This game is just pure luck. You have to stick knives into holes into this pot. And if 
 you stick it into the right hole (for which there is no criteria) you get more knives and progress. 
 Now this can be truly annoying if you keep guessing wrong. The other game I didn't really care 
 for was the bomberwall. It's actually a fun game, but in order to get the gold medal (which gives 
 you a rare prize) you have to finish it within 16 secs. I can tell that it can be truly frustrating 
 doing that. 16sec is good if you are masochistic. If you want to have a righteous challenge, and 
 still have fun then they should have just put gold medal requirement as 17-18sec. So besides having 
 fun playing these microgame and minigames what do you get from it? In the microgames you are given 
 two objectives. One is easier to achieve and the other is moslty just tougher barring the 2-3 games 
 that are insane. Upon achieving those objectives you get cards. You can then use these cards to 
 participate in pop up duels which are necessary for progressing the game and the story. I don't 
 think I have to tell you that getting the cards from doing the challenging games really helps in 
 those battles. As for the minigames they comprise of a mini Grimmesque story with Final Fantasy 
 Fables world characters that leads to a minigame. You have 8 or 9 objectives (I forgot) , and they 
 are mostly easy. Three of them give you endings to the story, goodies, and progress the story. 
 One does something which you will findout when you play and I won't spoil it for you. And the others 
 basically unlock different difficulty/modes for the minigame or give you more cards :) This is 
 not an amazing game. But I can tell you this, that if I only have 5-15min at a time to play, this 
 would be the perfect game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allicrombie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:33 am PT
Review:  At first glance, a mix of chocobos and card battling sound like they go together as well as Howard 
 Stern and intelligent conversation, but thankfully, one of these pairings actually works out pretty 
 well (Sorry Howard!) . Chocobo Tales gives an interesting take on the Final Fantasy mythos. The 
 story revolves around you trying to save the four crystals of earth, air, fire and water (sound 
 familiar??) . You play a chocobo (its like an insanely cute, fluffy, chicken-like side dish on two 
 legs) , and wander around, exploring new areas, saving fellow multi-colored chocobos from somewhere 
 (Im guessing its like the Phantom Zone from those Superman comics) .
  
  You see, as the story opens, youre a carefree young chocobo, frolicking with your even more carefree 
 chocobo friends, ready for a nice bedtime story, when a friend arrives with an odd book (he looks 
 a lot like a black mage, and casts spells like one too !) , that just happens to have a blinking 
 eye on the cover. Well if youve seen the movie Hocus Pocus, you know that strange books with 
 blinking eyes on the covers usually arent good news. In true villainous book fashion, he (the 
 evil spirit of the book) , slowly sucks in all your buddies and takes off, and hes not alone. He 
 has a helper, of sorts, an evil girl (who looks a lot like the twin sister of one of your chocobos 
 friends, only hotter) and her army of evil chocobos.
  
  So off you go to save your friends, but heres the twist. You have to jump into other pop up books 
 lying around, which takes you into a minigame. A lot of these minigames are based on Grimms not 
 so grim fairy tales, (such as The Adamantoise and the Cactuar and the Boy Who Cried Leviathan) 
 with a Final Fantasy-esque flavor. There are a number of goals in each book to aim for, each successful 
 goal that you reach nets you a different reward, either a friend of yours is released and popped 
 back on the farm, you win a nifty trading card, or an obstacle in the world is destroyed, or a 
 path is created to a new area.
  
  Some of these trading cards you can find lying around in plain sight, but most you have to win 
 through minigame play. Typically, the harder the goal is to reach, the rarer the card youll receive 
 (from 1 to 3 stars!) . Each card features a nice picture of a final fantasy critter or summons, 
 four colored zones which can be blank, have a sword or a shield in them. Cards also have different 
 colors and can be used to harm your opponents status, by burning, poisoning, freezing, etc. When 
 you play a card, its nice to see Shiva and Ifrit, or Carbuncle, somewhat miniaturized and cute-ified 
 (yay I made up a word!) , and ready to perform their attacks. If youre an avid Final Fantasy player, 
 youll recognize most of the cards and probably even their moves from previous games.
  
  Boss battles are handled as card battles, known in the game as pop up duels (Pop in to Pop Up 
 Video!) . Ah the duel. from the dawn of time, man has yearned to destroy his fellow man in violent 
 card games. Even the Ancient Greeks enjoyed a friendly card battle now and then. (My Prometheus 
 card gives me bonus fire damage! My Plato card lets me sit back and reflect on your attack in 
 the context of the larger universe! .. .. How long do I have to sit here???) .
  
  Theres also an online mode, where you can jump online and take on other virtual chocobos out there 
 in a pop up duel or two, though if you havent progressed very far in the story mode, you wont 
 have the cards that a lot of players you face online may have, which is, of course, unfair (curse 
 you Square! Making me play through the game!) .
  
  Graphically, the game is awash with bright, vivid colors. From the lush greenery on the chocobo 
 farm to the lovely oceans, to the red hot lava flowing down Mt Magma (just like at home) , though 
 they wont win any awards, they are cute, and fit the game perfectly.
  
  The music, likewise, fits the game perfectly. It ranges from soothing, as in the underwater stages, 
 to painfully upbeat and cheery in parts of the overworld (you could play this at a funeral and 
 end up in the casket with the deceased) .
  
  The controls in the game are very simple. You simply tap your stylus where you want your feathered 
 friend to go, and drag and off you go. Controls in minigames vary, but theyre usually pretty easy 
 to figure out.
  
  The game isnt without its flaws though, unfortunately. The main game itself, is quite short, lasting 
 only from 10-20 hours, more of course if you insist on finding every card/conquering every minigame, 
 etc. Many of the minigames are frustratingly difficult, though if you dont mind putting in the 
 time to learn them, they can all be patiently worked though. Also if you arent into minigames 
 or card battling, (or chocobos) you may be a bit turned off. The pop up duels are a little weak, 
 as well, as a successful attack or block, is merely a lucky play of a card, if your cards sword 
 icon is in the same place as the opponents shield icon, its a block, if two swords collide, its 
 half damage. Since you dont know the cards your opponent can play (only their colors) , a lot of 
 times, it seems more like luck than anything else, getting an attack through, or blocking an attack.
 
  
  In the end, if youre looking for a fun, minigame filled, chocobo laden game, with relatively light 
 card battling elements, you could do a lot worse (especially if you happen to find another minigame 
 filled, light card battling game with tons of chocobos) . Its not Magic: The Gathering, or even 
 Pokemon: The Trading Card Game, by any means, but what it is, simply, is a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MogFromLeipzig
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical about this game. After the first few minutes of playing it I still thought SquareEnix 
 would milk the franchise, rely on the fans to buy the game no matter what and make it cheap and 
 short. But then I played some more and it sucked me in.
  
  **Story**
  
  What is it about? Chocobo Tales tells a story of an evil wizard, called Bebuzzu, that is trapped 
 inside a book. Once the black mage who lives on the chocobo farm accidentally opens the book Bebuzzu 
 sucks all the chocobos (except you) inside it and they are gone!
  Your task is to save them and stop Bebuzzu from executing his other evil plans.
  
  You save 
 your friends by traveling the world and searching for books. Each book offers a mini game and several 
 challenges connected to that mini game. If you beat a challenge you have the chance that a chocobo 
 is saved. If not, other good things will happen. For example you can gain cards this way which 
 you can use in card games called Pop Up duels.
  
  The story does its job but it is nothing special. To be honest it's not even good and the stories 
 in the books you find are terrible! Nevertheless all the characters are really lovable and ease 
 the pain. The whole world is also very cute and there is so much to do and to discover that the 
 story doesn't really matter anyway.
  
  **Graphics and Sound**
  
  Both very cute. Sometimes the music is a little too cute and can get on your nerves but mostly 
 is just fits well into the game. You will know nearly all the tunes from other FF games and most 
 of you will agree that the music of FF (especially the older games) is very good and memorable.
 
  The 3D graphics are very nice (and so cute!) . The books have 2D graphics and it's a matter of 
 taste if you like them. They are very simple and look like drawn by a child with crayons. Not really 
 good but ok.
  
  **Difficulty**
  
  As always, some mini games are fun and some not so much. There are mini games in the books you 
 find and there are micro games which you can play to get some more cards. To proceed in the story 
 you only have to play the book mini games and beat easy to middle hard challenges. So most likely 
 you won't have trouble to beat the game storywise. However to unlock all the secrets is very hard. 
 I think I beat about 95% of the book challenges and 60% of the micro game challenges (all silver 
 medals and a few gold medals) and now I'm at my limits.
  
  **Value**
  
  How long you have fun with this game depends on how much you want to achieve. Although I'm no mini 
 game friend I found the game incredible motivating. I wanted to free all chocobos and to collect 
 better cards for online play. There are 16 books and 23 micro games with which I spent 20 hours 
 in the story mode (I finished the story after 10 hours but came back) . You can play mini games 
 against a friend with a DS and another cartridge. Unfortunately there are only 3 micro games that 
 are available for single cartridge multiplayer.
  The most fun however are Pop Up duels over the internet (or against friends if you have some that 
 play the game, too.)
  The success in this card game depends halfway on luck, a good card deck makes a quarter and the 
 last quarter is skill. That way it is not too frustrating if you loose - just think it was bad 
 luck. But a good deck and skill are not meaningless either and you can distinguish different playing 
 styles of different players. Most importantly Pop Up duels are fun!
  
  **Conclusion**
  
  This game has a lot to offer. Plenty fun mini games and good rewards that motivate you to beat 
 them. Enjoyable online card game. Plus your beloved FF mascots. Great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rukisa
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 13, 2007 6:11 am PT
Review:  At first I thought the game was cute and nice. But after the first hour of pathetic story, bad 
 gameplay, and characters that I couldn't care less about... it got old. Story 1/10 The story was 
 pathetic!!! I think that in the entire game, they only fit the amount of story that most RPGs have 
 in the first few minutes. Gameplay 2/10 As for the mini-games... I found them annoying, very few 
 were what I would consider fun and you had to repeat them over and over. The card battles where 
 slow and there was approximately five necessary battles in the entire game. Seriously. Five battles... 
 Admittedly you could have practice battles or rematches with defeated enemies who after being defeated 
 instantly became your lifelong friend and guardian. As I said the story was bad. Graphics 2/10 
 Nice looking but nothing happened... the Chocobos walked around and talked as did everyone else... and 
 that was about all. Minigames and Cardbattles where weird with the paper style art which I personally 
 found annoying. Sound 5/10 Yay finally something fun-ish! Not enough to make up for pathetic game 
 but still with the Final Fantasy style of music it was bound to be fun. Overall 2/10 I wouldn't 
 recommend this to anyone above age ten. I suggest you keep the receipt if you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnaSummoner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo Tales is the return of the chocobo games. This one is a game based 
 in mini-games and what they call the micro-games.
  
  The graphics are simply amazing, but what else would you expect from SquareEnix? There isn't an 
 intro FMV, but you can live without it. The game is quite colourful which, combined with the good 
 animation, makes gameplay very joyful.
  
  You can control absolutely everything by using the stylus which makes this game very interactive. 
 The controls respond greatly and are very easy to use. This game has three main spotlights: the 
 mini-games, the micro-games and the pop-up duels. The mini-games are what you need to complete 
 to advance in the simple acceptable plot by entering books and complete their epilogues. Throughout 
 the gameplay, you'll find certain micro-games, which you may choose not to play, but will certainly 
 make a little effort to win more cards. And these cards I just mentioned are what you'll use in 
 the pop-up duels, which are battles played with cards that have the power to summon a certain creature 
 to perform a certain attack. If you play the Final Fantasy series, you'll recognise all of them. 
 The battles are simple and quite well built, but you'll only need to enter the fray about 7 times 
 throughout the whole game. Of course, you can still go back and have rematches, but it's not compulsory.
 
  
  The rest of the game is really just walking about the cute little world. You'll visit a volcano, 
 a forest, an underwater temple and a very strange tower. And of course, the chocobo farm. This 
 game is aimed at very young people, but it's practically impossible to let this game in the store, 
 even if you are extremely adult. The game is very cute, the mini-games plot is based in stories 
 that most people heard about (adapted to the SquareEnix world) and can become challenging and fun 
 to play. I guess you'll just particularly miss a deeper and longer plot and perhaps a more original 
 one, since SquareEnix goes around the same stuff too many times.
  
  P. S.: Be careful when saving, because you won't be asked for confirmation! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kineas454
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I didn't like the look of this game at first, and bought it just to add to my Final 
 Fantasy collection. After playing it for a few hours, I was hooked.
  
  The stroyline is average, but I didn't really expect one at all with a mini-games compilation. 
 The story tales that are told throughout the game are a waste of time in my opinion, I skipped 
 through them all.
  
  The best part of the game is the Pop-up Duels over Wi-Fi. If you're just about to beat someone 
 though, they tend to disconnect/turn their DS off. And it doesnt count as a win on your record 
 when this occurs. You are able to view your wins and losses count though, unlike some other DS 
 titles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteFlame-XIII
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Take one look at the box art. Don't laugh too hard or you'll get seizures. Any game that has a 
 smiling Cute Yellow Bird deserves to be overlooked, right? wrong. Or atleast not entirely right... 
 STORY (reviewers tilt) : You are a Chocobo. A cute looking Yellow bird that many of the FF stars 
 have rode on such as Cloud, Zidane, and Balthier to name a few. You also have mad minigame and 
 Card playing skillz. who would have guessed? certainly, not me. You live your life sleeping and 
 reading a few books. So one day, while reading a fairy tale, a Dark sorcerer pops out of a book 
 that a Black mage named Croma, who looks much like Vivi, bought from some dude. He, a talking book 
 with breath that smells like Paper, traps all your little chocobo friends in cards that you progressively 
 collect. You get your fair share of Traditional NES FF four elemantal crystals, as well as Altered 
 Fairy tales using FF summons as things such as giants and such... so the story pretty much plays 
 out as such: Not too much, not too little.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is an accomplishment. Not too amazing, however. The Card Battle is the accomplishment. 
 It is very complex, but easy to learn, and fun to play. You have 15 cards in your average deck. 
 Each card has four elemental attack spaces on their card. These could be filled with either an 
 atttack icon, defense Icon, or blank space. there are four colors and each card has four of those 
 colors. If their attack is on one Icon and the other cards' corresponding space is blank you can 
 damage them. That is only a taste of the battle system. Now, the weakness is the minigames, which 
 really aren't that bad in consideration... but can get old. Other than the story, they serve as 
 ways to obtain cards for your colection as well as Your Chocobo friends' cards to release them. 
 the outer world is fair. And there are no random battles unlike traditional FFs. All in all, the 
 gameplay is decently good. GRAPHICS: the decency is... decent. not much to say, but I'll go into 
 detail. It is basically the same thing as Final Fantasy III, a considerable failure in my book. 
 A good addition is a map at the top screen. And that the FFIII graphics weren't THAT bad. So the 
 Graphics were fair. SOUND: Chocobo tales has a fair sound track. But the music gets a little bit 
 annoying after a little. And it is also very Kiddy-styled. There are traditional and/ or old FF 
 songs from FFs I-VIII. Some are good, some are bad. But I would honestly like to stop habitually 
 humming the Chocobo theme song. It's honestly catchy enough, but not too appealing otherwise... 
 That can basically describe the whole soundtrack for this game.
  
  VALUE: sure, why not... What's that? you want an explanation? well sure, why not? so... yeah... 
 this is alot of spam writing... ........... Well I'm being nice and giving it an 8 just because 
 it has the name, Final Fantasy on it... but I think the value is bad. I beat the easy storyline 
 in 13 hours with doing sidequests, if that's what you can call them. Not too much you can do afterwards, 
 too. Maybe beat the minigames 100%, Card battle wifi... somethings, but not enough to be that great 
 on it's own. But it's not a true FF, so it gets some slack. But... It's FF... BREAKDOWN: Story: 
 8- for having not too much, but not too little too it. Gameplay: 9- for overall goodness in generality. 
 Graphics: 7- for unoriginality, but okay-ness. Sound: 7- for a Kiddy- styled Soundtrack, but Catchy-ness 
 Value: 8- Courtesy just because it is in the FF series. Final: 8.1 out of Accumulative points. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manaka-kun
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 23, 2007 12:36 am PT
Review:  Another Final Fantasy spin-off, Chocobo Tales is obviously aimed at the younger audience. However, 
 you'll probably find some fun here if you like mini-games, or Final Fantasy. Or both, that'd just 
 make it even better for you!
  
  Basically, the game's story revolves around your Chocobo friends being kidnapped and trapped inside 
 cards, which YOU must find by both completing mini-games inside magical books, or sometimes just 
 finding them lying around. Though the latter's quite rare.
  
  Gameplay in this game is, as I said, made up mainly of mini-games. So you have to like mini-games 
 to really get the most out of this game. All of the mini-games that contribute to the story (Save 
 the book puzzle at the beginning) take place inside magical books, which transport you into a fairy 
 tale twisted to suit the Final Fantasy universe, including such tales as The Tortoise and the Hare, 
 now featuring adamantoise and a cactuar, and The Three Little Pigs, not featuring Tonberries instead 
 of wolves. There's some walking around to get between the books too, and there's a card battle 
 that you can do in-game and over wifi, but that's about it. You get cards through beating mini-game 
 records. I, myself, am not a mini-game fan in many ways, but that shouldn't stop you from enjoying 
 it!
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty good for a DS game in the overworld. For the mini-games and 
 in the books, it takes on a pop-up book style, which is all, obviously, 2D. Otherwise, very nice. 
 It's really colourful, too, sometimes moreso in one place than another.
  
  Sound is also really good. Most of the music you'll hear in mini-games is stuff you'll get stuck 
 in your head. Not for long, but still, you'll probably end up humming a few tracks at one stage, 
 depending on how you like your tunes.
  
  Overall, this game's obviously aimed at children with it's cheery, cute, colourful visuals and 
 certain parts of the script, however, the older audiences may find something here to play if they're 
 Final Fantasy fans. Or mini-game fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Chocobos have apearpped in alot of Final Fantasy games over the past years now The Chocobo's have 
 there own game.
  You play as a Chocobo and you live on a chocobo farm with your best friend Shirma (Female White 
 Mage) and Croma (Male Black Mage) . But one day Croma finds a strange book which has mysterious book 
 from his lates journey. Without notice the book has a dark powers and it sucks every chocobo into 
 the magical pages of the wickked book. But the book was the Dark Master Bebuzzu. So its upto you 
 save your friends and bum into strange people like Irma, The Jailbirds, Greeble and Peekaboo and 
 Volg.
  The main game play your useing the tourch screen to move around, and there are picture pop up books 
 that are levels, but there all fairy tales but in Final Fantasy form like The Boy who cried Levitian 
 or The Adanmatorise and the Cactar. The mini games are fun kinda like the mini games on Mario Bros 
 you can blow into the microphone aswell. In the game there are also card battles when theres a 
 boss battle you can create your own deck of cards and useing the tourch screen to choose a card 
 yu want to use, cards have strounger attacks if you have the right magic crsytals on the left screen. 
 The graphics are brillient for a DS they look great and the sounding and classic music from the 
 Chocobo themes and FF games.
  It is worth getting if your a Final Fantasy fan if you enjoy playing the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS-man
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 24, 2007 11:42 am PT
Review:  GOOD: Fantastic graphics and special effects; the card battling are suprsisingly good; 100+ cards; 
 long intresting story; fun mini games; BAD: Some minigames drive you up the wall: Graphical errors 
 may appire; GAMEPLAY:
  Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo Tales is a delightfull game on the go, if you've been on Warioware 
 touched then this is what its like, its a game full of mini games that uses the touch screen and 
 mic perffectly weather its controling your character, drawing trampolines or useing it to battle 
 with your collected cards.
  There are tons of Mini games in the game that all revoles around the story, the games are hidden 
 in books which you must complette to advance in your story, you somtimes have to go back into the 
 samee book but do a different difficulty level which adds replay value, there are also micro games 
 founded all over the free roam world were you can earn lots of powerfull and rare battle cards, 
 specking of which, the cards are suprisingly good, its abit like rock paper siccors were you must 
 match your attack to there blank spot to do damage or match your shield to there attack to defend 
 your HP, each cards to different amount of damage and different abilliies
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The graphics in the game are awesome, there 3D characters are smooth and colourfull, the world 
 itself i cant say the same but there still awesome, the most impressive part of the graphics are 
 the pop up cards, the monsters you summon look fantastic and run smoothly. there are some minor 
 errors though.
  
  SOUND:
  Funky background music and the classic and rememberal victory music and other music from past games 
 are in this one, abit crackly on the ds though.
  
  OVERALL:
  Its suly a fun exsperiance little game on the go with great visuals its a game everyone will like 
 weather you like final fantasy or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackrytonite
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo Tales is a spin-off of Square Enix's popular role-playing series. 
 To be fair, calling this one a role-playing game isn't very accurate. It's more of a mini-game 
 compilation/pop-up card duel game with a story holding it together. But that doesn't make it any 
 less entertaining.
  
  You play as a little Chocobo on a farm with your friends, being taken care of by Shirma the white 
 mage. Trouble in paradise starts brewing, though, when one of those friends, a dark mage, brings 
 a new book that he got to the Chocobo farm and you help him open it. Turns out to be an evil spirit. 
 This should be good. Well he wreaks havoc and you have to rescue your friends and save the world. 
 Not much of a story but it holds the game together.
  
  Anyway, the main thing you'll be doing here is entering books strewn across the land. In these 
 books, you'll read a story based on popular children's classics with a FF twist. Then you play 
 a mini game based on the story. The games have a few goals for you, and completing these goals 
 helps you unlock new epilogues for the story (which also cause something to happen outside of the 
 book) , get new pop-up duel cards, rescue a friend, and unlock new difficulty levels for the mini-game 
 to complete. Don't be fooled by the game's kiddish appearance. Some of these games are actually 
 fairly challenging and fun to play. The pop-up duel strategy is very well done, easy to learn, 
 but still complex enough to be fun. There are plenty of cards to unlock and strategies to come 
 up with that make it pretty fun to experiment with, if that sort of thing is your cup of tea. You 
 will be doing pop-up duels as you progress through the game, but the majority of your time will 
 be spent playing the mini games.
  
  Besides the mini-game books and pop-up duels, you can also unlock microgames that are simpler, 
 but are also very clever. These can usually be unlocked by rescuing a certain charactor. These 
 games will give out two pop-up cards each for high scores, so it is always fun to try to master 
 the game. The silver and gold rankings will get you these cards, obviously the gold scoring you 
 a rarer card.
  
  The graphics are well done with the charactors in 3-D, and the land being nicely detailed. The 
 sound is completely awesome, with a good variety of music with songs taken from previous FF games. 
 The game never gets old to listen to.
  
  In all, FFF: CT is a charming and entertaining collection of mini-games with a creative twist that 
 will please most open-minded gamers, with plenty to do between unlocking 120+ pop-up cards and 
 trying to complete 100% of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DidiCardoso
Rating: 8
Date: May 20, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  In this fairy-tale-like game, Square Enix ditches the conventional RPG gameplay to focus on mini-games 
 and card battles in a setting tailored for children that gamers of all ages will enjoy.
  
  Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo Tales takes place in a Chocobo farm, where a mysterious book is found 
 and opened, only to bring chaos to the peaceful land. An evil creature named Bebuzzu is unleashed, 
 takes away all the inhabitants, and plans to devour all the magic crystals. The fate of the farm 
 and the missing Chocobos rests on the shoulders of one little heroic Chocobo. With the help of 
 two of his friends, Chroma the Black Mage and Shirma the White Mage, the Chocobo starts a stange 
 adventure that transports him into a series of books and traps him inside their tales.
  
  Each of the books has a mini-game and a series of challenges to complete. In each volume there 
 is a Trial stage and a Battle mode with up to 5 levels. Completing the stages rewards you with 
 something: a Chocobo card that saves a villager and places him/her somewhere in the farm, a Pop-Up 
 Duel Card to go in your deck, another level of the mini-game, an epilogue or an event on the world 
 map.
  
  There are several types of mini-games in the fable books, granted to appeal a wide range of players. 
 You will find yourself swimming away from Leviathan, dodging boulders and racing down rapids with 
 an Adamantoise, stealing fruit while staying clear of Shiva and Ifrit's fire and ice balls, stepping 
 on instruments to play a rhythm game, racing up or down a beanstalk or finding a Chocobo in flames 
 in a Where's Waldo type of game.
  
  The micro-games aren't locked in the books, and you can find them all over the place. Some of the 
 Chocobos you save will have something for you to play, others are randomly placed in the world 
 map. These reward you with Silver and Gold medals, each of them giving you a card.
  
  Although it is possible to advance through the game without completing all the stages on every 
 book, it's recommended you try to complete as much as possible to get better and more powerful 
 Duel Cards.
  
  The key to winning duels is to know your opponent's cards, so if you lose a duel, change strategy 
 and try again, there aren't any consequences for losing. For me, it has worked so far to build 
 up a deck with high defense on the particular element being used (for example, green defense cards 
 in the Forest, blue in the Underwater Temple) .
  
  As far as the controls go, Chocobo Tales can be controlled entirely with the stylus, including 
 moving across the map areas. All menus, mini-games, micro-games and card duels are made for being 
 tapped and dragged, so everything is very user-friendly.
  
  The sound effects and music will be very familiar to Final Fantasy veterans, while the art style 
 comes in a mix of 3D environments around the farm's grounds, and 2D crayon-colored paper cut-outs 
 in the books and card duels.
  
  In the end, what seemed like a very childish excuse for a Final Fantasy game turned out to be a 
 very enjoyable adventure, trading card game and mini-games collection in one. There is plenty to 
 do, lots of replay value, over 120 cards to collect, more than 40 games to play and several Chocobos 
 to save. The added multiplayer feature allows players from all over the world to come face to face 
 in Pop-Up Card Duels.
  
  Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo Tales is a fantastic adventure that draws the player right in starting 
 with the first storybook. I sure hope to see more Fables based on other characters in the future!
 
  
  Review text part of Grrlgamer. com. Full text , screenshots and a mini-game at http://www. grrlgamer. com/review. php? g=chocobotales 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matdredalia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest, Chocobo Tales was a little different from what I expected. But, I did not expect 
 an immersive story line with a lot of character depth, and I believe that's why I not only truly 
 enjoyed it, but why I think it's one of the best games on the DS to date.
  
  I'll tell you right now -- Chocobo Tales does not center around it's plot, nor is it all about 
 the cute little bed-time stories in the 'pop-up' books that you enter to complete the game. It's 
 all about the Pop-Up Duels &amp; Mini Games.
  
  In my opinion, the game's plot line is a thinly veiled excuse to get you to collect Pop-up cards 
 for online card battles, and to give you an obsessive-compulsive need to get the highest score 
 on the mini-games (since you can turn around and post your score on the game's official website) . 
 Unlike the rest of the Final Fantasy series, it is not Chocobo Tales's story that makes it shine, 
 it is in the game's unique battling system (pop-up duels &amp; mini-game battles) , and it's ability 
 to use the pop-up cards you collect throughout, and after, the story to challenge online opponents 
 to duels. Much like Tetris DS, where the biggest hype was in the ability to use WiFi to challenge 
 your opponents, the Pop-up Duels are at their finest when they are online with a real-life opponent. 
 Ultimately, Final Fantasy fans need to go into Chocobo Tales with an open mind, realizing that 
 this game was geared towards younger, more care-free generations, and that it is a title where 
 innovative game-play and fun take presedence over a captivating story line and extremely well-developed 
 characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latioszero
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 13, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  Honestly, when I picked up this game I didn't have that high of expectations, most of the people 
 that I had talked to didn't like it that much. But, because I'm such a Final Fantasy nerd, I had 
 to pick it up anyway. I was pleasantly surprised, this game was alot better than people had made 
 it out to be!
  
  Chocobo tales is a collection of minigames hidden in books. That pretty much sums it up. The storyline 
 was there, but you just had too much fun playing the minigames to care that much. For most all 
 the books, there are 2 options: Time Trial and Battle.
  
  You generally start off with only the option of Time Trial. In this mode, you're timed (GASP) and 
 you try to complete a task within a certain amount of time. Whether it be Seeing how long you can 
 outrun Leviathan, or riding an Adamantoise down rapids to save a cactaur from becoming Bismark's 
 dinner, it's a race against time! Once you complete Time Trial (generally the easy times, such 
 as it takes you about 50 seconds the first time, but to unlock battle mode you just need to complete 
 time trial in under 2 minutes) You unlock battle mode.
  
  Battle mode has 5 Levels, in Level 1 you face off against a relatively unintelligent chocobo (nicknamed 
 a jailbird ) in the same event as time trial, only with a little twist. Take the racing of the 
 Adamantoises down the rapids for instance. In time trial, you try to get to the end as fast as 
 you can. In Battle, you try to get to the end before your opponent. in level 2, you face off against 
 3 Jailbirds. Level 3, you face off against the comic releif villains, a pink and blue chocobo. 
 Level 4 you face off against the pink and blue, along with a mysterious black chocobo, who is not 
 to be taken lightly. Level 5, its mano-a-mano with the black chocobo, which can be rather difficult.
 
  
  Each book has a backstory as well. It starts off by telling the first part of the story, leaving 
 you at a cliffhanger for you to finish. By completing the time trials in a certain amount of time, 
 or by beating certain battle modes, you unlock a total of 3 Epilogues, which do crazy things to 
 the world outside the book.
  
  Another feature in Chocobo tales are the pop-up duels. Pop-up duels is where you face off against 
 an opponent using pop-up cards, obtained in various ways (mostly by beating minigames and through 
 the books) . This is the game's wi-fi multiplayer feature. Pop-up dueling is surprisingly fun, but 
 is limited to a deck of up to 15 cards, which I am sort of dissapointed about. All in all, it's 
 a really fun game, and worth every penny to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peacebringer
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 22, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  From the Outside this looks stupid, this is what i said. But after seeing several Reviews in the 
 8's i just had to buy the game and see if it's a good adventure.
  
  Was i happy with my Purchase? Yes.
  
  Chocobo tales feels like a Final Fantasy Spin Off , it's 
 got the Music the Humor and it's got some really nice visuals. When i hear Kiddie that means the 
 adventure is funny to adults and thats exacatly what this game is Funny. The plot will make you 
 chuckle on multiple occasions. Like the Big fat Chocobo who only thinks about food to a younger 
 Chocobo saying Reading time is so boring (man i can't wait for the story to start hehe) it really 
 has some funny moments.
  
  Some of the Minigames can be hard to impossible to master and get the gold requirements. like the 
 Bomber Wall minigame that in a word is next to impossible to do 3 time in less than 16 seconds. 
 I just love games that Challenge you enough to not make the quest Easy and Chocobo Tales does just 
 that.
  
  The Wifi and Multiplayer Mode add alot of replay here. Most the Minigames are pretty good with 
 a few that are not that good but in the end there very little of the bad ones , and some people 
 might not think those are bad anyways.
  
  This game can be better , one thing that i think should have been installed is while in the dungeons 
 in the game there should have been Random Battles so we can use the cards more cause using the 
 cards just for bosses kinda makes the card game limited in the game, had Square done that i think 
 this would have been overall a better package.
  
  The music is a testament to FF games and has some well made and catchy tunes. the Graphics are 
 very good on par with the FF3 game and i think it's the same engine , but the Story books are so 
 unique they look like real water paintings and add alot to the overall presentation of the game.
 
  
  
  overall no matter your age if your thinking of buying this game i think you will be happy with 
 your Purchase i'm 25 and i have no problem with humble games (or if you wanna call it kiddie) . 
 If you like Square Game this will statisfy you till the other games arrive on the RPG side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 6.4
Date: May 7, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  As a Final Fantasy fan, I simply couldn't resist giving Final Fantasy Fables a try. I knew going 
 in that it would be a simple and lighthearted adventure game loaded with minigames and Final Fantasy 
 references... and it is. Though these parts of the game can be fun, it really lacks any sort of 
 compelling gameplay or plot that makes Final Fantasy games good in the first place.
  
  The object of the game is pretty simple. As a chocobo, you are thrown into a cute adventure to 
 rescue your friends which have been imprisoned in cards by an evil sentient story book. To rescue 
 them, you must find their cards. This is accomplished through completing tasks scattered in books 
 around the world and battling the occasional monster.
  
  The minigames themselves are fun sometimes, and certainly challenging. In any given book, you are 
 presented with a Final Fantasy spin on a popular Fairy Tale, and you must complete a minigame challenge 
 to unlock the secrets therein. Most of the games are rather simple... though it will take some 
 skill to get the best ranks in each challenge, you'll rarely feel compelled to play a particular 
 minigame for more than a half-hour or so. Rewards for the game include rescuing Chocobos, alternate 
 endings to the Fairy Tale in question, and/or a card which can be used in your battle deck.
  
  At the heart of the game is the card battling system. Using cards that you've collected from 
 the world and minigame challenges, you assemble a small deck. These cards contain attacks which 
 you play to defeat your opponents. There are plenty of cards to collect, and soon you will have 
 enough that you can fine-tune your deck strategy in battle. This is the best part of the game, 
 in my opinion... every card includes a popular character from previous FF games, animated in 2D 
 pop-up fashion. The card game itself ends up being rather simple, working more as a battle engine 
 than a true TCG. This game would have been much better had the card system been a little deeper... 
 sadly I rarely found myself needing to play more than the game required.
  
  The graphics and sound are good, and certainly cute. The entire game is sprinkled with lots of 
 classic FF characters and music. My one complaint is that Theme no Chocobo (the chocobo song) is 
 used LIBERALLY throughout the entire game. Some more variety in music would have been nice.
  
  The game lasts for a good 20 hours or so if you give each minigame a few attempts, though you 
 could easily stretch this out if you wanted to unlock everything. In addition to the single player 
 mode, you have access to any particular minigame from the main menu, as well as a few microgames 
 you can share with nearby friends via Wi-fi. It's nothing that will hold your friends' attentions 
 for very long, but it's a nice addition.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  This is a decent DS game, something that would definitely appeal to someone who enjoys Final Fantasy 
 games. It really boils down to a simplistic RPG loaded with minigames, which could not hold my 
 attention much past completing the game. If you are looking for something cute and simple to whittle 
 away the time, Chocobo Tales might be up your alley. Sadly, in the sea of minigame collections 
 on popular consoles, and the many other more meaty , quality titles available for the DS right 
 now, this game falls by the wayside.
  
  +Lots of Final Fantasy references
  +Some minigames can be fun for a while
  +Excellent graphics, very cute
  -Absolutely lacks any 
 compelling content
  -Most minigames have little replay value beyond completing challenges
  -Familiar FF songs are recycled ad-nauseum
  -Card game battling is a little too shallow for my 
 taste
  -Cute story and fairy tale adaptations are entirely forgettable 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DFresh4
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 4, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Who knew that Chocobos were so badass? Then again, the world doesn't really seem to be in that 
 critical of impending doom when the omnificent presence can be beaten so easily..... and with playing 
 cards to boot. To be honest, I am not the biggest fan or card battling but I felt that FFF: CT did 
 a good job of making it interesting enough by placing classic final fantasy summons and enemies. 
 The real meat of the game is represented in the addictive mini and micro-games that are played 
 throughout the Chocobo ranch island. There are so many games that can be played, and each only 
 takes small increments of time, usually only about 30 second to one minute per game played. This 
 is extremely helpful when playing on the go, as you can play a game, save and get where you need 
 to go. This game was made for the most mobile of gamers, and it can be appreciated. In terms of 
 the graphics, the game does a very good job of mixing 2D and 3D visuals. In terms of the DS they 
 are pretty spectacular. The soundtrack was like a time warp into FF past, which was really fun 
 to listen to as I played along (especially in the final crystal dungeon!) . The fact that the entire 
 game can be played with the touch screen and stylus is a welcomed addition. Both screens on the 
 system are constantly in use, which is not always the case with most games (an obvious example 
 was Squares last foray with the DS in Final Fantasy III; a great game but a waste of DS Function) . 
 Unfortunately the game is a bit too short. I will not complain able its childish nature because 
 was to be expected. All in all the game was an enjoyable experience for the hours it was played, 
 though I don't know if I will be picking it back up any time soon. If you enjoy Final Fantasy this 
 game should be picked up. If you enjoy mini-game compilations this game is also for you. If you 
 cannot handle over-cute animations and all too positive and bubbly conversation you may want to 
 stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captain_blu808
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 23, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This Final-Fantasy type kind of game has great graphics, gameplay, and storymode. There is a wide 
 variety of things to do in the game, before and after you have completed it. Probably the only 
 thing I didn't like about the game is that it wasn't as long as most other Final Fantasy games. 
 Also, I really enjoyed the music throughout the game, as I did in every other final fantasy game 
 I have played. If you liked Final Fantasy games, you'll defenitely enjoy Chocobo tales. Final Fantasy 
 games have yet to let me down. This game is worth the cost, and you won't regret getting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rensje88
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  'Don't judge a book by its cover.' This is probably the most uninspiring start for a Final Fantasy 
 Fables: Chocobo Tales review ever written, but it is just true. It's easy to be fooled by the cute 
 graphics and light storyline featured in this game, but below the surface resides a deep and engaging 
 game that is going to keep you busy for hours on end.
  
  It is not often you come across a game that combines as many genres as Final Fantasy Fables: Chocobo 
 Tales does, and the fact that it does this with succes is even more surprising. Part adventure, 
 part RPG, part collectible card game and part multiplayer mayhem, Chocobo Tales has something for 
 everyone, and people of all ages should find just what they are looking for in the game.
  
  Basically, the game plays out like any traditional Final Fantasy game, with a world that needs 
 saving and friends that need to be rescued. No turn-based battling in this game though; to beat 
 your opponents, you must enter magical picture books and play the minigames contained within to 
 unlock new epilogues to the fairy tales, free your Chocobo friends and earn more Pop-Up Duel cards 
 with which you can beat the various bosses throughout the game.
  
  The fables, all based upon real stories, but with a Final Fantasy twist to them, are very charming 
 and really make you want to complete the objectives to see what happens next in the story and what 
 will change in the world you walk around in. The island you can explore as Chocobo, the game's 
 protagonist, is quite big, although it cannot be compared to the vast worlds you would explore 
 in other Final Fantasy games. However, there is more than enough fun to be had on the relatively 
 small space the game features, so you needn't worry about getting bored anytime soon. There's a 
 dozen minigames to master and two dozen microgames to fiddle with, so that should keep you busy 
 for quite a while. And if that wasn't enough, there's the Pop-Up Duels to really complete the package.
 
  
  The Pop-Up Duels, which play out somewhat like a game of Yu-Gi-Oh, are what really makes this game 
 shine. The graphics featured in these bouts are some of the greatest ever pulled off on the DS' 
 tiny screens and the whole thing kind of looks like Pok&eacute; mon Stadium on speed. It's a brilliant 
 sight to behold and it will sure keep you entertained for eons, especially so if you have access 
 to Nintendo's Wi-Fi Connection.
  
  Just everything about this game wis done right; the difficulty, the humour, the graphics, the music, 
 the minigames, the multiplayer, everything. The only real flaw is that there aren't more Pop-Up 
 Duel cards to collect! There's a total of 122 cards to gather over the course of the game and though 
 that may seem like a lot, you'll have a complete set after 20 to 25 hours of playing. Not only 
 that, but you will run into people with similar decks online more often than not. That said, there's 
 really nothing I can say about this game other than 'try it'! You have to play it to understand 
 how charming it really is and how much fun there is to be had. Even after you've completed the 
 game, there's just so much to do that this cartridge will be staying in your DS for quite a while. 
 If you like Final Fantasy, minigames, card games or adventure games, this is one game you will 
 not want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 30, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Although I've seen a lot of negative press concerning Chocobo Tales, even the bad reviews gave 
 me enough information to take a chance on this charming game. While it does cash in somewhat on 
 the whole casual gaming theme on the DS, it also offers a robust card combat game, charming visuals, 
 a nice tie in to children's fairy tales, and a well rounded set of mini and micro games. If you're 
 expecting a full fledged Square RPG, you'll be disappointed. If you want something light and fluffy, 
 with some variety and depth, then this might be worth your consideration.
  
  First things first: The game boots quickly, the startup screen can be skipped, and it takes mere 
 seconds to get into the game from the time you power on your DS. Secondly, you can save anytime 
 and it's immediate. Third, there are reminders spread throughout the game if you forget what you 
 are doing, which means if you somehow forget what is next, the game will push you towards it. These 
 are welcome features for what ends up being a somewhat casual adventure game you can just pick 
 up and play at your leisure. The game world is small enough, at least initially, that you don't 
 have to wander aimlessly to find something to do to progress the story. The mini and micro games 
 are fun, but for the most part, not so challenging as to drive you crazy. I've seen reviews that 
 state that these games are so frustrating you won't be able to unlock cards necessary to win boss 
 battles, but in my experience, it isn't so. I placed silver in most micro games (you can place 
 either silver or gold, with gold yielding a better game card) and completed most of the mini games 
 all of the way through. I had little trouble with the boss battles, and generally found the game 
 on the easy to moderate side.
  
  You have to play the same mini-game multiple times in order to unlock all of the possible rewards 
 and progress the main story line, but they generally provide enough fun that this isn't a problem. 
 They don't get boring at least for as long as you have to play a given game. Also, the mini and 
 micro games are varied, with an amazing assortment of game play styles, and with a help system 
 that provides just enough information to get your started and just vague enough to let you experience 
 the nuances for yourself.
  
  The actual game is played like an adventure game, where you wander around, talk to people, and 
 you trigger events that result in progressing the story or finding something (like a story book 
 which offers mini-games and loot) . Your chocobo doesn't level up, but you do find better cards 
 for the combat game, and you slowly get exposed to all of the elements of the game. Reviews seem 
 to really focus on the card based combat, but it's a minor portion of the game. There are maybe 
 a half dozen battles total, and they are extremely fun, but most of the twenty hours I played the 
 game were spent in mini and micro games.
  
  The card combat game is pretty robust, meaning it has a fairly simply layer on top but underneath 
 it's a deep and satisfying combat game. Combat plays out slow enough that you can see what's happening, 
 and this helps you to understand the combat system. You realize why a particular card choice was 
 poor, but by the same token, it's not totally obvious how to build a great deck of cards. I found 
 that I had to fight the same boss multiple times in order to figure out how to guard against him. 
 The game play is nuanced and strategies evolve subtly. It's a fun gamer made even more fun by the 
 fact that you can battle random people on the Internet using the built-in WiFi.
  
  If you like adventure games, card combat, and/or casual games, you should consider Chocobo Tales. 
 If you hate cute games, children's fairy tales, etc., then you probably want to stay away. I have 
 been looking for something other than the purely casual games for the DS for some time, and Chocobo 
 Tales does a good job of bridging casual and something a little deeper in nature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michelle_moraes
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  When I got the game, I already had an idea of what kind of game it was: various mini games mixed 
 with Final Fantasy references. For me, I was more interested on the later rather then on the games. 
 But just once I started playing the game, I realized how wrong I was about myself.
  
  The game is like this: you have the main storyline, which is - your black mage ends up messing 
 everything up by bringing an unknown book and everybody, well, almost everybody, is devoured by 
 that book. So throughout the game, you mission is to defeat this book and thus, restore peace in 
 your little farm. - Sounds simple but the game offer plenty of stuff to do besides just playing 
 to get to the end.
  
  Since the book disappeared with the other members of the farm, you can play the mini games to win 
 them back, and I really enjoyed beating a hard mini game and having my efforts freeing one of them.
 
  
  The game also provides rewards in forms of cards, which you will need quite some in the normal 
 course of the game in order to defeat the game's bosses . Oh, and did I mention the songs here 
 are basically taken from other Final Fantasies? The boss theme for example, is the great song from 
 FFVI called Fierce Battle . Even FFVII's Midgar theme is portrayed here.
  
  The short stories provided throughout the game are also references to characters in the Final Fantasy 
 series, and very lighthearted. If you enjoy reading short stories, you will most likely enjoy those. 
 If you are avid to play the mini games, you may end up skipping them (there is a button to skip 
 those) and going direct to the game.
  
  All in all, I believe a wide range of players will enjoy this game even though some hot headed 
 people like me may get frustrated every once in a while when certain mini games and micro games 
 are a bit too hard to win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kmac17
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 12, 2007 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: First of all, this is one of the best games i've played in a while and i consider it 
 one of the best games for Nintendo DS. This game should be reference point for how DS games should 
 be made. The touch screen usage is completely infallible and makes for a fun and touching experience. 
 The minigames are all completely touch screen controlled and have a mario party feel to them, along 
 with minigames there are also various microgames which are also very addictive. Now, the pop up 
 duels are at first very difficult to understand if you dont pay attention to the directions ( like 
 me) . So listen up because you dont want to miss out on the pop-up duels which are much like pokemon 
 stadium, and are sometimes challenging but always fun unless u really suck. Even after you beat 
 the entire game, which should take you about 15 to 20 hours there is still plenty of game left. 
 You can duel people online, play minigames with your friends or set your highest scores in the 
 microgames.
  
  Graphics: Not much to say other than amazing, a great example of Nintendo ds' graphical capabilities. 
 Some of the best graphics seen on ds.
  
  Sound: In the very beginning i was a little dissapointed but that soon changed. For the most part 
 the music fits the game perfetctely. Some really great final fantasy songs of course, Not to mention 
 an ff7song that will bring back memories. Value: $30 for a top 5 game for ds. nuff said
  
  Story: Typical final fantasy style with a younger feel but very enticing and enjoyable
  
  Complaints: 
 Little kid feel at first, easily ignorable.
  no single cartridge minigames.
  Minigames can be very difficult at times but somehow remain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostku1
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Well I can't say much because I barely played it, BUT what I can say is for the couple of hours 
 I played I was absorbed in fun gameplay and collecting weird cards =P. Thats what made me wanna 
 buy the game. Those weird cards XD. It is a game a small child can pick up same as a high schooler. 
 It may be a bit easy for the average gamer but getting everything in the game takes a little extra 
 effort =P. That put aside some challanges can have big requirements to fully complete and it was 
 frustrating at times. So I can say it was challengeing at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagangstapimp
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  This game is actually a mix of many things. First of all it has a story mode in which your a little 
 chocobo who does card battles, mini games, and micro games to go on in the game. It also has an online 
 wifi card battling system so you can battle your friends. On top of that the mini games will let 
 you have alot of fun so you will have alot of fun with the game. Keep in mind that the story is 
 not no crazy Final fantasy story type but a cute little story involving a chocobo and his friends. I 
 guess if you like games like this you should definitely pick it up. You should also get it I guess 
 if you are a final fantasy fan like me and collects the games. If you expect a crazy plot like FF6, FF7 
 then don't get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkrio
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 7, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  First turning this game on I had thought it may just be one of those non RPG style Final Fantasy 
 game, Chocobo racing (Truly Terrible) along with others. But to my suprise this game turned out 
 to be fantastic. Within the first few hours of play I was pleasd by the grapics sound and overall 
 appearance of the game. Now to get to the main criteria...
  
  Gameplay: Overall I am facinated by how much they managed to put into this little game package, 
 The Running around doesnt get tedious, The minigames dont get old, The main story is amusing and 
 the cardbattling is very innovative. Overall Package:8
  
  Graphics: Chocobo Tales shines in the graphics dept, Storybook scenes look fantastic, 3-D Graaphics 
 as well as clay effects look great, Lots of action for all characters, and the overall look is 
 great. Package:9
  
  Sound: Great sound throughout game, very well put toghether, battle scene noises are stunning, 
 well balanced music for different game moods. Package:8
  
  Value: Multi, Wifi, Share, and Mini game value is incredible nuff said. Package 10
  
  And Lastly,
 
  Reveiwers tilt: I loved what I saw in chocobo tales, not awestruck, but will be looking forward 
 to any other FinalFantasyFables. Package:9
  
  Great game all around, For its price it is definietly worth the money, maybe even more. I suggest 
 this for all Final Fantasy fans or any gamer with a DS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Gnarf_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  What more could you expect from Square Enix? No matter the hardware, they always seem to push their 
 work beyond.
  
  The graphics, in terms of the NDS, are great. There's a certain paper cut-out style that fits well 
 with the childish theme and looks great. The character designs are similar to that of Final Fantasy 
 III (for the NDS as well.) It really appears as if the NDS's capabilities were redefined.
  
  The audio is familiar to any Final Fantasy player and has slightly remixed versions of boss 
 battle and town songs. It's almost nostalgic, in a sense.
  
  The gameplay is down right fun, and obviously works. It's a fully touch-screen game, but using 
 the buttons is optional when navigating the menu. Your chocobo is controlled by touching the location 
 where you want him to move, and it doesn't get any simpler. Items are retrieved and actions are 
 done using this same method, by tapping the object or NPC. This is all strictly the navigation 
 gameplay. There's much more variety in the array of mini games associated with each magical book. 
 Some will have you racing turtles to the peak of a mountain, while others will have you battling 
 other chocobos for coins or bouncing up a beanstalk. Lastly, there's a card game, pop-up duels 
 in the games terms. It plays similar to any battle card games you've ever played, yet features 
 a unique strategy/engagement system slightly based upon luck. There are 122 cards to collect, but 
 this is very reasonable considering you may rarely revise your custom deck and the battles are 
 pretty minimal. There's a lot to explain, so I'll sum up everything I said above by saying this: 
 the gameplay is just plain fun. 
  
  The story is interesting, and certainly something I've never seen. Pretty much, an evil book is 
 brought into a serene town by a friend of yours who found it to be a once in a life time offer. 
 Little did he know, it contained an darkmaster named Bebuzzu who sucks every chocobo citizen into 
 his book and threatens to do evil things if he regains all the power he once had within the pages 
 of the book. The black mage who bought the book gets his collection of books scattered all over 
 the place and embedded with magical powers. You then have to save your friends that were sucked 
 into the pages and play a series of minigames within each book. That's the interesting part; many 
 of the games allude to or recreate classic fables such as The Tortoise and the Hare, Jack and the 
 Beanstalk, The Ugly Duckling, and several other familiarities. There are 5 levels of difficulty 
 and a trial mode in each book leaving lots of room to collect several endings (that unlock events 
 in the real world) to each book and pages containing trapped chocobos, as well as battle cards 
 that weren't found through exploration. Aside from these microgames, there are a few others playable 
 in the real world that score you cards, and that's if you can achieve the gold and silver medals, 
 which take plenty of practice in my experience. I've had a small amount of frustration getting 
 the gold, but that's just me.
  
  And finally, multiplayer. You can have pop-up duels with others through Nintendo Wi-Fi, which is 
 self explanatory. You can also send microgames to another DS owner, which is similar to the download 
 and play function. You can also download pop-up cards, but I'm yet to try that.
  
  I'm probably missing a few things, but this game is packed with fun and unique gameplay. This definitely 
 serves for a great amount of replay value, as well as exciting multiplayer with friend.
  
  Keep in mind, this review isn't coming from a Final Fantasy fanboy. In fact, the only ones I've 
 ever really played were VII, IX, and XII. The earlier games weren't very enjoyable for me, but 
 I used to watch my brother play them when I was younger. I've always admired Square and Square 
 Enix's products, however.
  
  So, whether you're a fan or not, or looking for something fresh, this is a must have for your collection 
 of NDS titles. It's an instant classic, in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goldman123456
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 6, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  So you're looking at this game and thinking wow this game is going to be terrible. It looks a little 
 childish but turned out to be a very fun game. With many mini and micro games and an in-depth pop-up 
 card summon game, you are not likely to get bored. Most of the music the final fantasy fan will 
 recognize, and a lot of the characters (mostly on the cards) final fantasy fans will recognize also. 
 You can think of this game as a mix between Pokemon, paper Mario and Final Fantasy. But don't worry 
 just because some of the characters look like their are from Pokemon. Throughout the game you will 
 find mini games based off tales like Jack and the Beanstalk and The Boy who Cried Wolf and many 
 others. Although the mini and micro games are very fun, the card battling is definitely the best 
 part. Although card battles don't occur to often in the game, they will usually be lengthy. Also, 
 there will usually be on person you can go to and duel, over and over again. So everybody, final 
 fantasy fan or not, young or not, will enjoy this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
