-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/finalfantasycrystalc/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Each character has a unique selection of attacks and tribal abilities.
 Slick mix of monster killing, platforming, and puzzle-solving.
 Charming cast of characters.
 Up to four local players can adventure together.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Certain tasks are cumbersome to pull off in the single-player campaign.
 Useless artificial intelligence.
 Major slowdown in ad hoc play, and no Wi-Fi multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 13, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.7, 37 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 791 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Mar 11, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A few problems keep it from being a classic, but Ring of Fates is still a capricious caper whether 
 you're on your own or playing with pals. 

  If you paled at the thought of having to lug around a bucket of myrrh in the newest foray into 
 the world of Crystal Chronicles, you can put a lid on your worries. All told, Ring of Fates is 
 a much more user-friendly experience than its predecessor, and lets up to four players beat up 
 on some monsters without needing a bunch of extra cables or unnecessary hardware. Toss in a better 
 single-player experience, and you have an action role-playing game that's easy to enjoy right out 
 of the box, even when your buddies aren't there to liven things up. In the process of being so 
 different from the GameCube original, though, Rings of Fate introduces some of its own foibles. 
 Nevertheless, most of them are easy to forgive in light of all the breezy fun to be had.  

           Gnash's triple-arrow upgrade makes short work of weaker monsters.      

  On the single-player 
 side of the coin, you'll follow younguns Yuri and Chelinka, fraternal twins who can effectively 
 channel the power of magic crystals -- provided they work together to do it. Unsurprisingly, there 
 is evil afoot, which has caused monsters wearing red crystals to antagonize the lands. The twins 
 are connected to these events in more ways than they realize, and their journey is marked by several 
 poignant moments of loss and discovery. Along the way, they are joined by three friends (though 
 because Yuri and Chelinka are represented by a single avatar, this actually makes for a party of 
 four) . There's nothing all that unique about the plot, but the strength of the charming cast and 
 a load of quirky, cute dialogue hold the narrative together nicely without getting overly saccharine. 

  The main point of all this is to jump into a dungeon and whack at monsters until they die, while 
 you level up and collect cool loot to help you whack at bigger, badder monsters. You can control 
 any of your four party members at any time by tapping the appropriate icon on the touch screen, 
 and each character has his or her own distinct strengths. The Yuri-Chelinka amalgam is you primary 
 melee warrior, so if you prefer to get up close and personal with a sword, this is the best way 
 to do it. Alhanalem is primarily a magic user (more on spells later) , but can use staffs to lob 
 magic orbs from a short distance. Gnash is talented with a bow and arrow (and has an ultra-handy 
 double jump to boot) . Meeth is the oddest of the bunch. She can wield a melee weapon (it's fun 
 to stick a hammer in her hands, since it lets her stun enemies) , but she's slower and therefore 
 more vulnerable to attack than Yuri. What makes Meeth special is her summoned urn, which she can 
 crawl into and use to roll into enemies for a nice bit of damage. In certain places, she can even 
 grab it and float to spots that the other characters can't reach.  

  Additionally, each character has a tribal ability, some of which are offensive, while others are 
 used for support or puzzle solving. To access these skills, you press the R button, which in the 
 case of Yuri, Al, and Gnash moves the main game display to the touch screen, where you can use 
 the stylus to perform your tribal talents. In Yuri's case, you touch an enemy to perform a powerful 
 melee attack, while you can do the same for Gnash to land a mighty aimed shot. Al can unleash an 
 area-of-effect lightning attack, but his knack for all things electric is more often used for the 
 Ring of Fates' many puzzles, since he can create a magic thread that makes invisible platforms 
 appear and lights magic candles. Again, Meeth is the odd one out. Like other members of the Lilty 
 tribe, she can create magicites (the game's equivalent of magic scrolls) out of various crystals. 
 To do so, you enter the alchemy screen, select the components you wish to use, and use the stylus 
 to stir your pot of goodies. If you're successful, you create a magicite or other item without 
 spending a single gil.  

           Big Fish isn't just a Tim Burton film -- it's also a tough boss fight.      

  Of course, 
 these magicites don't just sit there looking pretty -- you need them to perform spells in Ring of 
 Fates. This is where the game's greatest strengths and most obvious shortcomings come into play. 
 There's no doubt that the system is very unique: To perform a spell, you need to use the corresponding 
 magicite. No magicite? No spell. To activate one, you tap its icon on the touch screen and hold 
 the X button, which brings up a circle that you can position with the D pad. When you let go, that 
 spell is performed at whatever position the ring occupies. If you want an even more powerful effect, 
 you can create magic piles, which are essentially stacks of magic rings that you can activate at 
 one time with disastrous results for your enemies.     

  The spellcasting mechanic is interesting and original, but it doesn't always work out very well 
 when you're playing on your own. There's a lot of fumbling involved, since you have to select the 
 proper magicite from the touch screen, hold X to move your ring, press the L button if you wish 
 to lock your ring in place (or keep holding X) , switch to another character and/or select another 
 magicite, position the ring, and so on. In the end, most monsters aren't going to stay put for 
 you to do all this, which makes magic piles far less fun in the single-player game than they are 
 in multiplayer. The system is obviously tailored for cooperative play, where piles are a cinch 
 to pull off since you'll do a fraction of the fumbling in half the time.  

           The production values are top-notch -- if you don't count the major frame rate stutters 
 in multiplayer.      

  Solo players will also need to keep a close eye on their computer-controlled teammates, since they're 
 usually worthless. Often, they stand around doing nothing, or possibly attacking every five seconds 
 or so. They'll jump into lava, fall off ledges, or just lag behind and never catch up. The good 
 news is that pressing the L button will summon them to your own character's location, but even 
 the in-game explanation ("Sometimes your friends will fall behind, kupo!") is essentially an admission 
 that the artificial intelligence needs babysitting. The bright side is that you'll be frequently 
 switching between characters and experiencing their individual attributes. The bad news, of course, 
 is that it just contributes to the overall sense that you have to twiddle around more than you 
 need to.  

  Other aspects of the game help make up for these and some smaller annoyances, however. You'll spend 
 a fair amount of time in platforming sequences and solving environmental puzzles, and for the most 
 part, these elements are done really well and can get fairly involved. In some levels, you'll need 
 to use Meeth to travel to a distant ledge, shoot targets as Gnash, and use Al's magic needle to 
 uncover hidden platforms. It's a varied, well-balanced mix of gameplay elements, and your reward 
 for making it through a given dungeon is a terrific boss battle. Bosses are usually monstrous and 
 require a good deal of movement and thoughtful spell control, and most of them are challenging 
 enough to be fun without getting frustrating.  

  But like with Crystal Chronicles on the GameCube, Ring of Fates' true delights are found in its 
 multiplayer mode, where up to four friends with their own copies of the game can hit the dungeons 
 together or even take quests from town. The gameplay is essentially the same as in the single-player 
 experience, but without the AI issues and cumbersome fumbles. You can create up to eight characters 
 to use in cooperative play and select from any of the four tribes when creating them. It's rewarding 
 to create a successful spell pile with others, as well as to earn equipment unavailable in the 
 single-player game, which serves to highlight one of the game's better elements: the well-paced 
 drop rate. Unfortunately, the multiplayer aspect has its own major drawback: an unacceptably slow 
 frame rate that seems to stem from the game's inability to render too much action onscreen at one 
 time. It's a shame, because it takes the enjoyable and cheerful romp at the game's heart and throws 
 in unnecessary frustration. It's also easy to lament the lack of online play, though considering 
 the issues with getting the game to perform properly in local multiplayer, it's perhaps no wonder 
 that full Wi-Fi support wasn't included.  

           Collect Moogle stamps along the way for special treats later.      

  Aside from the 
 performance stutters, Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates looks terrific, from the colorful character 
 design to its particle-heavy dungeon crawls. As you may expect from a Square Enix RPG, the cutscenes 
 are striking, with particular attention given to dramatic camera angles. The sound design is the 
 real star of the production, however, featuring an evocative soundtrack and fitting sound effects. 
 There's also a good bit of voice acting, and while some of it gets a little too cutesy for its 
 own good (it's one thing to see Meeth's speech quirky speech tic written on the screen, and another 
 to hear it said out loud) , it's done consistently well throughout.  

  There's even more on that little cartridge on top of the co-op play and the 12-hour campaign, like 
 Moogle painting and trading, and a little kart-racing game similar to the one from its GameCube 
 precursor. Had this youth-oriented Final Fantasy been scrubbed up a bit more, it might have been 
 a squeaky-clean take on the hack-and-slash RPG formula. Nevertheless, while the game might not 
 quite be in big-boy league, this kid's got a lot of enthusiasm, and it's infectious enough to make 
 Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates a worthwhile competitor.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (56 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wogboypaul
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, the gameplay has kept its touch ever since the FFCC which was first released. This game 
 has earned my rating firstly for traditional purposes.
  
  The gameplay is an adventure type of gameplay where you can actually control the characters and 
 move them around, and attack and run like crazy wherever/whenever you wish :D. Unlike the usual 
 final fantasy games, FF games are usually turn based and are made for strategical players, as this 
 game is a slice and dice type of game.
  
  Secondly, it is very suitable for underage persons as of the story to this game. The story is a 
 usual magical hero verses nemesis type of game, where the characters interact and their personality 
 is that of a child, which is a useful technique to use for the player to relate to the characters.
 
  
  Thirdly, weaponary is of an importance in this game. Weaponary and armory customisation are fun 
 and useful aspects to enhance the players offence and defence. 
  
  'Teamwork is all it takes at times'. The main characters in the game are not alone, they will have 
 friends with an Artificial Intelligence (AI) to support them during battles. I always like to review 
 the AI of allies and foes. In this game the AI of allies are poor as compared to such a game as 
 [Resident Evil 5] for example. 
  
  In conclusion I rate this game an 8.5 out of 10 for reaching into the inner child within me :P. 
 The following rates will be listed below.
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Story 7/10
  Sound 8/10
  Brightness 9/10
  Graphics 7.5/10
  AI 6/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxas13KH2
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Ok one thing about this game AWESOME. This is no dought underrated, the story line is confuzing, 
 but you really get into it if you can. Multiplayer excellent local-playing with local friends via 
 DS download and play, online Stinks (only bad part in the game) you trade your customized moogles 
 via wifi, but that is not important. There are 8 slots to create your own characters out of the 
 four races of players. You can play alone or with three friends (4 players total) which is great. 
 There are 40+ quests to do, and after you beat the game you keep your stats and items, but every 
 thin is harder, plus new weapons. Parents have nothing to worry about the only bad word is the 
 h word which is used to describe a couple items. I highly rcommend this great game with unlimmited 
 replay value to all of you who love zelda, fate, Phantasy star, and Final Fantasy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coen4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  FF CC ring of fate is a very very good game.
  The game play is excellent and its not like the normal FF games but it does play like the other 
 FF CC games.
  At the end of the game you have a party of 4 and they are: Yuri a Clavat who specializes in sword 
 combat , Alhanalem (al) he is a Yuke who specializes in magic, Gnash a Selkie he specializes in 
 archery and Meeth a Liltie shes a alchemists who carry's a big hammer around.
  there is also Chelinka Yuri's sister she is a big part of the story but you don't see her in your 
 party.
  At the start of the game you do a few maps as Yuri when he is at a little age then :SPOILER after 
 hes dads death and Chelinkas sorta coma he trains up and he gets older and very stronger and wiser 
 until he is a teen SPOILER OVER: so if you feel like doing a little RPGing on the DS this is the 
 game for you. =] 
  
  
  Gameplay: 8.2
  Graphics: 7.5
  Story line: 8.7 
  Overall: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicgamer_Tess
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 3, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  I was happy to get my hands on a Copy of Final fantasy Chrystal chronicles.
  
  Yet I was Incredibly Disapointed in the lack of any Good AI .. as you all the time have to call 
 your friend near and nearly get them killed anyways. When you battle it can easly feel like you're 
 doing all the work alone. the AI stinks.
  
  The story's good yet incredibly Short. Yet.. I'm a big sucker for Sobby games with a story of death 
 and loss. but a Game with such good story shouldn't end that quickly.
  
  I hate the Saving points.. they're so far apart that I ( Who has little time to waste my time to 
 run through HALF the dungeon just to save.
  
  But aside from the whining and complaining I'd say that I completely adore the Cute characters, 
 the Great Voiceacting. Wide variety of items and weapons to fix. The cloths that actually change 
 your characters look. the 3D is great for a NDS.
  
  Yet I'd say that you all should atleast play it through once (it's really fun the first play through) 
 Yet I'd love to try out the Multiplayer mode (It's kinda hard when I don't have any friends with 
 Either a DS or the game itself.) It's worth playing If you're a FF-Nerd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livefantasy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I actually love the game but to short.
  Lets see I love the story crazy twist at the end,
  and the puzzles can get hard but they could of been harder tho.
  So the battle system is great 
 and I love the art style now thats awesome,
  the story I got to tell you the story its about a boy his name is yuri and his sis her name is 
 chelinka and there twins they try to fine there fate as they go on a epic journey they go thru 
 temples and all the square enix stuff,
  they meet people on there way like (gnash, meeth, Al)
  the thing I dont like is that they dont 
 explain the story for the party i didint like that.
  Well back to the plot,
  the bad guy of the game kills yuris dad (and thats not a spoiler because it happens 30 min in the 
 game)
  And yuri wants revenge so chelinka gets a crystal from al so the holl antire time there finding 
 there fate and thats the plot.
  
  
  Graphics 7.5 (good)
  The graphs couldve been better but its good for the Ds.
  
  
  Gameplay 8.5 (great)
  The 
 gameplay is great I love it but the party 
  is just plain dum but its good.
  
  
  Story 9.5 (superb)
  the story is awesome they did great with it.
  
  
  So i havent played 
 the mutiplayer yet so I cant rate that well thats my review i hope you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkspine1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best RPG games I've ever played on the DS, one of the main reasons is that you 
 don't have to take turns to attack an enemy. It has pretty good graphics, but the characters... not 
 so good. I mean, all the characters are the same size except for maybe Al who appears to be the 
 tallest one.
  
  I think it kinda sucks that you have to get to do a spell once and then you have to get another 
 stone to do it again. I think the spells should be performed like in Final Fantasy: Crystal Chronicles 
 for the Gamecube where you only have to get a stone once and get you infinite spells until the 
 next level.
  
  The single player is not that fun. Multi-player, definitely. That is mainly why i bought it. Although 
 I still think Nintendo has to make a keyboard for the DS that you can insert in to the game-boy 
 slot. I'm still looking forward to the KH: 358/2 Days game. It's going to be the best videogame 
 ever to go out on the Nintendo DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owl_of_minerva
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  +Replayability, superb soundtrack, simple but fun gameplay, excellent presentation and decent storytelling
 
  -Useless AI, half-hearted puzzles, occasionally distracting camera, weak controls
  
  Ring of Fates could've been a contender if only it was slightly better realised. You play as Yuri-Chelinka, 
 two young adventurers with massive heads who have to take up where their parents have failed in 
 protecting the world from evil [bread and butter as far as the RPG world is concerned] . As is to 
 be expected with a handheld release, FF: CC is an action-RPG with diluted storyline and gameplay 
 mechanics. There are 4 party members who you can switch between at any time, each with their own 
 attacks, special moves, and abilities. As with any decent action-RPG you go out on adventures, 
 slaughter enemies, and collect loot to upgrade your party. There are some easy puzzles that also 
 add variety to this tried-and-true format, like an easy Zelda in essence. 
  As you might guess the storyline is fairly standard but the presentation is up to Square's usual 
 excellence. The graphics are great, the soundtrack is excellent, the cutscenes are of impressive 
 quality, and the direction is handled well. It's a pity that the single-player component is only 
 10-12 hours at most, but even so the game manages to tell an endearingly cutesy and humorous take 
 on an overused RPG premise. 
  However, there are some uncharacteristically sloppy mistakes which distract from the enjoyment 
 of the game. Having fixed camera angles means it can be difficult to see where you have to go, 
 what jumps you can make, etc. Although it's not a huge problem in the game I often wished that 
 I was able to adjust the camera. Credit to Square for attempting to incorporate the stylus into 
 the game, but the system for casting spells is cumbersome and in boss battles can get you stunned 
 or killed. When you cast a spell you have to select it from the touch screen, direct the cursor 
 onto the enemy whilst standing still, and if you want to cast more powerful spells you have to 
 wait for the AI to move their cursors onto the enemy as well. This makes spell-casting more often 
 than not a waste of time. Quite often the party will get themselves killed and you have to take 
 out the enemies solo. By far the most glaring failure of 'Ring of Fates' is the AI. It will happily 
 fall off ledges repeatedly until the character dies, stand around doing nothing until the enemy 
 is in point-blank range, and in general will just prove a hindrance rather than a help. As the 
 game is easy it's not a huge problem but still... it's clear that the game was designed with multiplayer 
 first and foremost. I also wished that the puzzle aspects were less simplistic and boring. Either 
 it should have been better-integrated or left out entirely in favour of something else. 
  'Ring of Fates' is an enjoyable game but I wouldn't recommend its superficial single-player mode. 
 It'd be much better multiplayer [or at least less flawed] .
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoradude
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2008 6:54 am PT
Review:  The first Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles game was a hit and miss with fans. While many people 
 loved the co-op and Action-RPG gameplay taken on by the original others felt it lacking overall, 
 especially as a single player game. Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates attempts to 
 remedy this by adding a full single player story starring the Clavat twins Yuri and Chelinka while 
 also trying to maintain a fun multi-player game. What we get is a mixed bag of good and bad. Many 
 improvements have been made, however, many other areas are lacking.
  
  As mentioned the story portion of the game focuses around the twins Yuri and Chelinka. As small 
 babies their mother was taken from them by priests from the nearby Kingdom of Rebena Te Ra for 
 reasons unknown to the children. Shortly into the game a similar incident results in the death 
 of their father making orphans of the two. This sends a rush of emotions through the young girl 
 Chelinka who then uses the "power of the crystals" to put an end to their foe. Using this power, 
 however, puts Chelinka into a coma leaving her brother to take care of her for years. Finally one 
 day Chelinka awakens and the two set off together leaving their home behind. 
  
  The entire story is spent following Yuri and Chelinka as they cope with their parents deaths and 
 find out who is behind it all, during their journey they run into the Selkie feral kid Gnash along 
 with Alhanalem and Meeth two old friends of Yuri who all join in on the adventure. Overall the 
 plot is very depressing and the writing is solid enough to make the characters and their tragedies 
 feel very real. This is all made even better thanks to some impressive visuals on the Nintendo 
 DS along with some excellent voice acting. All major cutscenes feature voice work and make great 
 use of the camera to for those dramatic moments.
  
  While the story is excellent it is completely absent from the multi-player component of the game. 
 In this mode you can join with up to 4 friends to tackle all the dungeons of the main story, just 
 without any of the cutscenes to bog you down. Aside from the dungeons there are also many missions 
 you can take on that range from clearing puzzles to saving the King's cattle from UFOs. While it 
 is a multi-player mode it can be played and enjoyed alone if you wish, the short missions are great 
 for an on the go player. Also unlike the single player mode multi-player mode also allows you to 
 create your own character though the customization options are limited to race and gender, changeable 
 hair color being a bonus as you play through the game.
  
  The four races from the original are back as well, though all of them save the magical Yukes have 
 had major overhauls. The human like Clavats are no longer the balanced sword and shield wielding 
 class as before, instead they carry a single sword and are the strongest physical class in the 
 game and the worst magic users. The also human like Selkie now sport bows over rackets and do battle 
 from a distance. The Lilties though, have seen the most changes; physically they are now very weak 
 and most of their damage comes from rolling around in an alchemy pot they have. You can also use 
 this pot via the DS touch screen to create magical orbs known as magicite which is needed when 
 casting magic. The whole process is very slow and is only a viable means of support in the multi-player 
 game as attempting this when playing alone usually results in a game over screen.
  
  On the more positive side of things many of the problems from the previous Crystal Chronicle title 
 has been fixed. Most gameplay takes place on the top screen where combat is more fluid as you now 
 run faster, can fuse magic on your own to create higher level spells, and the ability to jump which 
 adds many platform elements to mix up the gameplay some. Combat is much faster than before and 
 with this some commands have been remapped. You no longer have to go through a command ring to 
 pick simple skills such as attack and defend for example as they each have their own specific button. 
 Some great use is made out of the touch screen as well such as being able to swap between items 
 and magic spells with a simple tap on the screen along with a special attack based on race that 
 is done by sliding or poking things on screen.
  
  There are some annoyances though, like the limited supply of magic you have. With too few slots 
 for spells you will often find yourself totally out and unable to find more. It can become a big 
 problem when you need a specific magic to open a gate or locked door, or are playing as a Yuke 
 who rely heavily on magic to defeat enemies. Also when playing in story mode you will take control 
 of 4 characters instead of just 1, unfortunately the ally AI is absolutely terrible as they often 
 do nothing but stand around behind you which leads to their death. This can get troubling as you 
 may have one character you use more than the others die when you have to switch to another to unlock 
 a door or break through a wall. With an even smaller amount of reviving magics compared to the 
 other spells you may find your best character dead with nothing you can do about it. You can counter 
 this problem to a degree thanks to some gear you obtain late in the game that allows you to make 
 an ally use white magic or black magic on their own, however, they are typically very slow with 
 it and it leads to even more wasted magic.
  
  Ring of Fates also boasts very impressive weapon and armor customization. Loot found in chests 
 and dropped by defeated enemies can be used to forge new pieces of gear. Every piece of equipment 
 in the game has its own special graphic per race, changing the look of your character. There are 
 some noticeable fan favorites in there as well such as the cone shaped black mage hat, and a cat-eared 
 hood. Gear also has empty slots on it which allow you to make your own bonuses if you give extra 
 materials to the blacksmith. These bonuses range from very useless to almost mandatory on some 
 pieces of gear. The system actually works very well as you will have an abundance of materials 
 from your travels and allowing some customization to how you want to play your character.
  
  While Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates is not the best RPG out there you will 
 find many ways to enjoy yourself while playing. With excellent production, plot, and fun combat 
 it is a shame the game is held back by simple but sometime unbearable flaws like terrible AI and 
 scarce magic. Still, if you can get by all those annoyances you will find the game very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeybananayum
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2008 2:11 pm PT
Review:  The Crystal Chronicles titles are weird because they're Final Fantasy, but have almost nothing 
 in common with the main titles. They're more multiplayer oriented, which is practically the only 
 reason to get this game.
  
  The multiplayer, fortunately is good. It's fun to beat bosses with friends, think of a strategy, 
 and try to all work together. You each have to have a copy of the game, which is a pain.
  
  The single player, doesn't fare as well, however. The story is very weak, so don't go in expecting 
 anything like the main FF series. The characters have their charm, I suppose, but they're paper 
 thin and can be annoying. It's all pretty standard cliche rpg fare, but has some witty dialogue 
 here and there.
  
  It's also pretty short (around 15 or so hours) and the AI is dumb as dirt. You seriously have to 
 babysit them at all times.
  
  Some of the puzzles were fun, reminded me of a Zelda game, and could be quite challenging. Spells 
 were annoying to use most of the time, and aren't really worth the hassle most of the time.
  
  Graphics are really nice and the cutesy style may not be to everyone's liking, but it works 
 here and there are plenty of outfits to put on your characters, which changes their battle sprite 
 as well. Nice touch.
  
  Music is decent but not mindblowing, but it has the Crystal Chronicles style, Celtic sort of. Pretty. 
 Voice acting is also decent, some characters are good, others are annoying sounding.
  
  There are a few minigames, and I admit, I thought the moogle paint thingy was more entertaining 
 than I think I should have, but nothing really noteworthy, if you don't use wifi, like me.
  
  Basically, it's a decent game, with a few bright spots. It's for people who hated the GC version 
 because of the chalice, but the single player is lacking. Play for multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icewells
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  This game is great it has everything a DS gamer would want. Highly detailed 3D graphics, Plenty 
 of voice acting which is of excellent quality i must say. The voice acting makes the story feel 
 real and its easier to understand. I mean i almost cried during one of the sadder cut scenes which 
 occurred close to the end of the game it was awesome and very believable.
  
  Game play-wise FF CC The Rings of Fates runs really smooth the camera angle does mess up sometimes 
 but not frequently so it doesn't really cause a big problem.
  
  You venture through dark dungeons and lively woods as you battle familiar foes from past Final 
 Fantasy games like the Sahagin (Blue amphibian lke water monster) . The boss battles are not straight 
 forward and can be challenging at times. All the big baddies are really unique and you fight everyone 
 differently.
  
  You start with control over one character a young brave upcoming warrior Yuri, but later on in 
 the game you are accompanied by three others who you can control one at a time by selecting them 
 on the touch screen.
  
  The Computer controls the other characters which is most of the times useless and can a burden 
 at times. The Moogle Mini games are kinda lame, and in my opinion the game's story is way too short. 
 The game has plenty of replay value since u are able to obtain new weapons, armor etc when u venture 
 back into story mode, and there are also many more surprises. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wii_freak99
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Chrystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates is a great game if you like building up your stats 
 and collecting strong weapons. It has a great storyline and pretty good graphics for a DS game. 
 It's biggest asset is its re-playability. Once you finish it the first time, it will take you back 
 to the beginning. However, you retain all you levels and stats and even your weapons. The monsters 
 are stronger the second time. You can beat the game multiple times this way. You'll also appreciate 
 its real-time battle style, instead of the traditional turn-based style. Another good thing about 
 it is the fact that you can combine your weapons, armor and accessories with rubies, sapphires 
 and all sorts of materials depending on if you want more power, more defence, or more health. Its 
 biggest flaw is its underwhelming use of the touchscreen. There should also be a bigger variety 
 of weapons and items. The storyline could also be a bit longer and a little less predictable. Overall, 
 it's easy, but fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: futtii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  This is Final Fantasies 3rd DS game and it is absoloutley amazing!!
  It has graphics well above the DS standard and the characters speak not just caption!
  
  This 
 game is one of the latest installments for the Final Fantasy series and it is amazing, you will 
 not beleive on how good it is made and how well it is published with an easy-to-follow story that 
 makes you come back to it AGAIN AND AGAIN!!!!! This is one of my fav DS games I think it is a masterpeice 
 especially with the graphics. It is a long game and shall be reconcilled with. The best RPG to 
 hit the DS to date, but this may quickly change as soon as FF4 for the DS comes into the picture! 
 XD!
  
  [9.5] Superb. simply a great DS game, I beleive it is underrated and should be at least EDITORS 
 CHOICE AWARD. You can see that the game has real effort. Marvellous! just marvellous!
  
  Well thoughtout game and spectacular graphics
  futti. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k_smoove
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 6, 2008 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Note: For this review, I do not mention the multiplayer, as I have not had any experience with 
 it.
  
  The Good: Outstanding visuals; varied gameplay; decent length; interesting plot
  
  The Bad: occasional slowdown; frustrating platforming and enemies; moronic AI; plot is often 
 confusing, inadequate map
  
  Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates (or just RoF for this review) is a unique action-RPG 
 for the DS. It blends dungeon-crawling, platforming, and puzzle-solving fairly well, though some 
 parts work better than others. 
  
  In Ring of Fates, there are 4 main characters to control. You can customize each character's outfits, 
 which affects their stats. All 4 characters are always out on the field, which usually amounts 
 to a large amount of babysitting, since the AI is ridiculously stupid. Partners often stand completely 
 still as enemies attack them, and hardly ever assist in combat. I think the game would have benefited 
 from an optional party, where there are still 4 characters, but only one is on the field at a time. 
 Thankfully, all 4 characters feel unique enough, so repetition can sometimes be subdued by swapping 
 characters.
  
  The plot of Ring of Fates follows the adventures of twins Yuri and Chelinka, and their friends 
 Al, Gnash, and Meeth. The story starts off a little simple, but eventually gets pretty deep, but 
 a little confusing. Several segments are fully voiced, and while the acting is decent, it just 
 feels like there could have been more VO segments.
  
  Breakdown:
  
  Presentation: 8/10- Menus are a little sloppy, but the cut-scenes are great. And what's with the 
 lack of a Pause button?
  
  Graphics: 9/10- Really nice 3D work that seems to push the DS, but there is occasional slowdown. 
 
  
  Sound: 7/10- The epic soundtrack fits, but is really nothing special. Full VO seems like a missed 
 opportunity.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10- Even with all the varied gameplay, it starts to get repetitive about midway through. 
 Very frustrating at parts, especially with precise platforming and cheap enemies. Probably would 
 have worked better on a system with a control stick rather than the D-Pad.
  
  Lasting Value: 8/10- Single player lasts just under 15 hours, and there's some bonuses for replaying. 
 I don't know anything about the multiplayer, but if you can find friends with the game, it should 
 be more fun than the single player.
  
  Verdict: If you enjoy Action-RPGs, and can forgive its shortcomings, Ring of Fates is worth trying 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakanadin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok, this is a "On The Go" review of mine. Every now and then I will give a in-depth review that 
 contains spoilers and I do along the way throughout the game. It will be in a log type format, 
 following as below:
  
  "Friday June 27, 2008
  
  Today I just got the game! I am so happy! So far, I have beaten the first boss and it was easy 
 to me, but that is just me."
  
  It will be in that format, and I do not plan on using any type of guide to help me, just winging 
 it. Ok, so to start off:
  
  Friday June 27, 2008
  
  Today I just got the game! So far, the opening movie is pretty good, graphics are nice on the movie, 
 just along par with Final Fantasy III. The first cut scene looked good, everything looks good and 
 up to date especially for the DS. They added voice which is a huge step for the Mobile Final Fantasy 
 series, and also added my long-time awaited feature, Jump. I have waited forever for Final Fantasy 
 to include the power to jump in thier games. But anyways, today, the graphics looked awesome, movie 
 was good, voices were pretty good, and the characters were nice to meet.
  
  Today, Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Rings of Fate on a scale of 1-10, gets a 7.5/10, for its 
 great start, good graphic's, fun voices, and my favorite, the ability to jump!
  
  Saturday June 28, 2008
  
  I got a little further into the game today, and realized after you 
 get all of the characters, Yuri, Alanalhem, Gnash, and finally Meeth, the game actually gets really 
 good. switching back and forth between characters, taking advantage o f all of their cool abilities, 
 casting piled magic, etc... The possibilities with the game are limitless to your imagination! 
 I do sometimes get tired of the repetitive action though, but it is still very fun to become Gnash 
 and just start jumping onto things heads and stomping their brains out, as well as sniping enemies 
 from 20 feet away. A movie sequence happened, keeping me plumped smack dab into the story, Yuri 
 almost died, making me feel sad, until he was saved. So it really actually keeps you into it as 
 many games have a hard time doing to me. I believe tomorrow will be my final day, as I finish up 
 this game with a bang!
  
  So today, Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Rings of Fate on a scale of 1-10, gets a 8/10 for the 
 story being so great so far, good movie sequence that they normally don't do with the advance and 
 DS FF titles, and awesome game play that keeps you wanting more!
  
  Sunday June 29th, 2008
  
  So today I beat the game, not going to spoil it TOO much, but I will 
 tell you it had me to tears almost literally, it was very dramatic and made you feel as if you 
 lost a few good characters, but what is a Final Fantasy without a happy ending? Not a Final Fantasy 
 of course! So of course they DO all live happily ever after and everything is ok again... But I 
 am skipping ahead. The Final Dungeon is by far THE HARDEST thing in the whole game and made me 
 actually hate the game for a bit because of its length and repetitiveness. If you leave the dungeon 
 from a teleport, you cannot use that teleport to go back and must traverse the whole dungeon again, 
 fighting all the enemies and doing all of the puzzles, even if you saved. But the Final Boss battle 
 was probably one of the most epic boss battles in Final Fantasy history, making it my all time 
 favorite Final Fantasy ending. 
  
  Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates has its ups and downs and is a very good game over 
 all. But let's get to the Pro's and Con's of it:
  
  Pro's: Awesome graphics for a DS title, Awesome plot, Awesome game play (Triple A! AAA) fun puzzles 
 that challenge the average thinker, great characters with tons of laughs in for the kids, and an 
 epic ending keeping you on the edge of your seat!
  
  Con's: Well, I have a few.... The Final Boss Dungeon was too hard, the Final Boss took some time 
 to figure out and led to much dying unless you used a guide, bosses and dungeons throughout the 
 game were too easy then they throw you smack dab in a hard dungeon making you repeat it if you 
 need to restock on items, and throw you at an even harder boss with no hints on how to finish him 
 off.
  
  So all in all, Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates on a scale of 1-10, deserves a 9.5/10 
 for it being an all around AWESOME game, with almost to no problems with it. I totally recommend 
 you get this game as a must if you are into plat formers, Final Fantasies, or just even if you 
 have a Nintendo DS, I recommend you go out and get this game, tons of replay value with a reminiscent 
 level once you beat it from the original. So good luck gamers, and see you next time!
  
  - Jakanadin, Fellow Gamespot Reviewer With Too Much Time On His Hands 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaron_78
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I used to play the GC version and that single player was rather s. h. i. t. e, the DS 1 player mode 
 is reasonably better. But, as i always seem to find, playing a game like FFCC with friends is brilliant, 
 working together to beat the crap outta monsters, racing to grab the loot after, and then boasting 
 about how much better the stuff you picked up was than what they got.. that is awesome :D
  its a shame that you have to be within wireless distance to play with each other instead of actually 
 over wi-fi, but i guess it would kinda bugger the servers or something, so fair enough. I do think 
 the materials/scrolls concept used to make newer and better weapons/armor is cool, especially when 
 you trade/rip off your pals with your totally awesome guile... oh wait thats oblivion.
  I do think the single story mode could be a bit longer, but maybe i just went through it too bloody 
 fast. Not my fault for being great.
  Anyway, yeah if you enjoy the usual final fantasy games, or any rpg action adventure you would 
 enjoy this game. And for those out there with real friends, who also have DS, investing is a must. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Addiction
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion, Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles-Ring of Fates (rolls off the tongue, no?) is sort 
 of an apology to those of us who were annoyed with the G-cube version of Crystal Chronicles.
  
  You first play as Yuri, twin of Chelinka, in his younger years. And gradually work your way 
 up until you form a party of four, consisting of the four races; Selkie, Liltie, Yuke, and Clavat 
 which players of the original CC should recognize.
  
  The game play is similar to the G-cube version, in which you fight monsters to collect materials 
 to make stronger weapons and armor, MINUS lugging around a stupid chalice.
  
  The characters are love able and pretty well balanced. Each of their talents are used pretty equally 
 throughout the game, although sometimes, they aren't of any use and continue to die during battles, 
 but what do you expect from a computer program?
  
  Good-
  One of the pleasant surprises was that, when you equip your character, the graphics actually change! (And 
 the characters are in FF III-chibi style.)
  
  Another was the voice acting which just added to the already dramatic storyline.
  
  Yet another 
 were the boss battles. Some games, you just want to get the heck away due to the length of the 
 battle, ( sometimes, I suspect that the match might be rigged  _ ) despite great graphics. In FFCC 
 Ring of Fates, you'll actually want to face them again because the boss battles are... fun!
  
  Bad-
  I didn't want to head this "Too short" but, in truth, it is. This game took me a total 
 of 13 hours and 26 minutes (three days) to complete. Unfortunately, it doesn't have WIFI and I have 
 yet to find someone who owns it. A great game, but I'm glad I rented it instead of buying it O. o 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smojus
Rating: 10
Date: May 21, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy: Crystal Chronicles is an amazing game, of course you do have to enjoy in moderation 
 just like pie. If you play the game for a long period of time it starts getting a litle dry. BUT 
 if you space out your play times you can make this game last for a long time i highly suggest buying 
 it for anyone that is bored of their DS.
  
  Positives:
  Amusing characters (each with own ability)
  creative character customization
  engaging story 
 line
  more un-lockable difficulties containing upgraded forms of your favorite outfit
  
  Negatives:
  No WI-FI
  it gets a little boring when you play highly lower lvl friends
  to 
 many sets of "dragon" armor (i mean seriously dragon lord, dragon god, etc. The basic dragon is better 
 than all of them.)
  
  Anyways even though this game has a couple negatives it is still a great game, once again i highly 
 suggest it for any hardcore or casual gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicth901
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  I would give this game 9.7 but I couldn't. This is one of the best games for the DS the graphics 
 are not that bad considering it's the DS. Also the ending could have been better not completely 
 satisfied. Don't worry no spoilers in this review. Yet the game play was amazing the only thing 
 is that only if could have been longer. The dungeons were really short and the game can be completed 
 within 10 hours. If there is going to be one the next legend of zelda game should have the same 
 game play as this and it would be phenomenal. I don't remember ever having a dull moment i this 
 game I mean if you get stuck in some places and you can't reach the next because it's to high or 
 something you can normally just pile up things and jump on those things. So if you get stuck it 
 won't be for long. Also all the equipment you can get that is sort of a fun feature also like getting 
 a bunch of upgrades. I highly recommend this game to any DS owner. You will not regret getting 
 it. It is one of the best RPG I have played also the feature you control you character while fighting 
 is pretty better then choosing you attack then waiting for the other to attack. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloopergman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Probably one of the best games i have ever played for handhelds. Final Fantasy continues to impress 
 me. 
  
  Everything about this game is perfect. The only thing that really bothered me was the lag i would 
 get during intense play, intense being 4 or more monsters being fought, particularly those lizard 
 or flans (large creatures/monsteres) .
  
  The magicites were a nice twist. It reminds me of the "materia" from FF VII, except that you can 
 run out of them and they don't lvl up with use. Magic piles are difficult, but isn't casting scarier 
 and more power magic supposed to be more difficult? so that doesn't really bother me too much. 
 Casting magic is a lot easier in multiplay (trust me, i play it with my lil sis, she's a clavat 
 & i'm a yuke) . coordination of the magic piling is better with "actual, real life help." magic 
 piling is just a tad bit difficult by yourself, but i'm pretty sure with more experience you can 
 cast firaga quickly with one character and not your whole team xD.
  
  Combat is definitely one of my most favorite things about this game. Besides the whole "wandering 
 outside town to lvl up" there's some actual skill to be had. Coordinating magic piles to deciding 
 whether or not to hack 'n' slash the enemy or stomp on his head till they collapse. The RPG & combat 
 mix is great, it makes sense as well the more you think about it: the more experience (not the 
 actual exp you get in game) you get, the stronger you become in game and the more skill you have 
 to go about defeating a monster or solving a particular puzzle.
  
  i ranked this 9.5 only because of the lag and the one glitch i encountered when i fell through 
 solid ground and took 30 dmg (as if you fell into water/lava) , which was a weird experience... 
 all in all, great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bill_rizer25
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 12, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  well its possibly a very interesting game to all sorts of rpg fans. really good graphics considering 
 the ds's capabilitites. change in equipment can be seen on the character (which is good :) ) . the 
 story is light hearted yet engaging. well over all its a fun game that shouldn't be missed. controls 
 can be a little crappy at times, never the less its nothing big.
  
  POSITIVES: its graphics are definitely commendable. good amount of character coustamisation. fluid 
 frame rate. Varied mix of platform-jumping, combat, and box breaking. it has a fun multiplayer option 
 which is a good addition.
  
  NEGATIVES: well it may seem to be a sort of a cakewalk (not completely) for experienced players. controls 
 may be a little frustrating at times. Certain tasks are cumbersome to pull off.
  
  over all its a fun game and final fantasy fans will not be dissapointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: confusd
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 9, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  I myself have been a fan of Final fantasy for only a few years, short compared with the age of 
 the series. I was really excited to hear about this game for the DS, i loved it on Gamecube, and 
 on DS it doesnt dissapoint. The game starts off with a few lengthy boring cut scenes (good thing 
 you can skip them) and then drops you into control, the controls are snappy and the graphics look 
 great as far as the DS goes. The game seems to contain a lot more platforming and less puzzles 
 than the previous crystal chronicles, but i found it a welcome addition. the four characters are 
 pretty much just for show, they have different weapons and armor, but youll probably only need 
 to switch for platforming segments. of the four characters youll probably end up choosing one and 
 sticking with them most of the game. After youve cleared the game, which took me about 15 hours, 
 you can start over at a higher difficulty with your armor weapons and level the same as when you 
 finished originally. The problem is, you now have to find the characters again, and they may be 
 much weaker than you want them too be, because unlike your first go round they wont be a higher 
 level, when i found the last of four i was about 15 levels higher, which led to many deaths. overall 
 the game is fun, and long lasting with good graphics and varied environments, despite some pacing 
 and level issues its fun and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brotherscampos
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 7, 2008 8:35 am PT
Review:  If you are a Final fantasy Fan this gane will be nice, excelent, perfect a piece of art, Because 
 you are part of this franchise.
  
  On my case I love play RPG, but I am not a fan of Final Fantasy, but there are some FF games that 
 are a piece of art for Example
  FF VII
  FF VIII
  FF X
  FF XII
  
  This games a re excellent I spent hours and hours playing that games because a not only a excellent 
 FF games, are excellent RPG that every gamer needto play.
  
  For that reason this game really disappointing me because the story is very very very for children 
 the enemies are weak, and the main character is a Child, after all of this on the main game there 
 is no summoner, you can't summon Ifrit, Shiva your GF are erased of this game, like the white magician.
 
  
  Buy this game is not the best idea, fan or not first rent this game.
  
  On the good things that this game have are the new combat system, is really nice but it require 
 to be improved, because the character that you don use dont have any intelligence, for that I thing 
 if you have the option of config the battle system (offensive, defensive, physical, magic, others) 
 the game will be better.
  
  Thanks for your attention.
  
  Bendiciones
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hack-shinobi
Rating: 7
Date: May 2, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  Well Final Fantasy CC Ring of Fates was an alright game. It has cool characters and an interestin 
 multiplayer mode which alows you to make your own character choosing from the available races. 
 Although the main story makes you play as two character's Yuri and Chilinka. The characters are 
 likable if you don't mind that they are kinda childish. 
  
  The attack system is real-time however depending on your race your attacks could be fast or slow. 
 To me, you don't really need to even play the stroy in this game to have fun. The create your character 
 in multiplayer mode [you don't have to have more than one person playing with you,] is enough to 
 occupy you for a good amount of time. It did for me. 
  
  Well I don't want to spoil any particular details in this game but it's definatly a game you should 
 pick up if your a fan of the series and have a DS. 
  
  Overall: 7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgmadboy
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I only played the multiplayer version of this game as i wanted to play with my cousin through the 
 game and i do not intend to play through story mode.
  So i cannot comment on the story of the game. All i know is it is supposed to be better then the 
 previous crystal chronicles game.
  
  -GAMEPLAY-
  This is action style. You can use magicite (magic) and you learn skills as you level up, u can 
 jump and do charge attacks. But most of the time you will just be bashing the attack button. The 
 game is not very challenging and it is easy to complete the game with no trouble. it does feel 
 abit tedious but it didn't bore me.
  
  -GRAPHICS-
  As you expect from a square-enix game top notch graphics for a DS game. You will not be dissapointed.
 
  
  -MUSIC-
  If anything it's annoying. didn't do much for me and it didn't stand out.
  
  -OVERALL-
  I bought this game just for multiplay and i had alot of fun with that, i don't 
 think this game is worth it for the story mode. i look at crystal chronicles series for a fun multiplayer 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbnewman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Great game, solid narrative, and wonderful graphics. Exactly what you've come to expect from Square. 
 Unfortunately the single player game tops out about 18 hours, maybe less for some more familiar 
 with the genre, and this really brings the value of the whole package down a few notches.
  
  This could have been a classic with a few more months in development and a bit more content 
 for the price tag. I don't min re-running the same dungeons during the course of a single player 
 game, expect when there only 5 of them. Just adding the ability to play through again on "harder 
 difficulty" levels really isn't much of a value added. I feel like this one was rushed out the 
 door.
  
  That said, this remains a Square FF through and through. Great boss battles, great visuals for 
 a DS title, and a unique take on the hack and slash rpg.
  
  Here's to hoping that the WII FFCC will be a bit more chock-full-o-content.
  
  Fun, but only 
 for a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urbsdad6
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I haven't yet completed the game but at present am playing multiplayer with my sons ages 6 and 
 12. I think Kevin VanOrd brings up some very good points regarding pros and cons on multiplayer, 
 however if I were to give this game a score based just on the multiplayer component I would give 
 it a 10! (Can we say fanboy?) It is so much better than the GC FFCC and graphics are really great! 
 I actually think they're better than the previous GC version. I'm disappointed at the screenshots 
 posted on Gamespot (what's up with that guys?) because some people will see those and think "Holy 
 Crap, that's terrible!" The graphics are crisp and clear with great coloring and the sound and 
 music and voicing is really great too. If you aren't a fan of FF but like multiplayer fun, give 
 this a try it gives you the freedom to roam without being movement restricted in order to keep 
 everything on one screen like the previous GC version. Best of all, "We don't need to carry around 
 no stinking myrrh chalice anymore!" As far as the single player game, I can't comment cause I haven't 
 tried it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MegaManAX
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  It seems that SE hasn't quite given up on the action RPG spinoff it created long ago. FF CC: Ring 
 of Fates is the sequel/prequel to Final Fantasy: Crystal Chronicles released on the GCN 4 years 
 ago. Although the original Crystal Chronicles was an overall disappointment, Ring of Fates will 
 be sure to please many people for a long time.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in the game, while not quite on par with other 3D games (like Final Fantasy III, another 
 Square Enix game) , are still impressive. And in typical SE fashion, there are CG cutscenes in the 
 game. And boy, are they impressive.
  
  Sound
  The soundtrack in Ring of Fates is fairly good. Sound effects are equally good, but there is one 
 aspect many people will hate: voice acting. The game features voice acting. which makes it one 
 of the very few DS games to do so. Unfortunately, the main characters in the story mode are kids. 
 So expect high pitched squealing, screams, and just annoying voices in general.
  
  Gameplay
  If you've played FF: CC on the Gamecube, you'll be somewhat familiar with the gameplay 
 of Ring of Fates. In Ring of Fates, assuming you're playing story mode, you'll primarily be a young 
 boy named Yuri. Yuri, being a Clavat, is basically a hacker-n-slasher. And throughout the game, 
 you'll get more people for your party, including a Yuke (mage) , a Selkie (archer) , and a Liltie 
 (melee/item creator) . The basic premise is you go to a dungeon, you kill all the monsters, you 
 have a highly entertaining boss battle, you collect loot, and you're done. But, to get through 
 these dungeons will require good use of magic, grabbing of enemies, and more. Yes, you can now 
 grab enemies. And slam them into walls. How awesome is that? Platforming has also been added, meaning 
 that you can now jump, which is a key part of boss battles. Now, if stories aren't your thing, 
 you can play "Multiplay", which is essentially a free play mode. You can make a character, give 
 him/her a name, choose it's race, and then go explore! This is arguably the only thing you should 
 play in the game, as you can only use your Multiplay characters in multiplayer. Multiplayer, although 
 not as enjoyable as it was back in FF: CC for the GCN, is still in the game. But, if you're playing 
 with 4 people, expect some SERIOUS graphical lag. Although it's tolerable with 2, or even 3 people, 
 4 sends it over the edge, with frame rates around 15. And if you have 4 Selkies, and they all have 
 their 5 arrow attack? Expect some angry shouts from your fellow party members.
  
  Overall, despite shortcomings, Ring of Fates is a thoroughly enjoyable game, with plenty of reasons 
 to come back to it. Any RPG fan will love this game, and even casual players will like it. Overall, 
 I'm giving it an 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sublime221
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  I haven't completed this game yet but I think I've gotten a pretty good taste of what this game 
 has to offer. The game starts off at a decent pace and to help explain the story there is some 
 voiced dialogue. This is a pretty cool feature and I am actually glad that only the more important 
 dialogue is voiced while the majority is read. This keeps there voices fresh, as I'm sure if it 
 was 100% voice acting these guys and gals could get annoying! Ok so the story has kept me interested 
 to continue on but the other piece to the puzzle is the gameplay. It's an action RPG (Kind of like 
 LOZ) with fairly fast gameplay so it's pretty exciting especially while engaged with the big guys. 
 The only part of the gameplay that gets docked is while in single player mode, although you have 
 4 characters in your party, don't expect the computer controlled characters to do anything except 
 waste your potions. I often find them getting damaged almost to the point of death and then I have 
 to keep them alive. They are so dumb in fact, that on some boss battles it's easier (and cheaper) 
 to simply play as the character that best handles the boss and then forget that you have other 
 party members. Using this method you can't stack magic but you really save on potions and cure 
 magicite AND you can actually focus on damaging the boss and not just, "oh crap I have to revive 
 him and cure her..." constantly. As I said in the beginning, I haven't completed the game but so 
 far this strategy has worked well. Also the nice thing is I do revive them once I'm super close 
 to defeating the king size baddie so they can share in the experience and leveling process. I'm 
 not sure if they still receive exp while dead but just in case. So let's get back to the review 
 and away from the strategy guide. I really find the visuals for this game to be top notch. Absolutely 
 no complaints in this department. And it may be because I just recently got a DS lite, yeah it 
 has to be, but the colors are so vibrant in this game! Once you get over the extremely low IQ AI 
 controlling your teammates this becomes an incredibly fun game that is focused mainly on it's cool 
 battle system and story line that keeps you just interested enough to keep killing weird looking 
 bad guys.
  
  Unfortunately none of my friends play this game (to be honest I can't even think of one that has 
 a DS!) so I haven't been able to play multiplayer. If you live in AZ and your not creepy then we 
 need to meet at a well lit place to this game! I can't wait for the day that this happens, if I 
 were able to play this game with actual live people (assuming they are smarter than the AI controlled 
 characters) this could be some serious fun. I'm very happy with the purchase and would still recommend 
 this game if you are an RPG fan that's on the go even if multiplayer is something that you may 
 never experience.
  
  -Alex
  
  PS - this is my first review ever but I imagine that they should get better as I do more. If you 
 have any suggestions please pm me as I am always looking to improve myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KougerKing
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Ok so the game is fun and easy to pick up. As usual Square-enix assumes everyone 'round the block 
 will be playing the game and slaves players with the task of finding someone with a game copy before 
 enjoying the games best feature, multi-player. The AI in this game is soooo useless! trying to 
 climb a ledge is an extreme form of punishment!! you take your first character to the top of the 
 ledge (cuz the AI is stupid it doesnt know how to jump so...) then u change characters to try to 
 get the other characters up to top just to watch the ones already on top falling back down to where 
 you started.... perhaps S-E will consider a "stay" "follow" squad series of commands for the sequel, 
 make it a little bit more enjoyable when playing alone, even better consider reality of the american 
 gaming scene and add wi-fi capabilities!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apathy38
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 9:52 am PT
Review:  This game is incredibly deep. The story is moving like every good rpg game. The game last around 
 ten hours but there is so much replay value it adds to the experience. THen you have the customizable 
 characters the loads of armor and weapons, skills, and other inventory to keep you busy. This game 
 sets the bar for future rpg ds games. The fact that there is no Wifi does hurt the game but not 
 substantially were the game is broken. The AI of the supporting characters does get irritating 
 but there are certain skills that make them more aggressive like helmets and mage hats that help 
 them not just stand around as onlookers. The magic system can be a little difficult but i personally 
 think its innovative. If you can play this with people the whole game becomes perfect as the ai 
 magic system and controls just get better. I would highly recommend this game over Revenant Wings 
 or any other Rpg or Final Fantasy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Curley5959
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  Tight, action fighting. Masterpiece. Interchangeable weapons and characters is really good. Graphics 
 are marvelous and The Storyline makes you want to be in the game itself. Excellent game play that 
 is totally unique and upgraded from the original FF III and FF CC really has mastered the RPG section. 
 Apart from being a little short but it makes up with the best storyline, this game is, Oh, How 
 can i say it, NEEDED for every DS... Characters are unique and the missions and levels all fit 
 together to the storyline. Worth the buy if you like solid RPG's that make you want to come back 
 for more and more..... Yuri and Chelinka are the perfect brother and sister and the way the story 
 fits together is just amazing. I really enjoyed this and I hardly enjoy or finish DS games.. So 
 this game is worth it. If i liked it and finished it and want more, I'm really sure you will. I 
 WANT ANOTHER FF JUST LIKE THIS ONE
  
  This game needs a sequel to the DS with the same characters to make FF CC an outright masterpiece. 
 Highly Recommended..
  
  What can i add, I love this game, I really want a game similar or a sequel. Please Square Enix, 
 we need a sequel... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quirky_clayboy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting much from FF CC Ring of Fates. It appeared to be a lower tier Square Enix game, 
 filling the gap between now and FF Tactics A2. I was wrong.
  
  Story - 8.5
  ---------------
  
  The story was probably the aspect of this game that surprised me the most. 
 It begins rather conventionally, with two young, gifted twins presented with the horrifying death 
 of their father. Things soon become more interesting - and sinister - as the nature of their world 
 is revealed. To truly appreciate the whole story, the multiplayer must be played as well.
  
  Graphics - 9
  ---------------
  
  Possibly some of the best graphics I've seen on the 
 DS, only bested by Phantom Hourglass. The textures are crisp, the artistic style fresh and cute, 
 and the FMVs... unbelievable. I was very pleased to see that a visual representation of weapons 
 and equipment was included, as this is often left out of JRPGs. My only criticism is that the monster 
 models could have been more varied.
  
  Sound - 9
  ---------------
  
  Probably the best aspect of the game. Some memorable songs that thankfully didn't skew towards 
 the overly cute. The voice acting was well done and used often, although Gnash's voice didn't match 
 the standard quality.
  
  Gameplay - 8.5
  ---------------
  
  The battle system was quite ambitious, and for the most part paid off. Fighting was a simple hack 
 'n slash affair, but each character played quite differently to keep the whole thing fresh. AI 
 was abysmal, but at least it forced you to change your character often. Magic, on the other hand, 
 was an extremely complicated process. To use magic you must press and hold 'X', place the magic 
 'ring' over an enemy then release. So far so good. When you combine magic rings to gain access 
 to higher levels of magic, however, things get complicated. You must hold 'X' like before, move 
 the ring, then tap the portrait of an ally to begin their magic ring, which, when all combined, 
 is a digital nightmare. Thankfully the system works like a charm in multiplayer.
  
  The puzzles are nice and fairly varied, with each character bringing their own abilities. Rather 
 than detract from the action, it complements it.
  
  Multiplayer really shines on FF CC Ring of Fates. Over the wireless, up to four friends can battle 
 their way through several dungeons with countless quests and treasure to loot. The control problems 
 in the single player are almost non-existent here.
  
  Life Span - 8
  ---------------
  
  With a New Game + and New Game ++ mode, not to mention a fantastic multiplayer, help keep the 
 game fresh. More content in the new game modes could have made this even better.
  
  ---------------
  Final Score - 8.5
  --------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: almightybob14
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy: Crystal Chronicles for the Gamecube was a very contreversial game. It took the traditional 
 RPG gameplay that the Final Fantasy series had been famous for, and threw it all in the garbage. 
 It became a single, and multiplayer hack-and-slash RPG with a story that from the surface, seemed 
 non-existant, but after a while over the course of the game, players began to notice a fairly complex 
 storyline throughout the game. Crystal Chronicles wasn't accepted very well by most Final Fantasy 
 fans, but there are a number of people that play the game and love it. Personally, I'm one of the 
 ones that loved it, and I was expecting Ring of Fates for the DS to be just as good.
  
  Well, I was wrong. Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates (Ring of Fates) turned out to 
 be a very boring, repetitive, hack-and-slash RPG with useless characters, some of the worst AI 
 I have ever seen, the story was really cliched, the main characters were very immature, and it 
 just became a chore to play the game. Anyway, here is a detailed run-down of Ring of Fates.
  
  Graphics: 6/10
  
  Graphics are a little above average, but nothing to brag about. Most 
 of the environments were boring, but there were a few exceptions like a forest dungeon and the 
 two towns. But other than those few places, it looks pretty boring. The spell effects which in 
 my opinion, are a big thing in RPGs, are kind of plain looking. The character models are a bit 
 better. Though they look very pixelated, though that is normal for DS games, it seemed to be much 
 worse than most games for the system. The FMVs are also nothing to brag about. The opening video 
 looks really good, but the ones in the game (which are only a few seconds long and there are only 
 a couple of these) all look about the same. So basically, the graphics are just a little above 
 average, but inferior to most 3D RPGs.
  
  Sound effects: 7/10
  
  The sound effects are ok, none of them really stood out, but that can be a good thing since sound 
 effects can distract the player from the rest of the game. 
  
  Music: 6/10
  
  Unfortunately, the music is quite boring and easily forgettable. For me, music is a very large 
 part of a game. But the music in Ring of Fates just seemed like it just wasn't really there. You 
 never really noticed it and it added to the boring-ness of the game.
  
  Voice-acting: 4/10
  
  Almost all of the voice-overs in Ring of Fates made me cringe. All of 
 the characters in your party have terrible voices. The two main characters sound like rediculously 
 immature little kids, another one of your party members sounds like a bad Mickey Mouse imitator, 
 and one of the other ones sounds like a 4 year old girl. The sole redeeming part of the voice-overs 
 is the fact that they're actually there. There aren't very many DS games with voice-overs, but 
 the crappiness just made me want to turn the sound off whenever I heard any character's voice.
 
  
  Story/dialogue: 5/10
  
  The story is ok, it was kind of hard to follow until near the end and it involved some odd concepts 
 but it wasn't bad. The two main characters are fraternal clavat twins Yuri and Chelinka. The twins 
 are able to use the power of magic crystals, but they must be together to do it, but even then, 
 there are consequenses that are revealed late in the story. Over the course of the game, you are 
 joined by Alhanalem, or Al, the Yuke, Gnash, the selkie, and Meeth, an annoying female clavat. 
 Eventually you find out about a plot from a group of evil-doers that involves the mysterious red 
 crystals. After some complex and a few seemingly random events, a lot of long filler dungeons that 
 keep the story from going anywhere and just take up time, you defeat the evil-doers. But there's 
 a decent twist to the story that really helps the game out, and everyone still lives happily ever 
 after.
  
  The dialogue is pretty bad. The characters may have real personalities but it doesn't really help 
 any. Except for Yuri and Chelinka, there really isn't any change about the characters over the 
 course of the game. Yuri and Chelinka are rediculously immature, even after they grow up. They 
 are always yelling "Mama!! and Papa!!" and always crying, it almost made me want to skip the cutscenes. 
 Thankfully the other characters weren't quite as bad. Al is the kind of wise character, but he 
 always, without fail, ends a sentence with an adjective. While this is kind of different, it eventually 
 becomes a pain to figure out what he's talking about. Gnash just doesn't really have any dialogue. 
 He probably says a total of 10 lines in the whole game, including a couple silent exchanges between 
 him and Meeth. Meeth's dialogue was just annoying, she ends every sentence with a word and adds 
 "ie" or "y" onto it so it comes out like this sentencie. And like Yuri and Chelinka, Meeth also 
 sounds very immature and just gets annoying after a while. The dialogue for the other characters 
 isn't bad, it's just your regular dialogue, except for the shopkeepers in the main town. They have 
 real personalities and one of them almost seems to be hitting on you sometimes though you really 
 can't tell if she is or not. So basically, the dialogue is below average.
  
  Gameplay: 4/10
  
  The gameplay is one of the areas where Ring of Fates suffers the most, and 
 frankly, it's the most crucial part of a game like this. The hack-and-slash action seems fun at 
 first. Then after the first dungeon or two, it gets really boring and repetitive. But once you 
 get your other party members, it gets even worse. Yuri has a sword and fights a lot like the clavats 
 from the original crystal chronicles, having a kind of button mashing feel. So Yuri is a good main 
 melee attacker. He's also the only good melee attacker. Al throws magic orbs that look a lot like 
 bombs. He's basically a hit and run attacker but he mainly relies on magic (explained later) to 
 do damage. He's definitely the character to use if you like to stand back and fight. Unfortunately, 
 Yuri and Al are the only decent characters. Gnash fights with a bow and arrow. It sounds like he 
 would be great if you like to stand back and kill monsters without risking your own health. However, 
 that's not the case. Gnash barely does any damage with each arrow and his triple shot ability requires 
 you to get right in an enemy's face leaving you open to attack and nullifying any advantage of 
 a long range weapon. So basically, Gnash just does what Yuri does, only Yuri does it a lot better. 
 The only reason you would ever need him is for his double jump move. Meeth is also useless. She 
 hits enemies with a ladel. Yes you heard me, a ladel. It only hits about once every 2 seconds making 
 it pretty useless. Meeth does have a special weapon though, an urn that she can crawl into and 
 roll into enemies, but this ends up being incredibly slow and doesn't help much, once again, she 
 tries to do Yuri's job, but he's a lot better at it.
  
  Magic is used by collecting orbs, or magicite of different types (one for each kind of magic) that 
 you find in treasure chests and are dropped by monsters. Every spell uses one magicite. You hold 
 X and a targeting ring appears on the floor near you. You use the control pad to move the ring 
 around and you can let go of X to fire off the spell, but if you want to, you can press L to lock 
 the targeting ring in place and move another ring on top of it to fire off a more powerful spell, 
 however, it is painfully hard to use the more powerful spells unless you're playing on multiplayer.
 
  
  Also, the AI. It's some of the worst I've ever seen. Your characters may hit an enemy once every 
 5 seconds if you're lucky. They're also terrible at following you, getting stuck behind corners, 
 and falling off of ledges. Thankfully you can hold L for about a second to warp the rest of your 
 party members to you.
  
  Lastly, the difficulty, it's really easy. None of the bosses gave me any trouble playing on single 
 player and it's even easier on multiplayer.
  
  Summary:
  
  Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates is boring and repetitive, with only slightly above 
 average graphics, boring music, painfully bad voice-overs, boring story and bad dialogue, very 
 boring gameplay and terrible AI.
  
  Rent or buy: Neither, unless you're a huge fan of the original.
  
  
  
  Final Score: 5.6 
 rounded to 5.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MogFromLeipzig
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - exciting dungeons with intelligent design
  - cooperative play with up to 3 other players (rare on the market)
  - a ton of items, including 
 cute looking armors
  - dialogs can be quite fun to listen
  - new game+ and new game++ options
  - your strength and the enemy strength are in good balance 
 without power leveling
  
  The Bad:
  - terrible AI of your party members
  - story mode is quite short
  - no quick save option
  - multiplayer missions are somewhat repetitive 
 and you can't play through the story with friends
  - multiplayer requires multiple cartridges and does not work over the Internet
  - casting the 
 more powerful spells is a pain
  - most boss fights are disappointing
  - story is way to cheesy
  
  The first thing you have to know if you consider buying this game 
 is that is has not much to do with the Final Fantasy series. First of all - it is no menu based 
 RPG but a button mashing action platformer with RPG elements. Forget your familiar FF environment 
 with Chocobos, airships and phoenix downs. The only faces you will recognize are those of Moogles 
 like Mog, Stilzkin and Mogrimilian.
  
  The game starts in the early childhood of your main characters. You will test your battle skills 
 in a small cave near your house just for fun. This expedition shows you how the game works. You 
 have to explore dungeons with a lot of environmental puzzles and one or two save points in it. 
 At the end of each dungeon a boss awaits.
  
  The layout of most dungeons is nice: you start from the first save point, kill monsters, solve 
 some puzzles and unlock short cuts. You can reach the save point in a short amount of time and 
 use the short cuts to get back deeper in the dungeon. However one iteration can still take its 
 time and it is a shame that there is no quick save option for those who like to play in public 
 transport.
  
  You can fight the monsters with your weapon by tapping the attack button or by casting magic. Since 
 your magic resources are limited you will go with the first choice most of the times. Casting simple 
 magic is easy but if you want to do more than Ice, Fire and the like your will have to stack magic 
 and that is terrible to do. It's the same with your special attacks. They are a little better than 
 your standard attack and use the touch screen but while performing them you will have a hard time 
 evading attacks. In multiplayer mode they are doable if another player has the attention of the 
 foe.
  
  The boss fights are easy. At least most of them. The bosses are very slow and you have enough time 
 to dodge most if not all of their attacks. If you still fail to beat a boss the game lets you start 
 the fight again.
  
  A dungeon wouldn't be a dungeon without treasures. You will find a good amount of loot in each 
 dungeon but you won't find any new weapons or armor pieces that you can equip right away. Instead 
 you will find new receipts and materials that you can take to a crafter. The fun of opening chests 
 is clearly reduced due to that mechanic. But shopping is much more fun. There are multiple hundred 
 receipts. Some are only for creating more materials but there is still a good amount of weapons 
 and armors. Especially the armors are cute. You will find your traditional black and white mage 
 robes and hats as well as samurai and pirate suits or frog and cat costumes.
  
  You will go through the first dungeon alone but soon enough you will have up to three party members, 
 each with a unique skill that is required to solve the dungeon puzzles. That means you don't want 
 them to die too often as you have limited resurrection spells. Sounds easy but since you can only 
 control one of the characters at a time the computer takes care of the rest of them and does a 
 terrible job. They will constantly fall into holes and step into lava. They will not evade monster 
 attacks and will only attack the monsters once in a few seconds.
  
  Between the dungeons the story progresses. It is incredible cheesy. Everyone is glad to sacrifice 
 him or herself for the other one. Good and bad are clearly divided with no shades of gray. That 
 doesn't mean that you won't hear funny dialogs. I did have some good laughs!
  
  But after only a few dungeons and not much more than 15 hours the story has an end. Now you can 
 play it again with all your levels and items you gained through the first play though. The monsters 
 will be tougher (just right for your skill) , the drops will be better and there will be a new dungeon 
 available. If you make it through the game a second time you can start once more with even harder 
 monsters.
  
  Beside the story mode there is the mission mode which you can play alone or with up to three friends 
 (if you have four copies of the game) . As far as I have tested the mode the tasks are pretty random. 
 Kill all monsters in the time limit, catch all kitties in the time limit, and press all buttons 
 in the time limit. There are cooperative as well as competitive quests. In the latter ones it really 
 matters which class your character is. You can have up to eight mission mode characters but each 
 of them needs to level up and leaves you effectively with one or two characters you will play. 
 You can also redo the dungeons from story mode although some puzzles are already solved for you.
 
  Although there are only seven base skins for your characters to choose from you can customize 
 them with the same armors you know from story mode. Again shopping is fun! 
  
  One word about music and graphics. The music is nice but not really memorable. The graphics are 
 good... if you can say that for 3D on the DS. They are colorful and the armors are detailed. The 
 characters look a bit too cute for my taste. In rare occasions the frame rate drops remarkable. 
 
  
  Overall Final Fantasy CC RoF has its sharp edges but you still get a nice package. In the end I 
 spent way more time with it than planned.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: foola12
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutly amazing. It has a in-depth single player story line and combines my love 
 of final fantasy and my other love of non-turn based RPG's and makes a orgy of FF: CC goodness.
 
  
  The Ai is a lot of the times useless but with the handy L button you can teleport them to where 
 you are. And the magic system takes a little while to learn as you aren't able to readily practise 
 becaus ethe magicite, as its called in the game, works like ammo. You have to buy more everytime 
 you are out or you can collect it from killing monsters. Also, Each tribe has thier own speacial 
 abilities and each one has its own specific way of being used in the game. 
  
  Where the single player lacks the multiplayer more then makes up for. The multi player is only 
 multicard and the Wifi is only for trading mogs (whatever the hell that is) which im suspecting 
 to be moogles. But the multi player has all the dungeons and bossed from the actual game. I would 
 have liked it better it you could play through the actual story with 4 people but beggers can't 
 be chooers. Also the magic system is made alot simpler in the multiplayer because you only have 
 to stack eachothers magicite rings and cast.
  
  In the end this is a great game with also a lot of replay value (you can always level up) . It provides 
 a better than average multiplayer. Its one of the best DS games i have played so far and worth 
 the $30+. BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoshilila
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  Well first of all, this is the second game in the FFCC series and it is stil about crystals yet 
 in a different way than the first game but it's stil good.
  
  Ok now first the bad (so i can get rid of that fast) and than the good stuff.
  
  There isn't 
 really anything bad about it except for not having a wifi multiplayer and that because of different 
 reasons... number 1 would be if your don't have friends near you that have the game than you might 
 want to play online with some people... and reason number 2 would be because you need atleast 2-4 
 players on some quests so here it's the same reason as before if you don't have any friends than 
 you can't do these quests.
  
  Now to the good parts about the game
  
  The story mode is quite a good story cause the dead pri..... hey saying what the story is like 
 here would just simply ruin the game^^ 
  Well the story it's self aside you will be able to play all 4 rases (Clavat, Yuke, Lilty or Selkie) 
 actually in some lvls you might have to play atleast 2 or 3 of the 4 players you have cause of 
 there abiltys
  After you got a stamp of one of the moogles than you can paint em but the moogles will all look 
 the same so that means you can only have one stil
  
  And on we go to multiplayer cause this mode is quite cool, you are able to choose between one of 
 the 4 rases and lvl them up you will also be able to change your hair color here except with the 
 yuke (cause the have a helmet as a head and no hair can be found on helmets) 
  The quests you can get from the king are gonna be quite cool cause you have monster kill quests, 
 activate switches quests, keep the cows from geting stolen by the aliens and so on. Some of the 
 dungeons are even a little bit different from the ones in story mode.
  Oh and before i forget it the dungeons are most of time made for you character to get through it 
 without any help of others for example and some spots you have to use the magic ability of the 
 yuke to go on but without him in your party the stuff will already be there so you won't need his 
 help or at some spots where you need pot of the lilty and can't go on without it... well there 
 gonna be something like a lift to get you up^^
  
  Now on to what you can do in both modes together...
  
  The equipment you use will be seen except 
 for the ring equipment so you have the choice between different armors for your head and body oh 
 and the weapons change there appearance too.
  There are gonna be some armors like knight, samurai, dragoon, dragon, dragon god, or different 
 magic armors.
  But there will also be some funny looking armors like the frog, cat, pirate, sailor, thief, ninja 
 headwear (which kinda looks like the headwear that the ninjas have in the naruto anime) and a couple 
 of other armors cause these where just excamples there really are alot more than just these ones
 
  
  In each mode you will be able to lvl up and from what i think... you learn the skills in an earlier 
 lvl in mulitplayer mode for some reason
  
  Now to the Wi-fi mode
  
  the only thing you can do wi-fi in this game is trade moogles with your friends so you will need 
 friendcodes for that but you can find em online if you google but i for myself like the way i painted 
 my moogle so i don't really want an other one
  
  And last but not least
  the diffeculty for the game is actually easy even on the harder lvls well actually if you play 
 multiplayer with a friend and make a new character than you will defenitly die fast and make less 
 damage if you play on hard or very hard mode but in exchange you will get good exp XD
  So the game is only easy if you play a dungeon that suits your character or... if you ahead and 
 own some of the weaker mobs in the easier dungeons^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SARGE3D
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  i like this one for sure, easy to play, fun, unexpected creatures, learning the new moves, this 
 game is a lot of fun and adventure to it, even thought i got it yesterday, i'm already a level 
 10. now bad for 4 hrs of play or killing critters.:) this game is a must for FF lovers. i hope 
 to see some on the wi fi soon. but all in all this game ranks a 10 to me. there is nothing more 
 i can say, it's good. all good. well worth the money. Square Enix has done wonderful jobs with 
 there role playing games. 
  
  Sarge3D
  so i shall repeat: i like this one for sure, easy to play, fun, unexpected creatures, learning 
 the new moves, this game is a lot of fun and adventure to it, even thought i got it yesterday, 
 i'm already a level 10. now bad for 4 hrs of play or killing critters.:) this game is a must for 
 FF lovers. i hope to see some on the wi fi soon. but all in all this game ranks a 10 to me. there 
 is nothing more i can say, it's good. all good. well worth the money. Square Enix has done wonderful 
 jobs with there role playing games. keep up the good work guys:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kornera
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  Lets start off what made the GCN version so good to many people. There was the interesting magic 
 system to work off, there was professions each character's family owned, there was the Letter system 
 to keep your family happy to get them to continue helping each character, and the full blown character 
 creation that comes to mind right now. Of the items listed, only one of these things stayed with 
 us into the DS multi player section of the game and thats the magic system. but there was an added 
 brilliance that the GCN Lacked. lets split up these sections.
  
  ***Single Player***
  Wow, who would of thought that Crystal chronicles would have an actual story to it. Sure, the GCN 
 had a story, but you didn't realize it until you get just about to the final boss on it. This was 
 a well deserved addition to the game. I will not bother saying anything about the story to keep 
 my review short but i have to say, even though the story was soooooo short, it was the most enjoyable 
 10+ hours i have gotten out of crystal chronicles. The story was very interesting after the silly 
 of the the start of the game and i have to admit the voice acting was very well done but the tone 
 of the children's voices could of went down a little because it just annoyed me time to time but 
 over all the voice acting was very well done for the DS. The moogle system is back again and who 
 does not like painting mogs like a little freak time to time. I have to agree, there was a lot 
 of platforming added to the mix that it kind of drew me off track but the jumping added a mix of 
 change from the normal, gravity forbids you to move from this ground unless your in a cut scene 
 feeling giving it an added touch of being able to grab on to flying monsters and start whacking 
 away or jump on top of them and start stomping on them. In areas that could of needed work is that 
 many areas did become too accessible at an early stage which i found out by laying magicites down 
 on top of each other and jumping on them making the game seem a little too easy leaving things 
 like that a little too open for the player to figure out. Overall, Single player was a great feeling 
 to get ready for a multilayer experience and to try out all of the races before creating a character.
 
  
  ***Multi player***
  I will admit, i have not found anyone else yet that has this game to try out the full feature of 
 this section but the system acts as if i am with other people so i guess that counts a little. 
 This section is lacking in a lot of things. they should of added so much to this section to make 
 it the multilayer everyone loved from the GCN version (see list at top) . I will admit though that 
 the armor system added is great. Instead of making each character different, they are forcing players 
 to look different through armor you have made (or bought) allowing players to make their characters 
 to look like a black mage, white mage, dragoon (great look for me =) ) , samurai, etc. the Quests 
 you accept from the king are a great add-on as well making the multi player seem more accomplishing 
 than just ripping through all the levels as fast as you can. But as I am hearing from almost everywhere, 
 the Multi player does lag a bit when you play with other people which will cause a bit of a pain 
 time to time, but nothing is flawless.
  
  ***Overall***
  Overall this a great add to this family of games and i am sure Square-enix wont stop until they 
 perfect this new genre of final fantasy games. I am sure they would be very close if the incorporate 
 the Multi player of the GCN along with the Solo player from DS with more of a story to make it 
 more worth $50 on the wii instead of a 10+ hour game if you worry about your character's gears. 
 But this game is a great addition to a DS game collection whether or not your a fan of RPG or not. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esemoka
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 25, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  The good:
  1. nice cinematics and cut scenes
  2. good storyline
  3. very good graphics
  4. it's an FF title :)
  5. some of the zelda style riddles and dungeon designs
  6. rather good 
 voice acting
  
  The bad:
  
  1. to many platforming elements and frustrating broken camera angles
  2. to easy (especially 
 boss battles)
  3. AI of your team mates is zero (they don't fight, they don't follow you, they main activity is 
 jumping from the cliffs
  4. extremely short for an rpg/hack'n'slash game. It take me only 11 hours to finish the game and 
 I was not running frantically to the end.
  5. using magic is difficult and pointless in the battle. I only use it to activate switches and 
 to heal. same with the teammates. they are useless in the battle and tribe abilities are necessary 
 only in solving riddles.
  6. it doesn't have co-op story multiplayer
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoaNGx
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  My first impression of this game was, "Hmm, another dungeon crawler game. Wouldn't hurt to check 
 it out."
  
  But this game was so much more than that. It's cell-shaded style graphics has an undeniable charm. 
 It offers customization for your characters, local multiplayer capabilities (no Wi-fi) , immersive 
 bosses, secret dungeons and replay value. After beating the game once, you'll want to play again 
 to unlock the new dungeon you didn't have access to the first time. 
  
  It's a hack and slash, but you may also find yourself going through some tough puzzles to advance 
 further into the game. It offers a great cast of characters, and decent voice acting. The cutscenes 
 may sometimes be a tad too long, but you always have the option to skip them if you wish.
  
  Now some people have complained about the A. I. in this game, and although I agree it is very 
 bad, I like it the way it is. Why? For if it was any better, this game would have been a breeze 
 and people might come to rely too much on their little A. I. buddies. Slashing your way through 
 monster while also serving the role as a body guard makes the game a lot more interesting. But 
 if the A. I. really bothers you, you can always hop on Multiplayer and play by yourself or with 
 a couple of friends.
  
  Another thing: the magicite system. I rarely have used these, so I don't find it as annoying. The 
 most useful are cure and the ice one to freeze enemies in place. It's not quite that hard, really 
 though to switch to another magicite if you use your thumb.
  
  Overall, this is a great game, and if you found the first FFCC good, you won't be disappointed 
 by this one. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGshade
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy: Rings of Fate is a great game, although it may have some flaws. If you're a Final 
 Fantasy fan, you're gonna want to pick this one up. It's definetly one of the best DS games.
  
  FF: RoF starts out with your main character, Yuri, when he's a child. You learn the basics of 
 combat and go through a simple dungeon. You do two other dungeons, and then suddenly, you're older. 
 A lot older. I don't want to spoil anything so I'll leave it at that.
  
  The single player story mode is great for the most part. You can explore 10 different dungeons 
 which may not seem as a large amount, but you return to a few twice. There are many items in the 
 game, and different scrolls which you can use to make new weapons, armour, accesories and materials. 
 The story is well written for the most part, but can get confusing at times.
  
  You are joined by three AI controlled partners in the game: Al, the magic-flinging Yuke, Gnash, 
 your feral Selkie and Meeth, your Lilty friend. You can switch to any of them on the fly. This 
 game does make your use each tribes abilities to solve puzzles, but when not controlling your companions, 
 the AI is terrible. Monsters can attack them, and they will simply stand there, they can't jump, 
 which makes you babysit them, meaning you have to 
  teleport them to your position each time you jump across a gap.
  
  The multiplayer of FF: RoF 
 is definetly the best part. You can connect with up to three other friends and tackle the different 
 dungeons from single player, as any of the four tribes. You can also participate in different "quests" 
 which range from classic monster-slaying quests, to extinguishing fires and collecting white and 
 black cats. It can be fun, but can also grow old. You can play the same way by yourself, but some 
 of the quests are unavailable with one person, and some can get terribly tough.
  
  The Wi-Fi of FF; RoF is disappointing. There is no online multiplayer to speak of. All you do is 
 send moogles to other people (which you can design in the single player) . I was disappointed and 
 was expecting something much better.
  
  Overall, it's a great game, with great boss battles, and an innovative magic system, but with a 
 useless Wi-Fi mode and A. I. problems, Final Fantasy: Rings of Fate falls short of being a perfect 
 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikastar
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 1, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates (CC: RoF) is a new game in the Crystal Chronicles 
 series. The game has tons of action, lots of platforming, dungeons to explore and rpg elements.
 
  
  The story is mostly about Yuri and Chelinka, who are twins that can control the power in magic 
 crystals. They have to work together to be able to unleash their full potential. The lands have 
 been overrun by monsters and the events somehow surround the twins. They must discover what is 
 going on with the help of a few friends.
  
  The story in CC: RoF starts a bit slow, leaving you with a feeling of "where is this going?" But 
 it doesnt take long for events to unfold and get you excited with the game. Yuri and Chelinka arent 
 the only ones who have important roles in the story. Other characters will join your group as you 
 continue through the game. Your team of 4: Yuri/Chelinka, Al, Meeth, and Gnash, all have roles 
 to play. 
  
  The gameplay is very fun. The controls are responsive and easy to use. One button is your attack, 
 one is your jump, one allows you to cast magic and one allows you to pick up your enemies or objects. 
 Once you get more group members you can easily switch between which one you control by clicking 
 on their picture on the touch screen. The teammates you dont control will still be with you to 
 help out. Or to get in your way. The AI of the teammates can be annoying. They will at times just 
 stand there while you are getting attacked. I have had mixed reactions with the AI. During normal 
 battles I find them to be only slightly helpful. But depending on the boss battle, they can sometimes 
 have some brains. They were extremely useful in the battle against the Giant Plant in the forest 
 but practically useless against the giant Fish in the destroyed city. Once you can get equipment 
 to make your teammates use magicite, they become a lot more helpful. 
  
  Magicite is the magic in the game. It isnt spells that need to be learned. They are items that 
 can be bought at a store or created with the help of Meeth. To cast your magic you hold down the 
 button and move the targeting ring that appears on the screen over the character you want to cast 
 it on. I found this to be easy to do and fun as well. A "pocket" or toolbar is on your touchscreen 
 with all of your magicite and items visible. To switch you just have to tap the one you want with 
 the stylus. 
  
  Each character also has a Tribe ability. This ability is linked to the race that the character 
 is. To use a tribe ability you can either tap the R button or tap the icon in the middle of your 
 touch screen. Any offensive attack then requires you to tap the enemy on the touch screen that 
 you want to attack. These abilities prevent you from moving so make sure the monster isnt right 
 on top of you when you try to use it. Other tribe abilities allow you to solve puzzles or create 
 magicite.
  
  Like every Final Fantasy game you can purchase equipment for your characters. You can also collect 
 scrolls and materials dropped from enemies and create better weapons and equipment than you can 
 purchase at the store.
  
  With great 3D graphics, good voice acting, an entertaining story, and fun gameplay, it is hard 
 not to like this game. The AI of your teammates is the only thing that is on the weak side. Despite 
 this, Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Ring of Fates is a fun game that will keep you playing 
 for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodbyethumbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  OK so it's not the best Final Fantasy game out there, but it's pretty darn good! For those who 
 aren't familiar with the Crystal Chronicles games, they are not turn based like many Final Fantasy 
 games, they are hack and slash. In my opinion this makes a refreshing break from the normal battle 
 style and it works great on DS.
  
  Of course, this game is not without its flaws. The most apparent of which are; 
  -touchy frame 
 rates when there's too much going on 
  -the only way to pause gameplay is to put your DS into sleep mode 
  -the voice overs can be a 
 bit annoying
  -AI is fairly useless, comrades are more useful as cannon fodder
  -awkward controls
  
  But for each of its problems there is a counter balance;
  -Clear sound 
 effects
  -Good graphics
  -Character customization (through wearing different armor)
  -Multiplayer (which i have yet to try but have high hopes)
  -Good storyline
  
  For the Final 
 Fantasy fans out there this game would probably be a disappointment because the game comes off 
 largely as a platformer, not an RPG but if you can look passed that it is essentially a good game. 
 As far as portable games go this one is worth a buy and worth a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fighter_x_2
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game despite the AI never having heard of teamwork. The story is a little hollow 
 at the beginning but it's Final Fantasy and even it's most bland stories will pull you into it's 
 magical world. When everything comes together at the end, a bombardment of cut scenes will make 
 you forget you were even playing a game, instead you will be left wondering when you can buy this 
 epic adventure on DVD.
  
  Killing everything in this game is extremely satisfying: from being able to choose exactly how 
 you want to ice that sucker to the prospect of that new scroll to make your uber weapons out of. 
 Although the difficulty of boss battles is somewhat below par, you will enjoy every bit of damage 
 and every sound that comes from hitting your enemies with the weapon you just had created from 
 your own blood, sweat and tears. That being said, the final battle against the self proclaimed 
 'Moongod' can be quite challenging and may take you a while to figure out, especially seeing as 
 if you don't, the boss will be up and running in a matter of moments.
  
  Altogether, a somewhat creative plot, puzzles galore, rather embarrassing AI teammates and engrossing 
 gameplay come together to still make this one that you will be itching to pick up again once you 
 have finally managed to find a save crystal and improve your personal hygiene . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 851368
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Ahh Finally Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles Ring of fates for the Nintendo Ds has finally Come 
 out. Gamespot users do not be fooled by gamespot's rating this game is highly underrated and I 
 am positive that you would love if you like deep game play and design. And you can tell that Square 
 Enix really tried really hard when they made this one.
  
  The game play in this game has kind of a Kingdom Hearts feel to it. It is not a turn based final 
 fantasy game. You go around very detailed levels and defeat monsters that you might recognize if 
 you are a final fantasy Veteran. Dont let the appearance of the little kids and their friendly 
 voices fool you one bit. This is one of the better DS titles out there. You are able to use magic 
 and level up your character and customize them to your like. There is also team action that is 
 great for you uses everyones unique abilities to progress your way in the game.
  
  The graphics for this game are definitely at the top of the systems ability of graphics. With the 
 excellent CG's that the game carries. and the graphics really do fit the gameplay.
  
  The sound is also pretty good if you dont mind the little kid voices. Personally i think it is 
 great voice over. I don't mind at all. The music is also good for it does fit the final fantasy 
 game well. 
  
  Final fantasy however is not multiplayer online. But it is muti player with people with the same 
 carts. The multiplayer uses teamwork greatly. Although it would have been great if it were online 
 it is not. That is okay because the single player is more than enough to suit your needs.
  
  I would highly recommend any one with a Nintendo Ds to pick this one up because it really is 
 a gem on the DS. It deserves so much more than gamespot's 7.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koreanesekid
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  it's a fun game don't get me wrong, but there could have been a few better things to make this 
 game more fun. there is no  
 said
  
  playing with other people is fun. me and my friend played this game for hours and didn't get tired 
 of it. it's cool how you can make different kind of characters, but there is a limited amount of 
 who you can choose when you first start. story mode is okay, but not the best. it could have been 
 better. it's kind of slow and dull. not much stylus use, but dual screen is helpful.
  
  fun game only if you play with other people. kind of hard to find other people if you don't have 
 friends who have this game.
  
  it's an on and off type of game when you play by yourself. but when you play with other people, 
 it gets competitive and pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightfire35
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  The newest Final Fantasy game for the ds is: Final Fantasy Chrystal Chronicles Ring of Fates. It 
 has many features, that just make the game plain addicting, and keep you going until the end. The 
 graphics are amazing for the Nintendo Ds. For a hand held game, this game looks very good. The 
 main town, is very well designed and enjoyable to visit, while one you journey. The different places 
 you go are all different; in one you may be in a fire island, one in a cave, or maybe a forest. 
 The different environments keep the game fresh.
  The action is pretty much non-stop, you are always in a dungeon fighting; when your not shopping 
 for new items. The controls work great for the game. It's very east to pick a spell from the lower 
 screen and press a button to use it. One of the things that made the game great for me was the 
 customizable aspect of the game. There a lot of items to equip to your character to make your character 
 different from everyone else. You can customize skills, how many spells you can hold, and even 
 your character looks. The crafting system works great, but most of the time you will just walk 
 over to the merchant and buy a weapon instead of crafting. The party system works good, in story 
 mode you will have four characters to control; each has its own abilities. you will need to use 
 them all to solve puzzles and progress in the game. There are cut scenes through out the game, 
 that look pretty great. The voice acting fits the game. Music is good. Over all it is a great game 
 for Final Fantasy fans, and rpg fans alike. the only thing I found wrong was that you could complete 
 the story in about 10 hours. I can't wait until the crystal chronicles for will. If it continues 
 this path, it will be one heck of a Wii rpg. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: braindead_hero
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Final and Fantsay are just two words that are meant to be together. When these two words are put 
 together they create feelings of joy and happiness in many peoples hearts, however, when Crystal 
 Chronicles is attached to the end of those words (or anything other than a number) people start 
 to become wary. Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles: Rings of Fate for the Nintendo DS is SquareEnix's 
 latest game in the endless final fantay series to grace a nintendo platform. Whilse it is not in 
 the Final Fantasy series per se, as SquareEnix is attempting to create Final Fantasy Crystal Chronicles 
 as a good brand for Nintendo RPGs. This is because SquareEnix wishes to see support for all consoles, 
 but does not want to make muliplatform games, so we get, FINAL FANTASY (numbered series) on Sony 
 platforms, FF CRYSTAL CHRONICLES on Nintendo platforms and what looks like blue dragon/lost oddysee 
 titles on the XBOX360.
  
  GRAPHICS 7/10
  
  This game has an isometric 3D view which looks quite nice and suits the game and the console well. 
 There are large maps but this means that a lot of the textures are used repeatedly. Character models 
 look quite nice as well, there are also cut scenes and video within the game which really show 
 off what the DS can do. SquareEnix have obviously put a lot of effort into making this title look 
 the best in can in terms of 3D graphical ability but the 2D sprites in the background and environment 
 do sometimes look fairly ugly and dull and there are textures being used over and over all throughout 
 the game, but it still creates a nice a varies gameworld on an underpowered system. In multiplayer 
 mode however there is quite a bit of slowdown if you have a fairly busy party as the DS tries to 
 keep up with everything happeninf at once.
  
  STORY 9/10
  
  There is a really good story underpinning the action, of a boy trying to impress his father, which 
 is told through some particulaly nice cutscenes, many of which are actually voice acted so the 
 narrative moves along nicely. Some of the aspects of the story at time feel a little cliched but 
 there are plenty of twists to the plot and there are some pretty touching moments, which can actually 
 make you really care about the characters.
  
  LONGEVITY 7/10
  
  Theres a fairly lengthy and engaging storyline which will definately keep you interested in this 
 title if it's the kind of game you are into, as well as four player local multiplayer mode where 
 each person creates their own character and then a group of you take on tasks given by a king who 
 is, well, lets say he's unique. This can give you hours of fun with friends carry out all the many 
 little tasks and dungeons to go through, but this does have an effect on the stability of the game 
 as in multiplayer mode there is some noticeable slowdown and no online play. So in single player, 
 this is a fairly decent lengthed game with some small replay value, whereas in multiplayer this 
 has potential to last for a long time so long as you can get enough people together and forgive 
 the little problems.
  
  GAMEPLAY 8/10
  
  The controls certainly work for this game as it is presented as a simple, easy to pick up game 
 (but still deep and engaging, dont worry) so the controls are simplistic by the standard of other 
 action RPGs out there. The way magic is done can be quite fiddly as well as being fairly inaccurate, 
 so you may just resort to hitting the attack button over and over, but you will find this is not 
 really a good tactic so you have to think about when to attack as well as types of magic to use 
 and look for weak spots, which stop this from becoming a simple button mashing exercise which many 
 other games sadly fall into.
  
  FUN 8/10
  
  I found this quite a fun title, it's easy to pick up and easy to play with out being overly repetitive 
 and especially over wi-fi you can definaately have some late night drunk gaming sessions with some 
 friends, granted, SquareEnix's target audience for this game isn't the kind of audience to have 
 late night drunk gaming sessions, but those of us who do can have fun with this as well as the 
 crowd they were going for given its cutesy art style.
  
  OVERALL 7.8/10
  
  It's good to see SquareEnix giving Nintendo customers the attention they deserve. This is a great 
 action RPG for the Nintendo DS that every fan of the series must own. Note, if you played Crystal 
 Chronicles for the GameCube but did not like it at all still give this one a go, it's a SquareEnix 
 apology, this is how Crystal Chronicles should be and I am definately looking forward to the Crystal 
 Chronicles title coming out for Wii later on this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short, since practically nobody will agree with me anyway.
  
  I was disappointed to discover that every level of every dungeon contains a great deal of platforming, 
 requiring the player to jump, leap, and construct platforms to ledges. If I want a platformer, 
 I'll buy a platformer. Don't disguise it in RPG clothing, expecting we would be pleasantly surprised 
 when we find out. It's not like Puzzle Quest, which successfully mashed bejeweled with RPG. What's 
 next, Sudoku RPGs?
  
  If it wasn't for that, and the fact that the game seemed pretty linear, I might have enjoyed the 
 game a lot more, since the graphics and sound are very very good. Added to that, the inclusion 
 of full voice-over at key scenes that doesn't sound like it's coming from a singing birthday card 
 was a nice touch.
  
  As it is, though, I traded it in about ten hours into play time, and am saving the trade-in value 
 for the new FF coming out next week. 
  
  Sorry folks. Gotta speak my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edwardorito
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  one thing i'm gunna say MULTIPLAYER ROCKS!!!!!!! me and my friends payed it yesterday and it rocks. 
 2nd of all it's wayyy better than the one on the GC, better storyline better gameplay and if u 
 get lot of scrolls and materials u can get a new sword. This game has got 2 be the best dungeon 
 crawler on the ds. There may be some emo parts in the game... actually there are alot of emo arts 
 in the game. The graphics are very good for the ds it's like playin ps1 on a handheld. And you 
 can mix chrystals t make those magic balls. so i reccommend this game to kids and adults alike 
 it's fun! you will love this game even better than FFIII it's as good as pokemon and it rockz s 
 get it bet it now go to the store and buy it NOW!!!!!! 
  
  other games reccommended: FF12 revenant wings FFIII
  
  How addictive: 9/10
  
  how fun: 
 really fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkadycole
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  First off, the graphics are probably the best yet seen on the DS. Square-Enix has done a marvelous 
 job with its 3D engine. 
  The music and sound effects are good, too. I haven't played through the entire game yet, but I'm 
 hoping for some better tracks towards the end of the game, as the original FFCC had its best music 
 in the later stages. 
  The addition of voice acting in some of the cut scenes was surprising, albeit some of the children's 
 voices are a little squeaky.
  
  One aspect of the game that really shines is the visual customization of your characters as you 
 equip new weapons and armor. Very smart of Square-Enix to include such fan service as being able 
 to run around beating down baddies while dressed like the classic Black Mage or Dragoon.
  
  By far the best aspect of this game is the muiltiplayer component. Although there are some instances 
 of slow-down when there is too much going on at once, it is usually short-lived and does not impede 
 much with the action of the game. Playing through the game's stages with friends, leveling your 
 characters, then crafting new weapons and armor in town is what FFCC is all about. The only thing 
 that could have made this game better would have been online multiplayer with voice-chat support. 
 Alas, perhaps next time...
  Anyone who wants a solid dungeon crawler for your DS should pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugey
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Brother and sister along with their friends set out to save Rebena Te Ra from the evil Lunite King..
 
  
  Gameplay:
  This game plays almost like Zelda Phantom Hourglass but mostly using the directional pad and game 
 buttons. The touch screen is usually used for Tribe skills and other spell casting but when you're 
 in the heat of the battle, it's hard to switch from both controls. Your AI comrades are completely 
 useless which actually kills the game for me. But all in all good solid gameplay.
  
  Graphics:
  Cool cutscenes (love the intro) . Nice character design and good skill animation. Nice 
 Boss animations (as expected for any FF game i suppose) .
  
  Sounds: 
  Immerse soundtrack and great sfx for most parts of the game. NIce voice acting for most of the 
 cutscenes.
  
  Lifespan:
  For me, I feel that the storyline for this game was kind of short, but you can actually play this 
 game for hours on end. After finishing the game, you can save and restart the whole story with 
 your character level and items intact. Lots of items and equipments to collect and make. Although 
 it lacks online multiplayer, you can use the mog trader to trade equipment or items with other 
 DS players.
  
  A great solid FF game which is a good follow up on the Gamecube series. AI and the story itself 
 maybe disappointing but definitely an game worth playing.
  
  Another games review done. Till next time! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anarchist54
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2008 5:54 pm PT
Review:  ROF (rings of fate) is a very well developed game for the ds. I even forgot it was coming out soon 
 so when I saw it at the store I was excited to get it. It does indeed play alot like GB Crystal 
 Chronicles but it does add in soem new sweet stuff and brings in good use of the stylus.
  
  Graphics wise its impresive for the DS. Nice animations and runs well, yet everyonce in awhile 
 you will experience slow downs in performance and will probably see that more if you play with 
 3 or 4 friends and have a decent amount of action going on.
  
  Game play is addictive and fun as usual. I love how you get to find items and scrolls to build 
 your own cool weapons or armor. It gives the game great replay value and just plain fun with friends. 
 since you all are fighting to get the best items. 
  
  Overall I give tis game a 9 becuase its fun and addicting but does have some little bugs. I say 
 really anyone can play this game and have fun so go and get IT!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahappyfool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  i'm not sure exactly what game the reviewers at gamespot reviewed when they posted the 7.5 score 
 for Crystal Chronicles. where professor layton gets 9.0 and ff: rev wings gets a 8.0? with mild 
 respects to both.. FF's Ring of Fates surpasses both and is better than both in graphics, sounds, 
 story and playability (combined into one game) .
  
  any FF fan or mild RPG-er would agree.
  
  the gameplay is suited for a kid or an adult. the 
 details to sound and story are very well.. no extremely well done. this game is in league with Phantom 
 Hourglass and will take as much time.
  
  the game mechanics do you require you to be challenged with how you activate spells and abilities 
 and character management. i finally felt for the first time since metroid that i have to work for 
 it, as it were. cumbersome? well, maybe if you are a gba fan, and fear more than two buttons in 
 your gaming experience. this game gets hard, tricky and you keep coming back for more.
  
  and don't listen to the review part about adhoc having gliches. i've been playing missions with 
 my girlfriends for hours last night and we had NO frame problems. NO connection problems. and were 
 able to pass a bunch or missions and build on adhoc-ed characters up to level 10 in very much no 
 time at all.
  
  i will not spoil the story or the surprises along the way.
  
  i was hoping that the game would last as long at FF3 for DS. i finished the game in 16 hours. but 
 i'm sure to play more with the multiplayer for a bit more.
  
  this game stay true to FF enjoyability and presentation. and i'm thoroughly happy that i get to 
 play this on the DS! and you will too probably.
  
  :)
  enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackHawkV
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Some of you have probably played the previous installment in the Crystal Chronicle series; heck 
 it was the game that started it all. Released for the Gamecube, it was game praised for it's beautiful 
 art design, great musical score, and fun multi-player. However, it was much criticized for A) it's 
 single-player and B) having to use GameBoy Advances for controllers in multi-player.
  
  Ring of Fates fixes that.
  
  [ Story ] 8 / 10
  The story mode is a full-blown RPG story. 
 You start out as a little-kid version of our main character, Yuri, who's accompanied by his twin 
 sister, Chelinka. It's rather odd that Chelinka never really participates in combat... though you'll 
 understand why later on. The story starts out as typical RPG fodder, but after the third dungeon 
 there's a twist that really pulls on the heart-strings. The whole thing is a big step up from the 
 previous game and will give you a reason to play through the end.
  
  [ Design ] 9 / 10
  Ring of Fates is an action-RPG, so you'll have a little less time exploring and more time battling. 
 The cool thing, however, is that they've actually included quite a few puzzles this time around. 
 They're mostly pretty simple, but the touch screen controls make it fluid and very easy to perform.
 
  
  You'll enter a stage and fight your way to the end... pretty simple. No real overworld; just a 
 map where you click which dungeon or town you want to go to. But that's pretty similar to the previous 
 game as well.
  
  The multi-player mode consists of over 100 quests to tackle, while also letting you revisit stages 
 from the story. Pretty fun, and let's you design a character to your liking. You can play this 
 solo, but I'd suggest trying to grab some friends to play with you.
  
  One of the only things I was disappointed with was lack of online play. I understand the DS isn't 
 an online powerhouse... but it's multi-player mode is just too awesome to not play it, or play 
 solo. However, I do think there are some issues with Nintendo's Friend Code system and extreme 
 online censoring that might have prevented this, but I won't go into that... just sort of a shame.
 
  
  [ Gameplay ] 9 / 10
  Plays similar to the previous game... just a lot more. This time, jumping adds a lot to the combat. 
 You can jump high, and hold A for a finishing attack to the unfortunate enemies below you. Or maybe 
 grab a flying enemies and slash the crap out of him! It's very entertaining and you'll want to 
 try out all the different ways to fight.
  
  Just know that sometimes it can be a little off with some classes. The Selkie class's archery only 
 shoots in straight lines and can be hard to aim at times. And, unless the Yuke is with a party, 
 casting magic solo can take time and easily result in your death. 
  
  [ Presentation ] 10 / 10
  One of the best looking DS games you'll see to date. Great graphics, 
 an amazing opening CG sequence, and musical scores that bring the world to life. You'll even be 
 treated to some voice overs that, for the most part is really good. No lag from what I've experienced, 
 which is surprising considering what this game does and the DS's limitations.
  
  [ Overall ] 9 / 10
  This is definitely a game that has been worth the 4 year wait. A game that 
 will have you coming back to unlock more items, new quests, and more moogle paintings.
  
  Yeah, moogle-painting is back... not sure why... but it just adds to the magic that this series 
 continues to produce. Solo players, rejoice! Crystal Chronicles is better than ever.
  
  [EDIT]
  I would like to mention something really quick. I hadn't played through as much as the 
 game as I thought I had by the time of the review, and something sort of caught my attention. Be 
 warned that the AI for your computer allies is... not that good. They aren't always very responsive 
 and can be kind of clueless. I won't be changing my score, since it doesn't make the game more 
 difficult or anything, but it's just sort of a bummer that it came out that way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _AbBaNdOn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow I cant believe nobody has reviewed this game yet. They are probably all to busy playing it 
 lol. First off let me clarify my position and reveal my bias. I freaking loved Crystal Chronicles 
 on gamecube!! I even baught it even though I dont own a gamecube. So it was absolute hell waiting 
 2 years for this game to drop. Luckily there are a few other wicked games for the DS.
  
  Ok The first thing you should know is that in Story mode you are forced to play certain characters (up 
 to 4 at a time with total control over which one you are in control of at any given time) . HOWEVER 
 there is also a Solo mode in multiplayer where you can make your own guy and play around, I think 
 you will only have access to the stages you have reached in story mode so you should play it first.
 
  
  Another thing people should know is that this really doesnt have to much in common with CC except 
 for the character designs which kinda sucks because CC's world was so awesome. There are no towns 
 with crystals protecting them, no caravans to go get Myrr drops to power your town's crystal. There 
 isnt even any myst in this game. This time the story centers around evil people tainting crystals 
 which makes the stuff nearby into monsters and stuff and it has something to do with the moon. 
 So that part is kind of bad and I could see people knocking the score down alot for making the 
 game totally unrelated.
  
  Another way in which Ring of Fate is different than CC is combat. The combat is still action based 
 but its a little different than before. You have your normal hack and slash combo's but now when 
 you do charge attacks you dont get to aim them with rings. Spells still get to use rings and there 
 is this wierd system where you can lock a spellring in place and then cast another spell and stack 
 the new spells ring on the old one to create more powerful spells. Its a pain though because monsters 
 move and rings dont. Each race has a Tribe ability where you hit the R button and go into this 
 special attack screen on the bottom (which takes waaay to long to load) and then monsters get rings 
 around them and if you touch a monster then your character launches a special attach but these 
 require Skill Points. They are pretty powerful but a pain in the butt to use because your character 
 can't move while your doing this and it takes a few seconds for the action to switch to the lower 
 screen.
  
  Another bad thing about this game is that it seems waaay to easy to collect materials and recipes 
 for making armor, weapons, and accessories. You really dont have to work very hard to upgrade which 
 kind of really sucks. Thats not to say you wont be strapped for cash though because it takes money 
 to make things and buy materials but there is also this one moogle shop that sells "magicite pockets", 
 health/magic/defense upgrades/ "item pockets" and health/sp upgrades. These will suck up all your 
 free money and you might even try to make armor and weapons to sell so you can buy more upgrades. 
 But still I would have much preferred a harder time collecting materials to make stuff. Still its 
 not like CC where there are only 3-4 upgrades for weapons. There seems to be alot more and they 
 can have random effects on them, I have yet to reach the final form of any weapon or armor. Something 
 cool also in RoF is that your armor and weapons show up graphically on your people (atleast in battle, 
 not in cinema) . And there are some cool outfits.
  
  So far I really love the game and dont really mind any of the differences. I miss collecting Myrr 
 drops but oh well. I think you also got to refight boss monsters in CC?? In RoF boss monsters get 
 replaced with a small mob with a really powerful leader monster which is cool but not as cool as 
 boss fights hehe. 
  
  I have no idea how far into the game I am (10-20 hours heh i forget) so there is probably way more 
 stuff to discover and talk about but its pretty irrelevant. The only thing you really need to know 
 is that if you have a DS you have to own this game.
  
  I better get to see a Papaopamus soon though or im going to kill somebody!!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
