-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Final Fantasy IV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ds/rpg/finalfantasyiv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Some of the most memorable characters in the Final Fantasy universe.
 New augment system lets you customize your characters.
 New translation feels more authentic than previous attempts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Voice acting is weak.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 11, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.5, 52 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 1,636 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Square Enix
Developer: Matrix Software
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Jul 21, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The epic story of love, betrayal, and redemption is reborn better than ever in glorious 3D. 

 
  More than 15 years ago, SquareSoft shocked the world with its masterpiece Final Fantasy II (which 
 was actually the fourth game in the series but only the second released in North America) . For 
 the first time, console role-players weren't given a few generic heroes and charged with stopping 
 the evil wizard and saving the world; instead, they were introduced to a wide assortment of realistic 
 characters who struggled with complex adult issues such as love, hate, honor, duty, betrayal, and 
 redemption. Now, this epic saga has been entirely remade in 3D on the Nintendo DS, and whether 
 Cecil, Kain, and Rosa are new faces or old friends, this is one adventure that you shouldn't miss. 

  Cecil is a man with a dilemma. Though bound by his duty as the lord captain of the Red Wings of 
 Baron to serve his king and country, his conscience is heavy with the sins that he is committing 
 in their name. The formerly loving and caring king who took Cecil in as a child and taught him 
 the ways of the dark sword has become a sinister and greedy tyrant who covets the sacred crystals 
 of the world for reasons unknown. Upon returning from a mission to Baron's friendly neighbor Mysidia, 
 in which Cecil and his men were forced to steal one of the crystals like common thugs, he finally 
 dares to question his king's motives. For his insubordination, Cecil is stripped of his rank and 
 sent on an errand north to the village of Mist, where his destiny is revealed to him and his journey 
 of atonement begins.  

  Throughout his quest, Cecil is joined by a number of intriguing characters: Kain, his best friend 
 and a dragoon of considerable skill; Rosa, his lady love, who became a white mage to support him 
 on the frontlines; Rydia, a summoner capable of calling the legendary Eidolons (referred to as 
 summon monsters in other games) to her aid; Tellah, a revenge-driven sage who's forgotten more 
 than most have learned; and many more. Together, they represent some of the most diverse and thoroughly 
 fleshed-out characters in the long history of the Final Fantasy series. Standing on the other end 
 of the spectrum across a sea of monsters is the sinister Golbez, a larger-than-life mastermind 
 of evil clad in full body armor as black as night. His lieutenants, the four elemental archfiends, 
 are equally memorable, particularly the urbane Rubicante, who insists on healing your wounds before 
 doing battle with you so that you can fight him with all your might.  

           The story is now told using a cinematic-style camera with voice acting.      

  Golbez 
 and his goons may have most of the cards, but that doesn't mean that Cecil and his pals don't have 
 an ace or two up their sleeves. Each of the characters that make up your party have a set class 
 that they grow more powerful in as they gain levels. Each class has its own unique abilities, such 
 as the dark knight's darkness, which casts a self-buff that doubles damage for a few turns at the 
 price of the wielder's own HP, or the sage's recall, which randomly casts an otherwise unavailable 
 high-level spell. Though class-specific abilities aren't anything new, in this DS remake you now 
 have the power to customize your characters by giving them additional abilities called augments. 
 Augments can be found throughout the world, given to you by leaving party members, or even stolen 
 from certain enemies, and they can do everything from passively increasing stats such as HP and 
 MP to granting class-specific abilities like darkness or recall to normally nonqualifying characters. 
 If you look hard enough, you may even be able to learn the abilities of the elemental archfiends, 
 such as Cagnazzo's tsunami attack.  

  If you're willing to put the time into experimenting with augments, you will uncover a slew of 
 powerful combinations that just may give you the edge you need -- and you'll need all the help you 
 can get because the difficulty in this iteration of Final Fantasy IV has been increased tremendously. 
 A majority of the bosses require very specific strategies to defeat, and the uninformed will likely 
 perish several times in these encounters before they grasp how to claim victory. Even if you're 
 a seasoned veteran who knows all of the tricks, don't expect things to be simple; some bosses have 
 changed just enough to throw you off of your game, and all of them are a lot tougher than you remember. 
 By the end of the game, even the normal monsters found in random battles are tough enough to wipe 
 the floor with a superpowered party of heroes if they're unprepared.  

  Besides the radical addition of the ability to customize your party, several other minor gameplay 
 tweaks have been made. The characters in your party now share their thoughts with you on the menu 
 screen, offering personal anecdotes and potentially helpful advice about the current situation. 
 An entirely new quest line featuring Namingway -- a moogle-like wanderer who in the original version 
 was satisfied with renaming your characters when asked to -- has been added, in which Namingway renames 
 himself as he tries out a number of different professions with humorous results. Finally, Rydia 
 receives a unique new Eidolon named Whyt that can be completely customized by conversing with Fat 
 Chocobo, who fans will likely remember as a bank for extra-item storage (that service is no longer 
 necessary because the item cap has been removed) . Through Fat Chocobo, you can customize Whyt's 
 appearance, assign him an assortment of attacks, level up his various stats by participating in 
 touch-screen-heavy minigames, and even battle your friend's incarnations of Whyt in one-on-one 
 matches via local DS wireless.  

           Upon mapping a dungeon floor to completion, you're awarded with some potentially valuable 
 items.      

  However, outside of Whyt's minigames, there isn't much going on with the touch screen. When not 
 in battle, the bottom screen is occupied by an area map that automatically fills as you explore 
 dungeons, and it's possible to navigate your party around the world by manipulating the stylus. 
 At most other times, the touch screen is nonfunctional. Thankfully, the button controls are very 
 effective, and so it's generally best to not even try to mess around with your stylus.  

  Final Fantasy IV is easily among the best-looking 3D games on the Nintendo DS. The heavily stylized 
 characters are impressively expressive, from the manner in which Cecil broods as he reflects on 
 his guilt to the way that Rydia hops up and down and waves her hands to get your attention at a 
 shop when you find something that she can equip. Now that dungeons are rendered in three dimensions, 
 there is a vast sense of size and depth (particularly in the final dungeon) that wasn't previously 
 there, and it makes your journey seem that much more awe-inspiring and epic. As part of the new 
 graphical update, key moments of the game are shown off in cinematic-style cutscenes, many of which 
 are accompanied by full voice acting for the characters. Unfortunately, as excited as series fans 
 may be to finally hear Cecil speak, the voice acting is actually the game's weakest point. Some 
 voices seem completely out of character or introduce unnecessary melodrama.  

  Although it has been rereleased several times throughout the years, this full remake of one of 
 the most celebrated stories in video game history is in many ways more poignant and impressive 
 than it was all those years ago, despite minor irks with the voice acting. With a cast of memorable 
 characters and villains, a more accurate and authentic translation, a new skill-customization system, 
 and a few important new story elements that help to better explain key plot points, this is the 
 definitive version of Final Fantasy IV that everyone should experience.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (91 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jon_To_The_C
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 17, 2009 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy IV is one of the better installments out of its series, in my opinion. I'm usually 
 a bit skeptical whenever an 8-bit game is remade in 3D, but Square managed to pull it off very 
 well. My only quirk with it was the short and stubby, flat-faced characters that usually accompany 
 the DS, but it was easy to overlook.
  
  I found that it takes a lot of stress away, not having to worry about class and/or character choice, 
 giving you the characters according to the storyline. Another thing very stress-relieving is that 
 you don't have to deal with long training sessions to continue on through the game. As long as 
 you don't escape from the majority of random encounters, the next part of the game will be achievable, 
 but not too easy.
  
  Also, there were a few additions added on in the DS game. There was the introduction of augments, 
 which give your character abilities otherwise unavailable to you, and a few good bonus bosses to 
 try out. (Unfortunately, you would have to wait until your New Game+ game to take them on.) Also, 
 there's the new Summon of Rydia's named Whyt, which is an interesting - if not very useful - customizable 
 Summon that you can boost by playing several minigames.
  
  The cutscenes were also very well done. Again, once you get past the flat faces and short bodies, 
 they are more than enjoyable. Square also did a very good job with the voice acting. Some of the 
 voices were a little unexpected compared to what one may have imagined in any of the earlier games, 
 but they all fit perfectly.
  
  All in all, it was a very good game. I enjoyed it SO much more than the last Final Fantasy remake 
 (which I will not go into) and will continue to thoroughly enjoy it's replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supergt1
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This is my review about the game: Final Fantasy IV
  
  Read the information below to see what I think about different kind of ratings.
  
  Graphic (10 
 out of 10) Very good graphic using 3D features. The graphic will not
  disappoint you because this game have some seriously good graphics even
  the pickiest person 
 will admit that this game have good graphics
  
  Price (9 out of 10) The price is just the right amount except that I wished it would be lower because 
 even though this game have good graphic and all
  that good stuff, I think they should lower the price a little bit lower.
  
  The Fun of the Game (9 
 out of 10) This game have very nice character recruits
  and the characters have just the right amount of strenghth to defeat the next
  monster you are 
 going to face (you are not going to get a character everytime) .
  The storyline is really fun except that I think it should be a little shorter because some people 
 might get bored and not even play the game!
  
  Thars what I think about the game: Final Fantasy IV.
  Thank you for looking at my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkknight313
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2009 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is a remake of the original Final Fantasy IV (realsed as Final Fantasy II in america 
 on SNES) unlike the original this game has stuff the original didn't in this version it explains 
 who Cecil and Golbez's mom was and reveals Golbez's real name it's Theodore which is suprising 
 and in this the minor character Namingway plays a more important role in this game and you even 
 see Cecil, Golbez, Kain, and Rosa as kids and after fighting Zeromus if you acomplished stealing 
 the dark matter you can unlock the hardest boss in the game who was never in the original named 
 Proto-Babil and in this version they actually show Kluya rather than his form as paladin or dark 
 knight and plus Rydia even has a summon that was never in the original called Whyt this stuff is 
 so cool alot better than what they had in the original version. What I like also is the voice acting 
 by Yuri Lowenthal, Karen Straussman, Liam O'brien, and others the graphics are good it even has 
 music the original the didn't have this game is probably one of the best games on the DS I think 
 really a great game I hope more Final Fantasy remakes are like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secretnoob
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy IV, my fourth favorite FF interestingly enough, gets the DS makeover as well. 
  
  The story follows Cecil, a Dark Knight, who is torn about the missions he carries out for his 
 once generous king. After accidentally destroying a village, Cecil bands together with friends 
 to overthrow the King, and thus the story begins.
  
  The first thing I noticed about the game was that during the opening FMV... I HEARD TALKING. After 
 I got back up from the ground, I started to pay a little more attention to the game. Surprisingly, 
 the voice acting is quite good. It was always fun getting to a part where there was voice acting, 
 and I actually didn't dread it. 
  
  Then there was the graphics. Meh. Let's get one thing straight. I am NOT a big fan of this DS style 
 graphic makeover SQE is doing to its games. I understand that the DS isn't as powerful as the PSP 
 (the psp is the playstation portable, you might not know this since only 17 have been sold) . However, 
 that's no excuse for these crappy crappy graphics. They're the worst renditions in FF's history. 
 Really. 
  
  Character development is great, you get to see how character's actually evolve over time, and this 
 was the first game in the FF series that really explored this element. Most notably Cecil's role 
 as the dramatic hero, almost out of Shakespeare, is beautiful. The constant inner conflict he undergoes 
 makes him shine as a character. 
  
  Gameplay is hard. The combat is tough, there aren't a lot of battles where you're just "supposed" 
 to win. I, myself, died fighting the first boss in the game. Yup, the mist dragon roflstomped my 
 face off. So you gotta stay on your toes when fighting, especially because of the ATB system, which 
 was first implemented in this game. Be quick or you die. 
  
  Complaints are few. One MAJOR complaint I have is that there are a lot of characters, but you don't 
 encounter them all at once, obviously. As you do, though, they join your party, and when they do, 
 you'll notice they're at like HALF your level, so you have to spend a lot of time grinding each 
 time you get a new party member. This is annoying, and SQE should have had the new toons' levels 
 be based on your party's at the time. 
  
  Overall though, one of the best FF's. Certainly better than III, so really consider getting this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoodedrouge
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:18 am PT
Review:  So ill just get right to it this game has great graphics/cutscenes,
  but not so much great gameplay.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  This is were there game realy shines 
 everything is awsome 3D and it shows the DS's hidden power.
  
  Cutscenes 10/10
  
  Looks amazing, has great voice acting, what more could you want from a cutscene
  
  Story 7/10
 
  
  Meh....... knight is vanquised from kingdom, its been done.
  
  Gameplay 5/10
  
  Well each guy has 1 move and a normal attack, its real-time combat and its realy............. just 
 boring dumb gameplay.
  
  Controls 6/10
  
  I would have liked SOME use of the touch screen...
  
  Bottom line 7/10 = OK game
  
  ok 
 this game is decent if you love being bored, its very polished but feels pathetic and slow compared 
 to pokemon games.
  
  You should get pokemon Diamond/Pearl/Platinum instead of this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LDiablo123
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2009 5:29 am PT
Review:  Yet another FF game, well lets get too it. When i first got this game i wondered if i would like 
 it or not. I do like a lot of the FF games so i was pretty sure i would. I was right about that. 
 This game was a perfect game for the ds. Some people may not have liked it but if you get a ds 
 this is a great RPG. You take the main character and set out to find the 4 crystals and along the 
 way you gather friends and make enemies and gain strength like magic and weapons to defeat the 
 enemies. A cool feature i liked was the ability to change your character from one type like a black 
 mage to another type of character like a warrior or monk. I also enjoyed the ability to summon 
 monsters and attack my foes, however i didn't like the fact that you had to have a summoner to 
 do that. I liked the other FF games were you could just summon the monster at any time after you 
 got them with anyone. A few things i didn't like were the random battles. I never really have liked 
 that in any games cause ill be an inch from death and get in a fight, or ill be leveling up and 
 cant get anything sometimes. However, once you start playing this game you start to get into the 
 story and it gets really hard to put down. Id have to say this is definitely a game to just go 
 out and get if you have a ds. At this point the game is probably only like $10-$15 anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  Oh wow. I completed a JRPG! It took a long time, I think I clocked up around 40 hours when I toppled 
 the final boss. Anyway, Final Fantasy IV for the DS is a 3D remake. I'll admit I haven't played 
 the original, but my experience with this game convinces me that if I had played that game at its 
 time of release, i'd be hailing it as the best RPG ever. FFIV DS differs a lot from many JRPGs 
 i've played by having a large cast of characters which come and go throughout the game. It's like 
 a rollercoaster ride in which the way your characters are taken from you and given back, characters 
 who you invested time and effort to level up - it's almost as if they're toying with you. The game 
 plays like your cIassic JRPG so don't go expecting the gameplay itself to excite you with new features/dynamics. 
 FFIV retains those Final Fantasy characteristics though, like Cid, Chocobos, airship (s!) , epic 
 good/evil battle - oh and that gorgeous soundtrack! The game is good. Very good. I was somewhat 
 taken aback though; after witnessing a really good FMV i'm treated with slightly cartoonish sprites 
 in-game. This is one of those times when i'd wish the NDS was more powerful. The game also does 
 not really take advantage of the touchscreen at all and I feel that this game would be more suited 
 to the PSP. Anyway, while the game is often interesting because of your ever-changing team it also 
 lacks a lot of emotion. It may also have something to do with the visuals, but it is difficult 
 to connect with the characters. One last negative I should mention are the very bland 'corridors'. 
 'Dungeons' play almost exactly the same as each other but with a different wallpaper slapped onto 
 the walls, and they can also be rather long just for the sake of extending the duration of the 
 dungeon. Some of the added 'NDS features' feel really gimmicky like having to do some maths exercise 
 to increase the stats of this character whom you probably won't use at all. Looking at the bright 
 side, the story is excellent and epic, the cut-scenes are a nice touch with decent voice-acting, 
 the combat is solid Final Fantasy written all over it, the game can be difficult yet satisfying, 
 and the game does last a long while. A solid JRPG for the NDS although some elements that have 
 been added can be rather questionable.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivion_540
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Square Enix decides to remake Final Fantasy 4 one more time after the SNES and GBA versions still 
 impresses mith 3D graphics , voiced cutscenes and the classic story.
  
  If you haven't played an older version of FF4 then definitely get this game. Those who know the 
 game and the familiar faces sould consider getting this too as they have improved it since the 
 last remake.
  
  Gameplay: The game starts you off on the airship where yours first battle occurs , then you appear 
 on the world map. FF4 has 3 main areas in which there are towns to visit , caves to explore , mountains 
 to climb and so on. Battles take place randomly on tha main maps and at locations such as caves, 
 mountains and dungeons, while gaining EXP experience. Battle style is active so has a timer bar 
 which get affected by things like hast and slow. Overall the Gameplay is a classic RPG .
  
  Gameplay:9
  
  Story: If this is your first version of FF4 then the story will take you on a 
 journey of good vs. evil , trials , and friendship etc. You start as the Dark Knight Cecil and 
 during the game acquire people to join your party , either leaving because of a certain situation. 
 The story takes place on Earth and evil are plotting to destroy the planet. It's up to you to make 
 the right decision. If you know the story already then you know what to expect.
  
  Story:9.5
  
  Graphix: Since the SNES and GBA graphically this is a great improvement. There 
 are fully voiced cutscenes which don't fail to impress. The enviroments are easily recognizable 
 and the weapons and shields can be seen. The characters look amazing easpecially on a portable 
 such as the DS. One of the best graphical games on the DS
  
  Graphix:9
  
  Overall this game is amazing. It will allow you many hours of fun exploring , visiting towns , 
 training , flying ships , finding rare items and with a great story. If you are an RPG fan check 
 out this game.
  
  OVERALL:9.5 :D
  
  -=-Oblivion 540-=- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ffmotorsports51
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I feel as though Square-Enix is remaking this game too much (mumble mumble) . Oh, hi I just played 
 this game a little while ago, and I thought that FF4 on the DS is a huge disappointment. I gave 
 up on this game today, and I am still grieving about the several flaws with this game. Final Fantasy 
 IV was created back in 1991, and has been a favorite for old school Final Fantasy fans. Square-Enix 
 has remade this game about 5 or 6 times, while in the newer versions: adding new features, new 
 mini games, and just recently, voice acting and 3D graphics. This game has way too many flaws. 
 The first flaw are the augments. I did not like the augments one bit. I felt as though that they 
 were useless, and did not have much meaning. The second flaw is the difficulty level. I feel as 
 though Square-Enix made this game too hard, and more for hardcore gamers than your normal average 
 gamers. The third flaw are some of the game enviornments. Some of the enviorments: ex. Cities almost 
 look the same as one another, except for the names, and some of the turf. While this game has its 
 flaws, it is good though. Final Fantasy IV has a great storyline and character roster. You can 
 have as many as five characters in your party. The characters come and go according to the storline; 
 you usually have to de-equip them of their equipment before they leave so you can keep the good 
 stuff, and make some Gil. I would really recommend the GBA version of FF4 much more than the DS 
 version. The reason why is because the GBA version does not have many flaws in it, and its original 
 (just revamped) . The DS version in my mind just has too many flaws in it, and it's hard. Overall, 
 flawed game, new voice acting and 3D graphics, harder difficulty, GBA version is better than the 
 DS version. If you are a hardcore player, you would like this, but if you are not, AVOID THIS GAME!!! 
 Play the GBA version! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mastersword101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 3:37 pm PT
Review:  A great game, but leveling up can get kind of boring. And when someone leaves your group, and then 
 comes back into the group later on, the game does not save the level of that character. And another 
 thing MAKE SURE that you are not saving over one of your original (main) files by accident! This 
 happened to me, when I had every character at lvl 99 and I was about to beat the game (I also had 
 100,000 gil !!) ... I felt like destroying my ds at that point, but I held back.
  
  When leveling up characters, mainly focus on Cecil, he is your main character and he only levels 
 down once, and that is when he becomes a paladin.
  
  The mini games are quite good. I thought Rydia having a customizable Chocobo was pretty neat. 
 
  
  Overall, FF4 is a great game and should be bought if you are a fan of Final Fantasy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shiftyluke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 12:11 am PT
Review:  i became a fan of final fantasy a while ago and i gotta tell you, its really good, but just doesnt 
 seem as good as number 3 for DS
  
  the game starts with a black knight who is unhapy of his kings orders to attack citys and steal 
 the crystals, similar to FF3, he then ditches the king after a mission that was thought to be good, 
 ended up miserably wrong as a result of the city being burnt to the ground and the girls mother 
 dead.
  
  instead of number 3, the battle system has changed durastically. instead of 4 permanent characters 
 in battles, you can lead 5 which come and go sometimes quickly, sometimes temporarily, and other 
 times for a long while. the battle system, instead of taking turns, the time flows as you make 
 your moves, so when you are selecting, your character can be killed from a big hit from the oponent. 
 when you wish to flee the fight, instead of selecting the comand, you must hold down the R button 
 until you get away
  
  the summoning system has changed, but to the better.
  Rydia, the summoner, has a little buddy called whyt (you can name him something else when you meet 
 him) which can replace her in battle. he sems really weak when you first get him, and seems like 
 a waste of 50MP, but this will be cured by trainig him. you can talk to fat chocobo (ill explain 
 later) and go into the whyt menu, where you can change his face and train him, and put him against 
 a friends whyt.
  in training, depending on whos with you in the party, you can do a series of training tasks that 
 will rais the stat connected with it, such as cecil paladins defend game, where you kill the oncomming 
 enemies, too rydias mathematic task, where you have 4 numbers which you can multiply, subtract, 
 add and divide the numbers to get 10 to boost intelect, and rosas meditation, where you hold the 
 touch open on the screen for the said amount of seconds, and boost mind
  
  the fat chocobo system no longer stores items, but hold the whyt training program, bestinary and 
 other things.
  
  transportation has been improved a bit
  with the chocobo transport, normal is still there, but not as good as the new one. it is called 
 black chocobo, which will let you rid a chocobo airborn, and will allow you to land anywhere except 
 watrer and maountains, but when you get back on, you will imadiately fly back to the chocobo forest
 
  at first, you will get a hobvercraft that can only go over the grass and beach areas, while the 
 airship you get soon later can cross anything but has a very limited landing area.
  
  te graphics are improved, and the new voiced intermission scenes are GREAT! thats what makes them 
 almost better than FF3 but noit enough to make it over that line
  
  all in all, its a great game. REALLY GREAT, but i dot think its more than FF3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DS360Gen
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:46 am PT
Review:  I have played through Final Fantasy IV on SNES,, PS1 and GBA.
  I must say that this version kicks their @$$.
  First of all, this game is 3D. The dungeons/plains/etc. 
 look astounding. Now I'm going to give points for Gameplay, Music, Graphics and Story.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  This game is the first in series that introduced the active time battle (ATB) . 
 There are two options for this. Either you choose wait, so whenever you go to choose a spell, or 
 an item, the opponent waits.
  If you choose active, the time goes on while selecting anything.
  You have this time gauge, or 
 whatever it's called, and once it's full, you get to attack. Sounds simple doesn't it? No. When 
 you get to big boss battles, you've got to think tactically. If you dont, you could get stuck for 
 many days. Thats what happened to me. 
  Next, there are the vehicles. So far, I've only got this little floating thing, but when you get 
 more farther in the game, you get airships and some others. You don't see the enemies on the ground/air/water, 
 because there are these random encounters.
  You'll never know when you will encounter a enemy, but it doesnt matter.
  
  GAMEPLAY 10/10
 
  
  MUSIC:
  
  The music is what you would expect from Square Enix.
  The music always fits in places, no matter where you are.
  When you are in a cave/dungeon, the 
 music is fantastic.
  When you are in village, or town, Kaipo for an example, the music is calm, and peaceful.
  Not 
 much to say anymore, amazing soundtrack.
  
  MUSIC 10/10
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  As I said before, the game is 3D.
  The game looks beautiful, and it's very detailed.
  
  GRAPHICS 
 10/10
  
  STORY:
  
  The story is awesome. You start out as Cecil, a dark knight. 
  He just comes back from getting a water crystal, and fighted against wizards who couldn't/didn't 
 fight back.
  I'm not going to reveal anymore, but there are many plot twists in the game.
  
  STORY 10/10
  
  OVERALL 10 :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAtz0511
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 2:01 pm PT
Review:  A great remake of the original FFIV doesn't lack much but I'd prefer the CGI cut scenes like in 
 the intro. I'm not done playing but i'm sure it will get even BETTER playing through it!
  Definitely worth buying:)
  My choice for best DS game played. The story starts where the dark 
 knight Cecil is sent to take a powerfull crystal from a village called Misidia. He is not happy 
 with killing people to get a crystal for his king, but his king is the man he owes the most in 
 the world. He tries to defy, but then his king, baron sends him to bring the crystal to another 
 town as in "returning it" with his friend named Kain, but once they get there, the crystal torches 
 the village. They find a girl named Rydia who's mother had died from the fire. At first she hates 
 Cecil but slowly starts to like him. Next they try to find baron and confront him.
  
  Gameplay: 9.0
  
  Story: 9.5
  
  Enjoyability: 8.5
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  
  Overall score: 
 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master-Thief-09
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Square Enix delivers another Final Fantasy remake for the DS, with great success.
  
  As you can see the game is completely 3D now, the game boasts off some great detail, and character 
 models look good close up. The animations are nice a smooth all of which are very appreciated, 
 and overall the game looks very nice. The music is also very nicely done, some soothing melodies 
 in peaceful cities; upbeat tempo during battles; and moody music during dramatic times. The music 
 is something to be appreciated in this game.
  
  The gameplay is what you probably expect, go where you need to go, encounter enemies on the way, 
 etc. The game does have extras to do which could unlock you various useful items, which adds to 
 the exploration. The battles feel good, tough enemies will keep you on your feet, and you can unlock 
 augments which you can assign to characters for special abilities. Other than that, it's pretty 
 much what you'd expect from the standard JRPG game. Some items are hard to come by so you'll need 
 to ration them carefully, and can be well used to defeat harder enemies. 
  
  Unfortunately, the games environments get repetitive. There are a lot of dungeons in this game, 
 most of them are caves, they look good graphically, but most of them look the same and feel stretched 
 out for no reason, and you may find yourself getting bored and just wanting to complete this particular 
 dungeon as quick as possible. Throw in an as usual punishing save system and you'll find yourself 
 getting frustrated.
  
  I would love for Square Enix to take on some kind of checkpoint system in their future games. There 
 are some save spots in dungeons which allow you to use items such as Tent to heal your party, but 
 they sometimes feel unevenly spread out, and can go unspotted, especially in the latter stages 
 of the game.
  
  Some of cutscenes now have voice acting, all of which help drive the story well, and is overall 
 well done. However there are some moments which you'd think would have voice acting but don't, 
 then there are smaller moments which do incorporate voice acting.
  
  You'll visit vast places, and meet some interesting characters, but there's not many you'll feel 
 attached to. The story in this game is great, but has a lot of "cheesy" sacrifice moments, which 
 just ends up feeling like a cheap way of getting rid of some party members to meet some new ones. 
 However there are a lot of twists and turns, so don't give up on it.
  
  Overall, despite some of it's flaws, any JRPG fan should get this game.
  
  Graphics: 8
  Gameplay: 
 7
  Sound: 10
  Story: 8
  Value: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragard_Kaos
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy IV 
  Review
  
  To start it off, Final Fantasy IV has been out for many different systems, with the DS version 
 being the latest. It's a classic game, and has been around for about a decade (10 Years) . This 
 game is pretty unique, as it's a Real Time RPG. Now to go into the details.
  
  Story: The story is pretty good. Final Fantasy games have great storylines. I'll try not to spoil 
 anything. Cecil is the Lord Captain of the Baron Red Wings, and he is a Dark Knight. He later sets 
 out on a journey, meeting some friends along the way, and fighting evil. This is a game where if 
 you skip to much, you'll get totally lost, so I recommend reading the text if you're interested 
 in the story of the game.
  
  Story Rating: 8/10
  
  
  Graphics: The graphics on this game are amazing. The opening is simply beautiful. The pulled it 
 off better than they did with Final Fantasy III, and that's saying something ^_^. While your playing, 
 the graphics are in 3D, everything looks nice, even while they attack. Best graphics for the DS 
 yet, no joke.
  
  Graphics Rating: 9.5/10
  
  
  Sound: The music in this game isn't bad at all. The music on different parts of the world aren't 
 annoying! There are lots of different tracks, and some of them being epicly good. The music during 
 the battles can get VERY repetitive, but that's not bad at all, as it's no were near as annoying 
 to Final Fantasy III battle music.
  
  Sound Rating: 7.5/10
  
  
  Gameplay: The game play is your standard RPG style. You stand on one side, the enemies on the other, 
 and you tell your characters what to do, but there's a catch! In this game, you have to keep your 
 eye on the ATB bar. As soon as an ATB bar fills for your character, you can give it a command. 
 More powerful attack / spells take longer to cast.
  
  Another thing that should be mentioned in the gameplay, is the new Augment system. You get augments 
 that contain abilities as you progress in the game, that you can give to your characters, giving 
 them abilities like Darkness, Phoenix, and Bluff. These augments can make the game a lot easier, 
 as the difficulty level has raised this time around.
  
  There are minigames that can be played threw the Fat Chocobo, and are purely Touch Screen controlled. 
 There are 5 minigames that can be played when you have certain characters in your party. These 
 can be quite fun, and they raise your Whytkin's stats depending on the game.
  
  Gameplay Rating: 9.5/10
  
  Conclusion: Overall, this game is a must. The graphics are amazing, 
 the game play is great, the music is pretty good, as well as the story. If you have a DS, and you 
 feel for some RPG, get this game. There is one thing I will tell you though. This game is HARD. 
 To me, it was mid-core on the difficulty, even Final Fantasy III was mid-core to me. But others 
 complain way to much about the difficulty, its not even funny, as some quit after an hour of playing. 
 This game is a challenge =]
  
  Overall Rating: 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalstarzer0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok if you read the beginning then you read that i love this game, there is no doubt in my mind 
 that this game is not one of the best. Though it does have some bad things but overall it deserves 
 a 9 out of 10. The things that i just love about this game is that well where do i start? I think 
 i will start with Square Enix is a pure genus. If you have played other Final Fantasy games on 
 DS it is kinda the same except better. The story line is Amazing. The graphics are Amazing and 
 the game play just sucks you in and you really have an urge to keep playing obsessively. Which 
 whoever thought of it is sweet. The game took me roughly 60 hours to beat. It is one of the longest 
 games i have ever played. But even having the guide and looking on line it took 60 hours. If you 
 don't have the guide then it would take you about 70 hours to beat. If you don't have a computer 
 then you would'nt be reading this right now. As i said there are some minor bad things. Things 
 like the camera view, it gets frustrating and the fact that you are to weak enough to beat a boss 
 then you have to train or you just don't know where to go. As i said it is very long and there 
 is about 26 bosses and 10 optoinal bosses. I think that is all i have to say about Final Fantasy 
 4. But remember it is a great buy. Bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thunderhorse55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 11:29 am PT
Review:  This game has what every other turn-based RPG game lacks: a fun and exciting battle mechanism. 
 Instead of your ordinary turn-based combat, Final Fantasy 4 places a gauge for every character. 
 once the gauge is full, that character can make a move. But you have to be quick about it, because 
 your enemies will attack basically whenever they feel like it, just like fighting in real life. 
 There is a wide variety of spells and attacks to use, plus each character has there own special 
 abilities. This keeps combat interesting and exciting.
  
  The graphics-oh, the graphics- they are absolutely amazing. With strongly performed voiced cut-scenes 
 and very detailed graphics, it's like an interactive movie. The story line keeps you on the edge 
 of your seat, keeping you begging for more.
  
  The controls simple and easy, unlike some games where the controls are way too complex. you simply 
 use the D-pad the move, hold B to run, Y to switch characters, and X to access the menu. During 
 battle, A to select a move, B to cancel, Y, once again, to switch characters, and X to activate 
 auto-battle, which one would think would work well, but really doesn't. In your menu, you can assign 
 commands for each character to use in auto-battle, but enemies vary in elemental strengths and 
 weaknesses, causing you to constantly use different spells each battle. Therefore, just one spell 
 in auto-battle simply doesn't do the job, making the auto-battle feature useless. 
  
  If you have a DS and are a fan of RPG style games, you must go out and buy this game right now. 
 I'll wait for 
  Oh good, your back already. As I was saying, this will probably be the best RPG you have ever played. 
 It is unlike any other RPG I have ever played, but at the same time, it doesn't stray to far from 
 the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _T_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  Square Enix have done a good job of resurrecting their Final Fantasy games on the DS. And no wonder, 
 as the machine's just the right format to re-release the role-playing games that take tens of hours 
 to play. Time being precious, it's now possible to play them when you'd otherwise be staring at 
 the back of someone's head on the bus. Final Fantasy IV is the latest to get the touch-screen treatment 
 and this time they've pulled out all the stops.
  
  You may know the game as a 2d top-down RPG if you've played it on the SNES, GBA or the PSOne, but 
 on the DS they've brought the game to life in full 3D and they've translated all the text so it 
 all makes perfect sense.
  
  You play as the Dark Knight Cecil. Quite how you're supposed to scare anyone with that name I'm 
 not sure. Oooh look out, Cecil's coming - hide! Anyway, you begin the game leading a team called 
 the Red Wings and doing your King's bidding. Right at the start though, you suspect the king's 
 motives and go rogue, forming your own party of travellers and misfits as you travel the land, 
 go on quests and explore the many dungeons.
  
  Of course, random battles play a part in the game and when you do get ambushed, the action's turn-based 
 but also with a time limit so you'd better be quick scrolling through the menus to choose melee 
 attacks, magic or items. You can also augment characters with magic and transfer these abilities 
 between party members; useful if you've played the game before and you know one of your characters 
 is about to sod off with all your powerful spells.
  
  I will warn you though - this game is tough and only really for hardcore role-players. You will 
 die frequently if you don't prepare your team, explore caves thoroughly and equip your characters 
 with the correct armor and weapons. Make sure you save often, especially before going into a cave 
 or dungeon.
  
  If Final Fantasy is your thing and you'd like to play this all over again in full 3D and hear some 
 very good voice acting to boot, it's an essential purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nirvanaphoenix
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 7:05 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy IV, first released on the SNES many years ago has had a shiny new DS overhaul, with 
 3D graphics, improved soundtrack and voice acting. I would say that the 3D graphics rival a PlayStation 
 game. In 10 years a tiny card can hold the same graphics as a CD, which is pretty cool. This may 
 be the best looking DS games. Its improved a lot over FFIII but cannot match the PSone FF games. 
 
  
  The 3D environments are repetitive and poor in comparison to the painted backgrounds of VII-IX 
 and the camera is always in one view. Only the most important cutscenes have the cinematic style 
 that matches the PSone games. If only we can have more of these in the next one, they looks great. 
 The voice acting, while rare works quite well when you gets used to them. Nobuo Uematsu's soundtrack, 
 this is often considered his best, sounds great and takes advantage of the improved hardware.
 
  
  Square Enix have also tried to update the battle system, the typical ATB has had a few changes. 
 You can now set it to Auto Battle, which helps against the tedious random battles. Abilities also 
 take some time to charge but that's not my main gripe. 
  
  The Augment system is a nightmare, when characters leave they give you some of their abilities, 
 this sounds good because the characters can give you many good abilities that work better with 
 others and you can also make combinations. You can swap your characters abilites for new ones, 
 although your only only to have a few equipped commands at a time, this does add strategy to it. 
 New augments based on bosses or NPC characters can also be found so why's it so awful?
  
  But they appear in random places at random times and the window between events when they are there 
 can be small and easy to miss. You also have to give characters augments before they leave so you 
 get more of their augments back. You won't know what to give who and when and you can't get all 
 the augments unless you play through 3 times and give the right amount to the right people. Basically 
 unless you follow (or buy) a guide to the word then you will probably miss out on most of the Augments, 
 making the system really annoying. 
  
  So either you're forced to ignore most of them or go buy a guide and play for horrendous amounts 
 of time to get everything. The Augments are so confusing they rank up with some of FFXII's main 
 compliments. 
  
  Whatever you choose to do, you'll have fun playing through IV's great and emotional story that 
 ranks up with some of FFs best. You'll fight some tough bosses with great strategy, meet some memorable 
 characters and be engrossed in their relationships. However you deep you want to go into the new 
 system, you'll still have a great ride. Along the way, you'll also meet the ever changing Namingway 
 and by doing his tasks, you can unlock nice extras like a movie and music player and more games 
 for the new customisable summon Whyt through the Fat Chocobo.
  
  So while SE have done an FFXII and made the game full of overly confusing additions to an already 
 sloid game , Final Fantasy IV one of the better Final Fantasy games and the new graphics definately 
 bring it into the 21st century and make it worth playing through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Theolaurent
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  Ok let's start with the graphics the opening video with the credits are amazing, and i was relay 
 happy to find that it has voice playback and that the mouths move in time to the talking, i mean 
 for a ds game that isn't by Nintendo this is something.
  Story line is very good, no not good but addictive, the sound is very good nice little tunes like 
 you get on Pokemon. The monsters are very well desingned, and i loved the way that the game fills, 
 it fills almost as if your not on a ds but on a 64.
  
  The light side of the game: The graphics, character are very well desingned, great story line and 
 most important of all loads of FUN!!: D
  The BAD: multiplier and is you cant complete a game like Pokemon don't even try it.
  Thats it 
 from my if you have any questions on this game or any other ds on just email my at: theolaurent@msn. com 
 and put it the subject ds game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: necropolis987
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:58 am PT
Review:  well what can i say! the best RPG game for the ds 
  
  final fantasy IV is a great remake of final fantasy IV advance for gamboy advance sp
  
  firstly 
 the graphics are brilliant with full 3d graphics through out the whole game
  
  not all games need a great storyline to work but this one certainly has an excellent story line 
 following the love story between cecil and rosa. 
  
  the gameplay is gripping and you will be playing this game for hours on end with lots of different 
 fighting techniques and a great range of wepons and armor. 
  
  then you have your only little toy thing which you can summon and customize to make it better and 
 play lots of minigames which can be a nice step away from the intense story line
  
  the cutscenes are great in this game with good voices and great cliff hangers this game will keep 
 you entertained for a long long time
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperfastSonic
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:42 am PT
Review:  This being my first Final Fantasy game I ever played ( other than Legends) , I was a bit worried I 
 wouldn't like the series-this game proved me wrong. To begin with, the CG-cutscene is amazing! I 
 can just hear the DS saying:" Take that PSP! "After that, the game gets even better. The story is 
 top-notche, I never been so involved with a video game before! Love, betrayel, and death; you never 
 want it to end ( It's a good thing the game is so long) ! The battle seems very slow to those who 
 never played a FF game before, but fortunely there's a battle-speed option in the pause menu. For 
 those who want a light-RPG I suggest should look for a different RPG. Why? Well the game is just 
 too challenging for beginners, especially the harsh boss battles. It could be overlooked though 
 with some leveling-up. But still, this game is for hard-core gamers only. Other than that, FF4 is 
 one of the best RPG's for the system, and should never be over-looked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKADRO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  -STORY-
  You play as a knight Cecil who is a high commander of his kingdom. He is sent on a mission to burn 
 down this village and he does this, however he then realises what bad he has done and rebels. You 
 then yourself saving the world against the many foes you meet.
  I myself found the story really interesting and i couldn't wait to find out what happened next 
 (well when i first played the game on the PS1) Some parts of the story in this edition of Final 
 Fantasy 4 are voiced.
  
  -GAMEPLAY-
  Nothing new here. This is a turn-based random encounter RPG. Random encounters in this game did 
 tend to get on my nerves later on within the game. However i loved the updated graphics within 
 the battle system that it sort of kept me occupied but later on within the game the battle system 
 gets old and boring and so do the graphics. You can still use spells and skills which do considerly 
 help in battles, i found myself using them alot. Also i feel the difficulty level is just right 
 and it does provide a challenge.
  
  -GRAPHICS-
  The graphics are one of the main updates of this port. They are amazing for a DS game and the opening 
 cinematics are gorgeous.
  
  -MUSIC-
  Pretty standard for an old FF game, sticks to the same themes. I enjoyed it.
  
  -OVERALL-
 
  Epic RPG for the DS. And the remake only does this solid game justice. A must buy for any RPG 
 fan.
  
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starduke
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 8:40 am PT
Review:  I have to say that this game is definitely the best Final Fantasy DS game I have ever played. Okay, 
 maybe I haven't had a chance to play the new FFXII games yet, so I don't know what they are like, 
 but I have to say that this game is definetly better than the FFIII DS game and the ones for the 
 GBA. 
  
  This game is a remake of the original FFIV, so it's really nothing new. The stroy is pretty much 
 the same. The graphics are all in 3d, now, though. That makes the game much better than the GBA 
 version of it. The graphics are really great. I just wish the whole game looked like the intro. 
 Now that would be cool.
  
  The difficulty is actually pretty hard, compared to the earlier FF games I've played. I've had 
 to spend alot of time level grinding, so my charaters can fight some of the bosses. But, if you've 
 ever played a FF game, you kind of expect that. It's like a tradition for the FF games.
  
  Also, a lot of the strategies you would use in the GBA version don't work in the DS version, so 
 if you're like me and were trying to use the issue of Nintendo Power with a guide for the GBA version 
 in it to help you beat the game you are out of luck. I went on Gamefaqs. com and found some helpful 
 guides there. I would definitely recommend getting a guide for this game if you are having a hard 
 time.
  
  I love the auto-battle feature. It makes the normal battles better. The other FF games made me 
 feel like I was wearing out my thumbs, what with having to select all of the attacks myself. The 
 auto-battle feature makes level grinding a lot easier, too. I just walk around and wait for a battle 
 to start, then I can sit back and watch my characters fight. Just one thing, though...
  MAKE SURE YOU TURN OFF AUTO-BATTLE BEFORE ENTERING BOSS FIGHTS! I know, this seems like common 
 sense. You want to be able to use a strategy to beat the bosses. I have had a few boss battles 
 where I've lost, because I forgot to turn auto-battle off. I laughed at myself.
  
  Final Fantasy IV DS is a game that I would recommend for people who have a lot of free time on 
 their hands. I played it during Christmas break. I liked it so much I even played it during meals. 
 It is definitely a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taiedman45
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  this game i never really got into on the remake for the psx, id always get to the octomammoth and 
 just go play FF6. but this is one final fantasy remake that really turned itself around. the graphics 
 are pretty nice looking for a ds, battlefields look spectacular with clouds rolling or solar glare 
 from the sun in the background. characters feel whole and really convey emotions through the story 
 and cut scenes making it a very enjoyable story to watch/be a part of. voice acting is great in 
 this game, it really gives the emotions that the old ones lacked to the characters. music is still 
 the classic Final Fantasy making the music memorable. new style of menus makes this game feel a 
 little weird to me, sometimes i get lost in them, i was expecting the old style of menus like on 
 the psx but i think if i spend a little more time working with them it will feel better and ill 
 have a better know how.
  mini games are tough, the first one for me was hard (I suck at math) and Whyte the edilon is fun 
 to draw with the touch screen. new game+ and bestiary are also in the game making some replay value. 
 There is alot of depth to the game with the addition of the augment system letting you customize 
 characters to your likings. the battles feel classic but are polished up and are alot more fun. 
 one thing about this game is that i wish i had a analog stick for walking in towns and on the world 
 map. it just feels weird to me on a d-pad for some reason.
  all in all if your looking for a solid and lengthy FF for the ds this one is probably for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlmightyMax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Age is a funny thing. It causes some things to deteriorate, become mere shadows of their former 
 selves. Other things, for whatever reason, get better as time goes on. As I started playing the 
 newly released remake of Final Fantasy IV, it became apparent the game fit into the latter category. 
 Despite being seventeen going on eighteen, the game holds up remarkably well. Final Fantasy IV 
 DS is a great game - few people will dispute that. The question is; does it do enough to allow 
 it to excel over previous incarnations?
  
  Final Fantasy IV's tale starts in the kingdom of Baron, after dark knight Cecil returns from a 
 mission to the city of Mysidia. Cecil was tasked with stealing the town's elemental crystal from 
 the defenseless villagers, and the act causes him to question the king's motives. For disloyalty, 
 he is stripped of his rank and sent as a courier the remote village of Mist. After the king's package 
 causes the destruction of the town, Cecil leaves the Baron army to stop the King and atone for 
 his sins.
  
  Final Fantasy IV was one of the first RPGs to star characters with an identity, instead of the 
 faceless mages and warriors of past games. The numerous characters you encounter are all well-rounded 
 and imaginative enough to ensure you actually care about their fate. Characters range from nave 
 to spiteful and hate-driven, and are all fleshed out enough to be fully believed. As for the story 
 itself, it's not quite as groundbreaking as it was eighteen years ago, but still manages to tug 
 at your heartstrings more than a couple of times. Touching on big themes such as love, redemption, 
 and treachery, Final Fantasy IV still manages to spin an extremely good tale worthy of recognition. 
 The script has also benefitted from a revised translation, and key story scenes are now told using 
 dynamic camera angles and voice acting. Both of these help make a great story even better.
  
  If you've played classic Final Fantasies in the past, FFIV's setup should be instantly recognizable. 
 You move your party of five around an expansive overworld map, and visit towns and dungeons to 
 help advance the plot. Random enemy encounters are frequent on the overworld and in dungeons, but 
 the game's battle system ensures they never become a bore. FFIV was the first game in the series 
 to make use of the Active Time Battle system, or ATB. Using the ATB, enemies will attack regardless 
 of whether you move or not, so you'll need to organize your strategies quickly. And the game is 
 tough - Final Fantasy IV does away with the feeble difficulty of the American releases, and introduces 
 audiences to the real thing. But as long as you fight all your battles you'll rarely find the need 
 to level-grind, which is a definite plus. If the need does arise, you can set your characters to 
 'Auto-Battle' with a hit of the X button, making the experience virtually painless.
  
  Due to technical advancements, other areas of the gameplay have been tweaked as well. The top screen 
 of the DS is where all the action unfolds, and the bottom screen is home to area maps and, in battle, 
 the character status screen. The dual-screen usage is much smarter than in Final Fantasy III, and 
 makes the game experience less cluttered and more manageable. Thanks to the voice acting, Namingway 
 can no longer change your characters names, and instead wanders around the world looking for a 
 new purpose in life. During his cartography phase, for example, he gives you the Wayfarer's Map. 
 The map gradually fills in as you explore dungeons, and for every dungeon map you complete you 
 are rewarded with items. The final big change is that you can now carry unlimited numbers of items, 
 making the Fat Chocobo's use as item storage obsolete. Instead, he allows for training and customization 
 of Whyt.
  
  Whyt is a brand new eidolon, or summon monster, which summoner Rydia has equipped at the beginning 
 of the game. When summoned in battle, Whyt takes Rydia's place and fights with preset abilities. 
 Fat Chocobo allows players to draw Whyt a face a la Blanca from Animal Crossing Wild World, and 
 partake in minigames to train him. The simple touch-screen minigames will increase Whyt's stats 
 and make him more proficient in battle. It's definitely a cool addition, although you'll have to 
 prepare for a hefty amount of minigames if you want Whyt to actually help in battle.
  
  Final Fantasy IV also utilizes a new system known as Augments. Augments are rare items which bestow 
 characters with new abilities, but can only be used on one character and can't be removed afterwards. 
 Via experimentation with the augment system, you can fully customize your characters until they're 
 whatever powerhouse you envisioned. It's a great way to keep the abilities of party members who 
 leave, so you'll feel like they're fighting with you even after they're gone. With abilities exclusive 
 to Japan in the past, Final Fantasy IV really allows the augments to shine on the character customization 
 front.
  
  But by far, the most improved area of Final Fantasy IV DS is the presentation. The environments 
 and characters are rendered in gorgeous 3D, and are smartly combined with 2D objects in the background. 
 The character and enemy designs are all fantastic, boasting great animations and stunning attention 
 to detail. With the new color palette made available, the art direction has also seen a drastic 
 change. Environments are decorated with much more imagination than before, and help contribute 
 to the game's epic feel. All in all, Final Fantasy IV is one of the DS' best looking 3D games. 
 
  
  The musical score is up to series standard, which is to say great. From the upbeat battle tunes 
 to atmospheric dungeon themes, the remixed soundtrack always offers up something great to listen 
 to. Just make sure you've got your headphones close at hand. However, the voice acting is more 
 of a mixed bag. While the voice quality is definitely among the best the DS has seen so far, the 
 'acting' portion is a bit subpar. More often than not the script is overacted, adding a needless 
 layer of melodrama. 
  
  Whether you've played it before or are experiencing it for the first time, Final Fantasy IV DS 
 is an absolutely great title for hardcore RPG fans. The epic, inspired story is better than ever 
 with the new presentation, and together with the gameplay tweaks, the DS edition quickly becomes 
 the definitive version of the game. The intense difficulty means it's not for everyone, but those 
 looking for a great old-school RPG experience need look no further than Final Fantasy IV on the 
 DS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vince199
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  Years after the original Final Fantasy IV on the SNES Final Fantasy IV DS in comparison is much 
 better but there is parts where it can be improved.
  
  The DS version sticks with the plot and gives alot more character development than the one on SNES 
 and cutscenes, also used their original music like "Theme of Love" which does bring back alot of 
 childhood memeries when I play Final Fantasy IV on the SNES.
  
  The plot is clear and game play is easy to navagatem like most RPG you just stand hit and get hit 
 but the story is whats most important. Easy controls and in battle the menu is easily understandable 
 even for little children and I am not sure whether the english version does allow Cecil do "dark 
 strike" but they kept that on the japanese verison but if they did on the english version then 
 that is one thing they improved from the english SNES version (however on the SNES verison when 
 your fighting in the chamber where Cecil turns to a papladin the Cecil from the mirror does use 
 dark strike) .
  
  The voices are good to most of the character has a good voice, but on the Cecil does sound like 
 abit like a kid (japanese version) , on the other hand Golbez's voice is very deep which matchs 
 his character of the theme of darkness.
  
  Comparing the DS version and the SNES version, there is more things you can do, e. g. minigmaes 
 is one, and explore=ing the whole map gives you extra items is also a good feature in the game 
 that the SNES version did not have.
  
  The graphics for the DS standard is good but people do argue that it can be better.
  
  Some 
 audience argue that the characters are to "cartoony"
  and that it should be more like the cinematic graphics with clear details and to argue about that 
 it is on the DS so to have it actually look like the cinematic graphics like on the trailers, they 
 would need to make it on the Xbox or PS3 which they won't because Square only works with Nintendo 
 maybe on the Wii? you never know.
  
  The story is mostly the same but it can be longer in my own opinion because I completed the game 
 in ~10hours and by Squares standards they can do better, but that is only my own opinion.
  
  Overall the game is good and it the music is still as good, it has improved alot since the 
 SNES version, it is easy to play, easy to navagate and the story just drags you in.
  
  9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kosomot
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2008 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, first letme say I like this game very much... at least the snes version. When I knew square 
 was working on this game my herat skipped a beat... I thought with good jod they did with FF3 this 
 will be an incredible remake. I was wrong.
  With the passing years square learned how to make good games and what they should change/add with 
 every new ff version. But... suddenly they forgot a lot of stuff in a second. I will make it short. 
 The music... the music is almost emulated from the snes I hoped for something better.
  Sound effects.... are horrible... the sound of black magic casting is like if the caster had farted.
 
  The voice acting could have been better (considering the charming voices of FF12) but the spoken 
 parts are awesome, they add a unique feeling. good job with that.
  The graphics... I love my DS and I accepted the fact that its graphics are the ones of a PSX but 
 grafphics are nice, environments are well detailed like sunrays or water flows. The enemy's animations 
 are fine.
  The fonts are too small square!!!
  One thing I always hated of some FF titles is the many-fights-in-a-row. Ok I know boos battles 
 are meant to be tough but really... three battles with no rest is inhuman. That is a playability 
 flaw they learned was better to remove from the games. Latter games don't have those intense battle 
 chains like this one.
  Ok, leveling up; the stoy goes faster than the character levels, you just have to spend 30 mins 
 of total boredom fighting monsters just to reach a minimum of HP for not losing against that stupid 
 bossfight (mom bomb at the near begining of the story) . If a game gets difficult in the last half 
 of little by little is ok and I think is the right difficulty curve. If you start a game and in 
 the first 40 mins you die 15 times.... there's someting wrong about its difficulty. I'm not saying 
 the game is toooo difficult but at first it should have been more easy so (if you didn't played 
 it earlier) you could immerse yourself in the story and feel confident, not disappointed and angry.
 
  Ok, so nice graphics, awfull sound, nice voices, poor configurations (like remembering the last 
 battle command) . It si a great game that could have been better remade. Best luck for FF5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioLinkGenofa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Final fantasy 4 was first released on the SNES. It has been brought to the PS, GBA, and now the 
 DS. 
  
  Gameplay
  Final fantasy 4 is a rpg with random encounters but two things make it different back then... the 
 time system and every character has something unique. Now they have let go of make your own team 
 in the GBa and went back to the original style. But what is different after every character leaves 
 you can give them the abiblity of the character who left. That and the new game plus feature bring 
 back gamer who have already played this. Oh that and it went back to the original japenese difficulty. 
 It's not hard the original was just easy 
  
  Story 
  The story... chances are you played this on a past console but if not... you start off as the dark 
 knight cecil coming back from a mission. Talks to his king. The king is dissipointed in what he 
 heard sent him on another mission with his freind kain, and i really don't like summing this up 
 because the story is really good and i don't want to ruin it for you.
  
  graphics
  Amazing, the best on the DS. No i am not kidding. this game has everything you need in visual expectations. 
 The intro looks great and i can watch it over and over, the rest of the game looks like a popular 
 first party character on the ds. 
  
  Sound
  Voice Acting, thrilling boss music, hopeful music, epic final boss music, fearful themes, coming 
 music, this games has great sound 
  
  Conclusion
  BUY THIS  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dangerdog2000
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 17, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  I'm sure there are a lot of ultra hardcore FF fans that will boo this review, but as a warning 
 to anyone who doesn't fit into that category, be prepared to either spend 100 hours plus on this 
 game, consult the walkthrough frequently or get seriously frustrated. 
  
  The game's difficulty level is off the charts if you don't use the walkthrough. Even then, it requires 
 a loooot of grinding. Basically, with the augment system and some of the side quest stuff, you 
 are guaranteed to miss out on a lot of augments and special items if you don't do a series of non-intuitive 
 things that you'd never think to do unless you follow the walkthrough!
  
  Sorry, but it just ruins a game for me when you can't beat if without reading the walkthrough, 
 where, inevitably, you end up finding out about story elements that should come as a surprise. 
 I got all the way to the moon and I still chucked this game because i learned that I'd missed the 
 opportunity to get some item without which the final bosses would be impossible... WTF is up with 
 that?
  
  Playing FF games is like masochism sometimes... yet I keep coming back. BUT this is the only one 
 I've tossed before beating it, TWICE!! Both on the GBA and know the DS!
  
  Good luck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Egamer15
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 4 has a fantastic presentation, but it completely fails when it comes to gameplay. 
 When I turned on my DS, I was greeted by a spectacular musical arrangement and beautiful graphics 
 that pushed my DS to the limit. The actual in-game music and environments looked incredible as 
 well, but when I actually started playing the game, things started to fall apart. The first dissapointment 
 was the combat. I liked it at first since it used a unique real-time strategy system that was fairly 
 new to me. Unfortunately, battles come up far too often, and I was surprised to find that I absolutely 
 hated the music in battle. It was a shock, considering all the other music in the game is fantastic. 
 Also, I had no incentive to level up my characters, since I'm forced to be with a certain one at 
 each time because of the storyline. That reminds me, the story in the game is fairly lackluster, 
 but I'm sure it seemed extremely well written to the people who played this game back then. When 
 it got really hard later in the game, I was even less motivated to continue since I was paired 
 with the characters the game gave me. I'm sure other people are fans of these characters, but I 
 would of liked a little more customization and variety. That being said, I was expecting an experience 
 similiar to pokemon when I bought this game. Final Fantasy IV is just not my thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlrunions
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  A while back I reviewed Final Fantasy Iv advance for the gba, and gave it a high score, but here 
 and now I am reviewing the definitive FFIV for the DS.
  
  Story
  You play As Cecil a young darknight for the kingdom of Baron. when he questions the motives of 
 his king. it sets him off on an adventure of love trust death, and betrayal. Again if you have 
 played any version of the game you know the story, but with a better translation, and cinematic 
 added. the story if brought more to lift.
  
  Graphics.
  In a word beautiful though I witch there had been more cg found at the beginning of the game. and 
 some of the characters still feel like precious moments figures, but still for a handheld they 
 are great.
  
  Game play.
  The game play if typical FF fare turn based battles summons, and the like if you have a any Final 
 Fantasy games in the past you know what you are getting into here. One thing that I will say though 
 is that the game is much harder than it's older counterparts. but this is a good thing for it makes 
 beating that hard boss all the more rewarding. It is good solid RPG fare.
  
  Sound.
  The sound has been upgraded much as well. The game now has great voice acting. which is excellent 
 and the score that we all know and love has also received an upgrade too. The music is excellent 
 to listen to, and is just great as a whole experience for the gamer.
  
  All in all this looks to be handheld of the year thus far, and is defiantly worth the purchase 
 for anyone whom has a ds that likes Rpgs. I defiantly say pick this one up.
  
  Final Score 9.9
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiField
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  I had fond memories of this game from may super NES days back in the early 90's so thought I'd 
 check out the updated DS version when it came out. I'm happy to report its even better than I remember 
 and this game reminds me of why I got into games in the first place. This is a timeless classic 
 and its a shame that so many of the subsequent FF games have fallen so short of the standards set 
 here.
  
  But that's another matter , all that matters is that if you have anything more than a passing interest 
 in games you owe to yourself to give a few minutes of your time to this game - then you'll be hooked 
 right up until the final twist of the excellent story.
  
  I could go on to tell you about the great job square have done on bringing the graphics into the 
 3d era for this ds update or i could mention the quality soundtrack which is every bit as good 
 as those being released today and you'll never believe is taken from a game that is over 17 years 
 old! But the only thing i really need to say is.......
  
  buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: melaniebrian
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  This game suceeds on so many levels that it makes it difficult to find anything to fault. The graphics 
 and cut scenes are superb, the music has aged extremely well and is as delightful today as it was 
 upon its original release. The story if absoultly awesome and the character development is what 
 laid the basis for FFVII. The various classes (dark knight, dragoon, bard, summoner, ect) are well 
 thought out and varied and all uniquely fun to play. The turn based battle system (while retro) 
 is excellent. Quite simply, this is one of the best role playing games ever made and it deserves 
 its place in history.
  For this remake, the developers really out did themselves and fine tuned what needed reworking 
 (which wasnt much) This game is quality from start to finish and frankly, they just dont make games 
 like this anymore. So enjoy this absoultly amazing game agian, or for the first time. It is an 
 rpg you absoultly should not miss if you at all like that style of game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend002
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Good: New visuals feel refreshing, Surprisingly good voice acting, Good use of the second screen, 
 Awesome presentation
  
  Bad: The visuals are blurry at times, No extra content of the GBA version made the cut
  
  Final 
 Fantasy IV for the DS is a remake of the original Final Fantasy IV for the SNES in 1991 (JPN) . 
 Soon known to many gamers as Final Fantasy II when it was released in North America. This time 
 around, Square have developed the definitive version. Of course, no remake is perfect.
  
  Final Fantasy IV is actually the first in the series to have a deep story. The game starts you 
 off as Cecil Harvey, a dark knight in a solid dark armor looking for a way to wipe out his past. 
 As he enters his journey, he meets many faces that would join him in his adventure. Somewhat like 
 others typical role playing. For its time, the story set standards for others and showed how the 
 adventure can be told. As for today standards, it is good but not anything jaws dropping.
  
  The classic tunes from FFIV is back. Most musics was redone or remixed as some call it, which 
 is a good thing. The "Theme of Love" never sounded better. Some long time gamers may be a bit upset 
 with some of the tracks but overall, they did a good job. Aside from the musics, voice acting was 
 better than expected. For the DS, Square Enix threw in a good amount of it. 
  
  The controls for FFIV are pretty standard and is easy to learn. It is a turn-base that implements 
 the active battle system (ABS) . It basically is a bar that decides when the characters attacks. 
 Characters with the highest speed stat usually goes first. Mini games are also incorporated in 
 the game. Each takes advantage of the sensitive touch screen. They can be fun when you want to 
 disengage the from your epic journey. Whyt summon are also a new DS exclusive content. Basically 
 what it is, is a customizable summon. You dress it, you train it and you battle with it. Sounds 
 familiar? 
  
  Maps are now display at the bottom of the screen. It is a auto tracking map that add new sections 
 as you navigate. By getting full completion of a map, rewards will be obtain will be efficient 
 on your difficult adventure. Speaking of difficult, FFIV setting have been revamped from the originals. 
 Enemies and bosses health points have been increased which may require some grinding. 
  
  The new looks of FFIV is slick. Square Enix used the Chibi models and brought it in 3-D. The redone 
 visuals goes well with your eyes. It feels refreshing after playing all of the ports for many died 
 hearted fans. The models looks almost exactly like the ones from FFIII (DS) but this is a step 
 up. This environment, characters and cinematic is very solid.
  
  The game last around 25-40 hours for average players. With the extra materials such as mini games, 
 whyt wireless battle, music/movie player and a new game plus, the adventure will last for months. 
 This is not any ordinary RPG's on the shelf. Money spending decision is essential, grinding as 
 well and strategies are a must.
  If you are a true Final Fantasy fan then this game fits the bill. If you are a fan of role playing 
 then this is worth a look.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendonoob
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Final fantasy 4 comes to the ds and it could never be better. It brings back many familiar characters 
 and theyve never looked so good. The nice storyline is like most final fantasy games. Cecil a dark 
 night has to save the world from a terrible fiend called golbez. The characters joining you will 
 be really cool. My personal favorite is Yang, a really cool chinse monk. Monsters will really blow 
 you away in this one. You never really use the styls in this game but it doesnt matter, the awesome 
 gameplay makes up for it. Mostly all characters abilities are really really awesome and unique. 
 They wil frequently join the party and leave it, so always trie to be aware of that. You should 
 really put upgrading your characters weapons and armor into consideration. Youll seriously have 
 to do it some time in the game, so i suggest you do this often. The awesome awesome feature this 
 has for the ds is that it has voiced cut scenes. It shows true emotion in each one and they are 
 fun to watch so I suggest you do not skip these. So, overall this game is great and if you are 
 thinking of buying it, please do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpgmadboy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 4:08 am PT
Review:  -STORY-
  You play as a knight Cecil who is a high commander of his kingdom. He is sent on a mission to burn 
 down this village and he does this, however he then realises what bad he has done and rebels. You 
 then yourself saving the world against the many foes you meet.
  I myself found the story really interesting and i couldn't wait to find out what happened next 
 (well when i first played the game on the PS1) Some parts of the story in this edition of Final 
 Fantasy 4 are voiced.
  
  -GAMEPLAY-
  Nothing new here. This is a turn-based random encounter RPG. Random encounters in this game did 
 tend to get on my nerves later on within the game. However i loved the updated graphics within 
 the battle system that it sort of kept me occupied but later on within the game the battle system 
 gets old and boring and so do the graphics. You can still use spells and skills which do considerly 
 help in battles, i found myself using them alot. Also i feel the difficulty level is just right 
 and it does provide a challenge.
  
  -GRAPHICS-
  The graphics are one of the main updates of this port. They are amazing for a DS game and the opening 
 cinematics are gorgeous. 
  
  -MUSIC-
  Pretty standard for an old FF game, sticks to the same themes. I enjoyed it.
  
  -OVERALL-
 
  Epic RPG for the DS. And the remake only does this solid game justice. A must buy for any RPG 
 fan.
  
  9/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4EverGreen
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  The Snes version of this game came out before I was old enough to appreciate the R. P. G. genre. 
 I'm glad I skipped that version though, because the translation was apparently Way off, and would've 
 been too hard for me to make the game a truly enjoyable experience. When it finally came out on 
 the Nintendo Game Boy Advance, it finally gave me an opportunity to see what the game was all about. 
 "Final Fantasy IV Advance" was a good game, it was very challenging, and there were lots of things 
 to see and do within the game that kept me playing for hours. I love challenging games, so when 
 I heard that this game was going to be re-released as an even harder game with all new C. G. I. cutscenes, 
 voice-acting, and monsters fleshed out like never before, I knew that this was one game I had to 
 try! The graphics in this game are incredible! They blow first-rate Playstation 2 games out of 
 the water! The voice-acting is incredible, and the emotions the characters displayed, which were 
 only hinted at in the 16 and 32 bit versions of the game, were fully felt in this version, making 
 this version of the game more emotionally important, and more satisfying and fulfilling then ever 
 before! This game is a hard game, but it's also one of the most satisfying. Finding and beating 
 all the monsters, discovering all the treasures and hidden areas in the game world, and seeing 
 the story of the game unfold in a way it has never been told before, make this game well-worth 
 every cent that is paid for it. I highly reccommend this game to anyone looking for a challenge, 
 and an emotionally rewarding experience, because that's what this game delivers! :idea: Enough 
 said! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enl100
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  To me when i saw i thought oh a game that you can use the action replay and beat it in 1 day. But 
 no that did not help and i loved the fact to. FF4 was a instant masterpiece which said why buy 
 a bad game when you have a very long and hard game to quench your gaming thirst. The battle system 
 / game play was excellent and to the point where i felt like no turns so battle it out. This is 
 flawless and the first ff game i personally enjoyed in a long long time which i was happy about. 
 The characters really caught my eye especially rydia the summoner which she really can pack a punch 
 if you level her up well. A big surprise was edge the ninja i thought he could be the strongest 
 but he wasnt as great as i expected. If square-enix made games like this more often id be impressed. 
 I always loved this game so iim looking forward to more stunning works of art in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CandyCow3
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The music, which was astounding at the time of the game's original release, still holds up and 
 is almost worth the price of admission in itself. The game is basically the same, with some tweaks 
 for strategy purposes (the "Augment System") and somewhat more elaborate cartoon avatars playing 
 against the original-sometimes color enhanced-locations. My only complaints of this new edition 
 are a "feature" (longish cut scenes that tried my patience) and some padding: a couple of sections 
 requiring needless additional character leveling. For first time players, though... read all the 
 dialogue and enjoy the plot! I'll play it again at some point, to fuss around with the augment 
 system and enjoy that music again. Having played all of the Final Fantasy rpg's with the exception 
 of the online versions, I rate this as one of the best of the series. While I've given it a "9" 
 in its current form, I would have given the original SNES a "10" at the time of its release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waZelda
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  When his king, who took him in as a child, starts acting cruel and trick Cecil into destroying 
 a peaceful village, Cecil has to defy his orders and leave his kingdom. But soon he finds that 
 his king is not responsible. A man named Golbez is poisoning his kings mind. When Rosa, his friend++, 
 is kidnapped, he will have to rescue her with the help of several friends. But if Cecil is to fight 
 the evil he haven't yet understood the greatness of, he will first have to fight the evil within 
 himself and become a paladin.
  
  And that is just a little of the story, but I won't spoil more than that. Since this is an RPG, 
 I'll use my own review system where gameplay matters 50 percent, story 25 percent, music 15 percent 
 and graphics 10 percent. The story is very good, yet taken the plot into account I think it should 
 have been a little darker. Also I think the characters from time to time can be sickingly melodramatic. 
 Even with those flaws, the story deserves a 9/10.
  
  The graphics are great. I don't think I've seen any DS game that can compete with it. It is especially 
 great in the intro. I don't think any DS game will ever look better than that intro, maybe not 
 any wii games either. So the graphics deliver the goodies. Close enough to perfect, 10/10 from 
 me.
  
  The music sadly can not compare to the graphics. I guess it is well made, but it has no really 
 memorable tracks. There is nothing there that I think I will remember and no tracks that really 
 stick to your brain. Sometimes I even prefer to turn the music of. But it is ok and well made, 
 so I guess it deserves to be called fair. I give it a score of 6/10.
  
  The gameplay has great potential. With several different types of black magic, white magic, summoning 
 and ninjitsu, plus other abuilities such as attack, jump, kick, throw, pray, aim, analyze, fix 
 etc, it should be great. It offers a lot of strategy, not only in the fights, but with what you 
 equip, whether you place a character in front or back row and which abuilities you set to your 
 characters. Also there is a levelling system, as in all RPGs. And it has some of the best turn-based 
 battle system ever. Sadly it is just in the boss fights and the two last dungeons that the game 
 reaches it full potential. Most of the time it is not that good, and since there is no puzzles, 
 the dungeons can be somewhat boring. The difficulty is increasing and at the end it is as challenging 
 and great as it should be, but sometimes it gets harder too fast so you might need some extra hours 
 of levelling up before you continue. That is why I guess the gameplay is almost but not quite. 
 It could have been superb, but it only gets 8/10 from me.
  
  If you have done the math, you will have found that I give the game 8.15, which is 8.0 with GameSpot's 
 review system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bangaaslayer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:49 pm PT
Review:  When it comes down to it a Final Fantasy game is classified by a few factors. 
  1. It's story
  2. It's battle system
  3. It's characters
  FFIV has it all. Am immersive story 
 with plot twists that I fell in love with. The battle system is like FFVII, which is one of my 
 personal favorite battle systems in any game. The characters grew on me and I learned to love them 
 with a few exceptions. But like every game this game has it's drawback. One thing I found to dislike 
 in this game is that you always have a set party of characters, you can never pick who goes into 
 your party. So you have to get used to using what they give you. The replay value is surprisingly 
 low. But I digress. The voice acting and 3-D cinematics were impressive (for DS standards) and 
 the opening video is amazing. Speeding through this game is a horribe idea because the enemie's 
 levels go up surprisinly fast, so sometimes I had to resort to needless grinding. There were about 
 2 points in the game where I got stuck because the story didn't lead you too well so I had to go 
 all over the place until I got to an event in the story. Regardless this game has one of the most 
 bad-ass bosses of all time, memorable characters that you learn to love, a story worthy of the 
 Final Fantasy name, and great gameplay. If you love Final Fantasy, then you will love this game 
 (Not to mention it's the best Final Fantasy for DS) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Matdredalia
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  Let me preface this by saying that Final Fantasy IV for the SNES is one of my three all-time favorite 
 games, period. Now, this was both a perk and a drawback when I began playing FF IV for the DS. 
 Even though I was dying to see my favorite characters in glorious 3D and to hear their voices, 
 I was terrified that they were going to butcher my childhood memories.
  
  I need not have worried. Square-Enix, while they may have their flaws as of late, took one of the 
 greatest games in the RPG genre, added some fun features, beautiful 3D graphics, and what I feel 
 was superb voice acting. 
  
  It is, in my opinion, the perfect game. It represents FFIV the way it was MEANT to be played, with 
 additional story and dialogue, more well-rounded characters, and some excellent DS-specific toys 
 to play with that just add that extra bit of awesome.
  
  This is probably one of the only games out there that I have beat, and then went back for more, 
 just because it was so much fun. Not to unlock stuff, not to grind out items or levels, but just 
 because it's good.
  
  This is the Final Fantasy series at it's best. It doesn't get any better than this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cassandra365
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:58 pm PT
Review:  This is such a refreshing contrast to FFIII for the DS. It's the beginning of actual fun in the 
 Square Enix RPG Final Fantasy series.
  
  With the ATB (Active Time Battle) system, FFIV takes out all the frustration of giving your party 
 orders and then watching helplessly as they get creamed by a mega-attack. Think FFI, II, III. All 
 bosses take strategies, so using each character's job abilities in its due time is key to victory. 
 Oh, and if you fail, you don't have to start the dungeon all over again (lack of save points in 
 previous FFs) . In between bosses, you can take advantage of the 'auto-battle' function by giving 
 single 'gambits' (think FFXII) and watching them duke it out with lesser enemies. 
  
  The introduction of 'augments' is interesting and potentially tough. Assigning these abilities 
 you gained from previous bosses and allies can be tricky. You cannot take your choice back, so 
 think well on who gets the abilities.
  
  Overall, I'd say that if FFIII drove you crazy, then you'll love FFIV. Square dropped all the needless 
 punishments about FFIII and enhanced the good stuff for FFIV.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeldafans1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  this game is top rank for sure i love to play it all the time so its great. the grafics are great 
 and the mucis is so catchey that i still have the song in my head no matter the bosses are crazy 
 so you can play for as long as you like and you still dont get bored. the clip scenes are really 
 cool that make the game even better. the people always change so you always get to see new things 
 like new spels like rydia gets to summen a dragon or cast a metour. i love to kill the people there 
 are like a heck of a lot of people. so you should get this crazy good @#$%*@  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lvmyDS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:47 am PT
Review:  I really just wanted to give a short blurb but the site requires I type at least 100 words of review 
 text. 
  
  I'm really digging this game and will probably continue to play again after I have beat it (not 
 something I normally do) . Please use the "Final Fantasy IV: DS Version FAQ/Walkthrough v.2.30 by 
 SBAllen (Allen Tyner) " in the Hints & Cheats section to really enhance your playthrough, it can 
 help you get all the goodies! 
  
  If you enjoyed FFIV when it was first released for the GameBoy my understanding is this version 
 is enhanced enough to re-challenge you yet familiar enough to not disappoint. I recommend turning 
 off the voice (and music) as the voice-over's are a bit distracting and somewhat poorly done. I 
 don't really like the play through music either, it's a bit repetitive and muzak-y, to me at least, 
 which can be annoying. I prefer silence so I can concentrate on the action. Some of you may enjoy 
 the music so do what you like! 
  
  Oh! One difference between this and the usual RPG is the battle game play. It's a melding of RPG 
 and Tactical. There is still the standard -choose an action from a menu then wait until it's played 
 out- style, but the enemies have their own attack timing independent of your choices, which means 
 they can (and do) attack while you're dithering with commands. When first learning this style the 
 characters can get wiped out pretty quickly if you are not paying attention. (at least mine did 
 b/c I thought I had all the time in the world!) FYI. 
  
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jatkins1177
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I am a major fan of Final Fantasy games and I have always thought FFIV to be the best in the series. 
 The story is outstanding, the characters are varied and interesting, and the game is just a lot 
 of fun to play. 
  
  I have two major gripes with this version, however. 
  
  The first (and most major) is the difficulty. I am used to the SNES version, which in my opinion 
 had the right level of difficulty. As long as you fought all of the random battles along the way 
 and reserved running only for desperate situations, you could play through the whole game without 
 too much difficulty. That's not to say you would never be bested by a boss or even a random encounter, 
 but a second try would usually find you successful, as long as you knew the right strategy. In 
 this version, I found myself fighting the same boss battles 4 or 5 times before wandering around 
 to earn more experience points to give myself at least a chance at winning. Now before going on, 
 let me say I have no problem with "level grinding" per se, and I gladly do it in other RPGs. My 
 problem with this in FFIV is the fact that characters join and leave your party so often, in some 
 cases never to return, that it seems a terrible waste of time. Why spend an hour or two increasing 
 the level of a character you know will be permanently leaving the party after the next boss battle 
 (or even worse, before the next boss battle) ? Another frustrating aspect to the difficulty is the 
 fact that when you have to replay the same boss battle a dozen times, you have to watch the same 
 cut-scene and go through the same dialogue a dozen times, which slows down game play and can make 
 a person disenchanted with this version of the game. 
  
  The other problem I have with this version is relatively minor, but still bothersome. The reworked 
 3D graphics are nice but they aren't wonderful. The character designs are slightly childish and 
 cartoon looking. This is ok, but the problem comes at the beginning of the game. I sit and watch 
 several minutes of amazing full motion animation featuring most of the characters in the game. 
 In this animation, the character designs are awesome. After this, the actual game graphics (which 
 aren't bad in and of themselves) are disappointing. I enjoy the opening video, but it would have 
 been better if it had been left out. You can't show someone a steak then feed them meatloaf. 
 
  
  Other than these two issues, the game comes through as still being an excellent RPG. I would have 
 liked to see it possible to enter commands using the touch screen instead of the directional pad, 
 but the controls work pretty well the way they are. This version of the game is definitely recommended 
 to all RPG fans, whether or not you are familiar with earlier versions. Just don't expect to win 
 every boss fight (or any boss fight, for that matter) on your first try, and don't be too disappointed 
 when the game itself falls short of the opening animation, and you should really enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  I was hesitant about picking up this game. I bought Final Fantasy III for the DS and i got bored 
 with it and found it not very enjoyable. I loved all the Final Fantasy games like VII, VIII, IX, 
 X, and XII. I felt dissapointed that for some reason III wasnt that good. But I ended up buying 
 Final Fantasy IV anyways, because so many people said they loved it.... and so did I.
  
  This game actually had an interesting story. The characters were all very well put together also. 
 There were about 10 different characters that you used throughout the game. All of them were likeable 
 ecspecially the final party (Rydia, Cecil, Rosa, Edge, and Kain) . They were easily the best characters 
 in the game. The music was top notch as always. Nobuo Uematsu is a musical genius! The boss fights 
 had the best music in my opinion. The active time battle is my favorite type of gameplay in the 
 Final Fantasy series. Things move a lot faster and it makes you think and act quicky with your 
 characters. Many people said this game was extremely difficult. It was hard, but if you've played 
 an RPG before and once you learn the boss's counter attacks and weaknesses its not really that 
 bad. This game was the best game I played on the DS. It had everything that you would expect from 
 the Final Fantasy series, but I found it to be missing one thing....
  
  In no way am I putting this game down, but I do have one little thing against it. This game just 
 didnt feel as epic as the other final fantasy games. I guess i was to use to the recent Final fantasy 
 games. I mean in comparison to those, this game just didnt present its story like the other games. 
 In Final Fantasy VII-XII, theres always a scene or something that is really powerful that either 
 makes you want to cry or just feel some type of emotion. In this game i just for some reason didnt 
 get that feeling. *SPOILERS* i kinda felt sad when Palom and Porom turned themselves into stone 
 to save everyone. But in the end all the characters comes back that "supposedly died" and the ending 
 to this game was basically a short wedding ceremony for Cecil and Rosa. There wasnt anything epic 
 like (Aeris dieing in FF VII, or the true love story in FFVIII, or even a extraordinary twist in 
 the story like in FFX, where Tidus finds out the Yuna will die when she summons the final aeon) . 
 
  
  Sorry for the long rant, but I just really wanted to prove my point. I really enjoyed this game, 
 but the only reason I didnt give this a 10 like the other final fantasy games, is mainly i felt 
 that it was missing that "it" factors that all the games VII-XII had. But you should still pick 
 this up, it is definitely worth your money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hm360
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy IV first came out on SNES in 1991. I've never played the original, so I thought I'd 
 give this a go. 
  
  The difficulty isn't too easy or too hard, some bosses can be done easily while others will have 
 you trying aa few times trying to work out the perfect strategy. Dungeons have to be mapped out 
 as you walk so many things you just don't see until you just go there. 
  
  The move to 3D was done perfectly. I read another review recently saying that they preferred the 
 GBA graphics - I totally disagree. The backgrounds are beautiful. The boss battles have a different 
 camera angle to normal battles - perfect to capture the large 3D bosses. 
  
  Square Enix's cutscenes are top-notch as always, and the voice acting isn't as bad as I anticipated 
 it to be. Unfortunately there is no Japanese track but that's probably due to storage limitations. 
 
  
  Pros
  + Great graphics
  + Decent voice acting
  + Huge depth to sidequests and main story
  
  Cons
  - No Japanese track
  - Final dungeon 
 a bit too long
  
  90%
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arkadycole
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Newer generation gamers who began their video game playing with PS2 or XBOX (and beyond) missed 
 out on much of the original 'old school' game designs where story and character development took 
 precedence over graphics and surround sound. Such was the case with many of the original RPG's 
 from the 8- and 16-bit generation.
  Case in point: Final Fantasy IV (originally FF2 in the US) was the first outing for the FF series 
 on the SNES. The graphics were top notch for its time and the music was epic. However, the game 
 truly shined with its depth of storyline, character development (both by gaining exp and via dialogue) , 
 and tackling of more 'mature' themes such as love, hate, lust, betrayal, loyalty, self-sacrifice, 
 and honor.
  The new DS version of FFIV has kept all of the things that made the original great and has improved 
 on each aspect in turn. The graphics have been improved to beautiful 3D with in-game engine graphical 
 cut scenes complete with voice acting. The music has gotten a bit of a touch up (although is a 
 bit tinny at times) , and the difficulty has been ramped up a notch with new boss strategies needed 
 to prevent repeated frustrating defeats. The core game has remained and the few additions, such 
 as gaining augments to be able to use other character's special abilities even after they've left 
 the party are a nice touch. The menial multiplayer 'battles' is a weak attempt at best. The summoning 
 animations are enjoyable, and the rewards for completing cave maps 100% are somewhat ok, but it 
 gives you a decent reason to explore a bit more so as to get your levels up higher (which will 
 be needed, considering the significant hike in difficulty) without feeling like your just grinding 
 levels.
  All in all, an excellent role playing game for nostalgic FF fans such as myself, or for younger 
 gamers who are looking for a taste of something great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilled_Ice
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2008 10:55 am PT
Review:  I remember the first time I played Final Fantasy IV on the SNES. I had originally thought that 
 Squaresoft had just copy and pasted the graphics from the NES around. Also I couldn't stand the 
 translations that NoA had provided. It bugged me that there wasn't any bars to indicate the active 
 time battle system and the only good thing was the story. But we aren't here to talk about the 
 old game, I'm here to talk about Final Fantasy IV for the DS, a 3-D remake for the Nintendo DS.
 
  
  ~Story: 9 out of 10~
  
  It's a surprise that a story like FFIV's is still a good story today. I would even say that it 
 has one of the deeper stories out on the DS. You play Cecil, a dark knight and captain who has 
 returned from a raid on the town Mist. After he gets back to his kingdom, he questions himself, 
 his actions, and the desires of his king. He is joined by his best friend Kain, his lover Rosa, 
 a summoner named Rydia, a "Spoony bard" named Edward and many other characters. Most of the story 
 is told through text, but there are certain plot points that are told through cutscenes with voice 
 acting. The script has been redone and there are a few changes to the story that aren't significant, 
 but they add length to the game.
  
  ~Gameplay: 8 out of 10~
  
  I'll admit, I'm a fan of Final Fantasy games, especially this one but i had a few problems with 
 how this game is handled in terms of gameplay. The searching is as good with new treasures, the 
 dungeons are very nice and so is the battle system. But where I have a problem are the boss battles 
 and the decant system. Boss Battles are nice because you see some of your favorite bosses but the 
 problem is that some of them seem carbon copy to each other. It almost seems that every boss requires 
 you to cast the Slow spell on them or else you will get your but kicked. Also, if you have someone 
 attack the boss, it has at least one counter that will attack every one of your characters or at 
 least slow them down. Some bosses are really unique as well such as the Demon Wall and Dark Elf. 
 So it balances out in the end. The decant system is almost like the gambit system of Final Fantasy 
 XII, it allows your characters to do actions on their own without auto-battle or give your characters 
 abilities of other characters. This is a double edged sword depending on how you use it. On one 
 hand, it's a blessing to have Cecil know Counter so that if he gets attacked, he attacks back. 
 But, there are times where Cecil will have weapons that have elemental factors to them. So if some 
 monster that is fire attacks Cecil and Cecil has Fire Sword equiped, the monster almost has a very 
 effective regen by repeatedly attacking Cecil. Overall, the gameplay won't really bug you unless 
 you nitpick like I do.
  
  ~Sound: 10 out of 10~
  
  If there is one game that can show off the sound capabilities of the Nintendo DS, it's this game. 
 The music sounds very good and I found myself humming some of the tunes like "The Village of Mysidia", 
 "Golbez" and "Red Wings" while in the shower. The voice acting is really good and almost makes 
 it seem like you are seeing the story in a new perspective. All the character really never have 
 a monotone moment and i definitely love the antagonist's voice Golbez. It makes him sound evil, 
 but not like evil maniac evil. Sound effects sound really good too. I would have really liked to 
 have hear a character grunt or two when they get hit, but that's no big deal.
  
  ~Design: 9 out of 10~
  
  Being the fact that this game used to be completely in 2-D, this game 
 has definitely made the jump into 3-D almost as smooth as the first time Mario did. The characters 
 look rather nice. It definitely does look better then Final Fantasy III in terms of battle. Spells 
 look good. Someone complained about how the characters don't have noses? Oh well, that shouldn't 
 bother anyone. I feel like there should've been a bit more in the way of content, like an extra 
 dungeon. 
  
  Overall, I would say that if you are a seasoned RPG veteran, pick this game up. If you are new 
 to the series, there are some other games you should pick up before this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mewt2021
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy IV for the DS is a great re-make. The game follows the story of Cecil, a dark knight 
 who commands the Red Wings... no, not the hockey team. Cecil starts to have second thoughts about 
 the orders his king is giving him, which causes the king to strip Cecil of his ranks and send him 
 on a "Special Mission". From there Cecil decides to turn his back on his kingdom and to stop the 
 king and his evil plans. The game has a great story plot and each character has there own story 
 for you to immerse yourself in. The game-play is like most Final Fantasy's so you know what to 
 expect. The updated graphics of the game the biggest part of this re-make, for those who don't 
 know this game use to be in 2D but thanks to the power of the DS they were able to make it 3D, 
 but this also leads into the complaint that if the DS can handle the cut-scenes of the game why 
 can't the graphics look a bit nicer then they are. Well.. It's a DS, and Nintendo has never really 
 focused on making something look really good. They know that graphics don't make a good game. Now 
 probably the biggest problem with this game (and most of the original Final Fantasy's) is knowing 
 where to go once you have the airship. They will tell you where to go ONCE, if you forget your 
 stuck flying around looking for a place with monsters that won't rape you when you fight them. 
 This may sound like a small problem that wouldn't bother most people but trust me, unless you have 
 the internet or a guide to tell you where to head next your gonna end up just turning the game 
 off and walking away. For Final Fantasy fans you probably already have gone out and bought this 
 game but if you've never played a Final Fantasy game (or only played Crystal Chronicles on the 
 Gamecube) Then I wouldn't choose this to be your first Final Fantasy game. but for anyone else 
 it's worth playing but you might want to wait for a price drop or even buy it used 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edraenth
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  The DS port of Final Fantasy IV is everything a good remake should be. The updated graphics are 
 more befitting of the current era of gaming technology, but the story and game mechanics were (mostly) 
 left untouched, retaining the classic, nostalgic feel of the game.
  
  The fact that this is a level-grinding style of RPG may turn off some genre fans that did not grow 
 up playing these types of games, but those of us that were introduced to the series through these 
 classics will have no problem investing the time necessary to create a truly powerful army of five.
 
  
  No real downsides exist to this game, provided that you don't buy it expecting something similar 
 to the more recent installments in the Final Fantasy series. If anyone is interested in seeing 
 the early stages of modern-day RPGs, Final Fantasy IV is easily one of the most beloved classics 
 in the field, and is a worthwhile purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakelufkin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 4 for the Super Nintendo ( or rather Final Fantasy 2) was the very first RPG I ever 
 played, and I was quite late for it. I didn't discover it until around 1997 when most games were 
 going 3d. It looked very primitive to me. But with some convincing from my friend I finally gave 
 it a shot.
  
  I went home, popped it in my Nintendo, and wasn't seen until two weeks later.
  
  Since then 
 it has been re-released for the PlayStation, Gameboy Advance, and now finally in 3d -- the Nintendo 
 DS.
  
  The FF4 for the DS still hold all of the magic from the game while adding much improved graphics, 
 sounds, and not-too-bad acting voice-overs.
  
  It is a wonderful experience for me, like replaying my childhood -- but without the bad graphics.
 
  
  I definitely recommend this game to anyone wanting to relive the Final Fantasy 4 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roseice
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I happen to have been a fan of the Final Fantasy series for a long time, but anything released 
 after Final Fantasy X with the "Final Fantasy" title has been a disappointment. This DS remake 
 of FFIV is no exception, though I don't completely regret buying it.
  
  I'll start with the good. The story is good, as expected of most Final Fantasy games, and though 
 cliche (even though this is acceptable considering when the original FFIV came out) it isn't something 
 that will make you groan and roll your eyes. If you haven't played the original, you might meet 
 with a few surprises story-wise. So I did enjoy that about this game.
  
  It really starts getting weak in terms of gameplay. The battle system is purely Final Fantasy, 
 not many new tricks added to the extremely bland turn-based formula -- it is incredibly easy to 
 get sick of. And fast. Not to mention you'll be seeing plenty of it whether you want to or not. 
 This game is a grinder; you'll waste many hours of your life grinding until you keel over from 
 boredom just because bosses and enemies later on can be very difficult to defeat. This was my least 
 favourite aspect of the game, and my boredom in that area cut the enjoyment factor a great deal. 
 Were the battle system actually fun, we'd have another story on our hands.
  
  The sad thing is how I actually expect Square to be adding new things to new FF games to soften 
 the experience. Maybe some sort of ability to lower the amount of encounters when you *really* 
 just want to get somewhere? Or perhaps something like the EXP Egg from FFVI to make the grinding 
 a tad more bearable. (If there was such a thing in this game, I missed it.) The word "revolutionary" 
 doesn't tend to compute with Square's FF battle formula, and when it does they revamp things horribly. 
 (see FFXII)
  
  Next, characters. I wasn't expecting them to evolve into something truly amazing and memorable 
 in this remake, but I did think I'd like them a little more. A good word to describe this game 
 overall is "bland". Very bland, and the characters are too. Too many of them, they die left and 
 right, and very few are given true spotlight. Their personalities feel slapped on with little or 
 no effort. 
  
  A comment on the graphics. While these are likely the best the DS has to currently offer, they 
 certainly weren't anything special. Especially if you compare them with its competition, the PSP. 
 Nevertheless, the graphics didn't take away or add to my experience, they were just there.
  
  And music. I don't feel like touching the subject for this game, but I wish they'd decided 
 to spice up those old and tiring tracks from the original. And by "spice up" I mean "make them 
 actually sound good". (It's definitely possible with a little more effort) There are a few exceptions.
 
  
  Overall, playing FFIV was a forgettable experience, I don't think I'd play it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreamdust
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I have to give SquareEnix credit on this remake, they did a good job! FFIII for the DS was somewhat 
 average and full of various shortcomings. This title however, is a much improved... remake!? It's 
 almost weird to say that. What you get is a game that feels, graphically, very similar to the FFVII 
 era of gaming. The sprites are crude but effective and while the graphics are much improved from 
 the original FFIV, they're still not incredibly flashy by today's standard. That said, they still 
 rank high on the Nintendo DS latter and occasionally I find myself, overall, impressed with the 
 time and effort that was clearly put into this game. Personally, I would have liked to have seen 
 SquareEnix utilize some pre-rendered backgrounds but I guess that is a dying fad in the videogame 
 industry. 
  
  Several features really make this game worthwhile over the previous remake and that includes...
 
  + the ability to quick save at any time (or close to it!) ,
  + the use of the bottom screen as a map and stat holder,
  + and the completion of maps netting 
 bonus items really brings out that obsessive quality in me.
  
  A couple of features I think are missing include...
  - the ability to rotate the camera,
  - 
 the ability to alter the menu screen and text box background color,
  - and faster pacing of the battles.
  
  None-the-less, this is a fun game worth its price. I 
 decided to pick it up mainly because I had never finished FFIV previously (though I did play through 
 it a little ways) and because the reviews were surprisingly high. This is one of those games that, 
 if you stick with it, starts to grow on you. Hence the reason why FFIV was considered a classic 
 masterpiece in gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Back in the early 90's Final Fantasy 4 was called Final Fantasy 2 on the Super NES in North America. 
 But it is Final Fantasy 4 it was GBA which came out a few years ago, now Square Enix have once 
 again remake Final Fantasy 4 again what they have done to other Final Fantasy games on other systems. 
 Best thing about 4 was it had the most memorable story for any gamer who has played the Final Fantasy 
 series.
  For those who don't know they story to 4 it's about a Dark Knight called Cecil Captain of Baron's 
 elite force. By doing so Cecil has been doing terrible deeds, killing innocent people and gathering 
 the crystals. But through out the game Cecil meets new friends who help him out and turns away 
 from the path of darkness and destruction. 
  
  Gameplay- Like other Final Fantasy games the battle is just the same but there is not much use 
 of the stylus your just using the touch screen to move around your character or vehicles during 
 world map or being dungeons. But the battle system is just the same the bottom screen only shows 
 you your HP and MP and active time waiting battle. The top screen is the number of your characters 
 in battle against the number of enemies. Also has the command system for each character either 
 by attacking your enemies or use magic or items. The game does have mini games where you can use 
 the touch screen for a few things like tapping enemies or doing math on the touch screen. But to 
 play the Mini games you'd would need to find a Fat Chocobo at certain locations by calling it out 
 with Grsyal Greens and you can customize your Eidolon and use it to battle others with the Wi-Fi 
 connection.
  
  
  Graphics and Sound- From comparing the graphics from Final Fantasy 3 and 9 it looks charming and 
 cute from the other remakes of Final Fantasy 4 first it was the Super NES, then PS1 and the GBA. 
 The DS version looks great for a remake the only thing I found bad about the game so far is the 
 English voice which can be annoying at some times but most voices only appear during certain cut 
 scenes of the game which more of your GCI cut scenes if you think about it. Music is just the same 
 as it was in other ports of the game if you have played FF4 on other systems, Theme of Love is 
 now played by Ida Emi where she's doing main theme song for the game. Like on other games there's 
 always a singer singing for a certain game which you've probably reconise in other games like FF10 
 or 12 or even KH series.
  
  Overall- It's nice to revisit 4 again even if you have played the GBA version its still worth visiting. 
 Or if you never played 4 to be honest its has one of the most memorable story which you'll probably 
 remeber and tell other how good 4 was comparing it to other big Final Fantasy games which have 
 great story's like FF7 or FF10.
  For people who have played FF4 the DS version is a director's cut version with new features and 
 higher difficulty for hardcore Final Fantasy fans. There will be certain boss battles which will 
 require you to level up your charcters more so be careful on that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WinWalter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Remakes are generally hit or miss for a lot of reasons. Sometimes, styles of game just don't make 
 the transition because the trend is different. Other times, so much is changed that the original 
 game and the current format are barely similar. Final Fantasy IV for the DS tries it's best to 
 blend the past and the present and although this version will not please old school gamers entirely, 
 the heart of the original remains the same.
  
  Final Fantasy IV initially released in North America for the Super Nintendo system in 1991 and 
 was labeled Final Fantasy II. The original game was a profound game in many respects. The battle 
 system was refined for the time, the story was epic back then and the music was more than memorable. 
 Because of all these reasons, Final Fantasy II remains to this day, one of the hallmarks of the 
 Role Playing experience. Now on the DS 16 years later, Final Fantasy comes with a very uplifted 
 look with sparkling 3D graphics and voice acting. 
  
  The game starts you off as Cecil, a dark knight of Baron. Baron has become increasingly hostile 
 as the king seeks the crystals of the world to an unknown end. Cecil, against his better judgment 
 continues to follow his King's orders but is eventually brought to a breaking point where he can 
 no longer accept orders blindly. When he finally confronts the King, the King punishes him and 
 relieves him of his post. With his friend Kain at his side, he ventures out to deliver a package 
 and see what else the world has to offer him.
  
  Along the way, Cecil will meet nearly a dozen characters that will join him on his journey for 
 redemption and the true value of the crystals. They all have different job types from bards, to 
 spellcasters. 
  
  Battles in the game are fairly old school as they are random. You'll be walking in a cave or on 
 the overworld and then suddenly, you'll be thrust into battle. Battles are turn based but characters 
 and enemies both are on the active time battle system. There is a white bar that fills up and when 
 it does, the character can choose to perform actions. There is quite a bit of strategy to the game 
 especially for the boss battles, because the key is to have the right balance of spell casting, 
 attacking and various other techniques. 
  
  In each battle, it is easy to identify what everything is and what status ailments characters have. 
 Also, if enemies are affected, this will show as well. I especially love it when enemies are paralyzed 
 and they actually stop moving! All the spells in the game increase in vibrancy as they get stronger 
 while summon spells have actual cut scenes that are very entertaining to watch but you can always 
 skip them if you've seen them too many times.
  
  Visually speaking, the game is wonderful and pushes the DS to it's limits. All the characters are 
 beautiful and the game runs at a smooth rate and never gets choppy in my experience. The polygons 
 aren't going to blow anyone away and it looks much like a Playstation 1 game, which is pretty good 
 for a portable system.
  
  The sounds of the game are fairly standard and effective as the heavy axe sounds really like it's 
 coming down on an enemies' head when it makes contact. Many of the sounds are from the original 
 game and the music is almost exactly the same.
  
  Each character has unique abilities that others do not have. Rosa has the ability to pray granting 
 more life and magic points to party members while Kain has the ability to jump and land down on 
 enemies causing more damage. Since you'll be going through many characters, they'll be leaving 
 you at certain junctures of the game. What this version of the game has is augments. After characters 
 leave, it is possible to have their skills passed onto other characters so in a way, their unique 
 abilities are still around long after they are no longer in your party.
  
  Another new edition to this version is Rydia's pet, Whyt. Rydia can summon Whyt and he will replace 
 Rydia in battle. Although you can not control Whyt, he does perform abilities that you equip him 
 with and so he can do a lot of maneuvers other characters can not. Whyt's stats can be improved 
 by playing little mini games and you can also battle other player's Whyt's through Nintendo wi-fi.
 
  
  One of the welcome additions, is the adding of the map. As you progress in dungeons and caverns, 
 the bottom screen is automatically filled in, making it a lot easier for subsequent visits.
  
  If anyone has played the Game Boy Advance version, there were a few extra dungeons and secrets 
 that were not available in other versions of the game. The Nintendo iteration does not have the 
 extras but what it misses in that is surely compensated in the great wealth of challenge and the 
 other additions in this version of the game.
  
  Extra content also comes in the way of the Namingway side quest. Originally, Namingway can change 
 the names of your characters but with voice acting, this makes this impossible and so instead, 
 Namingway can be seen on your journey in many different occupations. 
  
  Also, the game allows the new game + feature that was available back in the days of Chrono Trigger, 
 allowing players to play the game a 2nd and a final 3rd time with some previous items and abilities 
 making the game easier and also having secret bosses that are much more difficult than the regular 
 ones. With this feature, the game's replayability is increased and the game can push easily beyond 
 forty hours the first play through.
  
  One of the notable improvements over the original is the story. Back in 1991, Final Fantasy II 
 had a very good story to deliver but some of it was lost in the translation. Though it came off 
 epic at the time, many felt it could have been much better if only it was translated more accurately. 
 This cavalcade does not disappoint and it is greatly improved. The prose and diction is spot on 
 and with the addition of voice acting, this version is the most polished yet to be seen. For some, 
 Cecil comes off a little whiny but other than that, few have complaints and I believe they did 
 a fairly good job of casting the voices.
  
  Even if you're a seasoned veteran of the game, it won't mean the game will be easy for you. Many 
 of the old strategies simply don't work well and the game is generally more difficult forcing players 
 to think through more carefully. One of the things I noticed that makes this version significantly 
 better than the original is the fact that spells like hold, slow, and silence can actually affect 
 bosses. This only adds to the strategic value of the game and the characters are much more unique 
 and useful than in previous version forcing players to adapt to the new difficulty.
  
  The game doesn't utilize the stylus very much. You can direct your character with the stylus but 
 other than that, there is no other use. This doesn't really detract from the game but it is something 
 to note.
  
  In the end, Final Fantasy IV does a good job of blending the old with the new. With updated graphics 
 and keeping the core classic game play intact, old fans and newer fans should enjoy this romp into 
 old school gaming. I recommend this game but get ready for it to be fairly difficult!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: glacier76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Okay, i know everybody seems to think this is the best Final Fantasy story ever.. or something, 
 but I have played every single Final Fantasy game.. (7 and 10 blow this completely out of the water) 
 and this is one of the weakest in my oppinion. Not once in this game, have I really cared about 
 any of the characters. You spend so much time fighting... like every 5 steps.. that you tend to lose 
 track of anything else. The graphics are good, the gameplay is good, the cut scenes leave a lot 
 to be desired, (the opening scene makes the game look amazing.. when in reality, it looks "meh") 
 and most of the boss fights are tough, until you figure out the right recipe. The usual FF ingredients 
 are there, but nothing really spectacular. The flying black chocobos are cool though. You get several 
 ships (both hovering, and flying) and the world isn't all that large, so it's hard to get lost 
 in it. 
  
  I don't know about you, but I love side quests! FF games are infamous for their array of off the 
 beaten path quests for special weapons and [summoning] creatures. This game seems to lack that. 
 There is the side quest for a special weapon that you will never get until you beat the game.. and 
 a few for eidelons... but they are so weak in execution, you wonder if Square-Enix threw them in 
 there as an afterthought.
  
  The voice acting in this game was welcome.. and while it wasn't fantastic... it seemed to fit pretty 
 well. And the brutality toward some of the main characters makes things more interesting... if only 
 for a brief period. And the names... oh lord... the names are terrible. If only you could change 
 them. It's hard to like a main character whose name is "Cecil". But, what's in a name anyway? And 
 what's with all the items? 95% of all the items you find in the game.. you never use, or even need 
 to use. Seems sorta wasteful... if they had spent that extra data space on high quality cut scenes 
 instead... this game may have been more memorable.
  
  For a DS game, this is pretty good, I would recommend it to anyone. I think FF3 is better, and 
 still not even close to any on the major consoles. But don't get me wrong, i have enjoyed this 
 game fully. There are things I wish were different... being a FF fan for 17 years and all, this 
 just seems to fall short of my expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Closetpan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  This updated version is a lot easier for new comers to the FF franchise to become familar with 
 the older games. Tring to play lets say the PS version if you are not a die hard is impossible. 
 This lets you feel the joy of the older game with enough tweaks to make it a must have for any 
 one intrested in what made the Final Fantasy franchise so wildly popular. This is one of the more 
 engaging story lines compared to FF 1-3 anyway. It was a joy for me to play because my first experience 
 in FF was 8 and well at the time (well maybe even now) that was one of my favorite video games and 
 this version lets me delve into the past of the franchise and fall in love with the older chapters 
 of teh FF franchise. The fact that this game has been made more difficult is not a problem with 
 me. In fact I want to see more games that it make take me a couple of trys to get through. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrenthsSlayer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Ever since FFX, I've been hooked on the JRPG series Final Fantasy. They all have wonderful stories 
 and characters that make you feel so immersed in the imaginary world (however losing Yang was too 
 much to bear - HE WAS AWESOME!) .
  
  You take the role of Cecil, a dark knight (lol, Dark Knight) of the King of Baron's elite crew, 
 the Red Wings. After liberating the Water Crystal from the defenseless town of Mysidia, the king 
 relinquishes your command of the Red Wings. Cecil begins to question why his King has changed from 
 goodhearted to almost menacing. After meeting many characters, you find out a man named Golbez 
 is controlling the King, and you set out to find and save the other 2 Crystals (Golbez has taken 
 the Crystal by the time you find out about him.) There's still a lot more, but I've given too many 
 spoilers as it is (plus it's a REALLY long story.)
  
  Multiplayer I haven't tried yet so I won't go into detail.
  
  This is truly an amazing game, 
 and I don't know why a Robot fighting game is #1 instead of this (go to DS page.) Oh, and unless 
 you've played FFXII, don't play Revenant Wings. A Wikipedia plot summary doesn't cover everything. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Striker2117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  People who know me, know that I hated the original FF4. Whether it was the rudeness of characters 
 randomly leaving your party without giving back the expensive weapons, the anger at having just 
 raised Cecil as a dark knight and getting a good weapon, only to have him turn Paladin and not 
 be able to use it, or the set levels for learning magic. The DS version has fixed some of my original 
 issues, and out in some new things to keep me happy. First of all, even though a character leaves 
 your party, you can obtain augments to allow other characters to learn their skill. They also included 
 some fun mini-games that allow you to increase the stats of Rydia's new summon, and net you items. 
 The 3d and the cutscenes are spectacular. The bosses have been slightly changed, so don't expect 
 to be replaying the same battles as before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brysterdude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 4 for the GameBoy Advance did not have me convinced, within 5 minutes of not knowing 
 what to do, I gave up. That's the magic of Final Fantasy 4 for the DS, the graphics and voice-overs 
 and extra mini-games really do draw you in!
  
  And one thing that I absolutely love ABOUT this game is that it's not your classical "Oh no, a 
 dark wizard took over the word, now we need to save it!" It focuses more on adult matter and problems 
 (Love, lust, hatred, revenge, sacrifice, ect.) So it's not your garden variety, Final Fantasy 4 
 really tries something new for the RPG genre, and it works well for it!
  
  The controls are great, the battle system is fantastic (With options to slow it down, or speed 
 it up, which is nice for old players or newbies) .
  
  Now, the one thing earning this game a 9.5 out 10 is it is very hard! You can try a boss ten times, 
 and find out you only had to use silence on it the first turn, then you could just beat it up! 
 (Of course, my solution if I can't beat a boss - level up 5 times and try it again!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_cain341
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy has been a milestone in Square's corporate life since the 90s and from what I hear, 
 it saved the company bust.
  
  The Review....
  
  In Final Fantasy IV, you get to once again walk in the shoes of the beloved character, Cecil and 
 his friends. However, you first experience with this all-time classic is the new graphics engine, 
 moves and maps. Another thing to notice is that this game entitles you to a new feature called 
 augments. Augments are basically new commands you can acquire while completing the game and pass 
 those augments (commands) on to your characters. For me, I used Twincast for Rosa and Rydia (Adult 
 Rydia) since they fit the twins you get in the quest nicely.
  
  Anyway, other things to take into consideration is the new life they breathed into the fight scenes 
 and also in the cinematics. The fight scenes are similar to Final Fantasy VII. While all those 
 things are great, I docked some points from the game because of the new art they used for the characters. 
 Personally, I would prefer my characters to have more meat on their bones but this game makes the 
 characters have tiny feet and legs that appear nearly stick-like. However, that is such a trivial 
 thing that the game still scored quite well in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScarletBeast
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  The best remake of any game I have ever played. I fell in love with the story and the characters 
 all over again. I was waiting on this remake for a while it has definitely lived up to my lofty 
 expectations. The graphics and soundtrack are both outstanding. Final Fantasy IV is one of my favorite 
 games of all-time and I would recommend this title to anyone with a pulse. The DS upgrades are 
 a nice touch and the stylus usage is optional (more or less) . I was glad to find that out since 
 I was such a huge fan of the original and didn't want the gameplay to deviate from that too  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Regalias
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 18, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  Personally, i felt that the new final fantasy IV have been properly laid out for us, the players! 
 Firstly, as a fan for FFIV since the beginning, I love how the game have been brought out in 3D 
 and this helps to give the players a better view in the story of the game. 
  
  The story has been nicely brought out in a way that there is quite a number of playable characters 
 and it has also smartly brought out the characters inner thoughts as you opened your menu screen. 
 
  
  The gameplay is great just like how the GBA version were. Personally, I felt that turn-based games 
 are quite slow as you have to wait for your next turn and it tends to take a lot of time. But FFIV 
 is an active-based game so players who are hyper-active like me must picked up this game!
  
  Secondly, the bosses have been beautifully performed in the game. Unlike other boss in other 
 games, the boss in this game tend to be tricky for players. (For example, Rubricante can only be 
 attacked when he lay down his cape a little but you also have to watch out for his "inferno") and 
 you also have to instantly format a battle plan to counter back, but if you are lazy, you can always 
 look for FAQ.
  
  Next, the music in the game is amazing. It could be easily dubbed as the best background music 
 in all the games I have been playing. (especially the "love" song)
  
  Not only the game is active, tricky and also enjoyable, 
  there are also minigames like wyth's 
 training and also the subplots such as the namingway. I personally like how the little rabbit changes 
 its name and nickname.
  
  Lastly, the ships are so beautiful that I almost cry when I saw Lunar Whale. Recalling the same 
 Lunar Whale in the GBA version, it has transformed so much but it has also preserved its colour. 
 And lets not forget about the ediolons (AKA creatures that can be summoned) All the time favorites 
 have come back for the play, I personally like Ifrit riding his own little rock-board and smash 
 the opponent in a meteor-like way. 
  
  But there are some flaws in the game. Unlike the GBA version, this version of FFIV does not possess 
 the after-game adventure. I recall after you defeated Zenomus, you can go to this face-shaped rock 
 to gain some powerful weapons (such as the all-powerful lightbringer) Sigh*, if only this game posses 
 the lightbringer, I would have slaughter all the monsters out there, haha... just kidding)
  
  There is also the voice-making problem. Yea I know a lot of people had pinpoint this problem 
 but I just wished the voice making can have more emotions, sometimes the voice were just monotone (sorry 
 for all these criticisms) 
  
  Lastly, this game is a great example for all the other games out there to follow as this game shows 
 how to make a great game using the DS and I just hope more games can be the same as this one. 
 
  
  9.0/10 --Gameplay
  8.7/10 --Music
  8.0/10 --Visual effects
  10.0/10 -- Story
  7.5/10 --Voice-making
  9.9/10 --Intro video
  
  (PS* -I just bring out all those categories 
 that I think I should rate this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlookgood
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  At the first look: Wow!!!!! But further you play, more the deception you'll feel. I've made it 
 7 time in my life from different version and I ever, ever found it so tough than this version!!! 
 I knew the game is not too long but why square enix made this to Final 4 !!!! Sorry guys but I 
 can't put a 8 or a 9 just because it's so hard 'cause I love this Final more than all the other 
 one and I've hope the best for this version but my verdict rest the same even if the cinematics 
 is good, the graphics is good and the details are amazing. All the adds are cool too: Pochad, ability's, 
 etc... But all the hard monster is soooooo bad. It's not Final Fantasy when you hit yourself for 
 cure the party... Please, if you're from Square Enix and you've read this, do not make this to 
 Final 6 if you want to remake it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGamerVII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  OHHHHH ITS SOOOO GOOOOOD.
  And thats what you'll be saying once you pick it up.
  Promise. I'm a vertibrate
  
  The original Squaresoft classic is brought back to life in Final 
 Fantasy IV for the DS. The voiceover (though it may be mediocre at times) adds new life to the 
 game as well as the new 3D makeover. As a fan of Final Fantasy I was skeptical of the new makeover, 
 but the final product is even more amazing than the original. The bosses are still the most beautifully 
 brutal in the Final Fantasy series, and the updates in the games translation eliminate the confusing 
 "engrish" in the original. The only flaw I found in the game was that when you defeat a boss, like 
 in Final Fantasy III, when they begin to fade their insides polygon to their outsides, but that 
 is a pretty minor con compared to the pro's of this title.
  
  This game takes the original classic and leaves another page in the book of the greatest games 
 ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin6
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy IV (originally II on the SNES) is my best game of all times so it is hard for me 
 to dislike this remake. But it could still have been a bad game if they had changed too many things 
 in it, but forntunatly, the improvements on the graphics are just perfect and the game feels like 
 the old one. 
  
  So the new graphics are not exceptional but very nice and it looks good on the DS, so I have nothing 
 to complain on that regard. The music remains the same I believe, if they changed anything you 
 can't realy notice it, and it's a very good thing of course...
  
  The new features in this version are very interresting, like the augment abilities. With this new 
 feature, you can learn abilities from the characters that do not finish the game in the final team, 
 and even some new ones that you can unlock. This is nice but also complicated when you don't know 
 how it works. Fortunately you can search and find details about it on the internet, to understand 
 it better, because you can miss some abilities or rare items that you cannot get later in the game, 
 unless you restart a new game...
  
  Overall Final Fantasy IV on the DS is a very solid game and I recommend it to anyone...
  
  
 Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy II was released on the SNES in 1992, and overcame a shoddy translation to become 
 one of the best RPGs of all time. The game deserves such recognition, still to this day, being 
 arguably the first story-based RPG, using a new narrative structure to create a game that still 
 surpasses modern RPGs on the consoles today. When Square-Enix released Final Fantasy IV Advance 
 to the GBA, it turned out we'd all been fooled; Final Fantasy II on the SNES wasn't, in fact, the 
 second official game in the series. It was the fourth. But without mincing words or confiusing 
 numbers, the GBA port was excellent, only held back by a small smattering of technical difficulties 
 that came with the hardware.
  
  Now, roughly three years later, that game is risen again on the Nintendo DS. Love 'em or hate 'em, 
 the Final Fantasy remakes on the DS are very high quality; if more developers did this kind of 
 deal we'd be a very happy bunch of gamers. The first remake, Final Fantasy III DS, was an excellent, 
 hard-core RPG from many moons ago, with gameplay aging as subtly as red wine. In contrast, Final 
 Fantasy IV was the invention of a new kind of game in its time, and in that respect, this new remake 
 tries to make a hard-core game out of something that simply isn't. Considering how close the gap 
 was from the GBA version and how near the DS version gets to the very best version of an excellent 
 game, it's hard to call the game bad, but it's also hard to call the game great.
  
  The biggest issue is the gamer-set this game is trying to reach. It felt that III DS, no matter 
 how hard or unfriendly it may be, was toned exactly for a very specific set of hard-core RPG players. 
 IV (in any iteration) never was meant to be that game. It was designed to be much like the flashy 
 new story-based console sequels; a little easy, and more about having a good time with the story, 
 awesome battle system and sci-fi fantasy setting than being finicky with the gameplay. It was a 
 mainstream game, proving that everyone could enjoy an RPG if the game was good enough. Too bad 
 the DS remake is extremely difficult, and has very little fun with the whole package. Instead of 
 trying to gather new fans, it makes a harder Master's Quest version of a game that certainly didn't 
 need it.
  
  Perhaps it has to do with the real-time battle system. Rather than take planned turns like in other 
 turn-based RPG games, FFIV takes an approach much like other Square RPGs; a bar for each character 
 fills up, and when the bar is full the player attacks. In other Final Fantasy games its heckuva 
 fun, mostly because this makes a non-interactive story a video game in definition, adding an exhilarating 
 set of emotions to a story that very well could be a novel. In IV DS, the battles are the challenge 
 and often an annoyance, and suddenly they lose their novelty. The story, something that made IV 
 so special, is now pushed to the side for these too-long, too-difficult battles that occupy too 
 much of the game-time. It doesn't help that the player has to stop and level-grind every half-hour. 
 They used to be quick, rewarding and easy; now they're long, drawn-out and often life-threatening. 
 
  
  Maybe it's the length of the dungeons. Caves that were fairly sizable on the GBA have multiplied 
 their size by three or four, and each of these rooms twist and turn into overly annoying maze-like 
 areas to draw out every possible random encounter. A lot of the dungeons are so thick with monsters 
 that it's hard to take a step without a gang of enemies attacking. What this leads to is a long, 
 tedious, and difficult torture-the-gamer sequence, and considering roughly half the game takes 
 place in some sort of dungeon, there's a bit of oversight involved if these aren't at least amusing. 
 In fact, I typically speed through the caves, ignoring monsters, chests and the map, because the 
 dungeons are simply not fun. Ever. They're long and annoying and get in the way of what is fun 
 in this game; by the end of it, a hard boss fight feels like a relief.
  
  I don't want to completely rule the game out. Those boss fights mentioned above are horribly entertaining, 
 using the most strategy and action than any other point in the game, and they're remixed in this 
 new version with new attacks and weaknesses. Occasionally, the game does show its more beautiful 
 colors in even random encounters; it feels like VII or X in the Final Fantasy series; excellent, 
 tight, and thoroughly enjoyable, and more advanced and sophisticated than other DS RPG games that 
 are more interested in beating the player down than having a good time. But IV DS only has fleeting 
 glimpses of these wisps of genius. For every engaging battle there are twenty that are as joyous 
 as a root canal.
  
  And then when the story does peek its little head out of the hole, it's a shadow of the intent 
 that went into the SNES game in the first place. The Advance translation was excellent and well 
 written, boasting a good vocabulary and sophisticated additions to scenes to make them completely 
 understandable. To upgrade many parts from SNES sprites, IV DS has voiceovers during key cut-scenes, 
 which are usually very well done and directed with aplomb (the voices are pretty well cast, for 
 the most part) . But these scenes usually have clipped, melodramatic dialogue, many times to save 
 space in the voiceovers, and these overly formal lines never sound natural. Many times IV DS feels 
 like its parodying itself, especially with the voices reading these stuffy and idiotic lines and 
 trying to make them sound somewhat realistic in a world with a visual style of a claymation holiday 
 special. The voices highlight the ridiculousness of the plot and writing to the point that I prefer 
 to shut both voice and subtitles off and watch the stilted characters silently animate, a modification 
 that makes the story's presentation much more hilarious than intended.
  
  The game's writing in most other areas is solid, but nothing special. Several scenes that had a 
 lost-in-translation flavor on the GBA are now completely clear and poignant, and the 3D engine 
 can show emotion and movement in ways that the original IV developers never even dreamed of. A 
 lot of scenes in the original game were conceptually cool, but here they really are epic and moving 
 (like the many Peter Jackson style battles the SNES simply could not do) . But the game overall 
 feels too close to the Advance version, adding only a few little nudges and winks that add little 
 to the game itself along with the technical improvements - "You spoony bard" is still in, good 
 for them, and slowdown is a long-lost memory - making the game, while superior in many respects, 
 a little too stale for its own good. 
  
  The new Whyt custom-summon nonsense is fun for roughly thirteen seconds, and besides a few mind-bending 
 touch screen mini-games, there's practically nothing new to keep veterans interested. There's a 
 sound test and bestiary function as usual, and the music can be listened to even when the DS is 
 closed, which is a nice touch. At least the touch screen is getting some use here, with a handy 
 new map that spawns rewards for a fully explored dungeon, often worthy enough to bother messing 
 with. Even the new CGI movie is still looking pretty fancy, though with even more compression than 
 the one in III DS. But otherwise the new additions are extremely under-whelming; it made me wonder 
 sometimes why I'm playing when I beat this game several times before.
  
  I don't like saying that the remake of IV was bad. It wasn't by any means. The music is faithful 
 and beautiful, the graphics are the same stunning quality that we've seen from Square's DS engine, 
 and many sections of the game do improve upon the awkward SNES storytelling. It's just that IV 
 was on the GBA not that long ago (many gamers have been playing that on their DS anyway) , and the 
 improvements work for the overall experience only a fraction of the time. I don't regret buying 
 it, but I can't say I'm entirely pleased with this remake. It shows the DS can pull off sophisticated 
 RPG and storytelling, but in the same breath shows exactly what not to do, with dumb writing and 
 overly convoluted gameplay. Though Final Fantasy IV DS may fix a lot of things wrong with the GBA 
 version, it never, at the end of the day, surpasses it as a better edition.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegamemonkey
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy IV is one of the best RPG's that you can find on the DS. Further explanation follows 
 in the next few paragraphs. 
  
  GamePlay : Final Fantasy IV does not bring anything new when it comes to the combat system. Thankfully, 
 It doesn't need anything new to be enjoyable, because it uses the traditional RPG style that we 
 all know and love, And there is certainly nothing wrong with that.
  
  Graphics: Outstanding. The visuals in this game are equaled by a very small handful of other DS 
 games. Square-Cnix has truly pushed the DS to it's limits. While watching the cut scenes, you might 
 wonder how they managed to pull it off. 
  
  Sound: The sound featured in Final Fantasy IV is both good and bad. The sound itself is good because 
 much like the graphics, have made a huge breakthrough. With voice acting in the cut scenes. The 
 bad part is that the acting is really bad. (spoilers ahead) I mean, when a small child knows that 
 they are going to die in moments to come, they would not sound so darn happy about it. Try explaining 
 that to the actors. (End spoilers) Overall the good outweighs the bad when it comes to sound.
 
  
  Control: The control style is good and responsive. There is not much use of the touch screen though. 
 I Suppose that's for the best. 
  
  Replay Value: Lasts about 4 to 6 weeks. After you beat the game, there is not much reason to play 
 again though. 
  
  Overall: This is a fantastic game that is certainly worth buying. I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalfantasy77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  Final Fantasy IV for the DS is amazing, you WILL get your money's worth out of this game, it is 
 an incredible game and will keep your DS glued to your hand for a long time. FFIV is one of the 
 best final fantasy games to date, even back on the original it was amazing, and then they remade 
 it for Gameboy Advance, and now they remade it to DS, and the DS version is better than the original. 
 If you've never played FFIV before, you're in for an amazing experience that you will constantly 
 enjoy.
  
  You will embark on a journey a Cecil, a heroic man who believes in doing the right thing. However, 
 Cecil surly can't do this by himself, so while on your journey as Cecil, you will encounter many 
 friends and foes, you will either befriend them, or battle them. However, don't always be deceived 
 by an appearance, because sometimes, your friends might not be what they seem. 
  
  The difficulty is challenging, but easy enough so that you can get through a boss or part in the 
 game, without spending 6 hours on it. The only part of the game that may take a while, is leveling 
 up your party, because like any RPG, if your fighting a specific boss or monster and your party 
 is a low level, you'll have to level them up.
  
  The voices in the cutscenes are a little weak and too dramatic, but you can get around that, because 
 you really shouldn't be buying it for the scenes. The design on the characters are very well done 
 and it looks amazing.
  
  If you are a final fantasy fan, an RPG fan, or someone who just wants to get a game that they will 
 enjoy and play more than once, I strongly suggest getting Final Fantasy IV for the DS. Enjoy! ^.^
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: poohbear12
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  Continues the trend fromFFIII by having full 3-d graphics, PS2 style CGI intro. Good length, familiar 
 territory in the story. Level grinding.
  
  The Bad:
  Aside from the graphics, and the 'augment' system, there's nothing new here. Random battles. No 
 changing job classes.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  OK, I'll cut to the chase here. Yes, the graphics are superior to the GBA version of this game, 
 but what an unfair comparison that is! Honestly, the in-game graphics are good, but not really 
 any better than, say, Dragon Quest Monster Joker. So, while you will be blown away by the opening 
 credits, the in-game engine is good, but not really any better than any other 3d game for the DS 
 this year.
  
  I love the FF series, because it plays into what I love about RPGs: story, grinding up, and character 
 customization. Unfortunately, FFIV lacks the ability to alter the character much, aside from the 
 addition of 'augments', which are special abilities scattered through the world that you can stick 
 onto a character to enable them to cast a particular spell, attract hits, or better use items. 
 It's as if they left the customization in FFTA2, avoiding it completely here. But, the story is 
 faithful to other versions, the characters are good (although the voice acting is FULL of FAIL) , 
 and you can grind up to uberpowerful if you so desire.
  
  So is this game worth it? Yes. It is a long game, lovely to look at and listen to. The random battle 
 system is woefully outdated, but not enough reason to avoid the game. If you are looking for a 
 somewhat continuation of FF3 on the DS, this one should satisfy the need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kothos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy 2... I mean 4 for the Nintendo DS is an excellent game, period. I have never played 
 the original so I'm starting fresh at this game. "What?! You've never played this classic RPG before? 
 Blasphemer!" you say. I know, I know. I wasn't into RPGs when it came out on the SNES back in the 
 day and I do have the port on the PSX but never played more than an hour into it.
  
  That being said, I think I have a somewhat unique perspective on this game as opposed to just about 
 everyone else out there who has played this game before.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Pure and simple, the best the DS has to offer, especially those in-game engine cutscenes. The still 
 pics on Gamespot don't really do the in-game graphics justics. I have noticed some graphical inconsistencies 
 and a few missing textures (in very inconspicuous places) so the graphics get a score of...
  
  9.5/10
  
  Story:
  
  This game has a great story and I can see why so many people love 
 it and call it a classic. It has great, well thought out characters each with a distinct personality 
 of their own. There are tense scenes, there are tender scenes and everything else in between that 
 you've come to expect from a final fantasy game (and really, they started with this game) . I give 
 the story a score of...
  
  10/10
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Classic Final Fantasy turn based battle system with a few extra tweaks thrown in there for good 
 measure. The augments are a nice addition to the classic gameplay and the mini games involving 
 Rydia's new summon Whyt are interesting and fun to play. 
  
  That being said, this has to be the most linear final fantasy game I've played. Not in terms of 
 the story because they do give you plenty of chances to go off on your own before you do anything 
 story related but because the job classes. You get no freedom with a character's job classes. Sure 
 some change their job class once but you don't have any freedom to say... turn Cecil into a Black 
 Mage, or a Warrior, or a Thief, or what have you. I can see why they limited it though... most 
 of the characters with their specific job classes are tied in with the story. The gameplay gets 
 a score of...
  
  9.5/10
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in this game is quite good. The soundtracks are fun to listen to though I wish there 
 were more. Pretty much every town has the same music, each cave pretty much has the same music, 
 etc...
  
  This game is the first DS Final Fantasy game to feature voice acting. The acting for the most part 
 is fairly good and each character's voice sounds appropriate for each character. It could have 
 been better but with the limited budget for a DS game they got what they could. The sound gets 
 a score of...
  
  9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kminer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy IV DS is a complete remake of what many American gamers know as Final Fantasy II 
 for the SNES. IV was the first 16-bit FF game, and the story was more detailed, the characters 
 more complex, and the graphics and sound more believable than ever before. The DS version keeps 
 the complex and interesting story intact (with a better translation) and features vastly improved 
 character and location graphics in a 3D world. This portable RPG holds its own against anything 
 available for the DS/PSP and is a must-play for fans of Final Fantasy or those looking for a story-driven 
 RPG. It is better than the previous Advance version, which was just a port, and the Playstation 
 version with its long load times. 
  
  There are many plot twists that keep the player moving onward in uncovering the story details and 
 defeating the ultimate enemy. Cecil's starts as a pawn of the enemy, and ultimately weaves through 
 a complex tale to right the wrongs he has committed and save the world from a great evil. The supporting 
 characters are some of the most memorable in Final Fantasy history, even more so because the player 
 has no control over scripted events that decide who gets to be in your party. I loved FF VI (6) 
 also, but some of the characters were non-essential to the story. In IV (4) , every character has 
 a purpose, and sometimes they show up to help out unexpectedly. 
  
  I'm about halfway through the DS version and it is both a nostalgic trip and a genuinely good RPG 
 that paved the way for greats such as FF VII (where's my PS3 version, Square?)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDrew64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  It took some patience to enjoy final fantasy 3 for ds but thats not the case with this game. this 
 is the best remake of any remake of an early final fantasy game and it managed to be better than 
 the original game. Having a great game be brought back with 3D graphics and voice acting and other 
 great features like whyt mini-games while keeping the main game is simply amazing.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  The atb battle system was first introduced in the original final fantasy 4 and 
 its in this game and it's not the first time i've used it in another game. I prefer the atb over 
 turn based considering you know when to heal and stuff if you get hurt and you dont have to wait 
 until the turn is done and other people can kill you first. A few of the things in this game that 
 really made me happy was SAVE POINTS! inside dungeons and of course dungeon maps. i didn't know 
 that if you filled them in you would get rewards, it reminds of star ocean til the end of time 
 except these rewards are more useful than a scale bunny. one of the both good and bad things about 
 this game is that you don't have to worry about jobs and worrying about the status effects the 
 jobs will have on your character.
  
  Story 9/10
  The story in this game is a lot more understandable than most stories in the final fantasy series 
 and the translation is more understandable than the original. The story is somewhat the same as 
 a lot of games but it has its own twists and concepts. THE most important thing is that this story 
 makes sense and mostly understandable.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  you know you've really accomplished something when you manage to make a 16-bit game into a full 
 blown 3D masterpiece. These are excellent graphics for the DS and probably the best.
  
  Music/sound 8.5/10
  I'm not big on sound in a video game but sometimes it just makes it better. 
 there is music that makes you know that you are playing a final fantasy game and of course the 
 classic end of battle sound. of course the voice acting isnt great but it is a good addition and 
 a first for the remakes.
  
  Replay value 10/10
  This game has plenty of extras and a new game+ but you will mostly want to make your original file 
 the best you can and beat all the bonus stuff.
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  it's almost perfect and can sometimes be frustrating but it is probably my favorite ds game and 
 its definately a must play for final fantasy fans and ds owners and a gaming experience most would 
 find enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoraX64
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I myself had never played any incarnation of FF4 in my life, because I am pretty young. I had bought 
 FF3 for my DS and I really liked it, so I decided to give it a try. It just so happened to come 
 out on my birthday, so I got the money needed to buy it. I'm happy I did. Here is my review, breaking 
 down key categories:
  
  STORY: The story in this game is phenomenal, better than any I have ever seen in an RPG, especially 
 on the DS. You become more acquainted with the characters as you play, and it is really hard to 
 lose one of them through the storyline because you become so used to them and you grow to like 
 their personalities (except for a certain fat airship engineer that looks like he belongs in a 
 freak show, who is so hideous that my speakers threw up when he started talking)
  
  GRAPHICS: Now, everybody knows that the DS dosen't have the best graphics around, but the complete 
 3D overhaul given to this game is incredible. These are some of the best graphics I have seen on 
 the DS, and there is almost no problem with them. They even become higher quality when voiced cut 
 scenes start up. Amazing.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: The replay value for this game is pretty darn good. There are two new bosses added 
 that really challenge even a hardcore FF fan to beat them. Some side quests are present throughout, 
 and the game encourages you to play the New Game+, a new feature that allows you to start a new 
 game with all of the Augments (Abilities given to you by characters leaving the party forever, 
 though some are just found) you had in your previous play through.
  
  SOUND: Classic FF, not much needed here.
  
  GAME PLAY: The battle system in this game is simply 
 addictive and very simple to grasp, but hard to master. the ATB system allows you to stride away 
 from common turn-based, and closer to real time. Even though it is sometimes frustrating to not 
 be able to attack for a while if your character is slower, and sometimes it gets confusing, the 
 battle system is solid enough to carry this game far ahead of any other RPG on the DS.
  
  OVERALL: This game is very solid and well thought out, and I recommend it to any fan of RPG's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peach100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I started playing FF: IV I was already dragged into the charm that it portrays. I liked 
 Final Fantasy III immensely so I knew I would enjoy this game as well. This is the greatest Final 
 Fantasy addition for the DS since Final Fantasy III.
  
  The graphics are great considering the fact that it's being played on a DS. The voice acting is 
 weak, I admit that, but it's still funny to watch the characters and listen. And there isn't much 
 voice acting to begin with. There's mostly text to read.
  
  Right from the get-go the monsters in the caves were hard to beat. I enjoyed this though. Gives 
 me more of a reason to keep fighting them so I can level up. Makes the game longer and enjoyable.
 
  
  I've had fun with the boss battles so far. It was actually a challenge for me to beat the third 
 boss. You can say I'm bad at battles or I don't know how to handle them but all I know is that 
 I think it was a challenge and I enjoyed it. 
  
  I've already put in a substantial amount of time and I'm not even close to beating the game. Which 
 is just fine with me. I enjoy long games with good story lines.
  
  There's an amount of customization with your party that I've always enjoyed doing. There's a new 
 option called "Auto-Battle". When you press X in a battle you activate the moves that you chose 
 your party to use without you needing to pick the moves over and over. This was a cool new feature 
 that I use often in random battles.
  
  There's a new little guy added to the game as well. You can customize him with new body images 
 and even make his face. To train him you must play mini-games which in turn levels him up.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who has enjoyed Final Fantasy III. Personally though, I'd recommend 
 this game to anyone. It's such a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 8/10
  If you've played any other versions of the game you know what to expect and that is the very best 
 of its kind. Playing it again in 3D is a truly heart warming experience since the first time i 
 played this was back in 2000 when i was 6.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  First off i would like to thank squareenix for remakeing this game in marvelous 3D it truly brings 
 the story and gameplay to another level i mean the game was amazing before but now its a true jem. 
 Also cinematic cutscenes are a treat.
  
  Sound 9/10
  The music in this game fills my heart with memories and i can't help but hum along. As far as the 
 voice actings concerned it could have been better but i myself found in game voice acting to be 
 a great way to tell this classic tale.
  
  Value 10/10
  The story is of great lenght at abut 30 to 40 hours and the game makes you want to explore every 
 inch because if you do you get rewards and some nice goodies. also i found myself not feeling an 
 ounce of shame in paying 40.00 for this game since its the best way to play it and its in my top 
 10 games of all time.
  
  The Good
  Its ffiv at its best, emotional and heart -felt story, ceicel has never looked cooler,
  
  The 
 bad the gameplay is still the same ( which isn't such a bad thing) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madjik2k2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I actually rented an SNES from Blockbuster when this game first came out as Final Fantasy 2 here 
 in the states. I love this game, it's got a classy amount of characters, plenty of drama, the boss 
 fights are intense, it had everything that a true RPG fan looked for.
  
  Unfortunately I was a young gamer who didn't understand all the in's and out's of a good RPG, I 
 only knew that the game was fun, and high or hell water I was gonna do the best I could to finish 
 that game before I had to return it to the store. I failed, but now I CAN finish what I started 
 and get where I wanted to go.
  
  The story line so far is much as I remember it, you are the captain of a squad of elite soldiers 
 for the kingdom of Baron, called the Red Wings. You are sworn to the king and would never question 
 his motives, but one day, you simply cannot help yourself, for you and your men are sent to strike 
 at those who do not fight back, and to steal their crystal.
  
  The story is as riveting as always, and even though it feels a little choppy in some places, it 
 mostly moves you right along.
  
  The 3D graphics that have been added are a very nice touch, and make the game look better then 
 it ever has, and traversing many of these dungeons again in 3D instead of from a top down perspective 
 seems to make them feel a little larger.
  
  The voice acting is a little..... well, it's a bit TOO dramatic I think, I mean it's a nice addition 
 and all, and the voices seem to fit the characters they were assigned too, but over all, some of 
 it is a little over the top.
  
  Random Encounters are just as fun to play as they were back on the SNES, but watching some of those 
 spell effects come to life in a more 3D realm is just a joy to behold, even though they are a bit 
 simple. I can live with that though as I can't even begin to imagine how far this game pushes the 
 DS to it's limits.
  
  So far the game hasn't been too much trouble, though as I understand it, as you progress in the 
 game, it is supposed to become quite a bit more difficult then the SNES version of the game was. 
 So far though, it hasn't been much of anything that a little bit of grinding through a few levels 
 hasn't been able to take care of.
  
  There's been a nice improvement to the way dungeons work though. Nameingway comes along and gives 
 you a magic map that records your progress as you advance through the dungeon, 100% completion 
 of the map yeilds a nice reward of resources I wish I had had access too when I played this game 
 on the SNES.
  
  My recommendation is to try this game if your a fan of the SNES version, see what you think of 
 it. I've been having a blast, and cannot seem to put it down for very long. It feels like a "win" 
 remake to me =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_generation69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  Long before the American release, people already put a lot of expectations into this game. Knowing 
 that the Japanese release had been a hit, I decided to try this game after a not-so-good experience 
 playing FFTA2. Believe me, I've never really been a fan of the FF series, but there are some games 
 you have just gotta play, and this is one of them.
  
  Graphics: You might think that Zelda was the prime leader of 3D graphics on the DS, but trust me, 
 you'll be amazed by the quality of these. Simply superb, and not to mention that it's full 3D on 
 the top screen everywhere you go, be it caves, towns, the overworld, etc. 10/10, what more can 
 I say?
  
  Sound: Ok, so it's not as 'Wow' as the graphics quality, as some tracks do sometimes get repetitive 
 (the overworld one, for instance) , but you have that legendary 'Battle Won' theme, and that alone 
 is merit for a 9/10 (just kidding, nearly all the themes are good) .
  
  Gameplay: Basically, it's the same as any ol' RPG. I'm not going into the story here, but it's 
 neatly woven and the characters fit (it's a remake of an awesome game) . 
  
  Anyways, the battle system has a hybrid wait/active system where you can select if they attack 
 you when you selecting your attacks, or if enemies should wait for you to make your move. Random 
 battles are a little repetitive and the downfall of this game. It's literally a stop go stop go 
 game, whether you are in caves or the overworld, and it does get annoying after a while because 
 when you need to map caves, they appear so frequently. 
  
  However, the battle system works quite well, and you can set the speed. I recommend nothing below 
 3, or you'll waste a lot of time for your turns. Some people have said that the frame rate lowers 
 when battling, but I haven't experienced any kind of slowdowns yet.
  
  I'm not sure the difficulty is appropriate for some gamers, due to the fact that the bosses and 
 enemies seem quite strong all around, although I feel no major difficulty involved. 9/10
  
  Replay Value: You won't find much more than the main story. Sure, there are some mini-games, but 
 nothing too fancy. Story will hook you for around 20 hours, then it's goodbye. No WiFi whatsoever, 
 which is a shame, as it could be used for battles or trades. We're left with only the standard 
 wireless communication, which serves as much purpose as the e-Reader did back in the glorious GBA 
 era. 7/10
  
  Final Verdict: Overall, FFIV DS is a wonderful remake of one of the best FF games ever made. It's 
 charisma and fondness is unrivaled, and the graphics and sound sure make up for it. Gameplay is 
 solid, with some minor annoyances, and the replay value could have been better. Still, a game highly 
 recommended for any fan of RPG games. Get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eXecutor195
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 25, 2008 6:19 am PT
Review:  Story Of The Game
  
  FFIV puts you in the boots of dark knight Cecil; he's the captain of the royal airship squad, The 
 Red Wings. Cecil is charged by his king to seek out and retrieve all of the world's magic crystals, 
 but the king's methods cause Cecil to question his loyalty. Rebuked and demoted by His Highness, 
 Cecil is then sent out on a fool's errand to hunt down a great beast in the nearby Valley of Mist. 
 It is then the true adventure begins.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics have been redone from 2d into 3d. They are pretty good for the ds. 
  
  Gameplay
 
  
  This probably has some of the best gameplay on the ds. The control could not be easier if you tried. 
 In battles the controls are a snap. In the world map moving around could not be any simpler. However 
 when you have to land on a certain little island with your airship you may overshoot with your 
 airship once or twice. But that hardly gets in the way. That about does it for the control.
  
  REPLAY VALUE
  
  There isn't really a reason to play the game a second time unless you missed 
 something that you want to go back and get just to see what it does.
  
  Do I Need To Play The Other FF Games Before Getting This One?
  
  Haven't played Final Fantasy 
 IV before? Well, that's okay. You won't need to have played any previous games in the series to 
 find your feet with this remake. For those unfamiliar, the Final Fantasy games are generally unrelated 
 in terms of story (with a few exceptions and spin-off games) , so any RPG fan can jump right in 
 and go on a grand adventure.
  
  I havent yet passed the whole game, but I really recommend it to any rpg fan or just a gamer looking 
 for something new.
  
  Buy or rent? lol buy, because this game is pretty long.
  
  
  I hope this review helps you out.
  
  
  All The Best eXecutor195 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ethenia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  A masterpiece from the SNES era have been reborn on the Nintendo DS with full 3D Graphic and some 
 voice over. Has Final Fantasy IV lost its charm or it is still same as before or even better on 
 the Nintendo DS? Read on to find it out.
  
  Story  9/10
  The story of Final Fantasy IV has been given a new translation from the Japanese version rather 
 than using the old translation. The new translation are better in the sense that it fit into cut 
 scene, it manage to give cut scene more feeling as there are voice over. With the new translation 
 Final Fantasy IV is still able to retain it storyline without changing much. However in Final Fantasy 
 IV, there are more storyline which usually tells what happened in the past. So here is another 
 reason to get the DS version of Final Fantasy IV as it tells more story when the Gameboy Advance 
 or SNES don't.
  
  In Final Fantasy series, Final Fantasy IV standout as one of the better one where many fans will 
 agree. I will give a short summary of the story without spoiling anything. The story started with 
 a young guy name Cecil, who is the captain of the Baron's Red Wings, who is seeking for crystal 
 for the king. However, innocence people have involved in the situation and those people claim that 
 the crystal will have impact of the world. The story have mixed of love, betrayal and sacrificial. 
 With so much feeling in one game, you might think that it will be bad or complicated. But don't 
 worry, it fits the story perfectly. Final Fantasy IV offers a good storyline but not all will enjoy 
 it, but the story should appeal to most of the people who have played this game.
  
  Music  9/10
  Music of Final Fantasy IV is being composed by Nobuo Uematsu. Nobuo Uematsu is 
 famous for composing music for the Final Fantasy series, so Final Fantasy IV is no difference. 
 Final Fantasy IV soundtracks have been remixed by no other than Nobuo Uematsu himself. However, 
 due to the slight remixed of the original soundtrack, some fans claim that it is awful. But, me 
 myself and I believe many fans that found that the remixed version of the soundtrack is a lot better.
 
  
  Final Fantasy IV offers awesome soundtrack during the SNES era and now the soundtrack on Final 
 Fantasy IV still retain it awesomeness. The soundtrack itself is very epic which totally fits itself 
 into the environment and carry a lot of feeling. For example, the most popular music in Final Fantasy 
 IV which is Theme of Love. Therefore when playing this game, remember to use a headphone to have 
 the best effect for soundtrack in game.
  
  During important cut scenes, there will be voice acting. The voice acting is something new for 
 Final Fantasy IV DS which all the previous version of Final Fantasy doesn't contain. The voice 
 acting together with the new translation which totally made the cut scene a lot better. With voice-acting, 
 character now have more personalities than before. Sound effect is also one important aspect in 
 game, which is nicely done on Final Fantasy IV DS. In battles skills and magic have different sound 
 effect, with sound effect the game itself is better as the sound effect will not feel out-of-place.
 
  
  Graphic  9.5/10
  Final Fantasy IV is one of the many DS games that are able to have really good 3D graphic. All 
 the older version of Final Fantasy IV is all 2D base where 2D character on 2D map. However, Final 
 Fantasy IV DS is the first Final Fantasy IV to have a full 3D graphic. You might think that 3D 
 graphic on the DS will be all pixilated, but no. Final Fantasy IV uses both the top screen and 
 the bottom screen where the top screen usually displays the gameplay as for the bottom screen, 
 it is usually use for maps.
  
  Final Fantasy IV starts off with a FMV as the opening video for the game where all character looks 
 a lot better than the in-game graphic which lasted for around 3 minutes. As you should know, most 
 FMV does by Square Enix are top-notch. Enough with FMV now lets move on to in-game graphic. During 
 game, there are no FMV present, the cut scenes are represented by normal game graphic. There are 
 plenty to cut-scene so it actually covered up for no FMV in the main story itself.
  
  Final Fantasy IV is a 3D game as stated before where the characters, towns and maps are all in 
 3D. During battles, there is a difference between the normal battles and boss battles, normal battles 
 the camera are shown from the side where the monsters in on the left while you are standing on 
 the right. But during boss battles, the camera is shown from the back of the character meaning 
 that you will be seeing only the back view of your character.
  
  Now I am going to talk about sprites. Firstly the character sprites have 2 versions, one is the 
 FMV type while the other is in-game type. The in-game character sprites are just a step down of 
 the FMV sprites so they look similar but do not look as great as the FMV sprites. The character 
 also looks exactly like those from the previous Final Fantasy IV where the sprites are 2D, however 
 in the DS version it look bigger and clearer but in 3D. During game, when you changed your weapons, 
 your sprites will change as well. However, it only applies to weapon. Secondly is the monster and 
 the non-playable character (NPC) , both the monster and NPC sprites look exactly like those in 2D 
 but bigger and clearer and of course in 3D. Lastly is the town and map, the map and town still 
 retain it same old structure but it have been remake graphically where now it look clearer and 
 is in 3D.
  
  Lastly about graphic, I am going to talk about skills and magic animations. During battles, skills 
 and magic are very important, if the animation for both skills and magic is bland it would be very 
 bad. However, in Final Fantasy IV for most of the skills and magic animation, most of them look 
 very awesome and some of them can even give you a "wow!" expression. In skills and magic, summons 
 stand out the most as the animation is being supported by a cut-scene then followed by the damage.
 
  
  Gameplay 8.5/10
  Final Fantasy IV is a Role Playing Game (RPG) where there is story to follow and need level to 
 proceed further into the game. As you know that most Final Fantasy, the party only allows 3 or 
 4 members only. However, Final Fantasy IV allows 5 members in the party. You might say that it 
 is unbalance but enemies party can be up to 6. Final Fantasy IV have higher difficulties compare 
 to the other versions as boss battle need strategy now.
  
  Final Fantasy IV uses the Active Time Battle (ATB) system, where there is a bar to charge and if 
 the bar have charge finish you can input commands for your character to perform. The speed of the 
 battle is determine by the setting you made in game, it can be fast or it can be slow and more 
 importantly there is slow and active mode. In slow mode, when you input commands, the enemy bar 
 will stop charging while in the active mode even if you are choosing what are you going to do the 
 next turn the enemy bar will carry on charging. So the difficulties can be control but the boss 
 battle is still tough.
  
  Like in most RPG genre, leveling and buying equipment in always there and Final Fantasy IV is no 
 difference. You would need to level up and buy better equipment to kill stronger monster to advance 
 into the story line or to make the game easier. Monster in Final Fantasy gives experience point 
 and gil where is needed to level up and buy equipment. To encounter monster, you will need to walk 
 around the map and random monster will pop out, this is called random battle. There are others 
 way to encounter monster as well like using items.
  
  Final Fantasy IV does not have job system that is similar to Final Fantasy III or Final Fantasy 
 V. Final Fantasy IV already have a specific job for each character, so you need not have to worry 
 of changing too much on the job. In the DS version of Final Fantasy IV, it has something call augment 
 which allowed you to use other character skills. I won't elaborate on it as it contain major spoiler. 
 Also in DS version of Final Fantasy IV character abilities have been revamped. For instant certain 
 character is not longer useless as they are useless in the previous version of Final Fantasy IV.
 
  
  Some nice addition to Final Fantasy IV has improved the gameplay for Final Fantasy IV such as the 
 auto-play features. This features allow help players who are doing grinding, with this features 
 players need not need to input commands as the computer itself will choose to attack for you, all 
 you need to do is to press the "x" button to activate or deactivate the features. There are other 
 features such as if you explore 100% on this particular map, you will be awarded with prize. There 
 are other extras where you can find in the DS version of Final Fantasy IV
  
  Multiplayer / Wifi  5/10
  Final Fantasy IV does not have wifi so there is nothing to comment 
 here. But Final Fantasy does have multiplayer support but it is pretty useless. The multiplayer 
 for this game is basically to have some sort of battle with your friend. Not with your party member 
 but with a summon. In multiplayer, you need to do some games to get scores. Your summons needs 
 to be train so that it can get better atats by doing so, you have to play some mini games that 
 if offered by some FAT chocobo.
  
  Lasting Appeal  9/10
  Final Fantasy IV offers player up to 30 to 40 hours in their first play through. Final Fantasy 
 IV enable players to play New Game+ after their first play through. However, the New Game+ is only 
 there for 3 play through. This game has side quest and mini games which will occupy more of your 
 time on this game.
  
  Overall satisfaction  9.5/10
  Final Fantasy IV overall gives us a relaxing time to enjoy such great game. Final Fantasy IV offers 
 a lot of thing for players and many new extras where all the previous version of Final Fantasy 
 IV doesn't. This game can also be enjoyed by players who haven't played Final Fantasy IV before. 
 Therefore I end my review with this; Final Fantasy IV DS version, by far is the best version of 
 all the Final Fantasy IV.
  
  Other Information
  The New Game+ allows people to keep some of the items of the previous play through and there will 
 be secret boss with each New Game+. This game also has a FAT chocobo that allow you to use other 
 functions like music players and event players. These allow you to listen to music and re-watch 
 those event cut-scenes again.
  
  Pros and Cons
  +Good Story
  +Awesome Music
  +Awesome Graphic
  +A lot of extras
  +Good Gameplay
  -Sometime a bit too difficult
  -Only 
 3 New Game+
  -Lousy Multiplayer and Wifi
  
  
  Average Rating 8.5
  Personal Rating 9.3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 24, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I was quick to get this game as it has received great review scores. The first impression is quite 
 good, for DS it boasts good 3D graphics with a storyline that is dark and sinister enough to make 
 up for the typical cute Japanese graphics.
  
  As I am new to the FF series, I am not a fan already, so I get none of that warm sizzling feeling 
 a longtime fanboy may get from playing it and being reacquainted with his old, virtual friends. 
 
  
  Stripped of this sensation what is left felt a bit shallow to me. As I kept playing I found myself 
 repeating the same battle sequences over and over and over and over. It became very tedious to 
 move around and explore, as the random encounter feature of the game is truly hyperactive. Move 
 ten meters, random encounter, ten meters more, a new random encounter. Although the game boasts 
 something like 200 types of enemies, they are all basically the same, and you end up fighting each 
 one too many times. So, the variation is not enough to make up for the huge amount of battles you 
 need to press through. 
  
  As in the typical Japanese RPG, battle sequences are turn based. They have some kind of hybrid 
 turn based/real time system. Which takes the edge off the strategic portion of the game. 
  
  During battles you usually wont have enough time to consider carefully what to do when you 
 are controlling a team with many members. On the flip side you find yourself to have to wait impatiently 
 during the massive amount of trivial battles that pops up randomly. I would much rather prefer 
 a turn based system where you chose your own pace, be it fast for trivial battles or slower for 
 more complex ones.
  
  There's a decent amount of things you can do during the battles. You can heal, cast a pretty good 
 number of spells or hit the monsters with a stick. I found the amount of weapons you can find or 
 purchase very limited though. New spells are learned automatically and when you level up the new 
 stats are also selected automatically for you, so there is not much interaction in developing your 
 characters.
  
  I also missed the freedom to do what I want. You only have the main quest, no side quests. It is 
 in fact very linear.
  
  All in all, its a decent game with a nice story. However it is overcrowded with trivial random 
 encounter battles that makes it an exercise in patience more than a fun game after you play it 
 for more than one hour. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodGrunger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Now I don't know that much about how the gaming industry works, but let me tell you I have never 
 seen a game with so little hype get so renowned as quickly as FFIV for the NDS has. I know its 
 a remake but, at first glane it isn't something that you think of buying a ds for... so is it worth 
 it? The answer is yes.
  The game features superb visuals and voice acting not available in the SNES version. 
  
  The 
 gameplay, similar to FFIX is fantastic, simplistic and addictive. This game is a diamond is the 
 rough among every singe bad ds game out there (which is every one lol.) As soon as you pop in the 
 cartridge, you KNOW this game has a lot of things going for it. It. It is one of those games that 
 you buy a system for- as I did.
  
  The cast of characters is amazing, and so is everything else about the game. Enough said, buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firemblemlordjr
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2008 6:13 pm PT
Review:  I'll start out by saying that I have never played Final Fantasy IV before this game. The only other 
 Final Fantasy games I own are FFIII for DS, which was good, but could have been better, and FFXII: 
 Revenant Wings, which was good. I had high expectations for this game, and I believe that this 
 game has met them.
  
  Graphics: Some of the best graphics I have ever seen on DS. They're just amazing! A huge improvement 
 over FFIII. However, some people may not like them, but I do.
  
  Sound: Gamespot said the voice acting was bad, I, however, disagree in some ways. Some characters 
 aren't that good, like Rosa, but I like Cecil's and Kain's voices so far. That actual music is 
 good, but not extraordinarily great.
  
  Gameplay: Obviously the most important part, it rocks. The battle system is a bit dated, but since 
 I have not played that many older RPGs, it doesn't bother me too much. It actually works out well, 
 and is fun to play. It is pretty hard, but when you beat a particulary hard boss, you feel a great 
 sense of accomplishment.
  
  All in all, I have to say that this game is great, and any fan of RPGs should get a hold of it. 
 I've only had the game for a few days at the time of this writing, so I can't say that I've spent 
 a large amount of time on it. But I'm going to say how much time I believe I will spend on it.
 
  
  Thanks for reading this review.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaggerDias78
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  This is a review of the newly remade Final Fantasy 4 on the DS. I give this game's remake 98% which 
 rounds up to a 10 out of 10. 
  
  Back in the day, 1992 to be exact, Final Fantasy 4 was the first role playing game I ever played. 
 After playing it the first time, I kept coming back for more.... and more.... and more.... and 
 more. That game introduced me to my favorite genre, RPG's. It deserves more credit than any other 
 game (except possibly FF7) for serving as an inspiration for me to want to make my own role playing 
 game. (Which I hope to do some day.)
  
  I loved that game so much. I was in the 1st grade when I was first exposed to it, and STILL play 
 it a lot to this day as a 22 year old in college. Just a week ago, I was finishing up yet another 
 playthrough of the original version. 
  
  Then I got the remake. OH MY GOSH!!!! The last time I was exposed to such an awe-inspiring world 
 was when I played the original version of the same game which was roughly 16 years ago. 
  
  The graphics (compared to the super nintendo version) are astounding, the cut-scenes with VOICE 
 OVERS are amazing, and the soundtrack has never sounded better! There is even an option to replay 
 it another time using abilities you unlocked during the first playthrough. 
  
  The only thing stopping this game from being absolutely flawless, was that you cannot change which 
 heroes are in the active party (a staple of modern RPG games) . A minor setback though because the 
 increased difficulty over the original, the replay value that the additional playthroughs have, 
 the new ability system, and finally the graphic update.... all are more than enough to keep the 
 game deserving an "A+" despite having no control over when the heroes are playable.
  
  
  If you have a nintendo DS.... GET THIS GAME!
  
  If you don't have a nintendo DS.... GET ONE, 
 THEN GET THIS GAME!
  
  If you are new to the RPG genre.... GET THIS GAME (it was my first one, it can be your first one 
 too)
  
  If you liked the original but don't care for remakes.... GET THIS GAME! IT'S WORTH REPLAYING!
 
  
  If you did NOT like the original.... GET THIS GAME! TRUST ME, YOU WILL LOVE IT! IT IS THE BEST!
 
  
  What are you waiting for? The greatest game ever made is out there, go get it if you havent already. 
 if you have, stop reading this and go play it!
  
  Final Fantasy 4 is the greatest game ever made. 
  
  The only thing that could possibly ever 
 beat this game is if FF7 gets remade on the PS3. Either way, this game is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiZoRZ
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is AWESOME! It brings back so much great memories from the past with a touch of new. 
 Best RPG on DS for sure... FF III was good but this one, is a masterpiece. It has an awesome story, 
 good graphics, good soundtrack, good voice acting (some people were telling that it sucked, but 
 so far it is not that bad, and I'm actually liking it) , you have the possibility to see videos 
 / scenes once again when you passed it, you can also listen to songs and there's even a bestiary! 
 New augment system is also a good addition... So as the speed gauge. the only think I'm disappointed 
 in is that it seems to lag, or could be moving faster in combats. But overall this is an awesome 
 game. A game hat the DS needed and finally a worthy remake A to Z, almost everything has been remake 
 and what's is better again is that they kept everything from the old game plus they added cutscenes. 
 
  
  This game ROCKS!
  
  BUY IT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GiantTitan22
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  The game is amazing, don't listen to the reviewer who gave it a 6.5 or whatever cause he's just 
 trying to bring down the game. He already gave it a score cause he is a critic and then he gave 
 it another score for his gamespot account. Anyways, this game is amazing played it back for SNES 
 but this is the best version for one of the best games out there! Get this game!
  
  Story-One of the best stories in videogaming history. Teaches you a lot of things, from freindships 
 to love to becoming a better person, etc. The game has some of the best characters from the series 
 and has an amazing plot. (10)
  
  Gameplay-The game is now harder but it makes it more fun. The augment ability system is great!! 
 The battles are a lot more fun and there is a lot of customization that you can do to your characters. 
 (10)
  
  Music/Audio-Simply Amazing, though some sound better on the SNES or GBA. But most of the songs 
 are a lot better and I never thought that was possible! The voice acting was really good. I had 
 low expecations for it at first, but the voice acting is very well done and SquareEnix did a great 
 job with that. (10)
  
  Summary-GET THIS GAME!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: invictus4000
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Final Fantasy fans, RPG fans, or fans of games that just kick anus, prepare to get blown away. 
 Being a fan of the original Final Fantasy IV (USA: II) myself, and being somewhat displeased with 
 previous remakes of it (PSX version, GBA version, etc.) I know the feeling of fright as we sit 
 in the waiting room while our old-time friend is having a full-face make-over. But rest assured, 
 all is well.
  Nearly finished with the Japanese version, I stand very impressed for several reasons. 
  First 
 off, graphics are awesome. Very fun to look at. They are similar to the graphics of the DS remake 
 of Final Fantasy III, but manage to be a bit more detailed and smooth in movement. The game has 
 an awesome opening CG movie which can be seen all over online, and the games' in-game cinemas are 
 a real treat. Even though it stays in real-time graphics, they are complete with dynamic camera 
 angels, improved sound, and best of all, full voice over acting.
  I was scared about this at first as well, knowing one of the great things about RPGs is hearing 
 the voices how we think they sound in our head, but put your worries aside. Of course, I don't 
 know how the English version will turn out to be, but the Japanese acting is awesome.
  Second, the music. Same classic soundtrack, but it does sound a lot better. 
  Third, the battle 
 system feels a lot more fresh. It is now driven by time gauges like FFVI, something that was absent 
 in the original. The battles are also enhanced by cool camera angels and sweet summon animations. 
 The screen is also A LOT less cluttered as your characters and enemies are displayed on the top 
 screen and your gauges, HP/MP, status, what moves who is preparing to do, etc. are all on the bottom 
 screen. Very nice.
  By the way, each character has their own unique victory dance plus another animation when they 
 gain a level. 
  On the note of battles however, many of the boss fights have been changed a bit. In means of difficulty. 
 Like, some are INTENSELY hard. And all the little shortcuts, tricks, and cheats from the original 
 are no good either so don't even try. This is good news though for you guys that like that sort 
 of thing. They are very challenging, and afterward, you feel like you are the ultimate powner and 
 thats a nice feeling too. Some of the bosses in 3D are a lot more intimidating...
  The script is good. It's been years since I have played through the English one, but as I read 
 the Japanese, the script seems to be mostly the same as I remember it, except for some improvements 
 here and there that were much needed in order to make the game even more pimp than it already is. 
 
  So, there are loads of new features in the game and I hope I can hit all the main ones that need 
 mentioning. Besides the things mentioned above, here are some more: 
  - When you go into the menu screen (which is also completely redone) , whoever you have leading 
 your party will have a thought bubble above their head letting us some gain some insight into their 
 feelings, resulting in better character development. This is a lot of fun. Some of the stuff they 
 think about is pretty funny.
  - Rydia has a really cool new summon that you can customize. It's a little white man with a square 
 head that when summoned, will take her place in battle for a few turns. It is self-controlled and 
 randomly uses abilities from other characters that you pre-set in the menu. You can also name him, 
 give him a phrase to say, and even draw his face! Its very entertaining. There are many minigames 
 that can be played as well in order to level him up by getting high scores. Some include: one where 
 you control Cecil as he slays legions of goblins rushing at him by hitting them with the stylus, 
 and another, rubbing the touch screen to charge up Kain's jumping energy and then fighting birds 
 in the sky again with the stylus. Addicting.......
  - Some characters that permanently leave the party (like Edward, Tellah, etc.) will give you their 
 special command such as Sing, or Recall respectively as an item which you can give to another character 
 of your choice. 
  - Fat Chocobos do MUCH more for you now such as let you look at a bestiary, listen to a music box, 
 watch past cut scenes, and more! Plus, this is where you access the minigame and customization 
 menu for Rydia's special summon.
  - The bottom screen displays the map of where you are, at making it A LOT easier to navigate dungeons 
 and such. But when you first enter a new map, it is covered in 'fog of war' that you unveil as 
 you explore like in Warcraft and Starcraft. When a map is completely uncovered, you are awarded 
 with items! : )
  - Your character's weapon and shield graphics visibly change with each piece of equipment. Even 
 cooler yet, you can bring your guys up in the menu and rotate them around with the stylus to view 
 how pimp they look.
  - Rosa and Rydia are hotter than ever before. : ) In case you were wondering.
  - Wi-Fi capabilities 
 are included. What do they do? It's a secret. : )
  - Edward is a lot cooler than the flower he was before.
  - Additional story sequences are included 
 that add a lot more depth to the storyline including a flashback of Kain and Cecil as kids arguing 
 about what is right to become, a Dark Knight or a Dragoon. Another where you play as someone... you 
 would never expect... for a short while.
  There are far too many to tell, but I believe I told some of the bigger ones. The ones that came 
 first to my mind anyway. If you have any questions, feel free to e-mail me.
  In short, this game is awesome, very impressive for being on the DS, and a very worthy re-make 
 period. I'm sure it will be an istant classic in the states when it is released here. It is already 
 the top-selling DS game in Japan right now. Keep on owning. 
  
  INVICTUS
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegadeoffunk7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  
  With all of the remakes and remixes of games these days, many reviewers have philosophical differences 
 with how they approach an evaluation. Some say that, if the original game was great, the remake 
 deserves the same starting point, and should be entitled to the same high review barring any bad 
 changes. The original Star Ocean was brilliant, and so the PSP version by virtue of being essentially 
 the same game, is also brilliant. I do not subscribe to this line of thinking.
  
  Video games, like other arts, evolve over time. Unlike other arts, video game technology evolves 
 very quickly, and what is possible one year is vastly different from the next. Simply put, if a 
 game identical to the original Super Mario Brothers were put out today as a brand new Xbox 360 
 game only they changed the title, no one would call it a good game. The graphics are atrocious, 
 the music is a joke, the gameplay is laughably simplistic, and the overall presentation is insulting 
 to today's gamer. Nevertheless, if someone re-relases the original Mario, they call it a masterpiece. 
 Super Mario Brothers, the original Legend of Zelda, and the Super Famicom Final Fantasy IV are 
 all still good games. Improvements in technology do not change the achievement of those games for 
 their time. The last part of that sentence is what I'm driving at. A video game must always be 
 judged in the context of what is possible. The Final Fantasy series has seen a lot of re-releases 
 over the last several years across many systems, but not much has been added. This is my essential 
 gripe with Final Fantasy IV DS
  
  Gameplay
  
  I understand the idea behind reissuing classic games to newer systems with shinier graphics. Classics 
 are always classics, and having a mobile version is always convenient. However, I am also of the 
 opinion that the distinction between a reissue and a remake is that the latter also changes the 
 gameplay. Final Fantasy I and II were reissued onto PSP (rather unnecessarily in my opinion) because 
 Square new they would sell and they wanted to get people who didn't have DS for the Gameboy Advance 
 reissue (or Playstation for yet another remake) . When Final Fantasy IV was announced for DS, the 
 3D graphics and FMV scenes suggested they might change more than the surface. Sadly, this is not 
 really the case.
  
  The game plays almost exactly like the original. The battles are turn-based, only now there is 
 an active time battle system with a bar that fills up when it's your turn. The one significant 
 change is the addition of an 'ability' system, which, depending on some of your choices, allows 
 the player to use items to make characters learn new command abilities. Skills include things like 
 counter-attack, Yang's kick, auto-potion, and twin magic. It's a nice addition but really, it's 
 not much. The fights are just a repetitive as the original.
  
  While there are many RPG lovers who will always swear by the random battle system I find it tedious. 
 It lowers the quality of general in-game graphics, is monotonous after an hour or so, and removes 
 a crucial element of strategy  the decision when and when not to engage enemies. Chrono Trigger 
 got it right twelve years ago by doing away with it. FFVI  X were all excellent games in spite 
 of this system because they each added several innovations of their own to the battle system. Final 
 Fantasy XI and XII finally moved the series beyond it, and XIII looks to have a cinematic and fast-paced 
 battle system thanks to Square's thinking out of the box. This ''new'' version of FFIV is a step 
 back.
  
  The gameplay is classic, simple, and fun for gamers who want classic and simple. For those who've 
 outgrown this style, there isn't much to get excited about.
  
  Story
  
  Final Fantasy IV has an engrossing and intriguing plot... for a game made seventeen years ago. By 
 today's standards, the characters will seem one-dimensional, with the exception of Cecil. There 
 are a few extra bosses and a new game+ option, but still, not much is added compared to the GBA 
 reissue. With the DS's capabilities, surely they could have fleshed out more of each character's 
 individual stories with extra subplots and optional quests, but sadly, they didn't bother. Compared 
 to today's Lost Odysseys and Xenosagas, FFIV is not a very challenging story. Nostalgia is the 
 biggest reason you will have to call it good.
  
  
  Graphics
  
  Not bad but not great. The game looks like an early Playstation 1 game, which is not a good thing 
 when PSP is looking more and more like a mini PS2. The castle and dungeon layouts are just as simple 
 as the original Super Famicom version, though there are some changes in architecture. Some of the 
 backgrounds are quite good. The opening FMV is marvelous and shows that the DS is capable of stunning 
 graphics in short bursts. You'll wish there were more, like the gorgeous FMV's in Final Fantasy 
 VIII. FFIV uses a polished in game engine for cut scenes, which is not bad but underwhelming.
 
  
  Sound
  
  FFIV's sound is definitely improved, with updated versions of songs, including the gorgeous vocal 
 rendition of Rosa's Theme of Love. The added voice acting is also generally good, though like the 
 FMV scenes, you'll wish for more. The vast majority of the game uses the exact text dialogue from 
 the original game. The production is fine and much of the music is memorable but there is still 
 a strong feeling that they could have done much more.
  
  Conclusion
  
  Final Fantasy IV on its own merits for its time and judged as a member of the Final Fantasy series 
 will never be a bad game. As a brand new DS RPG however, it is not a very good one. The graphics 
 and sound will not blow you away unless you are already in love with everything. The gameplay and 
 plot both have little new to offer. I give credit to Square for the excellent voice acting and 
 cinematic moments, the few changes that they did make, which were good, and the fact that FFIV 
 has aged reasonably well and is still a pretty fun game. But is has aged. Square needs to take 
 a break on all the reissues and remakes. This game has already been released three times for three 
 other systems, as have the other Final Fantasy's I  VI. People are screaming for a Final Fantasy 
 VII remake on top of all of the mediocre new movies and games related to the series that have already 
 come out, we got a sequel to X, and it's not unlikely that VIII and IX will become 'classics' in 
 a few years and be re-released. I'm not totally against all of these developments; they help to 
 get new people into the series and some changes are actually good. Still, Square should really 
 put its energy into developing new franchises and let older games alone for a while. FFIV has convinced 
 me of that above all else. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
